ITEM 1.    Business





Cincinnati Financial Corporation – Introduction

We are an Ohio corporation formed in 1968. Our lead subsidiary, The Cincinnati Insurance Company, was founded in 1950. Our main business is property casualty insurance marketed through independent insurance agencies in 41 states. Our headquarters is in Fairfield, Ohio. At year-end 2016, we employed 4,754 associates, including 3,201 headquarters associates who provide support to 1,553 field associates.



Cincinnati Financial Corporation owns 100 percent of three subsidiaries: The Cincinnati Insurance Company, CSU Producer Resources Inc. and CFC Investment Company. In addition, the parent company has an investment portfolio, owns the headquarters property and is responsible for corporate borrowings and shareholder dividends.



The Cincinnati Insurance Company owns 100 percent of four additional insurance subsidiaries. Our standard market property casualty insurance group includes two of those subsidiaries – The Cincinnati Casualty Company and The Cincinnati Indemnity Company. This group writes a broad range of business, homeowner and auto policies. The Cincinnati Insurance Company also conducts the business of our reinsurance assumed operations, known as Cincinnati ReSM. Other subsidiaries of The Cincinnati Insurance Company include: The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company (Cincinnati Life), which provides life insurance, disability income policies and fixed annuities; and The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company (Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters), which offers excess and surplus lines insurance products. In this report and elsewhere we often refer to any or all of these five companies as The Cincinnati Insurance Companies.



The two noninsurance subsidiaries of Cincinnati Financial Corporation are CSU Producer Resources, which offers insurance brokerage services to our independent agencies so their clients can access our excess and surplus lines insurance products; and CFC Investment Company, which offers commercial leasing and financing services to our agencies, their clients and other customers.



Our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are available on our website,

cinfin.com/investors, as soon as possible after they have been filed with the SEC. Reports filed with the SEC may also be viewed atsec.govor obtained at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. These filings include annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In this report we reference various websites. These websites, including our own, are not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Periodically, we refer to estimated industry data so that we can give information about our performance versus the overall U.S. insurance industry. Unless otherwise noted, the industry data is prepared by A.M. Best Co., a leading insurance industry statistical, analytical and insurer financial strength and credit rating organization. Information from A.M. Best is presented on a statutory accounting basis. When we provide our results on a comparable statutory accounting basis, we label it as such; all other company data is presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP).





Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page4









Our Business and Our Strategy



Introduction

The Cincinnati Insurance Company was founded more than 65 years ago by four independent insurance agents. They established the mission that continues to guide all of the companies in the Cincinnati Financial Corporation family – to grow profitably and enhance the ability of local independent insurance agents to deliver quality financial protection to the people and businesses they serve by:

•providing insurance market stability through financial strength

•producing competitive, up-to-date products and services

•developing associates committed to superior service



At year-end 2016, a select group of independent agencies in 41 states actively marketed our property casualty insurance within their communities. Standard market commercial lines and excess and surplus lines policies were marketed in 39 of those states, while personal lines policies were marketed in 35 of those states. Within our select group of agencies, we also seek to become the life insurance carrier of choice and to help agents and their clients – our policyholders – by offering leasing and financing services.



Three competitive advantages distinguish our company, positioning us to build shareholder value and to be successful overall:

•Commitment to our professional independent insurance agencies and to their continued success

•Financial strength to fulfill our promises and be a consistent market for our agents’ business, supporting stability and confidence

•Operating structure that supports local decision making, showcasing our claims excellence and allowing us to balance growth with underwriting discipline



The primary sources of our company’s net income are summarized below. We discuss the contribution to net income from each source in Item 7, Corporate Financial Highlights of Management’s Discussion and Analysis.

•Underwriting profit (loss) – Includes revenues from earned premiums for insurance and reinsurance policies or contracts, reduced by losses and loss expenses from associated insurance coverages. Those revenues are further reduced by underwriting expenses associated with marketing policies or related to administration of our insurance operation. The net result represents an underwriting profit when revenues exceed losses and expenses.

•Investment income – Is generated primarily from investing the premiums collected for insurance policies sold, until funds are needed to pay losses for insurance claims or other expenses. Interest income from bond investments or dividend income from stock investments are the main categories of our investment income, with additional contribution from compounding effects over time.

•Realized investment gains (losses) – Occur from appreciation or depreciation of invested assets over time. Gains or losses are generally recognized when invested assets are sold or become impaired.





Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page5







Independent Insurance Agency Marketplace

The U.S. property casualty insurance industry is a highly competitive marketplace with more than 2,000 stock and mutual companies operating independently or in groups. No single company or group dominates across all product lines and states. Standard market insurance companies (carriers) can market a broad array of products nationally or:

•choose to sell a limited product line or only one type of insurance (monoline carrier)

•target a certain segment of the market (for example, personal insurance)

•focus on one or more states or regions (regional carrier)



Standard market property casualty insurers generally offer insurance products through one or more distribution channels:

•independent agents, who represent multiple carriers

•captive agents, who represent one carrier exclusively

•direct marketing to consumers



For the most part, we compete with standard market insurance companies that market through independent insurance agents. Agencies marketing our commercial lines products typically represent six to 12 standard market insurance carriers for commercial lines products, including both national and regional carriers, most of which are mutual companies. Our agencies typically represent four to six standard personal lines carriers. We also compete with carriers that market personal lines products through captive agents and direct writers. Some of our agencies describe their roles as brokers instead of agents. Distribution through independent insurance agents or brokers represents nearly 60 percent of overall U.S. property casualty insurance premiums and approximately 80 percent of commercial property casualty insurance premiums, according to studies by the Independent Insurance Agents and Brokers of America.



We are fully committed to the independent agency channel for marketing our insurance policies, while our reinsurance assumed operation typically markets through broker organizations or similar intermediaries that specialize in reinsurance. The independent agencies that we choose to market our standard lines insurance products share our philosophies. They do business person to person; offer broad, value-added services; maintain sound balance sheets; and manage their agencies professionally, targeting long-term success. We develop our relationships with agencies that are active in their communities, providing important knowledge of local market trends, opportunities and challenges.



We work to support agencies with tools and resources that help communicate the value of our insurance policies to their clients and prospective clients. We plan to build on our recent marketing efforts and continue with our national advertising campaign in 2017. Our intent is to increase the visibility of our company, supporting our agents' efforts as they recommend policies and services offered through The Cincinnati Insurance Companies. We also continue to build our social media presence, focusing on providing content that agents can share on their own sites.



We help our agencies meet the broader needs of their clients and increase and diversify their revenues and profitability by offering insurance solutions beyond our standard market property casualty insurance products. We market life insurance products through the agencies that offer our property casualty products and through other independent life agencies that represent The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company without also representing our other subsidiaries. We operate our own excess and surplus lines insurance brokerage firm and insurance carrier so that we can offer our excess and surplus lines products exclusively to the independent agencies who market our other property casualty insurance products.



For our life insurance operation, property casualty agencies make up the main distribution system. To help that operation build scale, we also develop life insurance business from other independent life insurance agencies in geographic markets underserved through our property casualty agencies. We are careful to solicit business from these other agencies in a manner that does not compete with the life insurance marketing and sales efforts of our property casualty agencies. Cincinnati Life emphasizes up-to-date products, responsive underwriting, high-quality service and competitive pricing.



Our excess and surplus lines insurance operation helps meet the specific insurance needs of certain agency clients. Generally, excess and surplus lines insurance carriers provide insurance that is unavailable in the standard



Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page6







market due to market conditions or characteristics of the insured persons or organizations that are caused by their nature, claim history or the characteristics of their business. Insurers operating in the excess and surplus lines marketplace generally market business through excess and surplus lines brokers, whether they are small specialty insurers or specialized divisions of larger insurance organizations. Agencies have access to Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters' product line through CSU Producer Resources, the wholly owned insurance brokerage subsidiary of Cincinnati Financial Corporation. By providing superior service, we can help our agencies grow while also profitably growing our property casualty business.



At year-end 2016, our 1,614 property casualty agency relationships were marketing our standard market insurance products from 2,090 reporting locations. An increasing number of agencies have multiple, separately identifiable locations, reflecting their growth as well as consolidation of ownership within the independent agency marketplace. The number of reporting agency locations indicates our agents’ regional scope and the extent of our presence within our 41 active states. At year-end 2015, we had 1,526 agency relationships with 1,956 reporting locations.



We made 197 new property casualty agency appointments in 2016 and 114 new appointments in 2015, including 116 and 40, respectively, to market only personal lines insurance products for us. Of the total new appointments, 156 and 85, respectively, were new relationships. The remainder were either: new branch offices opened by existing Cincinnati agencies; or agencies that merged with another Cincinnati agency and we still believed would produce a meaningful amount of new business premiums. These new appointments may be partially offset by other changes in agency structures, such as consolidation through mergers or acquisitions. Our net increase in agency relationships was 88 in 2016 and 60 in 2015. The net increase in reporting agency locations for those same years was 134 and 72, respectively.



On average, we have a 9.7 percent share of the standard lines property casualty insurance purchased through our reporting agency locations, according to 2015 data from agency surveys. Our share is 15.8 percent in reporting agency locations that have represented us for more than 10 years; 8.1 percent in agencies that have represented us for six to 10 years; 3.0 percent in agencies that have represented us for two to five years; and 0.4 percent in agencies that have represented us for one year or less.



Our largest single agency relationship accounted for approximately 0.8 percent of our total property casualty earned premiums in 2016. No aggregate locations under a single ownership structure accounted for more than 4 percent of our earned premiums in 2016.



Financial Strength

We believe that our financial strength and strong capital and surplus position, reflected in our insurer financial strength ratings, are clear, competitive advantages in the segments of the insurance marketplace that we serve. This strength supports the consistent, predictable performance that our policyholders, agents, associates and shareholders have always expected and received, helping us withstand significant challenges.



While the potential exists for short-term financial performance variability due to our exposures to possible natural or man-made catastrophes or to significant capital market losses, the rating agencies consistently assert that we have built appropriate financial strength and flexibility to manage that variability. We remain committed to strategies that emphasize being a consistent, stable market for our agents’ business rather than seeking short-term benefits that might accrue by quick, opportunistic reaction to changes in market conditions.



We use various principles and practices such as diversification and enterprise risk management to maintain strong capital. For example, we maintain a diversified investment portfolio by reviewing and applying diversification parameters and tolerances.

•Our $10.085 billion fixed-maturity portfolio is diversified and exceeds total insurance reserves. The portfolio had an average rating of A3/A, and its fair value exceeded total insurance reserve liabilities by approximately 30 percent at December 31, 2016. No corporate bond exposure accounted for more than 0.7 percent of our fixed-maturity portfolio, and no municipal exposure accounted for more than 0.3 percent.

•The strength of our fixed-maturity portfolio provides an opportunity to invest for potential capital appreciation by purchasing equity securities. Our $5.334 billion equity portfolio minimizes concentrations in single stocks or industries. At December 31, 2016, no single security accounted for more than 3.8 percent of our portfolio of publicly traded common stocks, and no single sector accounted for more than 18 percent.





Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page7







Strong liquidity increases our flexibility through all periods to maintain our cash dividend and to continue to invest in and expand our insurance operations. At December 31, 2016, we held $2.162 billion of our cash and invested assets at the parent-company level, of which $1.832 billion, or 84.7 percent, was invested in common stocks, and $248 million, or 11.5 percent, was cash and cash equivalents.



We minimize reliance on debt as a source of capital, maintaining a debt-to-total-capital ratio below 20 percent. At December 31, 2016, this ratio at 10.3 percent was well below the target limit. Long-term debt at year-end 2016 totaled $787 million, up $1 million from year-end 2015, and our short-term debt was $20 million, down from $35 million at the end of the prior year. The long-term debt consists of three nonconvertible, noncallable debentures, two due in 2028 and one in 2034. Ratings for our long-term debt are discussed in Item 7, Liquidity and Capital Resources, Additional Sources of Liquidity.



At year-end 2016 and 2015, risk-based capital (RBC) for our standard market property casualty insurance, excess and surplus lines insurance and life insurance subsidiaries was strong, far exceeding regulatory requirements.

•We ended 2016 with a 1.0-to-1 ratio of property casualty premiums to surplus, a key measure of property casualty insurance company capacity and security. A lower ratio indicates more security for policyholders and greater capacity for growth by an insurer. We believe our ratio provides ample flexibility to diversify risk by expanding our operations into new geographies and product areas. The estimated industry average ratio was 0.7-to-1 at year-end 2016.

•We ended 2016 with a 7.0 percent ratio of life statutory adjusted risk-based surplus to liabilities, a key measure of life insurance company capital strength. The estimated industry average ratio was 12.0 percent at year-end 2016. A higher ratio indicates an insurer’s stronger security for policyholders and capacity to support business growth.

(Dollars in millions)Statutory InformationAt December 31,20162015Standard market property casualty insurance subsidiaryStatutory capital and surplus$4,686$4,412Risk-based capital4,7154,431Authorized control level risk-based capital645582Risk-based capital to authorized control level risk-based capital ratio7.37.6Written premium to surplus ratio1.01.0Excess and surplus lines insurance subsidiaryStatutory capital and surplus$372$306Risk-based capital372306Authorized control level risk-based capital3635Risk-based capital to authorized control level risk-based capital ratio10.48.8Written premium to surplus ratio0.50.6Life insurance subsidiaryStatutory capital and surplus$200$208Risk-based capital229227Authorized control level risk-based capital4036Total liabilities excluding separate account business3,3173,132Risk-based capital to authorized control level risk-based capital ratio5.86.3Life statutory risk-based adjusted surplus to liabilities ratio7.07.3



The consolidated property casualty insurance group’s ratio of investments in common stock, at fair value, to statutory capital and surplus was 69.9 percent at year-end 2016 compared with 65.6 percent at year-end 2015.





Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page8







Cincinnati Financial Corporation’s senior debt is rated by four independent rating firms. In addition, the rating firms award our property casualty and life operations insurance financial strength ratings based on their quantitative and qualitative analyses. These ratings assess an insurer’s ability to meet financial obligations to policyholders and do not necessarily address all of the matters that may be important to shareholders. Ratings may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the ratings agency, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.



At February 22, 2017, our insurance subsidiaries continued to be highly rated.

Insurer Financial Strength RatingsRatingagencyStandard market propertycasualty insurance subsidiaryLife insurancesubsidiaryExcess and surplus linesinsurance subsidiaryOutlookRatingTierRatingTierRatingTierA. M. Best Co.ambest.comA+Superior2 of 16AExcellent3 of 16A+Superior2 of 16StableFitch Ratingsfitchratings.comA+Strong5 of 21A+Strong5 of 21---StableMoody's InvestorsServicemoodys.comA1Good5 of 21------StableS&P Global Ratingsspratings.comA+Strong5 of 21A+Strong5 of 21---Stable



On December 13, 2016, A.M. Best affirmed the financial strength rating of The Cincinnati Insurance Company, and its property casualty insurance subsidiaries, that it had assigned in December 2008, continuing its stable outlook. On December 12, 2016, Fitch Ratings affirmed the ratings that it had assigned to us in August 2009, continuing its stable outlook. On May 24, 2016, Moody's Investors Service affirmed the ratings that it had assigned to us in September 2008, continuing its stable outlook. On June 28, 2016, S&P Global Ratings (formerly known as Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services) affirmed the ratings that it had assigned to us in June 2015, continuing its stable outlook.



Our debt ratings are discussed in Item 7, Liquidity and Capital Resources, Additional Sources of Liquidity.





Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page9







Operating Structure

We offer our broad array of insurance products through the independent agency distribution channel. We recognize that locally based independent agencies have relationships in their communities and local marketplace intelligence that can lead to profitable business and policyholder satisfaction and loyalty. Several of our strategic initiatives are intended not only to help us compete but also to enhance support of agencies that represent us, thereby contributing to agency success. We seek to be a consistent and predictable property casualty carrier that agencies can rely on to serve their clients.



In our 10 highest volume states for consolidated property casualty premiums, 1,140 reporting agency locations wrote 61.4 percent of our 2016 consolidated property casualty earned premium volume compared with 1,124 locations and 62.3 percent in 2015. We continue efforts to geographically diversify our property casualty risks.



Our 10 largest states based on property casualty premium volume are shown in the table below.

(Dollars in millions)Earnedpremiums% of totalearnedAgencylocationsAveragepremium perlocationYear ended December 31, 2016Ohio$75416.8%247$3.1Illinois2986.71442.1Indiana2706.01132.4Georgia2505.6982.6North Carolina2365.31022.3Pennsylvania2355.21172.0Michigan2335.21411.7Tennessee1743.9622.8Virginia1533.4662.3Kentucky1493.3503.0



Field Focus Emphasizing Service

We rely on our force of 1,553 field associates to provide service and be accountable to our agencies for decisions we make at the local level. These associates live in the communities our agents serve, so they are readily available when agencies or policyholders need them. While their work is often conducted at the premises of the agency or policyholder, they also work from offices in their homes. Headquarters associates support agencies and field associates with underwriting, accounting, technology assistance, training and other services. Company executives and headquarters associates regularly travel to visit agencies, strengthening the personal relationships we have with these organizations. Agents have opportunities for direct, personal conversations with our senior management team, and headquarters associates have opportunities to refresh their knowledge of marketplace conditions and field activities.



The field team is coordinated by field marketing representatives responsible for underwriting new commercial lines business. They are joined by field representatives specializing in claims, loss control, personal lines, excess and surplus lines, machinery and equipment, bond, premium audit and life insurance. The field team provides a variety of services, such as recommending specific actions to improve the safety of the policyholder’s operations. We seek to develop long-term relationships by understanding the unique needs of each agency's clients, who are also our policyholders.



Service using technology solutions gives our agencies access to our systems for ease of processing business transactions. Policyholders can also conveniently access pertinent policy information, helping to reduce costs for agencies and the company. We also offer and continue to develop enhanced, tailored services offered at the time a claim is reported for an insured loss event. Those services include assisting with car rental or towing, arranging temporary housing and coordinating emergency repairs to damaged homes so additional damage is minimized.Technology also helps our associates collaborate and process business efficiently, providing more time for personal service to agencies and their clients when needed.





Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page10







Our claims philosophy reflects our belief that we prosper as a company by responding to claims person to person, paying covered claims promptly, preventing false claims from unfairly adding to overall premiums and building financial strength to meet future obligations.



Our 877 locally based field claims associates work from their homes and are assigned to specific agencies. They respond personally to policyholders and claimants, and are equipped to handle a claim from nearly anywhere. We believe we have a competitive advantage because of the person-to-person approach and the resulting high level of service that our field claims representatives provide. We also help our agencies provide prompt service to policyholders by giving most agencies authority to immediately pay most first-party claims under standard market policies up to $2,500. We believe this same local approach to handling claims is a competitive advantage for our agents providing excess and surplus lines coverage in their communities. Handling of these claims includes guidance from headquarters-based excess and surplus lines claims managers.



Catastrophe response teams are comprised of volunteers from our experienced field claims staff who have the authority they need to do their jobs. In times of widespread loss, our field claims representatives confidently and quickly resolve claims, often providing claims payments on the same day they inspect the loss. Technology helps to enable fast initial contact with policyholders and easy sharing of information and data among storm teams, headquarters staff and local field claims representatives. When hurricanes or other weather events are predicted, we can identify through mapping technologies the expected number of our policyholders that may be impacted by the event and choose to have catastrophe response team members travel to strategic locations near the expected impact area. They are then in position to quickly get to the affected area, set up temporary offices and start calling on policyholders.



We staff a Special Investigations Unit (SIU) with former law enforcement and claims professionals whose qualifications make them well suited to gathering facts to uncover potential fraud. While we believe our job is to pay what is due under each policy contract, we also want to prevent false claims from unfairly increasing overall premiums. Our SIU also operates a computer forensics lab, using sophisticated software to recover data and mitigate the cost of computer-related claims for business interruption and loss of records.



We seek to attract and retain high-quality independent insurance agencies with knowledgeable, professional staffs. In turn, we make an exceptionally strong commitment to assist them in keeping their knowledge up to date and educating new people they bring on board as they grow. This includes offering classes, usually at no cost to agencies, except travel-related expenses they may incur, and other training support. We also offer noninsurance financial services. We believe that providing these services enhances agency relationships with the company and their clients, increasing loyalty while diversifying the agency’s revenues.



Insurance Products

We provide well-designed property casualty and life insurance to bring policyholders convenience, discounts and a reduced risk of coverage gaps or disputes. For most agencies that represent us, we believe we offer insurance solutions for approximately 75 percent of the typical insurable risks of their clients. Products for various business lines within our reporting segments include insurance coverages for business property and liability, automobiles and homes.





Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page11







The following table shows net written premiums by segment and business line at year-end 2016, 2015 and 2014:

(Dollars in millions)201620152014Percent oftotal 2016Segment:Commercial lines insurance$3,122$3,025$2,92264.2%Personal lines insurance1,1981,1281,06824.6Excess and surplus lines insurance1891751533.9Life insurance2812562505.8Other7133—1.5Total$4,861$4,617$4,393100.0%Business line:Commercial lines insuranceCommercial casualty$1,061$1,025$96921.8%Commercial property88084577618.1Commercial auto61157554812.6Workers' compensation3523573657.2Other commercial2182232644.5Total commercial lines insurance3,1223,0252,92264.2Personal lines insurancePersonal auto56352448911.5Homeowner50047445610.3Other personal1351301232.8Total personal lines insurance1,1981,1281,06824.6Excess and surplus lines insurance1891751533.9Life insuranceTerm life insurance1561451383.2Universal life insurance3641410.8Other life insurance, annuity and disability income products8970711.8Subtotal2812562505.8Cincinnati Re7133—1.5Total$4,861$4,617$4,393100.0%



We discuss our commercial lines, personal lines and excess and surplus lines insurance segments as well as our life insurance segment in their respective sections later in this report.





Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page12







Strategic Initiatives to Manage Insurance Profitability and Drive Premium Growth

Management has identified a strategy that can position us for long-term success. The board of directors and management expect execution of our strategic plan to create significant value for shareholders over time. We broadly group key strategic initiatives into two areas of focus – managing insurance profitability and driving premium growth. These areas correlate with how we measure progress toward our long-term financialobjectives. Our strategic priorities include meeting the wants and needs of our agent customers, attracting and developing talented associates, providing comprehensive product solutions, achieving best-in-class field service and continually enhancing operational efficiency and effectiveness. We believe successful execution of our long-term strategy and related shorter-term initiatives will help us achieve our long-term objectives despite potential unfavorable shorter-term effects of difficult economic, market or pricing cycles. We describe our expectations for the results of these initiatives in Item 7, Executive Summary of Management's Discussion and Analysis.



Effective capital management is an important part of creating long-term shareholder value, serving as a foundation to support other strategic areas focused on profitable growth of our insurance business. Our capital management philosophy is intended to preserve and build our capital while maintaining appropriate liquidity. A strong capital position provides the capacity to support premium growth, and liquidity provides for our investment in the people and infrastructure needed to implement our strategic initiatives. Our strong capital and liquidity also provide financial flexibility for shareholder dividends or other capital management actions.



We continue to enhance our property casualty underwriting expertise and to effectively and efficiently underwrite individual policies and process transactions. Ongoing initiatives supporting this work include expanding our pricing and segmentation capabilities through experience and use of predictive analytics and additional data. Our segmentation efforts emphasize identification and retention of insurance policies we believe have relatively stronger pricing, while seeking more aggressive renewal terms and conditions on policies we believe have relatively weaker pricing. We will continue collaborative efforts to address underpriced or underperforming business in 2017, including improving underwriting and rate adequacy for our commercial auto and personal auto lines of business.



We take ongoing actions intended to improve efficiency and make it easier for agencies and their clients to do business with us. In addition to benefiting agencies we serve, improved processes support our strategy, helping to more quickly deploy product or service enhancements. They also help reduce internal costs and allow us to focus more resources on agency services and providing local, individualized insurance solutions for small businesses and other agency clients. Initiatives include continuing to enhance the experiences of agencies and policy consumers through real-time messaging to an agency's management system and further development of online portals providing more robust policy information for billing, claims and other areas. Other ongoing initiatives aim for continuous improvement of workflow tools and processes for underwriters.



We also seek to further penetrate insurance markets as we strive to be the best company serving independent insurance agencies. We expect initiatives aimed at specific market opportunities, along with enhancements to provide industry-leading services, to encourage our agents to grow and to increase our share of their business. Our growth plans incorporate general business statistics and historical profitability trends to estimate premium growth from existing agencies and to make careful projections to assess the number of additional agencies needed. Our focus remains on key components of agent satisfaction based on factors that agents tell us are most important.



We continue to appoint new agencies to develop additional points of distribution. In 2017, we are planning approximately 100appointments of independent agencies that offer most or all of our property casualty insurance products. We generally earn a 10percent share of an agency’s business within 10 years of its appointment. See Item 1, Our Business and Our Strategy, Independent Insurance Agency Marketplace, for additional discussion.



We also plan to appoint other agencies that focus on high net worth personal lines clients. In 2017, we are targeting the appointment of approximately 100 agencies that market only personal lines insurance products for us, primarily ones with a high net worth focus. In 2016, we appointed 116 new agencies that meet that criteria. As we continue to expand availability of our Executive Capstone™ suite of insurance products and services to additional states over the next several years, we intend to appoint additional agencies as we work to become the carrier of choice for this portion of our agencies’ accounts.





Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page13







For all of our insurance products, we will work to increase penetration with recently appointed agencies. This includes increasing opportunities for agencies to cross-serve their clients by providing updated products and services that aim to meet their life insurance needs. We will also continue to add field marketing representatives or provide target market expertise where needed for additional agency support in selected areas. We expect our strategy and initiatives to contribute to our objective of being ranked the No. 1 or No. 2 carrier based on premium volume in agencies that have represented us for at least five years. We continued to reach that objective in nearly 75percent of such agencies based on 2015 premiums.



During 2017, we will continue to produce premiums through the disciplined expansion of Cincinnati Re – our reinsurance assumed operation. Cincinnati Re assumes risks through reinsurance treaties covering various lines of business where we receive a share of premiums and associated liabilities from other insurers and reinsurers. We have staffed this operation with seasoned underwriting and analytical talent and strive to assume risks that we understand well, both quantitatively and qualitatively. We seek risks that have attractive underwriting margins on a stand-alone basis as well as on a diversified risk-adjusted return basis. We have adequate capital to support this operation and intend to be selective and patient in its expansion.





Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page14









Our Segments

Consolidated financial results primarily reflect the results of our five reporting segments. These segments are defined based on financial information we use to evaluate performance and to determine the allocation of assets.

•Commercial lines insurance

•Personal lines insurance

•Excess and surplus lines insurance

•Life insurance

•Investments



Revenues, income before income taxes and identifiable assets for each segment are shown in Item 8, Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Some of that information is discussed in this section, where we explain the business operations of each segment. The financial performance of each segment is discussed in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.



Commercial Lines Insurance Segment

In 2016, the commercial lines insurance segment contributed net earned premiums of $3.089 billion, representing 56.7 percent of consolidated total revenues. This segment reported profit before income taxes of $184 million. Commercial lines net earned premiums rose 3 percent in 2016 and 5 percent in 2015.



We believe that our commercial lines business is best measured and evaluated on a segment basis. However, we also provide selected line of business data to summarize growth and profitability trends separately for our business lines. The five commercial business lines are:

•Commercial casualty – Provides coverage to businesses against third-party liability from accidents occurring on their premises or arising out of their operations, including injuries sustained from products or liability related to professional services. Specialized casualty policies may include similar coverage such as umbrella liability or employment practices. The commercial casualty business line includes liability coverage written as part of commercial package policies.

•Commercial property – Provides coverage for loss or damage to buildings, inventory and equipment caused by covered causes of loss such as fire, wind, hail, water, theft and vandalism, as well as business interruption resulting from a covered loss. Commercial property also includes other coverages such as inland marine, which covers losses related to builder’s risk, cargo or equipment. Various property coverages can be written as stand-alone policies or can be added to a commercial package policy.

•Commercial auto – Protects businesses against liability to others for both bodily injury and property damage, medical payments to insureds and occupants of their vehicles, physical damage to an insured’s own vehicle from collision and various other perils, and damages caused by uninsured motorists.

•Workers’ compensation – Covers employers for government-specified benefits from work-related injuries to employees.

•Other commercial lines – This includes several other types of insurance products for businesses, including:

◦Management liability and surety – Includes director and officer (D&O) liability insurance, which covers liability for actual or alleged errors in judgment, breaches of duty or other wrongful acts related to activities of organizations and can optionally include other liability coverages. We market primarily to nonprofit organizations, privately held businesses, healthcare organizations, financial institutions and educational institutions. The for-profit portion includes approximately 225 bank or savings and loan financial institutions, with only seven having assets of $1 billion or more. The surety portion includes contract and commercial surety bonds for losses resulting from dishonesty, failure to perform and other acts and also includes fidelity bonds for fraudulent acts by specified individuals or dishonest acts by employees.

◦Specialty packages – Includes coverages for property, liability and business interruption tailored to meet the needs of specific industry classes such as artisan contractors, dentists or smaller main street businesses.

◦Machinery and equipment – Specialized coverage provides protection for loss or damage to boilers and machinery, including production and computer equipment and business interruption, due to sudden and accidental mechanical breakdown, steam explosion or artificially generated electrical current.



Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page15









Our history of emphasizing products and services that agencies can market to small to midsized businesses in their communities remains a critical piece of our strategy even as we expand our appetite to insure larger businesses. While some of our property casualty agencies market only our personal lines or management liability and surety products, approximately 90 percent offer some or all of our standard market commercial insurance products.



In 2016, our 10 highest volume commercial lines states generated 59.4 percent of our earned premiums compared with 59.3 percent in 2015 as we continued efforts to geographically diversify our property casualty risks. Earned premiums in the 10 highest volume states increased 3 percent in 2016 and also increased 3 percent in the remaining states. The aggregate number of reporting agency locations in our 10 highest volume states increased to 1,115 in 2016 from 1,101 in 2015.



Our 10 largest states based on commercial lines premium volume are shown in the table below.

(Dollars in millions)Earnedpremiums% of totalearnedAgencylocationsAveragepremium perlocationYear ended December 31, 2016Ohio$44914.5%244$1.8Illinois2177.01381.6Pennsylvania1996.41101.8Indiana1835.91111.6North Carolina1575.11001.6Georgia1414.6901.6Michigan1384.51321.0Tennessee1234.0602.1Virginia1213.9622.0Texas1083.5681.6



For new commercial lines business, case-by-case underwriting and pricing is coordinated by our locally based field marketing representatives who are also responsible for selecting new independent agencies. Our agents and our team of field associates get to know the people and businesses in their communities and can make informed decisions about each risk.



Commercial lines policy renewals are managed by headquarters underwriters who are assigned to specific agencies and consult with local field staff as needed. As part of our team approach, headquarters underwriters also help oversee agency growth and profitability. They are responsible for formal issuance of all new business and renewal policies as well as policy endorsements. Further, the headquarters underwriters provide day-to-day customer service to agencies and our field marketing representatives by offering product training, answering underwriting questions, helping to determine underwriting eligibility and assisting with the mechanics of premium determination. We also continue a target markets emphasis to analyze opportunities and to develop new products and services, new coverage options and improvements to existing insurance products.



Understanding evolving market conditions is a critical function for our success, accomplished through both informal commentary and formal reviews. Informally, our field marketing representatives, underwriters and product development associates routinely receive market intelligence from a variety of channels, including from the agencies with which they work. This market information helps identify the top competitors and our market strengths and weaknesses. The information obtained encompasses pricing, breadth of coverage and use of underwriting guidelines.



Our historical emphasis on small to midsized businesses is reflected in the mix of our commercial lines premium volume by policy size. Approximately 80 percent of our commercial in-force policies have annual premiums of $10,000 or less, accounting in total for approximately one-quarter of our 2016 commercial lines premium volume. The remainder of policies have annual premiums greater than $10,000, including policies with annual premiums greater than $100,000 that account for approximately 19 percent of our 2016 commercial lines premium volume.





Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page16







Our commercial lines packages typically are offered on a three-year policy term for most insurance coverages – a key competitive advantage. In our experience, multi-year packages appeal to the quality-conscious insurance buyers who we believe are typical clients of our independent agents. Customized insurance programs on a three-year term complement the long-term relationships these policyholders typically have with their agents and with our company. By reducing annual administrative efforts, multi-year policies lower expenses for our company and for our agents. The commitment we make to policyholders encourages long-term relationships and reduces their need to annually re-evaluate their insurance carrier or agency. We believe that the advantages of three-year policies in terms of improved policyholder convenience, increased account retention and reduced administrative costs outweigh the potential disadvantage of these policies, even in periods of rising rates.



Although we offer three-year policy terms, premiums for some coverages within those policies are adjustable at anniversary for the next annual period, and policies may be canceled at any time at the discretion of the policyholder. Contract terms often provide that rates for property, general liability, inland marine and crime coverages, as well as policy terms and conditions, are fixed for the term of the policy. However, the exposure we insure is reviewed annually, near the policy anniversary date, and the amount of premiums may be adjusted based on changes to that exposure.



The general liability exposure basis may be audited annually. Commercial auto, workers’ compensation, professional liability and most umbrella liability coverages within multi-year packages are rated at each of the policy’s annual anniversaries for the next one-year period. The annual pricing could incorporate rate changes approved by state insurance regulatory authorities between the date the policy was written and its annualanniversary date, as well as changes in risk exposures and premium credits or debits relating to loss experience and other underwriting judgment factors. We estimate that approximately 75 percent of 2016 commercial premiums were subject to annual rating or were written on a one-year policy term. That 75 percent includes approximately one-third of policies offered on a three-year policy term that expire during any given year.



We believe our commercial lines insurance segment premiums reflect a higher concentration, relative to industry commercial lines premiums, in contractor-related businesses. Since economic activity related to construction, which can heavily influence insured exposures of contractors, may experience cycles that vary significantly with the economy as a whole, our commercial lines premium trends could vary from commercial lines premium trends for the property casualty insurance industry. In 2016, we estimated that 40 percent of our general liability premiums, and 39 percent of our workers’ compensation premiums, came from the construction industry based on North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) codes.





Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page17







Personal Lines Insurance Segment

The personal lines insurance segment contributed net earned premiums of $1.161 billion to 2016 consolidated total revenues, or 21.3 percent of the total, and reported a loss before income taxes of $12 million. Personal lines net earned premiums rose 6 percent in 2016 and 5 percent in 2015.



We prefer to write personal lines coverage in accounts that include both auto and homeowner coverages as well as coverages that are part of our other personal business line. At the end of 2016, for example, 83.3 percent of our homeowner policies were accompanied by a personal auto policy in the same account. As a result of our account-based approach, we believe that our personal lines business is best measured and evaluated on a segment basis. However, we provide line of business data to summarize growth and profitability trends separately for three business lines:

•Personal auto – Protects against liability to others for both bodily injury and property damage, medical payments to insureds and occupants of their vehicle, physical damage to an insured’s own vehicle from collision and various other perils, and damages caused by uninsured motorists. In addition, many states require policies to provide first-party personal injury protection, frequently referred to as no-fault coverage.

•Homeowner – Protects against losses to dwellings and contents from a wide variety of perils, as well as liability arising out of personal activities both on and off the covered premises. We also offer coverage for condominium unit owners and renters.

•Other personal lines – This includes the other types of insurance products we offer to individuals, including dwelling fire, inland marine, personal umbrella liability and watercraft coverages.



At year-end 2016, we marketed personal lines insurance products through 1,511, or approximately 72 percent, of our 2,090 agency reporting locations. The 1,511 personal lines agency locations are in 35 of the 41 states in which we offered property casualty insurance. Those agencies produced more than 1.1 million personal lines policies in force for us, representing approximately 450,000 policyholders.



We continue to evaluate opportunities to expand our marketing of personal lines to other states. Primary factors considered in the evaluation of a potential new state include market opportunity or potential, weather-related catastrophe history and the legal climate.



Expansion of our personal lines insurance segment includes marketing through independent agencies to profitably grow our premiums for products and services offered to their high net worth personal lines clients. In 2016, California, New Jersey and Colorado became new states for our personal lines operation when we began offering our Executive Capstone program for high net worth clients and appointing new agencies. At year-end 2016, our appointed agencies produced for us nearly $180 million in annual premiums from policyholders with insured home values of $1 million or more. We estimate those policyholders represent approximately 5 percent of our total personal lines policyholders.



In 2016, our 10 highest volume personal lines states generated 77.1 percent of our earned premiums compared with 78.5 percent in 2015. Earned premiums in the five highest volume states increased 4 percent in 2016 while increasing 8 percent in the remaining states, reflecting progress toward our long-term objective of geographic diversification through new states for our personal lines operation. The aggregate number of reporting agency locations in our 10 highest volume states decreased to 878 in 2016 from 883 in 2015.





Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page18







Our 10 largest states based on personal lines premium volume are shown in the table below.

(Dollars in millions)Earnedpremiums% of totalearnedAgencylocationsAveragepremium perlocationYear ended December 31, 2016Ohio$29025.0%224$1.3Georgia978.4861.1Michigan877.51070.8Indiana766.5860.9North Carolina716.1860.8Illinois685.9950.7Alabama595.1481.2Kentucky554.7431.3Tennessee474.0481.0Minnesota453.9550.8



New and renewal personal lines business reflects our risk-specific underwriting philosophy. Each agency selects personal lines business primarily from within the geographic territory that it serves, based in part on agency staff’s knowledge of the risks in those communities or familiarity with the policyholder. At year-end 2016, we had 17 full-time personal lines field marketing representatives who have underwriting authority and visit agencies on a regular basis. They focus primarily on key states targeted for growth, reinforcing the advantages of our personal lines products and offering training in the use of our policy processing system. Personal lines activities are further supported by headquarters associates assigned to individual agencies.



Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Segment

The excess and surplus lines segment contributed net earned premiums of $183 million to 2016 consolidated total revenues, or 3.4 percent of the total, and reported profit before income taxes of $62 million. Excess and surplus lines net earned premium increased 9 percent in 2016 and 14 percent in 2015.



Our excess and surplus lines policies typically cover business risks with unique characteristics, such as the nature of the business or its claim history, that are difficult to profitably insure in the standard commercial lines market. Excess and surplus lines insurers have more flexibility in coverage terms and rates compared with standard lines companies, generally resulting in policies with higher rates and terms and conditions customized for specific risks, including restricted coverage where appropriate. We target small to midsized risks, and policyholders in many cases also have standard market insurance with one of our other subsidiaries. Our average excess and surplus lines policy size is approximately $6,000 in annual premiums, and the majority have coverage limits of $1 million or less. All of our excess and surplus lines policies are written for a maximum term of one year. Approximately 88 percent of our 2016 earned premiums for the excess and surplus lines insurance segment provided commercial casualty coverages and about 12 percent provided commercial property coverages. Those coverages are described below.

•Commercial casualty – Covers businesses for third-party liability from accidents occurring on their premises or arising out of their operations, including injuries sustained from products. Other coverages available include miscellaneous errors and omissions, professional liability and excess liability. Typical businesses covered include contractors, manufacturers, real estate owners and managers, retail, consultants, and bars or taverns. Policies covering liability at special events are also available.

•Commercial property – Insures buildings, inventory, equipment and business income from loss or damage due to causes such as fire, wind, hail, water, theft and vandalism. Examples of property we commonly insure with excess and surplus lines policies include temporarily vacant buildings, habitational, restaurants and relatively higher-hazard manufacturing classes.



At the end of 2016, we marketed excess and surplus lines insurance products in each of the 39 states in which we offer standard market commercial lines insurance. Offering excess and surplus lines helps agencies representing The Cincinnati Insurance Companies meet the insurance needs of their clients when coverage is unavailable in the



Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page19







standard market. By providing outstanding service, we can help agencies grow and prosper while also profitably growing our property casualty business.



In 2016, our 10 highest volume excess and surplus lines states generated 58.1 percent of our earned premiums compared with 59.2 percent in 2015.



Our 10 largest states based on excess and surplus lines premium volume are shown in the table below.

(Dollars in millions)Earnedpremiums% of totalearnedYear ended December 31, 2016Texas$168.8%Ohio168.5Illinois137.2Georgia126.6Indiana116.2Alabama84.4North Carolina84.2Michigan84.1Pennsylvania84.1Missouri74.0



Agencies representing The Cincinnati Insurance Companies produce approximately $3 billion in annual premiums for all carriers writing excess and surplus lines policies for their clients. We estimate that approximately half of that premium volume matches the targeted business types and coverages we offer through our excess and surplus lines insurance segment. We structured the operations of this segment to meet the needs of these agencies and to market exclusively through them.



Agencies have access to Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters' product line through CSU Producer Resources, the wholly owned insurance brokerage subsidiary of Cincinnati Financial Corporation. CSU Producer Resources has binding authority on all classes of business written through Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters and maintains appropriate agent and surplus lines licenses.



We seek to earn a share of each agency’s best excess and surplus lines accounts by offering several unique benefits. Agency producers have direct access through CSU Producer Resources to a group of our underwriters who focus exclusively on excess and surplus lines business. Those underwriters can tap into broader services we offer to provide policyholders additional value and help producers build the relationship through experienced and responsive loss control services and claims handling. CSU Producer Resources gives extra support to our independent agency producers by remitting surplus lines taxes and stamping fees and retaining admitted market diligent search affidavits, where required. Agencies marketing through CSU Producer Resources instead of a competing brokerage generally receive a higher commission because use of our internal brokerage subsidiary eliminates some of the intermediary costs. This business is factored in their profit-sharing agreement with The Cincinnati Insurance Companies. We also offer prompt service, generally issuing approximately 95 percent of policies within 24 hours of a request to bind a policy.



Life Insurance Segment

The life insurance segment contributed $228 million of net earned premiums, representing 4.2 percent of 2016 consolidated total revenues, and reported a profit before income taxes of $1 million. Life insurance net earned premiums grew 9 percent in 2016 and 6 percent in 2015.



The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company supports our agency-centered business model by deepening the relationships we have with agents while also diversifying revenue and profitability for both the agency and our company. We primarily focus on life products that feature a steady stream of premium payments and that have the potential for generating revenue growth through increasing demand.





Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page20







Life Insurance Business Lines

Four lines of business – term life insurance, universal life insurance, worksite products and whole life insurance – account for 95.3 percent of the life insurance segment’s revenues:

•Term life insurance – Policies under which a death benefit is payable only if the insured dies during a specific period of time. Policy options include a return of premium provision, a benefit equal to the sum of all paid base premiums that is payable if the insured person survives to the end of the term. The policies are fully underwritten utilizing traditional and accelerated methods.

•Universal life insurance – Long-duration life insurance policies that are fully underwritten. Contract premiums are neither fixed nor guaranteed; however, the contract does specify a minimum interest crediting rate and a maximum cost of insurance charge and expense charge. The cash values, available as a loan collateralized by the cash surrender value, are not guaranteed and depend on the amount and timing of actual premium payments and the amount of actual contract assessments.

•Worksite products – Term life insurance, return of premium term life insurance, whole life insurance, universal life and disability insurance offered to employees through their employer. Premiums are collected by the employer using payroll deduction. Policies are issued using a simplified underwriting approach and on a guaranteed issue basis. Worksite insurance products provide our property casualty agency force with excellent cross-serving opportunities for both commercial and personal accounts.

•Whole life insurance – Policies that provide life insurance for the entire lifetime of the insured. The death benefit is guaranteed never to decrease and premiums are guaranteed never to increase. While premiums are fixed, they must be paid as scheduled. These policies provide guaranteed cash values that are available as loans collateralized by the cash surrender value. The policies are fully underwritten.



In addition, Cincinnati Life markets:

•Disability income insurance that provides monthly benefits to offset the loss of income when the insured person is unable to work due to accident or illness.

•Deferred annuities that provide regular income payments that commence after the end of a specified period or when the annuitant attains a specified age. During the deferral period, any payments made under the contract accumulate at the crediting rate declared by the company but not less than a contract-specified guaranteed minimum interest rate. A deferred annuity may be surrendered during the deferral period for a cash value equal to the accumulated payments plus interest less the surrender charge, if any.

•Immediate annuities that provide some combination of regular income and lump-sum payments in exchange for a single premium.



Life Insurance Distribution

Our life insurance subsidiary is licensed in 49 states and the District of Columbia. At year-end 2016, approximately 83 percent of our 2,090 property casualty agency reporting locations offered Cincinnati Life products to their clients. We also develop life business from approximately 575 other independent life insurance agencies. We are careful to solicit business from these other agencies in a manner that does not conflict with or compete with the marketing and sales efforts of our property casualty agencies.



When marketing through our property casualty agencies, we have specific competitive advantages:

•Because our property casualty operations are held in high regard, property casualty agency management is predisposed to consider selling our life products.

•Marketing efforts for both our property casualty and life insurance businesses are directed by our field marketing department, which assures consistency of communication and operations. Life field marketing representatives are available to meet face-to-face with agency personnel and their clients as well. Our life headquarters underwriters and other associates are available to the agents and field team to assist in the placement of business.





Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page21







We continue to emphasize the cross-serving opportunities of our life insurance, including term and worksite products, for the property casualty agency’s personal and commercial accounts. In both the property casualty and independent life agency distribution systems, we enjoy the advantages of offering competitive, up-to-date products and providing personal attention in combination with financial strength and stability.

•Term life insurance is our largest life insurance product line. We continue to introduce new term products with features our agents indicate are important, such as a return of premium benefit and an option for an accelerated underwriting product for our personal lines agents.

•We also offer products addressing the needs of businesses with key person and buy-sell coverages. We offer quality, personal life insurance coverage to personal and commercial clients of our agencies.



Because of our strong capital position, we can offer a competitive product portfolio, including guaranteed products, giving our agents a marketing edge. Our life insurance company maintains strong insurer financial strength ratings: A.M. Best, A (Excellent); Fitch, A+ (Strong); and S&P Global Ratings A+ (Strong). Our life insurance company has chosen not to establish a Moody’s rating.



In 2016, our five highest volume states for life insurance premiums, based on information contained in statements filed with state insurance departments, are reflected in the table below.

(Dollars in millions)Premiums% of totalearnedYear ended December 31, 2016Ohio$5017.9%Pennsylvania207.2Illinois176.2Indiana176.1Georgia145.0





Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page22







Investments Segment

Revenues of the investments segment are primarily from net investment income and from net realized investment gains and losses from investment portfolios managed for the holding company and each of the operating subsidiaries.



Our investment department operates under guidelines set forth in our investment policy along with oversight of the investment committee of our board of directors. These guidelines set parameters for risk tolerances governing, among other items, the allocation of the portfolio as well as security and sector concentrations. These parameters are part of an integrated corporate risk management program. When allocating cash to various asset classes, we consider market-based factors such as risk adjusted after-tax yields as well as internal measures based in part on insurance department regulations and rating agency guidance.



The fair value of our investment portfolio was $15.419 billion and $14.356 billion at year-end 2016 and 2015, respectively, as shown in the table below. The overall portfolio remained in an unrealized gain position as equity markets were up in 2016. Value stocks and stocks with above market yields, similar to the general makeup of our portfolio, outperformed the broader market in 2016. The unrealized gain position in our fixed-maturity investments decreased slightly in 2016, due to a general increase in interest rates somewhat offset by a tightening in corporate credit spreads.

(Dollars in millions)At December 31, 2016At December 31, 2015Cost or amortized costPercent of totalPercent of totalCost or amortized costPercent of totalPercent of totalFair valueFair valueTaxable fixed maturities$6,38149.9%$6,63043.0%$6,17050.3%$6,35344.3%Tax-exempt fixed maturities3,41826.73,45522.43,15425.73,29723.0Common equity securities2,81222.05,12333.22,74922.44,48531.2Nonredeemable preferredequity securities1831.42111.41891.62211.5Total$12,794100.0%$15,419100.0%$12,262100.0%$14,356100.0%



The cash we generate from insurance operations historically has been invested in two broad categories of investments:

•Fixed-maturity investments – Includes taxable and tax-exempt bonds and redeemable preferred stocks. During 2016, purchases offset the combined effect of a net decrease in unrealized gains and sales and calls of fixed-maturity securities in our portfolio. Likewise during 2015, purchases offset the combined effect of a net decrease in unrealized gains, sales and calls.

•Equity investments – Includes common and nonredeemable preferred stocks. During 2016, purchases and a net increase in unrealized gains offset sales of equity securities in our portfolio. During 2015, the combined effect of a net decrease in unrealized gains and sales offset purchases.



At year-end 2016, less than 1 percent of the value of our investment portfolio was made up of securities that are classified as Level 3 assets and that require management’s judgment to develop pricing or valuation techniques. We generally obtain at least two outside valuations for these assets and generally use the more conservative estimate. These investments include private placements, small issues and various thinly traded securities. See Item 7, Critical Accounting Estimates, Fair Value Measurements, and Item 8, Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional discussion of our valuation techniques.



In addition to securities held in our investment portfolio, other invested assets included $31 million of life policy loans, $23 million of private equity investments and $27 million of real estate through direct property ownership and development projects in the United States at year-end 2016.



Our investment portfolio is further described below. Additional information about the composition of investments is included in Item 8, Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. A detailed listing of our portfolio is updated on our website,cinfin.com/investors, each quarter when we report our quarterly financial results.





Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page23







Fixed-Maturity Securities Investments

By maintaining a well-diversified fixed-maturity portfolio, we attempt to manage overall interest rate, reinvestment, credit and liquidity risk. We pursue a buy-and-hold strategy and do not attempt to make large-scale changes to the portfolio in anticipation of rate movements. By investing new money on a regular basis and analyzing risk-adjusted after-tax yields, we work to achieve a laddering effect to our portfolio that may mitigate some of the effects of adverse interest rate movements.



At December 31, 2016, our investment-grade and noninvestment-grade fixed-maturity securities represented 88.4 percent and 4.4 percent of the portfolio, respectively. The remaining 7.2 percent represented fixed-maturity securities that were not rated by Moody’s or S&P Global Ratings. Our nonrated securities include smaller municipal issues and private placement corporate securities. Many of these, although not rated by Moody’s or Standard & Poor’s, are rated by the NAIC’s Securities’ Valuation Office. Also included in this category are smaller public corporate securities, many of which carry a rating by an agency other than Moody’s or S&P, such as Fitch or Kroll.



Other selected attributes of the fixed-maturity portfolio are shown in the table below. Additional maturity periods and other information for our fixed-maturity portfolio are shown in Item 8, Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.

At December 31,20162015Weighted average yield-to-amortized cost4.54%4.70%Weighted average maturity7.1yrs6.9yrsEffective duration5.0yrs4.7yrs



The fair values of our taxable fixed-maturity securities portfolio at the end of the last two years were:

(Dollars in millions)At December 31,20162015Investment-grade corporate$5,336$5,060States, municipalities and political subdivisions373314Noninvestment-grade corporate445393Commercial mortgage-backed287289Government-sponsored enterprises164278Foreign government1010United States government104Convertibles and bonds with warrants attached55Total$6,630$6,353



While our strategy typically is to buy and hold fixed-maturity investments to maturity, we monitor credit profiles and fair value movements when determining holding periods for individual securities. With the exception of U.S. agency issues, no individual issuer's securities accounted for more than 1.1 percent of the taxable fixed-maturity portfolio at year-end 2016. Investment-grade corporate bonds had an average rating of Baa2 by Moody’s or BBB+ by S&P at year-end 2016. Most of the $373 million of securities issued by states, municipalities and political subdivisions included in our taxable fixed-maturity portfolio at the end of 2016 were Build America Bonds.



Relative to a broad bond market index such as the Barclay’s Aggregate, we are most heavily exposed to the investment grade corporate bond asset class. Within that asset class we have a weighting of 42.5 percent, higher than the 29 percent weighting for the financial sector of the Banc of America/Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Bond index. Relative to the Barclay’s Aggregate Index we are overweight in the commercial mortgage-backed securities asset class while having no exposure to the much larger residential mortgage-backed market.



At December 31, 2016, we had $3.455 billion of tax-exempt fixed-maturity securities with an average rating of Aa2/AA by Moody’s and S&P. The portfolio is well diversified among more than 1,400 municipal bond issues. No single municipal issuer accounted for more than 0.7 percent of the tax-exempt fixed-maturity portfolio at year-end 2016.



Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page24









Equity Securities Investments

After covering both our intermediate and long-range insurance obligations with fixed-maturity investments, we historically have used some available cash flow to invest in equity securities. Our equity securities portfolio includes common stocks and nonredeemable preferred stocks. Investment in equity securities has played an important role in achieving our portfolio objectives and has contributed to portfolio appreciation. We remain committed to our long-term equity focus, which we believe is key to our company’s long-term growth and stability. We believe our strategy of primarily investing in a diversified selection of larger-capitalization, high-quality, dividend-increasing companies generally results in reduced volatility relative to the broader equity markets.



At year-end 2016, no holding had a fair value greater than 3.8 percent of our common stock portfolio. JP Morgan Chase & Co. (NYSE:JPM) was our largest single common stock investment, comprising 3.8 percent of our publicly traded common stock portfolio and 1.3 percent of the entire investment portfolio. The parent company held 35.8 percent of our common stock holdings (measured by fair value). The distribution of the portfolio among industry sectors is shown in the table below.



Common Stock Portfolio Industry Sector Distribution

Percent of common stock portfolioAt December 31, 2016At December 31, 2015CincinnatiFinancialS&P 500 IndustryWeightingsCincinnatiFinancialS&P 500 IndustryWeightingsSector:Information technology17.6%20.8%18.4%20.7%Financial15.614.815.416.5Industrials14.910.314.010.0Healthcare12.613.612.215.1Consumer discretionary10.412.010.612.9Consumer staples10.39.411.010.1Energy8.57.57.76.5Materials5.82.84.92.8Utilities2.23.23.83.0Telecomm services2.12.72.02.4Real estate—2.9——Total100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%



We evaluate nonredeemable preferred stocks in a manner similar to our evaluation of fixed-maturity investments, seeking attractive relative yields. We generally focus on investment-grade nonredeemable preferred stocks issued by companies with strong histories of paying common dividends, providing us with another layer of protection. Consideration is also given to nonredeemable preferred stocks that offer a dividend received deduction for income tax purposes. We did not purchase any nonredeemable preferred stocks and sold $7 million in this portfolio during 2016. During 2015, we purchased $65 million and sold $20 million.





Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page25









Other

We report as Other the noninvestment operations of the parent company and its noninsurer subsidiary CFC Investment Company. At year-end 2016, this subsidiary had $51 million in receivables related to its commercial leasing and financing services, compared with $62 million in receivables at year-end 2015.



Beginning in 2015, we also reported results of our Cincinnati Re reinsurance assumed operations. Cincinnati Re has contracts, also referred to as treaties, with other insurance or reinsurance companies to assume a portion of their insured risk in exchange for a portion of premiums from insurance policies covering those risks. The treaties and their exposure to losses are diverse in nature, including various lines of business and geographies for the reinsured risks. Some of our treaties reflect a type of contract commonly referred to as participating or proportional, typically sharing premiums and losses between the reinsured entity and us, as reinsurer, on a pro rata basis. Some are a contract type commonly referred to as excess of loss, where we indemnify the reinsured entity only for losses exceeding a predetermined amount.



Net written premiums for Cincinnati Re totaled $71 million in 2016, and nearly half was for property exposures that include risk of loss from natural catastrophes. The remainder was primarily for casualty exposures from various liability risks. Less than 10 percent was a combination of what we consider to be more specialized coverages that include transactional liability and credit risk transfer related to residential mortgages. At year-end 2016, Cincinnati Re increased other property casualty catastrophe probable maximum loss estimates disclosed in Item 7, Liquidity and Capital Resources, 2017 Reinsurance Ceded Programs, by the following amounts: $45 million for a once-in-a-100-year event and $44 million for a once-in-a-250-year event. Those effects represent a single hurricane event and are net of income taxes, based on probable maximum loss estimates from Applied Insurance Research's Touchstone version 4.0 catastrophe model.





Regulation

The business of insurance is primarily regulated by state law. All of our insurance company subsidiaries are domiciled in the state of Ohio except The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company, which is domiciled in Delaware. Each insurance subsidiary is primarily governed by the insurance laws and regulations in its respective state of domicile. We also are subject to regulatory authorities of all states in which we write insurance. The state laws and regulations that have the most significant effect on our insurance operations and financial reporting are discussed below.

•Insurance Holding Company Regulation – We are regulated as an insurance holding company system in the respective states of domicile of our primary standard market property casualty company subsidiary and its surplus lines and life insurance subsidiaries. These regulations require that we annually furnish financial and other information about the operations of the individual companies within the holding company system. Information about the risks posed by any noninsurance company subsidiaries must also be disclosed. All transactions within a holding company system affecting insurers must be fair and equitable. Notice to the state insurance commissioner is required prior to the consummation of transactions affecting the ownership or control of an insurer and prior to certain material transactions between an insurer and any person or entity in its holding company group. In addition, some of those transactions cannot be consummated without the commissioner’s prior approval.

•Subsidiary Dividends – The Cincinnati Insurance Company is fully owned by Cincinnati Financial Corporation. The dividend-paying capacity of The Cincinnati Insurance Company and its fully owned subsidiaries is regulated by the laws of the applicable state of domicile. Under these laws, our insurance subsidiaries must provide a 10-day advance informational notice to the insurance commissioner for the domiciliary state prior to payment of any dividend or distribution to its shareholders. Generally, the most our insurance subsidiary can pay without prior regulatory approval is the greater of 10 percent of statutory capital and surplus or 100 percent of statutory net income for the prior calendar year.

The insurance company subsidiaries must give 30 days of notice to, and obtain prior approval from, the state insurance commissioner before the payment of an extraordinary dividend as defined by the state’s insurance code. You can find information about the dividends paid by our insurance subsidiary in 2016 in Item 8, Note 9 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.

•Insurance Operations – All of our insurance subsidiaries are subject to licensing and supervision by departments of insurance in the states in which they do business. The nature and extent of such regulations vary, but generally are rooted in statutes that delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative powers to state insurance departments. Such regulations, supervision and administration of the insurance subsidiaries include: the



Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page26







standards of solvency that must be met and maintained; the licensing of insurers and their agents and brokers; the nature and limitations on investments; deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders; regulation of standard market policy forms and premium rates; policy cancellations and nonrenewals; test audit programs; periodic examination of the affairs of insurance companies; annual and other reports required to be filed on the financial condition of insurers or for other purposes; requirements regarding reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other matters; the nature of and limitations on dividends to policyholders and shareholders; the nature and extent of required participation in insurance guaranty funds; the involuntary assumption of hard-to-place or high-risk insurance business, primarily workers’ compensation insurance; and the collection, remittance and reporting of certain taxes and fees. Our primary insurance regulators have adopted the Model Audit Rule for annual statutory financial reporting. This regulation closely mirrors the Sarbanes-Oxley Act on matters such as auditor independence, corporate governance and internal controls over financial reporting. The regulation permits the audit committee of Cincinnati Financial Corporation’s board of directors to also serve as the audit committee of each of our insurance subsidiaries for purposes of this regulation.

•Insurance Guaranty Associations – For certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants, states assess each member insurer in an amount relative to the insurer’s proportionate share of business written by all member insurers in the state. While the amount of such assessments has not been material in recent years, we cannot predict the amount and timing of any future assessments or refunds on our insurance subsidiaries under these laws.

•Shared Market and Joint Underwriting Plans – Assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting associations are mechanisms that generally provide applicants with various basic insurance coverages when they are not available in voluntary markets. States can require participation based upon the amount of an insurance company’s voluntary market share, and underwriting results related to these pools could be adverse to our company.

•Statutory Accounting – For public reporting, insurance companies prepare financial statements in accordance with GAAP. However, certain data also must be calculated according to statutory accounting rules as defined in the NAIC’s Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual. While not a substitute for any GAAP measure of performance, statutory data frequently is used by industry analysts and other recognized reporting sources to facilitate comparisons of the performance of insurance companies.

•Insurance Reserves – State insurance laws require that property casualty and life insurers annually analyze the adequacy of reserves. Our appointed actuaries must submit an opinion that reserves are adequate for policy claims-paying obligations and related expenses.

•Investment Regulation – Insurance company investments must comply with laws and regulations pertaining to the type, quality and concentration of investments. Such laws and regulations permit investments in federal, state and municipal obligations, corporate bonds, preferred and common equity securities, mortgage loans, real estate and certain other investments, subject to specified limits and other qualifications. At December 31, 2016, the company believed it was in compliance with these laws and regulations in all material respects.

•Risk-Based Capital Requirements – The NAIC’s risk-based capital (RBC) requirements for property casualty and life insurers serve as an early warning tool for the NAIC and state regulators to identify companies that may be undercapitalized and may merit further regulatory action. The NAIC has a standard formula for annually assessing RBC. The formula for calculating RBC for property casualty companies takes into account asset and credit risks but places more emphasis on underwriting factors for reserving and pricing. The formula for calculating RBC for life insurance companies takes into account factors relating to insurance, business, asset and interest-rate risks.

Although the federal government and its regulatory agencies generally do not directly regulate the business of insurance, federal legislation and administrative rules adopted can affect our business. Privacy laws, such as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Health Insurance Portability and Accounting Act (HIPAA) are the federal laws that most affect our day-to-day operations. These apply to us because we gather and use personal nonpublic information to underwrite insurance and process claims. We also are subject to other federal laws, such as the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (TRIA), anti-money laundering statute (AML), the Nonadmitted and Reinsurance Reform Act (NRRA), and the rules and regulations of the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC).



Title V of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank) created the Federal Insurance Office to monitor the insurance industry and gather information to identify issues or gaps in the regulation of insurers that could contribute to a systemic crisis in the insurance industry that affects the United States’ financial system and to recommend to the Financial Stability Oversight Council that it designate an insurer



Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page27







as a systemically significant entity requiring additional supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. We do not expect Dodd-Frank to result in federal oversight of our operations as a systemically significant entity.



We do not expect to have any material effects on our expenditures, earnings or competitive position as a result of compliance with any federal, state or local provisions enacted or adopted relating to the protection of the environment. We currently do not have any material estimated capital expenditures for environmental control facilities.



Enterprise Risk Management

We manage enterprise risk through formal risk management programs overseen by our chief risk officer, an executive officer of the company. Our ERM framework includes an enterprise risk management committee, which is responsible for overseeing risk activities and is comprised of senior executive-level risk owners from across the enterprise. The risk committee's activities are supported by a team of representatives from business areas that focus on identifying, evaluating and developing risk plans for emerging risks. A comprehensive report is provided quarterly to our chairman, our president and chief executive officer, our board of directors and our senior executive team, as appropriate, on the status of risk metrics relative to identified tolerances and limits, risk assessments and risk plans. Our use of operational audits, strategic plans and departmental business plans, as well as our culture of open communications and our fundamental respect for our Code of Conduct, continue to help us manage risks on an ongoing basis.



Our risk management programs include a formalized risk appetite element and a risk identification and quantification process. The overall enterprise objective is to appropriately balance risk and reward to achieve an appropriate return on risk capital. The company’s key risks are discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors, including risks related to natural catastrophes, investments and operations.



We continue to study emerging risks, including climate-change risk and its potential financial effects on our results of operation and on those we insure. These effects include deterioration in the credit quality of our municipal or corporate bond portfolios and increased losses without sufficient corresponding increases in premiums. As with any risk, we seek to identify the extent of the risk exposure and possible actions to mitigate potential negative effects of risk at an enterprise level.





Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2016 10-K - Page28









