Item 1. Business



Cincinnati
Financial Corporation – Introduction



We are an
Ohio corporation formed in 1968. Our lead subsidiary, The Cincinnati Insurance
Company, was founded in 1950. Our main business is property casualty insurance
marketed through independent insurance agents in 37 states. Our headquarters is
in Fairfield, Ohio. At year-end 2009, we employed 4,170 associates,
with 2,965 headquarters associates providing support to 1,205 field
associates.



At
year-end 2009, Cincinnati Financial Corporation owned 100 percent of three
subsidiaries: The Cincinnati Insurance Company, CSU Producer Resources Inc., and
CFC Investment Company. In addition, the parent company has an investment
portfolio, owns the headquarters property and is responsible for corporate
borrowings and shareholder dividends.



The
Cincinnati Insurance Company owns 100 percent of our four additional
insurance subsidiaries. Our standard market property casualty insurance group
includes two of those subsidiaries – The Cincinnati Casualty Company and The
Cincinnati Indemnity Company. This group writes a broad range of business,
homeowner and auto policies. Other subsidiaries of The Cincinnati Insurance
Company include The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company, which provides life
insurance, disability income policies and annuities, and The Cincinnati
Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company, which began offering excess and
surplus lines insurance products in January 2008.



The two
non-insurance subsidiaries of Cincinnati Financial are CSU Producer Resources,
which offers insurance brokerage services to our independent agencies so their
clients can access our excess and surplus lines insurance products; and CFC
Investment Company, which offers commercial leasing and financing services to
our agents, their clients and other customers.



Our
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available, free of
charge, on our Web site,www.cinfin.com/investors, as
soon as possible after they have been filed with the SEC. These filings include
annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In the following
pages we reference various Web sites. These Web sites, including our own, are
not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Periodically,
we refer to estimated industry data so that we can give information about our
performance versus the overall insurance industry. Unless otherwise noted, the
industry data is prepared by A.M. Best Co., a leading insurance
industry statistical, analytical and insurer financial strength and credit
rating organization. Information from A.M. Best is presented on a statutory
basis. When we provide our results on a comparable statutory basis, we label it
as such; all other company data is presented in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America
(GAAP).



Our
Business and Our Strategy



Introduction



The
Cincinnati Insurance Company was founded 60 years ago by four independent
insurance agents. They established the mission that continues to guide all of
the companies in the Cincinnati Financial family – to grow profitably and
enhance the ability of local independent insurance agents to deliver quality
financial protection to the people and businesses they serve by:



·providing
      market stability through financial
strength



·producing
      competitive, up-to-date products and
services



·developing
      associates committed to superior
service



A select
group of agencies in 37 states actively markets our property casualty insurance
within their communities. Standard market commercial lines policies
are marketed in all of those states, while personal lines policies are
marketed in 29 of those states. Excess and surplus lines policies are available
in 36 of those states. Within this select group, we also seek to become the life
insurance carrier of choice and to help agents and their clients – our
policyholders – by offering leasing and financing services.



Page



Three
competitive advantages distinguish our company, positioning us to build
shareholder value and overall long-term success:



·Commitment
      to our network of professional independent insurance agencies and to their
      continued success



·Financial
      strength that lets us be a consistent market for our agents’ business,
      supporting stability
and confidence



·Operating
      structure that supports local decision making, showcasing our claims
      excellence and allowing us to balance growth with underwriting
      discipline



Independent
Insurance Agency Marketplace



The U.S.
property casualty insurance industry is a highly competitive marketplace with
over 2,000 stock and mutual companies operating independently or in groups. No
single company or group dominates across all product lines and states.
Standard market insurance companies (carriers) can market a broad array of
products nationally or:



·choose
      to sell a limited product line or only one type of insurance (monoline
      carrier)



·target
      a certain segment of the market (for example, personal
      insurance)



·focus
      on one or more states or regions (regional
  carrier)



Standard
market property casualty insurers generally offer insurance products through one
or more distribution channels:



·independent
      agents, who represent multiple
carriers



·captive
      agents, who represent one carrier exclusively,
  or



·direct
      marketing to consumers



For the
most part, we compete with standard market insurance companies that market
through independent insurance agents. Agencies marketing our commercial lines
products typically represent six to 12 standard market insurance carriers for
commercial lines products, including both national and regional carriers, some
of which may be mutual companies. Our agencies typically represent four to six
standard personal lines carriers, and we also compete with carriers that market
personal lines products through captive agents and direct writers. Distribution
though independent insurance agents or brokers represents nearly 60 percent of
overall U.S. property casualty insurance premiums and approximately 80 percent
of commercial property casualty insurance premiums, according to studies by the
Independent Insurance Agents and Brokers of America.



We are
committed exclusively to the independent agency channel. The independent
agencies that we choose to market our standard lines insurance products share
our philosophies. They do business person to person; offer broad, value-added
services; maintain sound balance sheets; and manage their agencies
professionally. We develop our relationships with agencies that are active in
their local communities, providing important knowledge of local market trends,
opportunities and challenges.



In
addition to the standard market for property casualty insurance, the excess and
surplus lines market exists due to a regulatory distinction. Generally, excess
and surplus lines insurance carriers provide insurance that is unavailable in
the standard market due to market conditions or due to characteristics of the
insured person or organization that are caused by nature, the insured's claim
history or the characteristics of their business. Insurers operating in the
excess and surplus lines market generally market business through excess and
surplus lines insurance brokers, whether they are small specialty insurers or
specialized divisions of larger insurance organizations.



We opened
our own excess and surplus lines insurance brokerage firm so that we could offer
excess and surplus lines products exclusively to the independent agents who
market our other property casualty insurance products. We also market life
insurance products through the agencies that market our property casualty
products, and through other independent agencies that represent The Cincinnati
Life Insurance Company without also representing our other
subsidiaries.



At
year-end 2009, our 1,180 property casualty agency relationships were marketing
our standard market insurance products out of 1,463 reporting locations. An
increasing number of agencies have multiple, separately identifiable locations,
reflecting their growth and consolidation of ownership within the independent
agency marketplace. The number of reporting agency locations indicates our
agents’ regional scope and the extent of our presence within our 37 active
states. At year-end 2008, our 1,133 agency relationships had 1,387
reporting locations. At year-end 2007, our 1,092 agency relationships had
1,327 reporting locations.



On
average, we have an 11.1 percent share of the property casualty insurance
purchased through our reporting agency locations. Our share is 16.7 percent in
reporting agency locations that have represented us for more than 10 years;
5.9 percent in agencies that have represented us for five to 10 years;
3.9 percent in agencies that have represented us for one to five years; and
0.6 percent in agencies that have represented us for less than one
year.



Page



Our
largest single agency relationship accounted for approximately 1.2 percent
of our total property casualty earned premiums in 2009. No aggregate locations
under a single ownership structure accounted for more than 2.2 percent of
our earned premiums in 2009.



Financial
Strength



We
believe that our financial strength and strong surplus position, reflected in
our insurer financial strength ratings, are clear, competitive advantages in the
segments of the insurance marketplace that we serve. This strength supports the
consistent, predictable performance that our policyholders, agents, associates
and shareholders have always expected and received, helping us withstand
significant challenges.



While the
prospect exists for short-term financial performance volatility due to our
exposures to potential catastrophes or significant capital market losses, the
ratings agencies consistently have asserted that we have built appropriate
financial strength and flexibility to manage that volatility. We remain
committed to strategies that emphasize being a consistent, stable market for our
agents’ business over short-term benefits that might accrue by quick,
opportunistic reaction to changes in market conditions.



At
year-end 2009 and 2008, risk-based capital (RBC) for our standard and excess and
surplus lines property casualty operations and life operations was very strong,
far exceeding regulatory requirements.



·We
      ended 2009 with a 0.8-to-1 ratio of property casualty premiums to surplus,
      a key measure of property casualty insurance company capacity. Our ratio
      gives us the flexibility to diversify risk by expanding our operations
      into new geographies and product areas. The estimated industry average
      ratio also was 0.8 to 1 for 2009. The lower the ratio, the
      greater capacity an insurer has for
growth.



·We
      ended 2009 with a 16.3 percent ratio of life statutory adjusted risk-based
      surplus to liabilities, a key measure of life insurance company capital
      strength. The estimated industry average ratio was 10.0 percent for
      2009. A higher ratio indicates an insurer’s stronger security for
      policyholders and capacity to support
  business growth.



At December 31,(Dollars
      in
      millions)                                                              Statutory
      Information20092008Standard
      market property casualty insurance subsidiaryStatutory
      surplus$3,648$3,360Risk-based
      capital (RBC)3,6643,389Authorized
      control level risk-based capital437407Ratio
      of risk-based capital to authorized control level risk-based
      capital8.48.3Written
      premium to surplus ratio0.80.9Life
      insurance subsidiaryStatutory
      surplus$300$290Risk-based
      capital (RBC)316290Authorized
      control level risk-based capital4037Ratio
      of risk-based capital to authorized control level risk-based
      capital7.97.8Total
      liabilities excluding separate account business1,9601,640Life
      statutory risk-based adjusted surplus to liabilities ratio16.317.7Excess
      and surplus insurance subsidiaryStatutory
      surplus$168$174Risk-based
      capital (RBC)168174Authorized
      control level risk-based capital84Ratio
      of risk-based capital to authorized control level risk-based
      capital21.439.7Written
      premium to surplus ratio0.20.1



The
consolidated property casualty insurance group’s ratio of investments in common
stock to statutory surplus was 58.4 percent at year-end 2009 compared with
53.4 percent at year-end 2008. The life insurance company’s ratio was 32.2
percent compared with 39.2 percent a year ago.



Cincinnati
Financial Corporation’s senior debt is rated by four independent ratings firms.
In addition, the ratings firms award our property casualty and life operations
insurer financial strength ratings based on their quantitative and qualitative
analyses. These ratings assess an insurer’s ability to meet financial
obligations to policyholders and do not necessarily address all of the matters
that may be important to shareholders. Ratings may be subject to revision or
withdrawal at any time by the rating agency, and each rating should be evaluated
independently of any other rating.



All of
our insurance subsidiaries continue to be highly rated. During 2009, Fitch
Ratings lowered our ratings as described below. No other ratings agency actions
occurred during 2009.



Page



As of
February 26, 2010, our credit and financial strength ratings were:



Insurance
      Financial Strength RatingsRatingAgencyParentCompanySenior DebtRatingStandard Market PropertyCasualty
      InsuranceSubsidiariesLife
      InsuranceSubsidiaryExcess
      and SurplusInsuranceSubsidiaryStatus
      (date)RatingTierRatingTierRatingTierA.
      M. Best Co.aA+Superior2
      of 16AExcellent3
      of 16AExcellent3
      of 16Stable
      outlook (2/18/10)Fitch
      RatingsBBB+A+Strong5
      of 21A+Strong5
      of 21---Stable
      outlook (8/6/09)Moody's
      Investors ServiceA3A1Good5
      of 21------Stable
      outlook (9/25/08)Standard
      & Poor'sRatings
      ServicesBBB+A+Strong5
      of 21A+Strong5
      of 21---Negative
      outlook
(06/30/08)



On August
6, 2009, Fitch Ratings lowered our ratings and changed the rating outlook to
stable. Our parent company senior debt rating was lowered from A- to BBB+ and
our standard market property casualty subsidiaries’ insurance and life insurance
subsidiary financial strength ratings were lowered from AA- to A+. Fitch said
the rating action was primarily driven by our unfavorable property casualty
underwriting performance during 2008 and the first half of 2009. Fitch said it
viewed favorably our steps taken with our investment portfolio. Fitch also noted
our strong capitalization and low operating leverage. No other ratings
agency actions occurred during 2009.



On
February 18, 2010, A.M. Best affirmed our ratings that it had assigned in
December 2008, continuing its stable outlook. A.M. Best cited our superior
risk-adjusted capitalization, strong five-year average operating performance,
historically redundant reserves and successful distribution within our targeted
regional markets. A.M. Best noted that common stock leverage was approximately
50 percent of statutory surplus at year-end 2009, a concern offset by our
conservative underwriting and reserving philosophies, with loss reserves more
than fully covered by a highly rated, diversified bond portfolio.



Our debt
ratings are discussed in Item 7, Liquidity and Capital Resources, Additional
Sources of Liquidity, Page 69.



Operating
Structure



We offer
our broad array of insurance products through the independent agency channel. We
recognize that locally based independent agencies have relationships in their
communities and local marketplace intelligence that can lead to policyholder
satisfaction, loyalty and profitable business. We seek to be a consistent and
predictable property casualty carrier that agencies can rely on to serve their
clients. For our standard market business, field and headquarters underwriters
make risk-specific decisions about both new business and renewals.



In our 10
highest volume states for consolidated property casualty premiums, 933 reporting
agency locations wrote 68.1 percent of our 2009 consolidated property
casualty earned premium volume compared with 910 locations and 68.7 percent
in 2008.



Page



Property
Casualty Insurance Earned Premiums by State



(Dollars in millions)Earnedpremiums% of totalearnedAgencylocationsAveragepremium perlocationYear
      ended December 31, 2009Ohio$61121.0%224$2.7Illinois2538.71192.1Indiana2016.91041.9Pennsylvania1746.0822.1Georgia1485.1712.1North
      Carolina1384.8751.8Michigan1294.41091.2Virginia1214.2602.0Wisconsin1033.5492.1Kentucky1003.5402.5Year
      ended December 31, 2008Ohio$63020.9%219$2.9Illinois2709.01192.3Indiana2056.81042.0Pennsylvania1836.1802.3Georgia1505.0682.2North
      Carolina1505.0732.1Michigan1354.51011.3Virginia1314.4582.3Wisconsin1083.6482.3Tennessee1023.4402.6



Field
Focus



We rely
on our field associates to provide service and be accountable to our agencies
for decisions we make at the local level. These associates live in the
communities our agents serve, working from offices in their homes and providing
24/7 availability to our agents. Headquarters associates also provide agencies
with underwriting, accounting and technology assistance and training. Company
executives, headquarters underwriters and special teams regularly travel to
visit agencies, strengthening the personal relationships we have with these
organizations. Agents have opportunities for direct, personal conversations with
our senior management team, and headquarters associates have opportunities to
refresh their knowledge of marketplace conditions and field
activities.



The field
team is coordinated by field marketing representatives responsible for
underwriting new commercial lines business. They are joined by field
representatives specializing in claims, loss control, personal lines, machinery
and equipment, bond, premium audit, life insurance and leasing. The field team
provides many services for agencies and policyholders; for example, our field
loss control representatives and others specializing in machinery and equipment
risks perform inspections and recommend specific actions to improve the safety
of the policyholder’s operations and the quality of the agent’s
account.



Agents
work with us to carefully select risks and assure pricing adequacy. They
appreciate the time our associates invest in creating solutions for their
clients while protecting profitability, whether that means working on an
individual case or customizing policy terms and conditions that preserve
flexibility, choice and other sales advantages. We seek to develop long-term
relationships by understanding the unique needs of their clients, who are also
our policyholders.



We also
are responsive to agent needs for well designed property casualty products. Our
commercial lines products are structured to allow flexible combinations of
property and liability coverages in a single package with a single expiration
date and several payment options. This approach brings policyholders
convenience, discounts and a reduced risk of coverage gaps or disputes. At the
same time, it increases account retention and saves time and expense for the
agency and our company.



We seek
to employ technology solutions and business process improvements
that:



·allow
      our field and headquarters associates to collaborate with each other and
      with agencies more efficiently



·provide
      our agencies the ability to access our systems and client data to process
      business transactions from their
offices



·allow
      policyholders to directly access pertinent policy information online in
      order to further improve efficiency for our
  agencies



·automate
      our internal processes so our associates can spend more time serving
      agents and policyholders, and



·reduce
      duplicated effort, introducing more efficient processes that reduce
      company and agency costs.



Page



Agencies
access our systems and other electronic services via their agency management
systems or CinciLink®, our
secure agency-only Web site. CinciLink provides an array of Web-based services
and content that makes doing business with us easier, such as commercial and
personal lines rating and processing systems, policy loss information, sales and
marketing materials, educational courses about our products and services,
accounting services, and electronic libraries for property and casualty coverage
forms and state rating manuals.



Superior
Claims Service



Our
claims philosophy reflects our belief that we will prosper as a company by
responding to claims person to person, paying covered claims promptly,
preventing false claims from unfairly adding to overall premiums and building
financial strength to meet future obligations.



Our 771
locally based field claims representatives work from their homes, assigned to
specific agencies. They respond personally to policyholders and claimants,
typically within 24 hours of receiving an agency’s claim report. We believe we
have a competitive advantage because of the person-to-person approach and the
resulting high level of service that our field claims representatives provide.
We also help our agencies provide prompt service to policyholders by giving
agencies authority to immediately pay most first-party claims under standard
market policies up to $2,500. We believe this same local approach to handling
claims is a competitive advantage for our agents providing excess and surplus
lines coverage in their communities. Handling of these claims includes guidance
from headquarters-based excess and surplus lines claims managers.



Our
property casualty claims operation uses CMS, our claims management system, to
streamline processes and achieve operational efficiencies. CMS allows field and
headquarters claims associates to collaborate on reported claims through a
virtual claim file. Our field claims representatives use tablet computers to
view and enter information into CMS from any location, including an insured’s
home or agent’s office, and to print claim checks using portable printers.
Agencies can also access selected CMS information such as activity notes on open
claims.



Catastrophe
response teams are comprised of volunteers from our experienced field claims
staff, and we give them the tools and authority they need to do their jobs. In
times of widespread loss, our field claims representatives confidently and
quickly resolve claims, often writing checks on the same day they inspect the
loss. CMS introduced new efficiencies that are especially evident during
catastrophes. Electronic claim files allow for fast initial contact of
policyholders and easy sharing of information and data by rotating storm teams,
headquarters and local field claims representatives. When hurricanes or other
weather events are predicted, we can choose to have catastrophe response team
members travel to strategic locations near the expected impact area. They are in
position to quickly get to the affected area, set up temporary offices and start
calling on policyholders.



Our
claims associates work to control costs where appropriate. They use vendor
resources that provide negotiated pricing to our insureds and claimants. Our
field claims representatives also are educated continuously on new techniques
and repair trends. They can leverage their local knowledge and experience with
area body shops, which helps them negotiate the right price with any facility
the policyholder chooses.



We staff
a Special Investigations Unit (SIU) with former law enforcement and claims
professionals whose qualifications make them uniquely suited to gathering facts
to uncover potential fraud. While we believe our job is to pay what is due under
each policy contract, we also want to prevent false claims from unfairly
increasing overall premiums. Our SIU also operates a computer forensic lab,
using sophisticated software to recover data and mitigate the cost of
computer-related claims for business interruption and loss of
records.



Loss
and Loss Expense Reserves



When
claims are made by or against policyholders, any amounts that our property
casualty operations pay or expect to pay for covered claims are losses. The
costs we incur in investigating, resolving and processing these claims are loss
expenses. Our consolidated financial statements include property casualty loss
and loss expense reserves that estimate the costs of not-yet-paid claims
incurred through December 31 of each year. The reserves include estimates for
claims that have been reported to us plus our estimates for claims that have
been incurred but not yet reported (IBNR), along with our estimate for loss
expenses associated with processing and settling those claims. We develop the
various estimates based on individual claim evaluations and statistical
projections. We reduce the loss reserves by an estimate for the amount of
salvage and subrogation we expect to recover. We encourage you to review several
sections of the Management’s Discussion and Analysis where we discuss our loss
reserves in greater depth. In Item 7, Critical Accounting Estimates, Property
Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves, Page 38, we discuss our
process for analyzing potential losses and establishing reserves. In Item 7,
Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Obligations and Reserves, Page 71, and
Life Insurance Policyholder Obligations and Reserves, Page 78, we review reserve
levels, including 10-year development of our property casualty
loss reserves.



Page



Insurance
Products



We
actively market property casualty insurance in 37 states through a select group
of independent insurance agencies. Our standard market commercial lines products
are marketed in all of those states while our standard market personal lines
products are marketed in 29. We discuss our commercial lines and personal lines
insurance operations and products in Commercial Lines Property Casualty
Insurance Segment, Page 12, and Personal Lines Property Casualty Insurance
Segment, Page 15. At year-end 2009, CSU Producer Resources marketed our
excess and surplus lines products to agencies in 36 states that represent
Cincinnati Insurance.



The
Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company began excess and surplus
lines insurance operations in January 2008. We structured this operation to
exclusively serve the needs of the independent agencies that currently market
our standard market insurance policies. When all or a portion of a current or
potential client’s insurance program requires excess and surplus lines
coverages, those agencies can write the whole account with Cincinnati, gaining
benefits not often found in the broader excess and surplus lines market.
Agencies have access to The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance
Company’s product line through CSU Producer Resources Inc., the wholly owned
insurance brokerage subsidiary of parent-company Cincinnati Financial
Corporation.



Cincinnati
Specialty Underwriters and CSU Producer Resources employ a Web-based policy
administration system to quote, bind, issue and deliver policies electronically
to agents. This system also provides integration to existing document management
and data management systems, allowing for straight-through processing of
policies and billing.



We also
support the independent agencies affiliated with our property casualty
operations in their programs to sell life insurance. The products offered by our
life insurance subsidiary round out and protect accounts and improve account
persistency. At the same time, our life operation increases diversification of
revenue and profitability sources for both the agency and our
company.



Our
property casualty agencies make up the main distribution system for our life
insurance products. To help build scale, we also develop life business from
other independent life insurance agencies in geographic markets underserved
through our property casualty agencies. We are careful to solicit business from
these other agencies in a manner that does not compete with the life insurance
marketing and sales efforts of our property casualty agencies. Our life
insurance operation emphasizes up-to-date products, responsive underwriting,
high quality service and competitive pricing.



Other
Services to Agencies



We
complement the insurance operations by providing products and services that help
attract and retain high-quality independent insurance agencies. When we appoint
agencies, we look for organizations with knowledgeable, professional staffs. In
turn, we make an exceptionally strong commitment to assist them in keeping their
knowledge up to date and educating new people they bring on board as they grow.
Numerous activities fulfill this commitment at our headquarters, in regional and
agency locations and online.



Except
travel-related expenses for classes held at our headquarters, most programs are
offered at no cost to our agencies. While that approach may be extraordinary in
our industry today, the result is quality service for our policyholders and
increased success for our independent agencies.



In
addition to broad education and training support, we make non-insurance
financial services available through CFC Investment Company. CFC Investment
Company offers equipment and vehicle leases and loans for independent insurance
agencies, their commercial clients and other businesses. It also provides
commercial real estate loans to help agencies operate and expand their
businesses. We believe that providing these services enhances agency
relationships with the company and their clients, increasing loyalty while
diversifying the agency’s revenues.



Page



Strategic
Initiatives



Management
has identified strategies that can position us for long-term success. The board
of directors and management believe that execution of our strategic plan will
create significant value for shareholders over time. We broadly group these
strategies into three areas of focus – managing capital effectively, improving
insurance profitability and driving premium growth – correlating with the
primary ways we measure our progress toward our long-term financial objectives.
Our strategies are intended to position us to compete successfully in the
markets we have targeted while seeking to optimize the balance of risk and
returns. We believe successful implementation of the initiatives that support
our strategies will help us better serve our agent customers, reduce volatility
in our financial results and achieve our long-term objectives despite
shorter-term effects of difficult economic, market or pricing cycles. We
describe our expectations for the results of these initiatives in Item 7,
Executive Summary of the Management’s Discussion and Analysis,
Page 34.



Manage
Capital Effectively



Our first
strategy is a continuing focus on managing capital effectively. This strategy
serves as a foundation supporting other strategies focused on profitably growing
our insurance business, with the overall objective of building capital for the
long-term benefit of shareholders. Implementation of the initiatives below that
support our capital management strategy is intended to preserve our capital
while maintaining appropriate liquidity. A strong capital position provides the
capacity to support premium growth and liquidity provides for our investment in
the people and infrastructure needed to implement our other strategic
initiatives. Our strong capital and liquidity also provide financial flexibility
for shareholder dividends or other capital management actions.



The
primary capital management initiatives are:



·Maintain
      a diversified investment portfolio by reviewing and applying
      diversification parameters and tolerances – We discuss our portfolio
      strategies in greater depth in Investments Segment, Page
    18.



oHigh-quality
      fixed-maturity portfolio that exceeds total insurance reserves – At
      year-end 2009, the average rating of the $7.855 billion fixed maturity
      portfolio was A2/A. The risk of potential decline of capital due to lower
      bond values during periods of increasing interest rates is managed in part
      through a generally laddered maturity schedule for this portfolio, as
      approximately 28 percent will mature in the next five years. The portfolio
      value exceeded total insurance reserve liability by 32.6 percent. In
      addition, we have assets in the form of receivables from reinsurers, most
      with A.M. Best insurer financial strength ratings of A or better. These
      assets directly related to insurance reserves, offsetting over 10 percent
      of that liability.



oDiversified
      equity portfolio that has no concentrated positions in single stocks or
      industries – At year-end 2009, no single security accounted for more
      than 5.8 percent of our portfolio of publicly traded common stocks, and no
      single sector accounted for more than 18.0 percent. Because of the
      strength of our fixed-maturity portfolio, we have the opportunity to
      invest for potential capital appreciation by purchasing equity securities.
      We seek to achieve a total return on the equity portfolio over any
      five-year period that exceeds that of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
      while taking similar or less risk.



oParent
      company liquidity that increases our flexibility through all periods to
      maintain our cash dividend and to continue to invest in and expand
      our insurance operations – At year-end 2009, we held
      $1.040 billion of our cash and invested assets at the parent company
      level, of which $683 million, or 65.7 percent, was invested in
      common stocks, and $54 million, or 5.2 percent, was cash or
      cash equivalents.



·Develop
      a comprehensive, enterprise-level catastrophe management program –
      Weather-related catastrophe losses for our property casualty business can
      significantly affect capital and cause earnings volatility. Key objectives
      of a comprehensive program include identifying an overall tolerance for
      catastrophe risk as well as regional guidelines that work with our
      underwriting and reinsurance efforts. An important element of this
      initiative continues to be obtaining reinsurance from highly rated
      reinsurers to mitigate underwriting risk and to support our ability to
      hold investments until maturity. See Item 7, 2010 Reinsurance Programs,
      Page 79, for additional details on these
  programs.



·Minimize
      reliance on debt as a source of capital, maintaining the ratio of
      debt-to-total capital below 20 percent – This target is higher than
      we had identified prior to 2008 because total capital declined in 2008
      although debt levels were essentially unchanged. At year-end 2009, this
      ratio was 15.0 percent compared with 16.7 percent at year-end 2008
      and 12.7 percent at year-end 2007. Our long-term debt consists of three
      non-convertible, non-callable debentures, two due in 2028 and one
      in 2034.



Page



·Identify
      tolerances for other operational risks and calibrate management decisions
      accordingly – Among the areas of focus during 2009 was exposure to risks
      related to disaster recovery and business continuity. We completed a
      conversion to a new information technology back-up data center and
      continued work to address the risks associated with a concentration of
      support operations at our headquarters location. Our enterprise risk
      management efforts also include evaluating emerging risks such as
      potential changes in regulation at both the state and federal levels and
      the potential effects of increased inflation on assets and
      liabilities.



We
measure the overall success of our strategy to effectively manage capital
primarily by growing investment income and by achieving over any five-year
period a total return on our equity investment portfolio that exceeds the
Standard & Poor’s 500’s return. Investment income grew at a compound annual
rate of 0.3 percent over the five years ended December 31, 2009. It grew during
2005 through 2007, then declined during 2008 and 2009 when we experienced a
dramatic reduction in dividends from financial services companies held in our
equity portfolio, a risk we addressed aggressively during 2008 and early 2009.
Over the five years ended December 31, 2009, our compound annual equity
portfolio return was negative 5.8 percent compared with a compound annual total
return of 0.4 percent for the S&P 500 Index. Our equity portfolio
underperformed the market for the five-year period primarily because of the
decline in the market value of Fifth Third Bancorp (NASDAQ: FITB), our largest
holding for most of the period. We have not owned any shares of Fifth Third
common stock since early 2009.



We also
monitor other measures. One of the most significant is our ratio of property
casualty net written premiums to statutory surplus, which was 0.8-to-1 at
year-end 2009 compared with 0.9-to-1 at year-end 2008 and 0.7-to-1 at year-end
2007. This ratio is a common measure of operating leverage used in the property
casualty industry; the lower the ratio the more capacity a company has for
premium growth. The estimated property casualty industry net written premium to
statutory surplus ratio also was 0.8-to-1 at year-end 2009, 0.9-to-1 at year-end
2008 and 0.8-to-1 at year-end 2007.



Our
second means of verifying our capital preservation strategy is our financial
strength ratings as discussed in Our Business and Our Strategy, Page 1. All of
our insurance subsidiaries continue to be highly rated. A third means is
measurement of our risk-based capital ratios, which currently indicate that our
insurance subsidiaries are operating with a level of capital far exceeding
regulatory requirements.



Improve
Insurance Profitability



Our
second strategy is to improve insurance profitability. Implementation of the
operational initiatives below is intended to improve pricing capabilities for
our property casualty business and improve our efficiency. Improved pricing
helps us manage profit margins and greater efficiency helps control costs,
together improving overall profitability. These initiatives also seek to help
the agencies that represent us to grow profitably by allowing them to serve
clients faster and manage expenses better. The primary initiatives to improve
insurance profitability are:



·Improve
      underwriting expertise – While most of our lines of business have
      maintained underwriting profitability, we must continue to improve our
      capabilities in risk selection and pricing. For the lines of business that
      are underperforming or that involve larger or more complex risks, we take
      a comprehensive approach – with collaborative expertise among associates
      from underwriting, claims, loss control, marketing, actuarial services and
      premium audit – to work toward restoring underwriting profitability.
      Specific initiatives that are key to improving profitability are
      summarized below.



oImprove
      pricing capabilities in each line of business – Predictive modeling tools
      that better align individual insurance policy pricing to risk attributes
      and claims practices are already in use for our homeowner and workers’
      compensation lines of business. We are developing predictive models for
      all major lines of commercial insurance and for our personal auto line of
      business. Predictive modeling tools increase pricing precision so we can
      more effectively evaluate and appropriately price insured risks, improving
      our ability to compete for the most desirable business within our
      agencies. Use of our predictive modeling tool for workers’ compensation
      began in 2009 and is anticipated to meaningfully improve the loss
      ratio for this line of business over time. During 2009 we began using an
      enhanced version of predictive modeling for our homeowner line of
      business, helping to further improve our rate and credit structures for
      attracting and retaining more accounts with the best prospects of
      long-term profitability. Our efforts to better match insured risks with
      appropriate policy pricing are expected to improve overall underwriting
      profitability for our property casualty
  business.



oImproving
      our business data, supporting accurate underwriting, pricing and decisions
      – Over the next several years, we will deploy a full data management
      program, including a data warehouse for our property casualty and life
      insurance operations that will provide enhanced granularity of pricing
      data. This is a phased, long-term project that is currently in
      progress.



Page



·Improve
      expense management to make the best use of our resources – During 2009, we
      have invested in technology and workflow improvements that will help us
      improve efficiency and grow our business, when insurance market conditions
      improve, without proportional increases in expenses. Through careful
      allocation of staff, we have added associates in areas of strategic
      significance while realizing efficiencies in other areas, resulting in a
      slight reduction in the overall number of associates during 2009. We
      continue to work toward improving efficiency through efforts such as
      studies of transactional workflows and development of an energy efficiency
      plan for our headquarters
buildings.



·Develop
      and deploy technology plans – Technology continues to be key for improving
      efficiencies and streamlining processes for our agencies, allowing us to
      win an increasing share of their most profitable business. We will
      continue to integrate solutions across business lines to make it easier
      for agents to do business with us and to maximize product cross-serving
      while reducing duplication of effort. Our technology initiatives serve to
      enhance our tradition of local decision making based on the local
      knowledge and risk selection expertise we derive from our agents and from
      having a large network of field representatives who live and work in our
      agents’ communities. Ongoing technology development contributes to
      improved profitability by enhancing internal efficiency and the
      organization of business data used for underwriting and pricing.
      Technology development and deployment will reflect our vision of the
      services that our agents will need in the short and long terms. These
      technology solutions will be prioritized to optimize their delivery.
      Progress during 2009 and future plans for major technology
      initiatives are highlighted below.



oCommercial
      lines policy administration system – In the fourth quarter of 2009, we
      deployed a new system called e-CLAS®CPP for commercial package and auto coverages to all of our appointed
      agencies in 11 states. Those states produce approximately 55 percent of
      our commercial premium volume. We plan to deploy the system to as many as
      19 additional states in 2010. The new system includes real-time quoting
      and policy issuance, direct bill capabilities with several payment plans,
      and interface capabilities to transfer selected policy data from agency
      management systems. We believe the new system will further improve our
      position among the go-to carriers for our agencies, having a positive
      impact on future growth of profitable commercial lines
      business.



oPersonal
      lines policy administration system – During 2009, we developed the next
      version of this system, Diamond 5.x, and moved our personal lines policy
      processing system to this next generation platform in early 2010. The
      Web-based system supports agency efficiency through pre-filling of
      selected policy data and easy-to-use screens. We continue to focus on
      making it easier for our agents to do business with us, which we
      believe will significantly benefit our objective of writing their highest
      quality accounts with superior profit
margins.



We
measure the overall success of our strategy to improve insurance profitability
primarily through our GAAP combined ratio, which we believe can be
consistently below 100 percent over any five-year period.



In
addition, we expect these initiatives to contribute to our rank as the No. 1 or
No. 2 carrier based on premium volume in agencies that have represented us for
at least five years. In 2009, we again earned that rank in more than 75 percent
of the agencies that have represented Cincinnati Insurance for more than
five years, based on 2008 premiums. We are working to increase the
percentage of agencies where we have achieved that rank.



Drive
Premium Growth



Our third
strategy is to drive premium growth. Implementation of the operational
initiatives below is intended to expand our geographic footprint and diversify
our premium sources to obtain profitable growth without significant
infrastructure expense. Diversified growth may also reduce our catastrophe
exposure risk and temper negative changes that may occur in the economic,
judicial or regulatory environments in the territories we serve.



The
primary initiatives to drive premium growth are:



·New
      agency appointments in 2010 – We continue to appoint new agencies in our
      current operating territories, adding 87 in 2009. Our objective is to
      appoint additional points of distribution, focusing on markets where our
      market share is less than 1 percent while also considering economic and
      catastrophe risk factors. In 2010, we are targeting 65 appointments
      of independent agencies writing an aggregate $1 billion in property
      casualty premiums annually with all carriers they
    represent.



Page



In
measuring progress toward achieving this initiative, we include appointment of
new agency relationships with Cincinnati. For those that we believe will produce
a meaningful amount of new business premiums, we also include appointment
of agencies that merge with a Cincinnati agency and new branch offices opened by
existing Cincinnati agencies. We made 87, 76 and 66 new appointments in
2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Of these new appointments,
65, 52 and 50, respectively, were new relationships. These new
appointments and other changes in agency structures led to a net increase in
reporting agency locations of 76 in 2009, 60 in 2008 and 38 in 2007. We seek to
build a close, long-term relationship with each agency we appoint. We carefully
evaluate the marketing reach of each new appointment to ensure the territory can
support both current and new agencies.



·Earn
      a larger share of business with currently appointed agents – We will
      continue to execute on growth initiatives from prior years and will focus
      on the key components of agent satisfaction based on factors agents find
      most important. This will include measurements to identify key factors and
      gauge progress in our performance for delivering
    satisfaction.



oDeploy
      new products and service enhancements that address agents’ needs – In
      addition to meeting the needs of our agents and their clients, new product
      development will target markets with above-average profitability to reduce
      market-cycle volatility. This initiative will expand beyond the specialty
      package options currently offered through our commercial lines operation,
      with a focus on identifying promising classes of business and increasing
      our product advantages and product
support.



oNew
      states – With our entry into Colorado and Wyoming during 2009 and Texas in
      late 2008, Cincinnati Insurance now is actively marketing our policies in
      37 states, expanding our opportunities beyond the Midwest and South. We
      now have a growing presence in the western states — opening New Mexico and
      eastern Washington in 2007, Utah in 2000, Idaho in 1999 and Montana in
      1998. We entered Arizona in 1971. While we continually study the
      regulatory and competitive environment in other states where we could
      decide to actively market our property casualty products, we have not
      announced specifics regarding entry into new
  states.



We
generally are able to earn a 10 percent share of an agency’s business within 10
years of its appointment. We also help our agents grow their business by
attracting more clients in their communities through the unique style of service
we offer. In New Mexico and eastern Washington, we’ve appointed 13 agencies
since early 2007 that currently write about $260 million annually with all
the carriers they represent. During 2009, our written premiums with agencies in
these two new states totaled almost 5 percent of that total agency annual
premium volume. In Texas, where we made 20 agency appointments through the year,
those agencies wrote over $10 million of Cincinnati Insurance premiums in
2009. By mid 2010, we expect to have appointed Texas agencies that currently
write a total of about $750 million in premiums annually with all carriers
they represent, an indication of strong potential for future premium
growth.



oExcess
      & Surplus lines insurance – Another source of premium growth is our
      excess and surplus lines operation with products available in 37 states.
      We entered this market in 2008 to better serve agents of The Cincinnati
      Insurance Companies®,
      initially offering general liability coverage. Today, those agents write
      about $2.5 billion annually of surplus lines business with other carriers.
      We plan to earn a profitable share by bringing Cincinnati-style service to
      agents and policyholders. In late 2008, we expanded product offerings
      beyond the general liability, adding property and professional liability
      lines of businesses. In late 2009, we began offering excess casualty
      coverage. During 2009, net written premiums were $39 million compared
      with $14 million in 2008, our initial year for excess and surplus
      lines operations.



oPersonal
      lines – We continue to position our personal lines business for profitable
      future growth as pricing refinements and improved ease of use expand our
      agents’ opportunities to market Cincinnati’s policy advantages to their
      more quality-conscious clientele. Enhancement of our tiered rating during
      2009 helped to further improve our rate and credit structures to attract
      and retain more accounts with the best prospects of long-term
      profitability. Personal lines rate changes made in 2008 and 2009 plus
      expansion of our personal lines operation into new states drove strong new
      business, which increased by 80.6 percent for the year
    2009.



We
continue to see the effects of executing on our potential to market personal
lines insurance through agencies that already represent us for commercial lines.
In early 2009, we began marketing personal lines in two additional states,
bringing the total of states where we market personal lines to 29. In seven
states where we began writing personal lines business or significantly expanded
our product offerings and automation capabilities in 2008 or 2009, our agencies
write approximately $650 million in personal lines premiums annually with
all carriers they represent. This initiative produced an increase of $13
million in 2009 new business premiums.



Page



We
measure the overall success of this strategy to drive premium growth primarily
through changes in net written premiums, which we believe can grow faster than
the industry average over any five-year period. For 2009, our property casualty
net written premiums declined by 3.3 percent, comparing favorably with the
estimated 4.2 percent decline for the industry.



Our
Segments



Consolidated
financial results primarily reflect the results of our four reporting segments.
These segments are defined based on financial information we use to evaluate
performance and to determine the allocation of assets.



·Commercial
      lines property casualty insurance



·Personal
      lines property casualty insurance



·Life
      insurance



·Investments



We also
evaluate results for our consolidated property casualty operations, which is the
total of our commercial lines, personal lines and excess and surplus lines
results.



Revenues,
income before income taxes and identifiable assets for each segment are shown in
a table in Item 8, Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements,
Page 115. Some of that information also is discussed in this section of
this report, where we explain the business operations of each segment.
The financial performance of each segment is discussed in the Item 7,
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations, which begins on Page 34.



Commercial
Lines Property Casualty Insurance Segment



The
commercial lines property casualty insurance segment contributed net earned
premiums of $2.199 billion to total revenues, or 56.3 percent of that
total, and reported a loss before income taxes of $35 million in 2009.
Commercial lines net earned premiums declined 5.1 percent and 3.9 percent in
2009 and 2008 after growing 0.4 percent in 2007.



Approximately
95 percent of our commercial lines premiums are written to provide accounts with
coverages from more than one of our business lines. As a result, we believe that
our commercial lines business is best measured and evaluated on a segment basis.
However, we provide line of business data to summarize growth and profitability
trends separately for our business lines. The seven commercial business lines
are:



·Commercial
      casualty – Commercial casualty insurance provides coverage to businesses
      against third-party liability from accidents occurring on their premises
      or arising out of their operations, including liability coverage for
      injuries sustained from products sold as well as coverage for professional
      services, such as dentistry. Specialized casualty policies may include
      liability coverage for employment practices liability (EPLI), which
      protects businesses against claims by employees that their legal rights as
      employees of the company have been violated, and other acts or failures to
      act under specified circumstances as well as excess insurance and umbrella
      liability, including personal umbrella liability written as an endorsement
      to commercial umbrella coverages. The commercial casualty business line
      includes liability coverage written on both a discounted and
      non-discounted basis as part of commercial package
    policies.



·Commercial
      property – Commercial property insurance provides coverage for loss or
      damage to buildings, inventory and equipment caused by covered causes of
      loss such as fire, wind, hail, water, theft and vandalism, as well as
      business interruption resulting from a covered loss. Commercial property
      also includes crime insurance, which provides coverage for losses such as
      embezzlement or misappropriation of funds by an employee, among others;
      and inland marine insurance, which provides coverage for a variety of
      mobile equipment, such as contractor’s equipment, builder’s risk, cargo
      and electronic data processing equipment. Various property coverages can
      be written as stand-alone policies or can be added to a package policy.
      The commercial property business line includes property coverage
      written on both a non-discounted and discounted basis as part of
      commercial package policies.



·Commercial
      auto – Commercial auto coverages protect businesses against liability to
      others for both bodily injury and property damage, medical payments to
      insureds and occupants of their vehicles, physical damage to an insured’s
      own vehicle from collision and various other perils, and damages caused by
      uninsured motorists.



·Workers’
      compensation – Workers’ compensation coverage protects employers against
      specified benefits payable under state or federal law for workplace
      injuries to employees. We write workers’ compensation coverage in all of
      our active states except North Dakota, Ohio and Washington, where coverage
      is provided solely by the state instead of by private
      insurers.



·Specialty
      packages – Specialty packages include coverages for property, liability
      and business interruption tailored to meet the needs of specific industry
      classes, such as artisan
contractors,



Page



dentists,
garage operators, financial institutions, metalworkers, printers, religious
institutions, or smaller, main street businesses. Businessowners policies, which
combine property, liability and business interruption coverages for small
businesses, are included in specialty packages.



·Surety
      and executive risk – This business line
  includes:



oContract
      and commercial surety bonds, which guarantee a payment or reimbursement
      for financial losses resulting from dishonesty, failure to perform and
      other acts.



oFidelity
      bonds, which cover losses that policyholders incur as a result of
      fraudulent acts by specified individuals or dishonest acts by
      employees.



oDirector
      and officer liability insurance, which covers liability for actual or
      alleged errors in judgment, breaches of duty or other wrongful acts
      related to activities of for-profit or nonprofit organizations. Our
      director and officer liability policy can optionally include EPLI
      coverage.



·Machinery
      and equipment – Specialized machinery and equipment coverage can provide
      protection for loss or damage to boilers and machinery, including
      production and computer equipment, from sudden and accidental mechanical
      breakdown, steam explosion or artificially generated
      electrical current.



Our
emphasis is on products that agents can market to small- to mid-size businesses
in their communities. Of our 1,463 reporting agency locations, nine market
only our surety and executive risk products and five market only our
personal lines products. The remaining 1,449 locations, located in
all states in which we actively market, offer some or all of our standard
market commercial insurance products.



In 2009,
our 10 highest volume commercial lines states generated 65.3 percent of our
earned premiums compared with 65.9 percent in the prior year as we
continued efforts to geographically diversify our property casualty risks.
Earned premiums in the 10 highest volume states decreased 5.2 percent in
2009 and decreased 4.8 percent in the remaining 27 states. The number of
reporting agency locations in our 10 highest volume states increased to 933 in
2009 from 905 in 2008.



Commercial
Lines Earned Premiums by State



(Dollars in millions)Earnedpremiums% of totalearnedAgencylocationsAveragepremium perlocationYear
      ended December 31, 2009Ohio$36416.3%223$1.6Illinois2059.21171.8Pennsylvania1587.1821.9Indiana1436.41031.4North
      Carolina1285.8741.7Michigan1034.61081.0Virginia1024.6601.7Georgia873.9711.2Wisconsin843.8491.7Iowa793.6461.7Year
      ended December 31, 2008Ohio$37716.2%218$1.7Illinois2229.51181.9Pennsylvania1667.1802.1Indiana1486.41031.4North
      Carolina1436.2732.0Virginia1114.8581.9Michigan1074.6991.1Georgia893.8681.3Wisconsin883.8481.8Tennessee823.5402.1



For new
commercial lines business, case-by-case underwriting and pricing is coordinated
by our locally based field marketing representatives. Our agents and our field
marketing, claims, loss control, premium audit, bond and machinery and equipment
representatives get to know the people and businesses in their communities and
can make informed decisions about each risk. These field marketing
representatives also are responsible for selecting new independent agencies,
coordinating field teams of specialized company representatives and promoting
all of the company's products within the agencies they serve.



Commercial
lines policy renewals are managed by headquarters underwriters who are assigned
to specific agencies and consult with local field staff as needed. As part of
our team approach, the headquarters underwriter also helps oversee agency growth
and profitability. They are responsible for formal issuance of all new business
and renewal policies as well as policy endorsements. Further, the headquarters
underwriters provide day-to-day customer service to agencies and marketing
representatives by offering product training, answering
underwriting questions, helping to determine underwriting eligibility and
assisting with the mechanics of premium determination.



Page



Our
commercial lines packages are typically offered on a three-year policy term for
most insurance coverages, a key competitive advantage. In our experience,
multi-year packages appeal to the quality-conscious insurance buyers who we
believe are typical clients of our independent agents. Customized insurance
programs on a three-year term complement the long-term relationships these
policyholders typically have with their agents and with the company. By reducing
annual administrative efforts, multi-year policies lower expenses for our
company and for our agents. The commitment we make to policyholders encourages
long-term relationships and reduces their need to annually re-evaluate their
insurance carrier or agency. We believe that the advantages of three-year
policies in terms of improved policyholder convenience, increased account
retention and reduced administrative costs outweigh the potential disadvantage
of these policies, even in periods of rising rates.



Although
we offer three-year policy terms, premiums for some coverages within those
policies are adjustable at anniversary for the next annual period, and policies
may be canceled at any time at the discretion of the policyholder. Contract
terms often provide that rates for property, general liability, inland marine
and crime coverages, as well as policy terms and conditions, are fixed for the
term of the policy. The general liability exposure basis may be audited
annually. Commercial auto, workers’ compensation, professional liability and
most umbrella liability coverages within multi-year packages are rated at each
of the policy's annual anniversaries for the next one-year period. The annual
pricing could incorporate rate changes approved by state insurance regulatory
authorities between the date the policy was written and its annual anniversary
date, as well as changes in risk exposures and premium credits or debits
relating to loss experience and other underwriting judgment factors. We
estimate that approximately 75 percent of 2009 commercial premiums were
subject to annual rating or were written on a one-year policy term.



Staying
abreast of evolving market conditions is a critical function, accomplished in
both an informal and a formal manner. Informally, our field marketing
representatives and underwriters are in constant receipt of market intelligence
from the agencies with which they work. Formally, our commercial lines product
management group and field marketing associates conduct periodic surveys to
obtain competitive intelligence. This market information helps identify the top
competitors by line of business or specialty program and also identifies our
market strengths and weaknesses. The analysis encompasses pricing, breadth of
coverage and underwriting/eligibility issues.



In
addition to reviewing our competitive position, our product management group and
our underwriting audit group review compliance with our underwriting standards
as well as the pricing adequacy of our commercial insurance programs and
coverages. Further, our research and development group analyzes opportunities
and develops new products, new coverage options and improvements to existing
insurance products.



At
year-end 2009, we supported our commercial lines operations with a variety of
technology tools. e-CLAS for commercial package business was rolled out to 11
states by year end 2009 with an additional 19 states planned for 2010. This
system allows our agencies to quote and print commercial package policies in
their offices, increasing their ease of doing business with us. The e-CLAS
platform also makes use of our real-time agency interface, CinciBridge®,
which allows the automated movement of key underwriting data from an
agency’s management system to e-CLAS. This reduces agents’ data entry and allows
seamless quoting, rating, and issuance capability. WinCPP®is our
commercial lines premium quoting system. WinCPP is available in all of our
agency locations where we actively market commercial lines insurance
and provides quoting capabilities for nearly 100 percent of our
new and renewal commercial lines business. WinCPP also works with
 CinciBridge.



Many
small business accounts written as Businessowners Policies (BOP) and Dentist’s
Package Policies (DBOP) are eligible to be issued at our agency locations
through our e-CLAS system as well. e-CLAS provides full policy lifecycle
transactions, including quoting, issuance, policy changes, renewal processing
and policy printing, at the agency location. These features make it easy and
efficient for our agencies to issue and service these policies. At year-end
2009, e-CLAS for BOP and DBOP was in use in 30 states representing
98 percent of our premiums for these products, which are included in the
specialty packages commercial line of business. e-CLAS also uses CinciBridge to
provide real-time data transfer with agency management systems.



We have
been streamlining internal processes and achieving operational efficiencies in
our headquarters commercial lines operations through deployment of iView™, a
policy imaging and workflow system. This system provides online access to
electronic copies of policy files, enabling our underwriters to respond to agent
requests and inquiries more quickly and efficiently. iView also automates
internal workflows through electronic routing of underwriting and processing
work tasks. At year-end 2009, more than 99 percent of in-force non-workers’
compensation commercial lines policy files were administered and stored
electronically in iView. In 2010, we plan to add our workers’ compensation
policies to i-View.



Page



Personal
Lines Property Casualty Insurance Segment



The
personal lines property casualty insurance segment contributed net earned
premiums of $685 million to total revenues, or 17.6 percent of the total,
and reported a loss before income taxes of $81 million in 2009. Personal
lines net earned premiums declined 0.6 percent in 2009, 3.4 percent in 2008 and
6.3 percent in 2007.



We prefer
to write personal lines coverage in accounts that include both auto and
homeowner coverages as well as coverages that are part of our other personal
business line. As a result, we believe that our personal lines business is best
measured and evaluated on a segment basis. However, we provide line of business
data to summarize growth and profitability trends separately for three
business lines:



·Personal
      auto – This business line includes personal auto coverages that protect
      against liability to others for both bodily injury and property damage,
      medical payments to insureds and occupants of their vehicle, physical
      damage to an insured’s own vehicle from collision and various other
      perils, and damages caused by uninsured motorists. In addition, many
      states require policies to provide first-party personal injury protection,
      frequently referred to as no-fault
coverage.



·Homeowners
      – This business line includes homeowner coverages that protect against
      losses to dwellings and contents from a wide variety of perils, as well as
      liability arising out of personal activities both on and off the covered
      premises. The company also offers coverage for condominium unit owners and
      renters.



·Other
      personal lines – This includes the variety of other types of insurance
      products we offer to individuals such as dwelling fire, inland marine,
      personal umbrella liability and watercraft
  coverages.



At
year-end, we marketed personal lines insurance products through 1,059 of our
1,463 reporting agency locations in 29 of the 37 states in which we offer
standard market commercial lines insurance. As discussed in Strategic
Initiatives, Page 8, introducing personal lines to these agencies is one of
the ways we intend to grow profitably in the next several years. The number of
reporting agency locations in our 10 highest volume states increased more
than 5 percent to 660 in 2009 from 627 in 2008.



In 2009,
our 10 highest volume personal lines states generated 84.1 percent of our earned
premiums compared with 85.1 percent in the prior year. Earned premiums in the
10 highest volume states declined 1.7 percent in 2009 while
increasing 5.9 percent in the remaining states.



Personal
Lines Earned Premiums by State



(Dollars in millions)Earnedpremiums% of totalearnedAgencylocationsAveragepremium perlocationYear
      ended December 31, 2009Ohio$24836.1%202$1.2Georgia618.9631.0Indiana578.4790.7Illinois487.1840.6Alabama415.9361.1Kentucky365.3351.0Michigan263.8800.3Tennessee202.9360.6Florida202.9102.0Virginia192.8350.5Year
      ended December 31, 2008Ohio$25336.8%199$1.3Georgia618.9601.0Indiana578.3760.8Illinois487.0840.6Alabama415.9371.1Kentucky345.0360.9Michigan284.0700.4Florida243.4102.4Virginia202.9250.8Wisconsin202.9300.7



New and
renewal personal lines business reflects our risk-specific underwriting
philosophy. Each agency selects personal lines business primarily from within
the geographic territory that it serves, based on the agent’s knowledge of the
risks in those communities or familiarity with the policyholder. Personal lines
activities are supported by headquarters associates assigned to individual
agencies. We now have seven full-time personal lines marketing
representatives, who have underwriting authority and visit agencies on a regular
basis. They reinforce the advantages of our personal lines products and offer
training in the use of our processing system.



Page



Competitive
advantages of our personal lines operation include broad coverage forms,
flexible underwriting, superior claims service, generous credit structure and
customizable endorsements for both the personal auto and homeowner policies. Our
personal lines products are processed through Diamond, our real-time personal
lines policy processing system that supports and allows once-and-done
processing. Diamond incorporates features frequently requested by our agencies
such as direct bill and monthly payment plans, local and headquarters policy
printing options, data transfer to and from popular agency management systems
and real-time integration with third-party data such as insurance scores, motor
vehicle reports and address verification. The new web-based version of Diamond
that was released to our agents in the first quarter of 2010 provides
significant improvements, including more user-friendly screens and workflow plus
other features such as a pre-fill option to reduce key strokes for improved
efficiency.



In 2006,
we introduced PL-efiles, a policy imaging system, to our personal lines
operations. The transition was completed in 2009 and replaces paper format
with electronic copies of policy documents. PL-efiles complements the Diamond
system by giving personal lines underwriters and support staff online access to
policy documents and data, enabling them to respond to agent requests and
inquiries quickly and efficiently. The underlying technology is updated and
permits us to offer access to policy documents directly to policyholders in
2010. We intend to focus on nonrevenue bearing services that allow our agencies
to concentrate on more important services and sales. In early 2009 the
convenience of paying premiums online or over the phone was introduced to our
directly-billed personal lines policyholders.



Life
Insurance Segment



The life
insurance segment contributed $143 million of net earned premiums,
representing 3.7 percent of total revenues, and $2 million of income before
income taxes in 2009. Life insurance segment profitability is discussed in
detail in Item 7, Life Insurance Results of Operations, Page 62.
Life insurance net earned premiums grew 13.0 percent in 2009,
0.8 percent in 2008 and 9.0 percent in 2007.



The
Cincinnati Life Insurance Company supports our agency-centered business model.
Cincinnati Life helps meet the needs of our agencies, including increasing and
diversifying agency revenues. We primarily focus on life products that
produce revenue growth through a steady stream of premium payments.
By diversifying revenue and profitability for both the agency and our
company, this strategy enhances the already strong relationship built by the
combination of the property casualty and life companies.



Cincinnati
Life seeks to become the life insurance carrier of choice for the independent
agencies that work with our property casualty operations. We emphasize
up-to-date products, responsive underwriting and high quality service as well as
competitive commissions. At year-end 2009, almost 85 percent of our
1,463 property casualty reporting agency locations offered Cincinnati
Life’s products to their clients. We also develop life business from
approximately 500 other independent life insurance agencies. We are careful to
solicit business from these other agencies in a manner that does not conflict
with or compete with the marketing and sales efforts of our property casualty
agencies.



When
marketing through our property casualty agencies, we have specific competitive
advantages:



·Because
      our property casualty operations are held in high regard, property
      casualty agency management is predisposed to consider selling our life
      products.



·Marketing
      efforts for both our property casualty and life insurance businesses are
      directed by our field marketing department, which assures consistency of
      communication and operations. Life field marketing representatives are
      available to meet face-to-face with agency personnel and their clients as
      well.



·The
      resources of our life headquarters underwriters and other associates are
      available to the agents and field team to assist in the placement of
      business. Fewer and fewer of our competitors provide direct, personal
      support between the agent and the insurance
  carrier.



We
continue to emphasize the cross-serving opportunities of our life insurance,
including term and worksite products, for the property casualty agency’s
personal and commercial accounts. In both the property casualty and independent
life agency distribution systems, we enjoy the advantages of offering
competitive, up-to-date products, providing close personal attention in
combination with financial strength and stability.



·We
      primarily offer products addressing the needs of businesses with key
      person and buy-sell coverages. We offer personal and commercial clients of
      our agencies quality, personal life insurance
  coverage.



·Term
      insurance is our largest life insurance product line. We continue to
      introduce new term products with features our agents indicate are
      important, such as a return of premium benefit, and we have restructured
      our underwriting classifications to better meet the needs of their
      clients.



Because
of our strong capital position, we can offer a competitive product portfolio
including guaranteed products, giving our agents a marketing edge. Our life
insurance company maintains strong insurer financial strength ratings: A.M. Best
– A (Excellent), Fitch – A+ (Strong) and Standard & Poor's –
A+ (Strong), as discussed in Financial Strength, Page 3. Our life insurance
company has chosen not to establish a Moody’s rating.



Page







Life
Insurance Business Lines



Four
lines of business – term insurance, universal life insurance, worksite products
and whole life insurance – account for approximately 96.4 percent of the
life insurance segment’s revenues:



·Term
      insurance – policies under which a death benefit is payable only if the
      insured dies during a specific period of time. For policies without a
      return of premium provision, no benefit is payable if the insured person
      survives to the end of the term. For policies in-force with a return of
      premium provision, a benefit equal to the sum of all paid premiums is
      payable if the insured person survives to the end of the term. While
      premiums are fixed, they must be paid as scheduled. The policies are fully
      underwritten.



·Universal
      life insurance – long-duration life insurance policies. Contract premiums
      are neither fixed nor guaranteed; however, the contract does specify a
      minimum interest crediting rate and a maximum cost of insurance charge and
      expense charge. Premiums are not fixed and may be varied by the contract
      owner. The cash values, available as a loan collateralized by the cash
      surrender value, are not guaranteed and depend on the amount and timing of
      actual premium payments and the amount of actual contract assessments. The
      policies are fully underwritten.



·Worksite
      products – term insurance, whole life insurance, universal life and
      disability insurance offered to employees through their employer. Premiums
      are collected by the employer using payroll deduction. Polices are issued
      using a simplified underwriting approach and on a guaranteed issue basis.
      Worksite insurance products provide our property casualty agency force
      with excellent cross-serving opportunities for both commercial and
      personal accounts. Agents report that offering worksite marketing to
      employees of their commercial accounts provides a benefit to the employees
      at no cost to the employer. Worksite marketing also connects agents with
      new customers who may not have previously benefited from receiving the
      services of a professional independent
    insurance agent.



·Whole
      life insurance – policies that provide life insurance for the entire
      lifetime of the insured; the death benefit is guaranteed never to decrease
      and premiums are guaranteed never to increase. While premiums are
      fixed, they must be paid as scheduled. These policies provide guaranteed
      cash values that are available as loans collateralized by the cash
      surrender value. The policies are
  fully underwritten.



In
addition, Cincinnati Life markets:



·Disability
      income insurance provides monthly benefits to offset the loss of income
      when the insured person is unable to work due to accident or
      illness.



·Deferred
      annuities provide regular income payments that commence after the end of a
      specified period or when the annuitant attains a specified age.
      During the deferral period, any payments made under the contract
      accumulate at the crediting rate declared by the company but not less than
      a contract-specified guaranteed minimum interest rate. A deferred annuity
      may be surrendered during the deferral period for a cash value equal
      to the accumulated payments plus interest less the surrender charge, if
      any.



·Immediate
      annuities provide some combination of regular income and lump sum payments
      in exchange for a single premium. Immediate annuities also are written by
      our life insurance segment and purchased by our property casualty
      companies to settle casualty
claims.



Page



Investment
Segment



Revenues
of the investment segment are primarily from net investment income and from
realized investment gains and losses from investment portfolios managed for the
holding company and each of the operating subsidiaries. After adding back $69
million in interest credited to contract holders of the life insurance segment,
the investment segment contributed $837 million, or 21.5 percent, of our total
revenues in 2009. After deducting $69 million in interest credited to
contract holders of the life insurance segment, the investment segment
contributed $768 million of income before income taxes.



In 2008,
our investment department adopted internal guidelines to place additional
parameters around our portfolio, with the approval of the investment committee
of the board of directors. These parameters address, among other issues, the
overall mix of the portfolio as well as security and sector concentrations. The
parameters came out of our risk management program, with the goal of more
specifically defining our risk tolerances, aligning our operating plan
accordingly and improving management’s ability to identify and respond to
changing conditions. Going forward, we will evaluate all of our fixed-maturity
and equity investments using our investment parameters, as
appropriate.



The fair
value of our investment portfolio was $10.562 billion and $8.807 billion at
year-end 2009 and 2008, respectively. The overall portfolio remained in an
unrealized gain position as gains harvested from equity rebalancing efforts were
more than offset by the strong performance of the bond portfolio.



The cash
we generate from insurance operations historically has been invested in three
broad categories of investments:



·Fixed-maturity
      investments – Includes taxable and tax-exempt bonds and redeemable
      preferred stocks. During 2009 and 2008, purchases served to offset sales,
      calls and market value declines.



·Equity
      investments – Includes common and nonredeemable preferred stocks. During
      2009 and 2008, sales and fair value declines of equity securities more
      than offset purchases and fair
  value appreciation.



·Short-term
      investments – Primarily commercial
paper.



At
      December 31, 2009At
      December 31, 2008(In
      millions)Book
      value% of
      BVFair
      value% of
      FVBook
      value% of
      BVFair
      value% of
      FVTaxable
      fixed maturities$4,64448.6%$4,86346.0%$3,35440.8%$3,09435.1%Tax-exempt
      fixed maturities2,87030.12,99228.32,70432.92,73331.0Common
      equities1,94120.42,60824.71,88923.02,72130.9Preferred
      equities750.8930.91882.31752.0Short-term
      investments60.160.1841.0841.0Total$9,536100.0%$10,562100.0%$8,219100.0%$8,807100.0%



We
actively determine the portion of new cash flow to be invested in fixed-maturity
and equity securities at the parent and insurance subsidiary levels. We consider
internal measures, as well as insurance department regulations and ratings
agency guidance. We monitor a variety of metrics, including after-tax yields,
the ratio of investments in common stocks to statutory surplus for the property
casualty and life insurance operations, and the parent company's ratio of
investment assets to total assets.



At
year-end 2009, less than 1 percent of the value of our investment portfolio was
made up of securities that do not actively trade on a public market and require
management’s judgment to develop pricing or valuation techniques (Level 3
assets). We generally obtain at least two outside valuations for these assets
and generally use the more conservative estimate. These investments include
private placements, small issues and various thinly traded securities. See Item
7, Fair Value Measurements, Page 43, and Item 8, Note 3 of the Consolidated
Financial Statements Page 103, for additional discussion of our
valuation techniques.



In
addition to securities held in our investment portfolio, at year-end 2009, other
invested assets included $40 million of life policy loans, $24 million of
venture capital fund investments, $6 million of investment in real estate and
$11 million of other invested assets.



Fixed-maturity
and Short-term Investments



By
maintaining a well diversified fixed-maturity portfolio, we attempt to manage
overall interest rate, reinvestment, credit and liquidity risk. We pursue a buy
and hold strategy and do not attempt to make large scale changes to the
portfolio in anticipation of rate movements. By investing new money on a regular
basis and analyzing risk-adjusted after-tax yields, we work to achieve a
laddering effect to our portfolio that may mitigate some of the effects of
adverse interest rate movements.



Fixed-maturity
and Short-term Portfolio Ratings



As of
year-end 2009, the portfolio was trading at 104.5 percent of its book value, up
from last year as credit spreads tightened considerably.



The
portfolio grew significantly in 2009 due to a large volume of purchases. These
purchases were most concentrated in the investment grade corporate bond market,
particularly in the Baa/BBB ratings range.



Page



This
had the effect of increasing our year-end percentage of investment grade
bonds, those rated Baa/BBB or higher, by one percentage point to 92.5
percent. The majority of our non-rated securities are tax-exempt municipal
bonds from smaller municipalities that chose not to pursue a credit rating.
Credit ratings as of December 31 for the fixed-maturity and short-term portfolio
were:



At
      December 31, 2009At
      December 31, 2008(Dollars
      in millions)FairvaluePercentto
      totalFairvaluePercentto
      totalMoody's
      Ratings and Standard & Poor's Ratings combinedAaa,
      Aa, A, AAA, AA, A$4,96763.2%$4,14970.2%Baa,
      BBB2,30229.31,25821.3Ba,
      BB2793.52404.1B,
      B440.6460.8Caa,
      CCC290.470.1Ca,
      CC30.030.1C,
      C00.000.0Non-rated2373.02083.4Total$7,861100.0%$5,911100.0%



We
discuss the maturity of our fixed-maturity portfolio in Item 8, Note 2 of the
Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 100. Attributes of the fixed-maturity
portfolio include:



Years
      ended December 31,20092008Weighted
      average yield-to-book value5.9%5.6%Weighted
      average maturity7.5yrs8.2yrsEffective
      duration5.3yrs5.4yrs



Taxable
Fixed Maturities



Our
taxable fixed-maturity portfolio (at fair value) at year-end 2009
included:



·$347
      million in U.S. agency paper that is rated Aaa/AAA by Moody’s and Standard
      & Poor’s, respectively.



·$3.978
      billion in investment-grade corporate bonds that have a Moody's rating at
      or above Baa3 or a Standard & Poor's rating at or above
      BBB-.



·$309
      million in high-yield corporate bonds that have a Moody's rating below
      Baa3 or a Standard & Poor's rating below
  BBB-.



·$137
      million in taxable municipal bonds that have an average rating of Aa3/AA
      by Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s,
  respectively.



·$92
      million in convertible bonds and redeemable preferred
    stocks.



While our
strategy typically is to buy and hold fixed-maturity investments to maturity, we
monitor credit profiles and fair value movements when determining holding
periods for individual securities. With the exception of U.S. agency paper
(government-sponsored entities), no individual issuer's securities
accounted for more than 1.3 percent of the taxable fixed-maturity portfolio
at year-end 2009.



The
investment-grade corporate bond portfolio is most heavily concentrated in the
financial-related sectors, including banks, brokerage, finance and investment
and insurance companies. The financial sectors represented 25.3 percent of fair
value of this portfolio at year-end 2009, compared with 30.7 percent,
at year-end 2008. Although the financial-related sectors make up our
largest group of investment-grade corporate bonds, we believe our concentration
is below the average for the corporate bond market as a whole. Energy and
utilities are the only other sectors that exceed 10 percent of our
investment-grade corporate bond portfolio, at 11.9 and 10.4 percent of fair
value respectively at year end 2009.



Tax-exempt
Fixed Maturities



We
traditionally have purchased municipal bonds focusing on general obligation and
essential services, such as sewer, water or others. While no single municipal
issuer accounted for more than 0.6 percent of the tax-exempt municipal bond
portfolio at year-end 2009, there are higher concentrations within individual
states. Holdings in Texas and Indiana accounted for a total of 31.9 percent
of the municipal bond portfolio at year-end 2009.



At
year-end 2009, bonds representing $2.295 billion, or 76.7 percent, of the fair
value of our municipal portfolio were insured with an average rating of AAA.
Because of our emphasis on general obligation and essential services bonds, over
90 percent of the insured municipal bonds have an underlying rating of at least
A3 or A-.



Short-term
Investments



Our
short-term investments consist primarily of commercial paper, demand notes or
bonds purchased within one year of maturity. We make short-term investments
primarily with funds to be used to make upcoming cash payments, such as taxes.
At year-end 2009, we had $6 million of short-term investments compared with
$84 million at year-end 2008.



Page



Equity
Investments



After
covering both our intermediate and long-range insurance obligations with
fixed-maturity investments, we historically used available cash flow to
invest in equity securities. Investment in equity securities has
played an important role in achieving our portfolio objectives and has
contributed to portfolio appreciation. We remain committed to our
long-term equity focus, which we believe is key to our company’s long-term
growth and stability.



At
December 31, 2009, two holdings had a fair value equal to or greater than 5
percent of our publicly-traded common stock portfolio compared with four similar
holdings at year-end 2008. Procter & Gamble (NYSE:PG) is our largest single
common stock investment, comprising 5.8 percent of the publicly traded common
stock portfolio and 1.4 percent of the investment portfolio. The other stock
with a fair value greater than 5 percent of our publicly-traded common stock
portfolio is Johnson & Johnson (NYSE:JNJ).



Common
Stocks



Our
common stock investments generally are dividend-paying securities that vary from
those with high current yield to others with lower yields but better growth
prospects. Other criteria we evaluate include increasing sales and earnings,
proven management and a favorable outlook. We believe our equity investment
style is an appropriate long-term strategy after we have purchased
fixed-maturity investments to cover our insurance reserves.



In
mid-2008, we began applying new investment guidelines that increased portfolio
diversification, reducing single issue and sector concentrations. Our year-end
2009 portfolio has been positioned for reduced volatility going forward. We view
our diversifying actions to be consistent with our view of prudent risk
management. We expect to continue to make changes to the portfolio, as
deemed appropriate.



Common
Stock Portfolio Industry Sector Distribution



Percent
      of Publicly Traded Common Stock PortfolioAt
      December 31, 2009At
      December 31, 2008CincinnatiFinancialS&P
      500 IndustryWeightingsCincinnatiFinancialS&P
      500 IndustryWeightingsSector:Healthcare18.0%12.6%21.6%14.8%Consumer
      staples15.511.419.812.8Energy11.011.516.813.3Information
      technology11.019.84.215.3Financial10.214.412.413.3Consumer
      discretionary9.69.66.68.4Industrials9.210.26.111.1Utilities6.73.79.34.2Materials5.13.61.93.0Telecomm
      services3.73.21.33.8Total100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%



At
year-end 2009, 26.2 percent of our common stock holdings (measured by fair
value) were held at the parent company level. For the publicly-traded
common stock portfolio on a consolidated basis, no single issue accounted for
more than 5.8 percent at year-end 2009. Until June 2008, we had held
more than 10 percent of Fifth Third’s common stock for many years, and it
represented over 25 percent of our common stock holdings as recently as December
31, 2007.



Preferred
Stocks



We
evaluate preferred stocks in a manner similar to the evaluation we make for
fixed-maturity investments, seeking attractive relative yields. We generally
focus on investment-grade preferred stocks issued by companies that have a
strong history of paying common dividends, providing us with another layer of
protection. When possible, we seek out preferred stocks that offer a dividend
received deduction for income tax purposes. Events in the fall of 2008 and into
early 2009 led us to reevaluate the riskiness of all preferred securities,
particularly those of banking institutions. As a result, we downsized this
portfolio by $82 million of fair value to $93 million.



Additional
information regarding the composition of investments is included in Item 8, Note
2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 100.



Other



We report
as Other the other income of our standard market property casualty insurance
subsidiary, as well as non-investment operations of the parent company and its
subsidiary CFC Investment Company. Beginning 2008, we also included results
of our excess and surplus lines operations, The Cincinnati Specialty
Underwriters Insurance Company and CSU Producer Resources.



Page



CFC
Investment Company



CFC
Investment Company offers commercial leasing and financing services to our
agents, their clients and other customers. As of year-end 2009,
CFC Investment Company had 2,286 accounts and $76 million in receivables,
compared with 2,197 accounts and $71 million in receivables at
year-end 2008.



Excess
and Surplus Lines Property Casualty Insurance



Agencies
have access to The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company’s product
line through CSU Producer Resources, the wholly owned insurance brokerage
subsidiary of parent-company Cincinnati Financial Corporation. CSU Producer
Resources has binding authority on all classes of business written through CSU
and maintains appropriate agent and excess and surplus lines licenses to process
non-admitted business.



Agents
can submit risks to CSU Producer Resources, reflecting the mix of accounts
Cincinnati agencies currently write in their non-admitted excess and surplus
lines markets. CSU Producer Resources currently markets and underwrites
commercial general liability, property, excess liability and miscellaneous
errors and omissions coverages in 37 states.



Agency
producers have direct access through CSU Producer Resources to a group of our
underwriters who focus exclusively on excess and surplus lines business. Those
underwriters can tap into their agencies’ broader Cincinnati relationships to
bring their policyholders services such as experienced and responsive loss
control and claims handling. Our excess and surplus lines policy administration
system delivers electronic copies of policies to producers within minutes of
underwriting approval and policy issue. CSU Producer Resources gives extra
support to our producers by remitting excess and surplus lines taxes and
stamping fees and retaining admitted market affidavits,
where required.



Regulation



The
business of insurance primarily is regulated by state law. All of our insurance
company subsidiaries are domiciled in the State of Ohio, except The Cincinnati
Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company, which is domiciled in the State of
Delaware. Each insurance subsidiary is governed by the insurance laws and
regulations in its respective state of domicile. We also are subject to state
regulatory authorities of all states in which we write insurance. The state laws
and regulations that have the most significant effect on our insurance
operations and financial reporting are discussed below.



·Insurance
      Holding Company Regulation – We are regulated as an insurance holding
      company system in the respective states of domicile of our standard market
      property casualty company subsidiary and its surplus lines and life
      insurance subsidiaries. These regulations require that we annually furnish
      financial and other information about the operations of the individual
      companies within the holding company system. All transactions within a
      holding company affecting insurers must be fair and equitable. Notice to
      the state insurance commissioner is required prior to the consummation of
      transactions affecting the ownership or control of an insurer and prior to
      certain material transactions between an insurer and any person or entity
      in its holding company group. In addition, some of those transactions
      cannot be consummated without the commissioner’s
      prior approval.



·Subsidiary
      Dividends – The Cincinnati Insurance Company is 100 percent owned by
      Cincinnati Financial Corporation. The dividend-paying capacity of The
      Cincinnati Insurance Company and its 100 percent owned subsidiaries is
      regulated by the laws of the applicable state of domicile. Under these
      laws, our insurance subsidiaries must provide a 10-day advance
      informational notice to the insurance commissioner for the domiciliary
      state prior to payment of any dividend or distribution to its
      shareholders. In all cases, ordinary dividends may be paid only from
      earned surplus, which for the Ohio subsidiaries is the amount of
      unassigned funds set forth in an insurance subsidiary’s most recent
      statutory financial statement. For the Delaware subsidiary, it is the
      amount of available and accumulated funds derived from the subsidiary’s
      net operating profit of its business and realized capital
      gains.



The
insurance company subsidiaries must give 30 days notice to and obtain prior
approval from the state insurance commissioner before the payment of an
extraordinary dividend as defined by the state’s insurance code. You can find
information about the dividends paid by our insurance subsidiary in 2009 in
Item 8, Note 9 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page
106.



·Insurance
      Operations – All of our insurance subsidiaries are subject to licensing
      and supervision by departments of insurance in the states in which they do
      business. The nature and extent of such regulations vary, but generally
      have their source in statutes that delegate regulatory, supervisory and
      administrative powers to state insurance departments. Such regulations,
      supervision and administration of the insurance subsidiaries include,
      among others, the standards of solvency that must be met and maintained;
      the licensing of insurers and their agents and brokers; the nature and
      limitations on investments; deposits of securities for the benefit of
      policyholders; regulation of policy forms and premium rates; policy
      cancellations and non-renewals; periodic examination of the affairs of
      insurance companies; annual and other reports required to be filed on the
      financial condition of



Page



insurers
      or for other purposes; requirements regarding reserves for unearned
      premiums, losses and other matters; the nature of and limitations on
      dividends to policyholders and shareholders; the nature and extent of
      required participation in insurance guaranty funds; the involuntary
      assumption of hard-to-place or high-risk insurance business, primarily
      workers’ compensation insurance; and the collection, remittance and
      reporting of certain taxes and
fees.



The
legislative and regulatory climate in Florida continues to create uncertainty
for the insurance industry. In February 2007, we adopted a marketing stance of
continuing to service existing accounts while writing no new business
relationships in Florida. This remained our stance through 2009, except in the
lines of directors and officers, surety, machinery and equipment and life
insurance, which we resumed writing in June 2007, subject to existing
guidelines. In 2009, we cautiously resumed writing additional commercial
lines new business, while working to more actively manage the associated
catastrophe risk, carefully underwriting new commercial submissions and
non-renewing commercial and personal lines policies that present the most risk
of loss because of their age, construction and geographic characteristics. In
2009, our property casualty written premiums from Florida agencies were 2.3
percent of net written premiums, compared with 2.9 percent in 2008.



On August
24, 2007, the company received administrative subpoenas from the Florida Office
of Insurance Regulation seeking documents and testimony concerning insurance for
residential risks located in Florida and communications with reinsurers, risk
modeling companies, rating agencies and insurance trade associations. We
produced documents to respond to the subpoenas. The Office of Insurance
Regulation canceled and has not rescheduled the hearing noticed in the subpoena
for October 18, 2007. Although inactive, these subpoenas remain outstanding as
of December 31, 2009. We continue to assess the changing insurance
environment in Florida and hope to resume writing our complete portfolio of
insurance products in the state as the market stabilizes.



·Insurance
      Guaranty Associations – Each state has insurance guaranty association laws
      under which the associations may assess life and property casualty
      insurers doing business in the state for certain obligations of insolvent
      insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. Typically, states
      assess each member insurer in an amount related to the insurer’s
      proportionate share of business written by all member insurers in the
      state. Our insurance companies received a savings of less than $2 million
      from guaranty associations in 2009 and a charge of less than $1 million in
      2008. We cannot predict the amount and timing of any future assessments or
      refunds on our insurance subsidiaries under
    these laws.



·Shared
      Market and Joint Underwriting Plans – State insurance regulation requires
      insurers to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities and
      joint underwriting associations, which are mechanisms that generally
      provide applicants with various basic insurance coverages when they are
      not available in voluntary markets. Such mechanisms are most commonly
      instituted for automobile and workers’ compensation insurance, but many
      states also mandate participation in FAIR Plans or Windstorm Plans, which
      provide basic property coverages. Participation is based upon the amount
      of a company’s voluntary market share in a particular state for the
      classes of insurance involved. Underwriting results related to these
      organizations could be adverse to our
company.



·Statutory
      Accounting – For public reporting, insurance companies prepare financial
      statements in accordance with GAAP. However, certain data also must be
      calculated according to statutory accounting rules as defined in the
      NAIC’s Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual (SAP). While not a
      substitute for any GAAP measure of performance, statutory data frequently
      is used by industry analysts and other recognized reporting sources to
      facilitate comparisons of the performance of insurance
      companies.



·Insurance
      Reserves – State insurance laws require that property casualty and life
      insurers analyze the adequacy of reserves annually. Our appointed
      actuaries must submit an opinion that reserves are adequate for policy
      claims-paying obligations and related
expenses.



·Risk-Based
      Capital Requirements – The NAIC’s risk-based capital
      (RBC) requirements for property casualty and life insurers serve as
      an early warning tool for the NAIC and state regulators to identify
      companies that may be undercapitalized and may merit further regulatory
      action. The NAIC has a standard formula for annually assessing RBC. The
      formula for calculating RBC for property casualty companies takes into
      account asset and credit risks but places more emphasis on underwriting
      factors for reserving and pricing. The formula for calculating RBC for
      life insurance companies takes into account factors relating to insurance,
      business, asset and interest rate
risks.



Although
the federal government and its regulatory agencies generally do not directly
regulate the business of insurance, federal initiatives can affect our business.
We do not expect to have any material effects on our expenditures, earnings or
competitive position as a result of compliance with any federal, state, or local
provisions enacted or regulated relating to the protection of the environment.
We currently do not have any material estimated capital expenditures for
environmental control facilities.



Page



