Item 1. Business



Cincinnati Financial Corporation
– Introduction



We are an Ohio corporation formed in 1968. Our lead subsidiary,
The Cincinnati Insurance Company, was founded in 1950. Our main business is property casualty insurance marketed through independent
insurance agencies in 39 states. Our headquarters is in Fairfield, Ohio. At year-end 2011, we employed 4,067 associates, with
2,811 headquarters associates providing support to 1,256 field associates.



Cincinnati Financial Corporation owns 100 percent of three
subsidiaries: The Cincinnati Insurance Company, CSU Producer Resources Inc., and CFC Investment Company. In addition, the parent
company has an investment portfolio, owns the headquarters property and is responsible for corporate borrowings and shareholder
dividends.



The Cincinnati Insurance Company owns 100 percent of our four
additional insurance subsidiaries. Our standard market property casualty insurance group includes two of those subsidiaries –
The Cincinnati Casualty Company and The Cincinnati Indemnity Company. This group writes a broad range of business, homeowner and
auto policies. Other subsidiaries of The Cincinnati Insurance Company include The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company,
which provides life insurance, disability income policies and annuities, and The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company,
which began offering excess and surplus lines insurance products in January 2008.



The two non-insurance subsidiaries of Cincinnati Financial Corporation
are CSU Producer Resources, which offers insurance brokerage services to our independent agencies so their clients can access our
excess and surplus lines insurance products; and CFC Investment Company, which offers commercial leasing and financing services
to our agencies, their clients and other customers.



Our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
are available, free of charge, on our website,www.cinfin.com/investors,
as soon as possible after they have been filed with the SEC. These filings include annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports
on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In the following pages we reference various websites. These websites, including our
own, are not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Periodically, we refer to estimated industry data so that we can
give information about our performance versus the overall insurance industry. Unless otherwise noted, the industry data is prepared
by A.M. Best Co., a leading insurance industry statistical, analytical and insurer financial strength and credit rating
organization. Information from A.M. Best is presented on a statutory accounting basis. When we provide our results on a comparable
statutory accounting basis, we label it as such; all other company data is presented in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP).



Our Business and Our Strategy



Introduction



The Cincinnati Insurance Company was founded over 60 years ago by
four independent insurance agents. They established the mission that continues to guide all of the companies in the Cincinnati
Financial Corporation family – to grow profitably and enhance the ability of local independent insurance agents to deliver
quality financial protection to the people and businesses they serve by:



·providing insurance market stability through financial strength



·producing competitive, up-to-date products and services



·developing associates committed to superior service



A select group of agencies in 39 states actively markets our property
casualty insurance within their communities. At year-end 2011, standard market commercial lines and excess and surplus lines
policies were marketed in all of those states, while personal lines policies were marketed in 29 of those states. Within this select
group, we also seek to become the life insurance carrier of choice and to help agents and their clients – our policyholders
– by offering leasing and financing services.



Three competitive advantages distinguish our company, positioning
us to build shareholder value and to be successful overall:



·Commitment to our network of professional independent insurance agencies and to their continued success



·Financial strength that lets us be a consistent market for our agents’ business, supporting stability and confidence



Cincinnati Financial Corporation – 2011 10-K -3





·Operating structure that supports local decision making, showcasing our claims excellence and allowing us to balance growth
with underwriting discipline



Independent Insurance Agency Marketplace



The U.S. property casualty insurance industry is a highly competitive
marketplace with more than 2,000 stock and mutual companies operating independently or in groups. No single company or group
dominates across all product lines and states. Standard market insurance companies (carriers) can market a broad array of
products nationally or:



·choose to sell a limited product line or only one type of insurance (monoline carrier)



·target a certain segment of the market (for example, personal insurance)



·focus on one or more states or regions (regional carrier)



Standard market property casualty insurers generally offer insurance
products through one or more distribution channels:



·independent agents, who represent multiple carriers



·captive agents, who represent one carrier exclusively, or



·direct marketing to consumers



For the most part, we compete with standard market insurance companies
that market through independent insurance agents. Agencies marketing our commercial lines products typically represent six to 12
standard market insurance carriers for commercial lines products, including both national and regional carriers, most of which
are mutual companies. Our agencies typically represent four to six standard personal lines carriers, and we also compete with carriers
that market personal lines products through captive agents and direct writers. Distribution through independent insurance
agents or brokers represents nearly 60 percent of overall U.S. property casualty insurance premiums and approximately 80 percent
of commercial property casualty insurance premiums, according to studies by the Independent Insurance Agents and Brokers of America.



We are committed exclusively to the independent agency channel.
The independent agencies that we choose to market our standard lines insurance products share our philosophies. They do business
person to person; offer broad, value-added services; maintain sound balance sheets; and manage their agencies professionally, targeting
long-term success. We develop our relationships with agencies that are active in their local communities, providing important knowledge
of local market trends, opportunities and challenges.



In addition to providing standard market property casualty insurance
products, we opened our own excess and surplus lines insurance brokerage firm so that we could offer our excess and surplus lines
products exclusively to the independent agencies who market our other property casualty insurance products. We also market
life insurance products through the agencies that market our property casualty products and through other independent agencies
that represent The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company without also representing our other subsidiaries. Offering insurance solutions
beyond our standard market property casualty insurance products helps our agencies meet the broader needs of their clients, and
also serves to increase and diversify agency revenues and profitability.



The excess and surplus lines market exists due to a regulatory distinction.
Generally, excess and surplus lines insurance carriers provide insurance that is unavailable in the standard market due to market
conditions or characteristics of the insured person or organization that are caused by nature, the insured's claim history or the
characteristics of their business. Insurers operating in the excess and surplus lines marketplace generally market business through
excess and surplus lines insurance brokers, whether they are small specialty insurers or specialized divisions of larger insurance
organizations. We established an excess and surplus lines operation in response to requests to help meet the needs of agency clients
when insurance is unavailable in the standard market. By providing superior service, we can help our agencies grow while also profitably
growing our property casualty business.



At year-end 2011, our 1,312 property casualty agency relationships
were marketing our standard market insurance products from 1,648 reporting locations. An increasing number of agencies have multiple,
separately identifiable locations, reflecting their growth and consolidation of ownership within the independent agency marketplace.
The number of reporting agency locations indicates our agents’ regional scope and the extent of our presence within
our 39 active states. At year-end 2010, our 1,245 agency relationships had 1,544 reporting locations. At year-end 2009,
our 1,180 agency relationships had 1,463 reporting locations.



We made 133, 93 and 87 new agency appointments in 2011, 2010
and 2009, respectively. Of these new appointments, 93, 70 and 65, respectively, were new relationships. The remainder
included new branch offices opened by existing Cincinnati agencies and appointment of agencies that merged with a Cincinnati agency.
These new appointments and other changes in agency structures or appointment status led to a net increase in agency relationships
of 67, 65 and 47 and a net increase in reporting agency locations of 104, 81 and 76 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.



Cincinnati Financial Corporation – 2011 10-K -4





On average, we have a 13.1 percent share of the standard lines
property casualty insurance purchased through our reporting agency locations. Our share is 17.6 percent in reporting agency
locations that have represented us for more than 10 years; 8.5 percent in agencies that have represented us for six to
10 years; 4.5 percent in agencies that have represented us for one to five years; and 2.3 percent in agencies that
have represented us for less than one year.



Our largest single agency relationship accounted for approximately
1.2 percent of our total property casualty earned premiums in 2011. No aggregate locations under a single ownership structure
accounted for more than 2.1 percent of our earned premiums in 2011.



Financial Strength



We believe that our financial strength and strong surplus position,
reflected in our insurer financial strength ratings, are clear, competitive advantages in the segments of the insurance marketplace
that we serve. This strength supports the consistent, predictable performance that our policyholders, agents, associates and
shareholders have always expected and received, helping us withstand significant challenges.



While the potential exists for short-term financial performance
variability due to our exposures to potential catastrophes or significant capital market losses, the rating agencies consistently
have asserted that we have built appropriate financial strength and flexibility to manage that variability. We remain committed
to strategies that emphasize being a consistent, stable market for our agents’ business over short-term benefits that might
accrue by quick, opportunistic reaction to changes in market conditions.



We use various principles and practices such as diversification
and enterprise risk management to maintain strong capital. This includes maintaining a diversified investment portfolio by reviewing
and applying diversification parameters and tolerances.



·Our $8.779 billion fixed-maturity portfolio is diversified and exceeds total insurance reserves. The portfolio had an
average rating of A2/A, and its fair value exceeded total insurance reserve liability by approximately 35 percent. At December 31, 2011,
no corporate bond exposure accounted for more than 0.6 percent of our fixed-maturity portfolio and no municipal exposure accounted
for more than 0.2 percent.



·The strength of our fixed-maturity portfolio provides an opportunity to invest for potential capital appreciation by purchasing
equity securities. Our $2.956 billion equity portfolio minimizes concentrations in single stocks or industries. At December 31,
2011, no single security accounted for more than 4.7 percent of our portfolio of publicly traded common stocks, and no single
sector accounted for more than 17 percent.



Strong liquidity increases our flexibility through all periods to
maintain our cash dividend and to continue to invest in and expand our insurance operations. At December 31, 2011,
we held $1.051 billion of our cash and invested assets at the parent company level, of which $806 million, or 76.7 percent,
was invested in common stocks, and $20 million, or 1.9 percent, was cash or cash equivalents.



We minimize reliance on debt as a source of capital, maintaining
the ratio of debt-to-total-capital below 20 percent. At December 31, 2011, this ratio at 15.0 percent was well below the target
limit as capital remained strong while debt levels increased a relatively small amount, $55 million, from year-end 2010. Long-term
debt at year-end 2011 totaled $790 million and our short-term debt was $104 million. The long-term debt consists of three non-convertible,
non-callable debentures, two due in 2028 and one in 2034. Ratings for our long-term debt are discussed in Item 7, Liquidity
and Capital Resources, Additional Sources of Liquidity, Page 86.



At year-end 2011 and 2010, risk-based capital (RBC) for our standard
and excess and surplus lines property casualty operations and life operations was very strong, far exceeding regulatory requirements.



·We ended 2011 with a 0.8-to-1 ratio of property casualty premiums to surplus, a key measure of property casualty insurance
company capacity and security. A lower ratio indicates more security for policyholders and greater capacity for growth by an insurer.
Our low ratio, compared with historical averages, gives us ample flexibility to diversify risk by expanding our operations into
new geographies and product areas. The estimated industry average ratio was 0.8-to-1 at year-end 2011.



·We ended 2011 with an 11.8 percent ratio of life statutory adjusted risk-based surplus to liabilities, a key measure of
life insurance company capital strength. The estimated industry average ratio was 11.2 percent at year-end 2011. A higher
ratio indicates an insurer’s stronger security for policyholders and capacity to support business growth.



Cincinnati Financial Corporation – 2011 10-K -5





(Dollars in millions)                                                       Statutory InformationAt December 31,20112010Standard market property casualty insurance subsidiaryStatutory surplus$3,747$3,777Risk-based capital (RBC)3,7543,793Authorized control level risk-based capital474450Ratio of risk-based capital to authorized control level risk-based capital7.98.4Written premium to surplus ratio0.80.8Life insurance subsidiaryStatutory surplus$281$303Risk-based capital (RBC)288318Authorized control level risk-based capital3635Ratio of risk-based capital to authorized control level risk-based capital7.99.1Total liabilities excluding separate account business2,4542,266Life statutory risk-based adjusted surplus to liabilities ratio11.814.1Excess and surplus insurance subsidiaryStatutory surplus$186$172Risk-based capital (RBC)186172Authorized control level risk-based capital1310Ratio of risk-based capital to authorized control level risk-based capital13.916.6Written premium to surplus ratio0.40.3



The consolidated property casualty insurance group’s ratio
of investments in common stock to statutory surplus was 54.5 percent at year-end 2011 compared with 55.3 percent at year-end
2010.



Cincinnati Financial Corporation’s senior debt is rated by
four independent rating firms. In addition, the rating firms award our property casualty and life operations insurance financial
strength ratings based on their quantitative and qualitative analyses. These ratings assess an insurer’s ability to meet
financial obligations to policyholders and do not necessarily address all of the matters that may be important to shareholders.
Ratings may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the ratings agency, and each rating should be evaluated independently
of any other rating.



All of our insurance subsidiaries continue to be highly rated. During
2011, each of the four ratings firms affirmed our insurance financial strength ratings, and three of the ratings firms continued
their stable outlook on the ratings.



As of February 24, 2012, our insurance financial strength ratings
were:



Insurer Financial Strength RatingsRatingAgencyStandard Market PropertyCasualty Insurance SubsidiaryLife InsuranceSubsidiaryExcess and SurplusInsurance SubsidiaryDate of Most RecentAffirmation or ActionRatingTierRatingTierRatingTierA. M. Best Co.A+Superior2 of 16AExcellent3 of 16AExcellent3 of 16Stable outlook (12/23/11)Fitch RatingsA+Strong5 of 21A+Strong5 of 21---Stable outlook (11/14/11)Moody's Investors ServiceA1Good5 of 21------Negative outlook (10/21/11)Standard & Poor's Ratings ServicesAStrong6 of 21AStrong6 of 21---Stable outlook (8/4/11)



On December 23, 2011, A.M. Best affirmed our financial strength
ratings that it had assigned in February 2010, continuing its stable outlook. A.M. Best cited our superior risk-adjusted
capitalization, conservative loss reserving standards and successful distribution within our targeted regional markets. Concerns
noted included geographic concentration and deterioration of underwriting results, primarily from above-average catastrophe-related
losses. A.M. Best acknowledged the strong franchise value of our insurance subsidiaries and the financial flexibility of the holding
company.



On November 14, 2011, Fitch Ratings affirmed our insurance financial
strength ratings that it had assigned in September 2010 and affirmed on May 2, 2011, continuing its stable outlook. Fitch cited
ratings strengths including our conservative operating subsidiary capitalization supported by strong holding company cash and marketable
securities position and moderate holding company leverage, adequate and well-managed reserves and strong agency distribution system
contributing to success in the highly competitive property casualty insurance industry. Fitch’s ratings concerns principally
related to challenges from competitive market conditions and exposure to regional natural catastrophes and other weather-related
losses. Fitch noted that our technology implementations, including use of predictive modeling tools, are anticipated to improve
weakened loss ratios over time.



Cincinnati Financial Corporation – 2011 10-K -6





On October 21, 2011, Moody’s Investors Service affirmed our
insurance financial strength ratings that it had assigned in September 2008, changing its outlook to negative. Moody's noted that
its rating is supported by our strong regional franchise, solid risk-adjusted capital position, consistent reserve strength,
strong financial flexibility and significant holding company liquidity. However, Moody’s expects that operating results
may continue to reflect weak underwriting profitability with high weather-related losses.



On August 4, 2011, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services
affirmed our insurer financial strength ratings that it had assigned in July 2010, continuing its stable outlook. S&P said
its rating was based on our strong competitive position, which is reinforced by a loyal and productive agency force and a low-cost
infrastructure. S&P also cited our very strong capitalization and high degree of financial flexibility. S&P noted that
our strengths are partially offset by deteriorating property casualty underwriting results due to above-average weather-related
losses and weak results in our workers’ compensation line of business.



Our debt ratings are discussed in Item 7, Liquidity and Capital
Resources, Additional Sources of Liquidity, Page 86.



Operating Structure



We offer our broad array of insurance products through the independent
agency channel. We recognize that locally based independent agencies have relationships in their communities and local marketplace
intelligence that can lead to policyholder satisfaction, loyalty and profitable business. Several of our strategic initiatives
are intended to not only help us compete but also to enhance support of agencies that represent us, thereby contributing to agency
success. We seek to be a consistent and predictable property casualty carrier that agencies can rely on to serve their clients.
For our standard market business, field and headquarters underwriters make risk-specific decisions about both new business and
renewals.



In our 10 highest volume states for consolidated property casualty
premiums, 992 reporting agency locations wrote 66.5 percent of our 2011 consolidated property casualty earned premium
volume compared with 956 locations and 67.1 percent in 2010.



Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Earned Premiums by
State

(Dollars in millions)Earnedpremiums% of totalearnedAgencylocationsAveragepremium perlocationYear ended December 31, 2011Ohio$59119.5%233$2.5Illinois2508.31242.0Indiana2086.91071.9Pennsylvania1846.1852.2Georgia1545.1801.9North Carolina1494.9851.8Michigan1344.41181.1Virginia1234.1661.9Kentucky1143.8432.7Wisconsin1033.4512.0Year ended December 31, 2010Ohio$59920.5%224$2.7Illinois2438.31222.0Indiana1976.81051.9Pennsylvania1766.0832.1Georgia1495.1771.9North Carolina1434.9801.8Michigan1264.31161.1Virginia1214.1602.0Kentucky1063.6412.6Tennessee1023.5482.1



Field Focus



We rely on our force of 1,256 field associates to provide service
and be accountable to our agencies for decisions we make at the local level. These associates live in the communities our agents
serve, working from offices in their homes and providing 24/7 availability to our agents. Headquarters associates support agencies
and field associates with underwriting, accounting, technology assistance and training and other services. Company executives,
headquarters underwriters and special teams regularly travel to visit agencies, strengthening the personal relationships we have
with these organizations. Agents have opportunities for direct, personal conversations with our senior management team, and headquarters
associates have opportunities to refresh their knowledge of marketplace conditions and field activities.



The field team is coordinated by field marketing representatives
responsible for underwriting new commercial lines business. They are joined by field representatives specializing in claims, loss
control, personal lines, machinery and equipment, bond, premium audit, life insurance and leasing. The field team provides many
services for agencies and policyholders; for example, our loss control field representatives and others specializing in machinery
and equipment risks perform inspections and recommend specific actions to improve the safety of the policyholder’s operations
and the quality of the agent’s account.



Cincinnati Financial Corporation – 2011 10-K -7





Agents work with us to carefully select risks and help assure pricing
adequacy. They appreciate the time our associates invest in creating solutions for their clients while protecting profitability,
whether that means working on an individual case or customizing policy terms and conditions that preserve flexibility, choice and
other sales advantages. We seek to develop long-term relationships by understanding the unique needs of their clients, who are
also our policyholders.



We also are responsive to agent needs for well designed property
casualty products. Our commercial lines products are structured to allow flexible combinations of property and liability coverages
in a single package with a single expiration date and several payment options. This approach brings policyholders convenience,
discounts and a reduced risk of coverage gaps or disputes. At the same time, it increases account retention and saves time and
expense for the agency and our company.



We seek to employ technology solutions and business process improvements
that:



·allow our field and headquarters associates to collaborate with each other and with agencies more efficiently



·provide our agencies the ability to access our systems and client data to process business transactions from their offices



·allow policyholders to directly access pertinent policy information online in order to further improve efficiency for our agencies



·automate our internal processes so our associates can spend more time serving agents and policyholders, and



·reduce duplicated effort or friction points in technology processes, introducing more efficiency that reduces company and agency costs



Agencies access our systems and other electronic services via their
agency management systems or CinciLink®, our secure agency-only website. CinciLink provides an array of web-based
services and content that makes doing business with us easier, such as commercial and personal lines rating and processing systems,
policy loss information, educational courses about our products and services, accounting services, and electronic libraries for
property and casualty coverage forms, state rating manuals and marketing materials.



Superior Claims Service



Our claims philosophy reflects our belief that we prosper as a company
by responding to claims person to person, paying covered claims promptly, preventing false claims from unfairly adding to overall
premiums and building financial strength to meet future obligations.



Our 763 locally based field claims associates work from their homes,
assigned to specific agencies. They respond personally to policyholders and claimants, typically within 24 hours of receiving
an agency’s claim report. We believe we have a competitive advantage because of the person-to-person approach and the resulting
high level of service that our field claims representatives provide. We also help our agencies provide prompt service to policyholders
by giving agencies authority to immediately pay most first-party claims under standard market policies up to $2,500. We believe
this same local approach to handling claims is a competitive advantage for our agents providing excess and surplus lines coverage
in their communities. Handling of these claims includes guidance from headquarters-based excess and surplus lines claims managers.



Our property casualty claims operation uses CMS, our claims management
system, to streamline processes and achieve operational efficiencies. CMS allows field and headquarters claims associates to collaborate
on reported claims through a virtual claim file. Our field claims representatives use tablet computers to view and enter information
into CMS from any location, including an insured’s home or agent’s office, and to print claim checks using portable
printers. Agencies also can access selected CMS information such as activity notes on open claims.



Catastrophe response teams are comprised of volunteers from our
experienced field claims staff, and we give them the authority they need to do their jobs. In times of widespread loss, our field
claims representatives confidently and quickly resolve claims, often writing checks on the same day they inspect the loss. CMS
introduced new efficiencies that are especially evident during catastrophes. Electronic claim files allow for fast initial contact
of policyholders and easy sharing of information and data by rotating storm teams, headquarters and local field claims representatives.
When hurricanes or other weather events are predicted, we can identify through mapping technologies the expected number of our
policyholders that may be impacted by the event and choose to have catastrophe response team members travel to strategic locations
near the expected impact area. They are in position to quickly get to the affected area, set up temporary offices and start calling
on policyholders.



Cincinnati Financial Corporation – 2011 10-K -8





Our claims associates work to control costs where appropriate. They
use vendor resources that provide negotiated pricing to our insureds and claimants. Our field claims representatives also are educated
continuously on new techniques and repair trends. They can leverage their local knowledge and experience with area body shops,
which helps them negotiate the right price with any facility the policyholder chooses.



We staff a Special Investigations Unit (SIU) with former law enforcement
and claims professionals whose qualifications make them uniquely suited to gathering facts to uncover potential fraud. While we
believe our job is to pay what is due under each policy contract, we also want to prevent false claims from unfairly increasing
overall premiums. Our SIU also operates a computer forensics lab, using sophisticated software to recover data and mitigate the
cost of computer-related claims for business interruption and loss of records.



Insurance Products



We actively market property casualty insurance in 39 states through
a select group of independent insurance agencies. For most agencies that represent us, we believe we offer insurance solutions
for approximately 75 percent of the typical insurable risks of their clients. Our standard market commercial lines products
and our excess and surplus lines are marketed in all 39 states while our standard market personal lines products are marketed in
29. We discuss our commercial lines, personal lines and excess and surplus lines insurance operations and products in Commercial
Lines Property Casualty Insurance Segment, Page 12, Personal Lines Property Casualty Insurance Segment, Page 15, and Excess
and Surplus Lines Property Casualty Insurance Segment, Page 16.



The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company began excess
and surplus lines insurance operations in January 2008. We structured this operation to exclusively serve the needs of the
independent agencies that currently market our standard market insurance policies. When all or a portion of a current or potential
client’s insurance program requires excess and surplus lines coverages, those agencies can write the whole account with Cincinnati,
gaining benefits not often found in the broader excess and surplus lines market. Agencies have access to The Cincinnati Specialty
Underwriters Insurance Company’s product line through CSU Producer Resources, the wholly owned insurance brokerage subsidiary
of parent-company Cincinnati Financial Corporation.



We also support the independent agencies affiliated with our property
casualty operations in their programs to sell life insurance. The products offered by our life insurance subsidiary round out and
protect accounts and improve account persistency. At the same time, our life operation increases diversification of revenue and
profitability sources for both the agency and our company.



Our property casualty agencies make up the main distribution system
for our life insurance products. To help build scale, we also develop life business from other independent life insurance agencies
in geographic markets underserved through our property casualty agencies. We are careful to solicit business from these other agencies
in a manner that does not compete with the life insurance marketing and sales efforts of our property casualty agencies. Our life
insurance operation emphasizes up-to-date products, responsive underwriting, high quality service and competitive pricing.



Other Services to Agencies



We complement the insurance operations by providing products and
services that help attract and retain high-quality independent insurance agencies. When we appoint agencies, we look for organizations
with knowledgeable, professional staffs. In turn, we make an exceptionally strong commitment to assist them in keeping their knowledge
up to date and educating new people they bring on board as they grow. Numerous activities fulfill this commitment at our headquarters,
in regional and agency locations and online.



Except for travel-related expenses to classes held at our headquarters,
most programs are offered at no cost to our agencies. While that approach may be extraordinary in our industry today, the result
is quality service for our policyholders and increased success for our independent agencies.



In addition to broad education and training support, we make available
non-insurance financial services. CFC Investment Company offers equipment and vehicle leases and loans for independent insurance
agencies, their commercial clients and other businesses. We also provide commercial real estate loans or other financial assistance
to help agencies operate, expand and perpetuate their businesses. We believe that providing these services enhances agency relationships
with the company and their clients, increasing loyalty while diversifying the agency’s revenues.



Cincinnati Financial Corporation – 2011 10-K -9





Strategic Initiatives



Management has identified strategies that can position us for long-term
success. The board of directors and management expect execution of our strategic plan to create significant value for shareholders
over time. We broadly group these strategies into two areas of focus – improving insurance profitability and driving premium
growth – correlating with important ways we measure our progress toward our long-term financial objectives. A primary
profitability long-term target is to producea GAAP combined ratio over any five-year period that is
consistently within the range of 95 percent to 100 percent.A primary premium growth long-term target is to profitably
grow to reach $5 billion of property casualty and life insurance annual direct written premiums by the end of 2015.



Effective capital management is an important part of creating shareholder
value, serving as a foundation to support other strategies focused on profitable growth of our insurance business, with the overall
objective of long-term benefit for shareholders. Our capital management philosophy is intended to preserve and build our capital
while maintaining appropriate liquidity. A strong capital position provides the capacity to support premium growth, and liquidity
provides for our investment in the people and infrastructure needed to implement our other strategic initiatives. Our strong capital
and liquidity also provide financial flexibility for shareholder dividends or other capital management actions.



Our strategies seek to position us to compete successfully in the
markets we have targeted while optimizing the balance of risk and returns. We believe successful implementation of key initiatives
that support our strategies will help us better serve our agent customers, reduce volatility in our financial results and achieve
our long-term objectives despite shorter-term effects of difficult economic, market or pricing cycles. We describe our expectations
for the results of these initiatives in Item 7, Executive Summary of the Management’s Discussion and Analysis, Page 38.



Improve Insurance Profitability



Implementation of the initiatives below is intended to improve pricing
capabilities for our property casualty business, improving our ability to manage our business while also enhancing our efficiency.
By improving pricing capabilities through the use of analytics tools that align individual insurance policy pricing to more risk
attributes, we can better manage profit margins. By improving internal processes and further developing performance metrics, we
can be more efficient and effective. These initiatives also support the ability of the agencies that represent us to grow profitably
by allowing them to serve clients faster and more efficiently manage expenses. Important initiatives for 2012 to improve insurance
profitability include:



·Improve pricing precision using predictive analytics – We continue efforts to expand our pricing capabilities by using
predictive analytics and expect cumulative benefits of these efforts to improve loss ratios over time. Expanded capabilities include
streamlining and optimizing data to improve accuracy, timeliness and ease of use. Development of additional business data to support
accurate underwriting, pricing and other business decisions also continues. A phased project that will continue over the next several
years will deploy a full data management program, including a data warehouse for our property casualty and life insurance operations,
providing enhanced granularity of pricing data.



Initiatives for 2012 to improve or expand commercial
lines pricing precision include developing the next version of our workers’ compensation predictive modeling tool and further
integrating it with policy administration systems. We began using the current version of our workers’ compensation predictive
modeling tool in the second half of 2009. By late 2011, we were using predictive modeling tools for our commercial auto line of
business and also for general liability and commercial property coverages in commercial package accounts. Further integration of
these tools with our policy administration systems is planned for 2012, enhancing the ability ofunderwriters
using these tools to target profitability and to discuss pricing impacts with agency personnel. Development of similar tools for
small business policies written through our product known as CinciPakTMwas completed late in 2011 and is expected to
be rolled out for use in eight states by the end of 2012.



In our personal lines business, we began to use predictive
modeling tools for our homeowner line of business prior to 2010, and in late 2010 we began using similar analytics for personal
auto. We believe we are successfully attracting more of our agents’ preferred business, based on the average quality of our
book of business. Quality has improved as measured by the mix of business by insurance score. During 2012, we will continue to
enhance our personal lines model attributesand expand our pricing points to add more precision. This
will allow us to ensure we are competitive on the most desirable business and to adaptmore rapidly to changes in market
conditions.



Cincinnati Financial Corporation – 2011 10-K -10





·Improve internal processes – Improved processes support our strategic goals, reducing internal costs and allowing us
to focus more resources on providing agency services. Important process improvement efforts include ongoing simplification of new
business processes for easier interaction between company and agency management systems, such as reduction of data entry by leveraging
existing internal and external data and routing of complex work items to the most appropriate associate for optimal service. Completion
of development for additional coverages in our commercial lines policy administration system is expected to facilitate important
internal process improvement initiatives for 2012. Some process improvements will extend beyond 2012 for completion. An example
is developing business rules and parameters to allow processing of some small commercial lines business without intervention by
an underwriter, for risks that meet qualifying underwriting criteria. Development of this streamlined processing for certain personal
lines policies is nearing completion and will be implemented in phases beginning in 2012. The objective is to streamline processing
for our agents and associates, permitting more time for risks that need additional service or attention.



Enhanced performance management processes developed during
2011 should improve our overall effectiveness. Every associate has 2012 goals, with emphasis on alignment to corporate objectives
and use of measurements to track progress and accountability. We also are developing additional talent management capabilities
to further develop and improve the effectiveness of all associates.



We measure the overall success of our strategy to improve insurance
profitability primarily through our GAAP combined ratio for property casualty results, which we believe can be consistentlywithin the range of 95 percent to100 percent for any five-year period. We also compare
our statutory combined ratio to the industry average to gauge our progress.



In addition, we expect these initiatives to contribute to our rank
as the No. 1 or No. 2 carrier based on premium volume in agencies that have represented us for at least five years. In 2011, we
again earned that rank in approximately 75 percent of the agencies that have represented Cincinnati Insurance for more than
five years, based on 2010 premiums. We are working to increase the percentage of agencies where we achieve that rank.



Drive Premium Growth



Implementation of the operational initiatives below is intended
to further penetrate each market we serve through our independent agency network. We expect strategies aimed at specific market
opportunities, along with service enhancements, to help our agents grow and increase our share of their business. Our strategy
includes new initiatives and execution of prior year growth initiatives, includinguse of profitability
and growth models or plans at an agency level to facilitate coordination and decision-making. In addition to estimating planned
premium growth from existing agencies, these plans help project the number of additional agencies needed to achieve premium targets.Our focus remains on the key components of agent satisfaction based on factors agents tell us are most important. Significant
2012 initiatives to drive premium growth include:



·Expansion of our marketing capabilities – We continue to enhance our generalist approach to allow our appointed agencies
to better compete in the marketplace by providing services agent’s clients want and need. During 2012, wewill
add field marketing representatives for additional agency support in targeted areas, including some specializing in personal lines
or excess and surplus lines. Expansion of our personal lines operation is planned for three additional states where we currently
do not offer personal lines products. Wealso continue to develop and coordinate targeted marketing, including cross-selling
opportunities, through our Target Markets department. This area focuses on commercial product development, including identification
and promotional support for promising classes of business. We offered nine target markets programs to our agencies at the
end of 2011, and we plan to launch four additional programs during 2012.





·



We measure the overall success of our strategy to drive premium
growth primarily through changes in net written premiums. In addition to tracking our progress toward our year 2015 direct written
premiums target, we believe we can grow faster than the industry average over any five-year period.



Cincinnati Financial Corporation – 2011 10-K -11





Our Segments



Consolidated financial results primarily reflect the results of
our five reporting segments. These segments are defined based on financial information we use to evaluate performance and to determine
the allocation of assets.



·Commercial lines property casualty insurance



·Personal lines property casualty insurance



·Excess and surplus lines property casualty insurance



·Life insurance



·Investments



We also evaluate results for our consolidated property casualty
operations, which is the total of our commercial lines, personal lines and excess and surplus lines results.



Revenues, income before income taxes and identifiable assets for
each segment are shown in a table in Item 8, Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 136. Some of that
information also is discussed in this section of this report, where we explain the business operations of each segment. The financial
performance of each segment is discussed in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations, which begins on Page 38.



Commercial Lines Property Casualty
Insurance Segment



The commercial lines property casualty insurance segment contributed
net earned premiums of $2.197 billion to consolidated total revenues, or 57.8 percent of that total, and reported a loss
before income taxes of $101 million in 2011. Commercial lines net earned premiums rose 2 percent in 2011, following
declines of 2 percent in 2010 and 5 percent in 2009.



Approximately 95 percent of our commercial lines premiums are
written to provide accounts with coverages from more than one of our business lines. As a result, we believe that our commercial
lines business is best measured and evaluated on a segment basis. However, we provide line of business data to summarize growth
and profitability trends separately for our business lines. The seven commercial business lines are:



·Commercial casualty – Provides coverage to businesses against third-party liability from accidents occurring on their
premises or arising out of their operations, including liability coverage for injuries sustained from products sold as well as
coverage for professional services, such as dentistry. Specialized casualty policies may include liability coverage for employment
practices liability (EPLI), which protects businesses against claims by employees that their legal rights as employees of the company
have been violated, and against other acts or failures to act under specified circumstances; and excess insurance and umbrella
liability, including personal umbrella liability written as an endorsement to commercial umbrella coverages. The commercial casualty
business line includes liability coverage written on both a discounted and nondiscounted basis as part of commercial package policies.



·Commercial property – Provides coverage for loss or damage to buildings, inventory and equipment caused by covered causes
of loss such as fire, wind, hail, water, theft and vandalism, as well as business interruption resulting from a covered loss. Commercial
property also includes crime insurance, which provides coverage for losses such as embezzlement or misappropriation of funds by
an employee, among others; and inland marine insurance, which provides coverage for builder’s risk, cargo, electronic data
processing equipment and a variety of mobile equipment, such as contractor’s equipment. Various property coverages can be
written as stand-alone policies or can be added to a package policy. The commercial property business line includes property coverage
written on both a nondiscounted and discounted basis as part of commercial package policies.



·Commercial auto – Protects businesses against liability to others for both bodily injury and property damage, medical
payments to insureds and occupants of their vehicles, physical damage to an insured’s own vehicle from collision and
various other perils, and damages caused by uninsured motorists.



·Workers’ compensation – Protects employers against specified benefits payable under state or federal law for workplace
injuries to employees. We write workers’ compensation coverage in all of our active states except North Dakota, Ohio, Washington
and Wyoming, where coverage is provided solely by the state instead of by private insurers.



·Specialty packages – Includes coverages for property, liability and business interruption tailored to meet the needs
of specific industry classes such as artisan contractors, dentists, garage operators, financial institutions, metalworkers, printers,
religious institutions or smaller main street businesses. Businessowners policies, which combine property, liability and business
interruption coverages for small businesses, are included in specialty packages.



Cincinnati Financial Corporation – 2011 10-K -12





·Surety and executive risk – This business line includes:

oContract and commercial surety bonds, which guarantee a payment or reimbursement for financial losses resulting from dishonesty,
failure to perform and other acts.



oFidelity bonds, which cover losses that policyholders incur as a result of fraudulent acts by specified individuals or dishonest
acts by employees.



oDirector and officer (D&O) liability insurance, which covers liability for actual or alleged errors in judgment, breaches
of duty or other wrongful acts related to activities of for-profit or nonprofit organizations. Approximately 65 percent of new
D&O policies and approximately 30 percent of director and officer new business premiums written in 2011 were for nonprofit
entities. Our director and officer liability policy can optionally include EPLI coverage.



·Machinery and equipment – Specialized coverage provides protection for loss or damage to boilers and machinery, including
production and computer equipment, due to sudden and accidental mechanical breakdown, steam explosion or artificially generated
electrical current.



Our emphasis is on products that agents can market to small to midsized
businesses in their communities. Of our 1,648 reporting agency locations, 17 market only our surety and executive risk products
and 18 market only our personal lines products. The remaining 1,613 locations, located in all states in which we actively
market, offer some or all of our standard market commercial insurance products.



In 2011, our 10 highest volume commercial lines states generated
63.3 percent of our earned premiums compared with 64.3 percent in 2010 and 65.3 percent in 2009 as we continued
efforts to geographically diversify our property casualty risks. Earned premiums in the 10 highest volume states increased 1 percent
in 2011 and increased 4 percent in the remaining 29 states. The number of reporting agency locations in our 10 highest
volume states increased to 985 in 2011 from 954 in 2010.



Commercial Lines Earned Premiums by State



(Dollars in millions)Earnedpremiums% of totalearnedAgencylocationsAveragepremium perlocationYear ended December 31, 2011Ohio$34115.5%232$1.5Illinois1898.61231.5Pennsylvania1637.4851.9Indiana1386.31061.3North Carolina1185.4821.4Virginia1014.6661.5Michigan994.51150.9Georgia833.8751.1Wisconsin823.7511.6Tennessee773.5501.5Year ended December 31, 2010Ohio$34716.1%223$1.6Illinois1878.71201.6Pennsylvania1577.3831.9Indiana1336.21041.3North Carolina1205.6781.5Virginia1004.6601.7Michigan964.51150.8Georgia823.8751.1Wisconsin813.8481.7Tennessee793.7481.6



For new commercial lines business, case-by-case underwriting and
pricing is coordinated by our locally based field marketing representatives. Our agents and our field marketing, claims, loss control,
premium audit, bond and machinery and equipment representatives get to know the people and businesses in their communities and
can make informed decisions about each risk. These field marketing representatives also are responsible for selecting new independent
agencies, coordinating field teams of specialized company representatives and promoting all of the company’s products within
the agencies they serve.



Commercial lines policy renewals are managed by headquarters underwriters
who are assigned to specific agencies and consult with local field staff as needed. As part of our team approach, headquarters
underwriters also help oversee agency growth and profitability. They are responsible for formal issuance of all new business and
renewal policies as well as policy endorsements. Further, the headquarters underwriters provide day-to-day customer service to
agencies and marketing representatives by offering product training, answering underwriting questions, helping to determine
underwriting eligibility and assisting with the mechanics of premium determination.



Cincinnati Financial Corporation – 2011 10-K -13





Our emphasis on small to midsized businesses is reflected in the
mix of our commercial lines premium volume by policy size. Nearly 90 percent of our commercial in-force policies have annual premiums
of $10,000 or less, accounting in total for approximately one-third of our 2011 commercial lines premium volume. The remainder
of policies have annual premiums greater than $10,000, including in-force policies with annual premiums greater than $100,000 that
account for slightly less than 15 percent of our 2011 commercial lines premium volume.



Our commercial lines packages typically are offered on a three-year
policy term for most insurance coverages, a key competitive advantage. In our experience, multi-year packages appeal to the quality-conscious
insurance buyers who we believe are typical clients of our independent agents. Customized insurance programs on a three-year term
complement the long-term relationships these policyholders typically have with their agents and with the company. By reducing annual
administrative efforts, multi-year policies lower expenses for our company and for our agents. The commitment we make to policyholders
encourages long-term relationships and reduces their need to annually re-evaluate their insurance carrier or agency. We believe
that the advantages of three-year policies in terms of improved policyholder convenience, increased account retention and reduced
administrative costs outweigh the potential disadvantage of these policies, even in periods of rising rates.



Although we offer three-year policy terms, premiums for some coverages
within those policies are adjustable at anniversary for the next annual period, and policies may be canceled at any time at the
discretion of the policyholder. Contract terms often provide that rates for property, general liability, inland marine and crime
coverages, as well as policy terms and conditions, are fixed for the term of the policy. The general liability exposure basis
may be audited annually. Commercial auto, workers’ compensation, professional liability and most umbrella liability coverages
within multi-year packages are rated at each of the policy's annual anniversaries for the next one-year period. The annual pricing
could incorporate rate changes approved by state insurance regulatory authorities between the date the policy was written and its
annual anniversary date, as well as changes in risk exposures and premium credits or debits relating to loss experience and
other underwriting judgment factors. We estimate that approximately 75 percent of 2011 commercial premiums were subject to
annual rating or were written on a one-year policy term.



We believe our commercial lines segment premiums reflect a higher
concentration, relative to industry commercial lines premiums, in contractor-related businesses. Since economic activity related
to construction, which can heavily influence insured exposures of contractors working in the construction industry, may experience
cycles that vary significantly with economy as a whole, our commercial lines premium trends could vary from commercial lines premium
trends for the property casualty insurance industry. In 2011, we estimated that policyholders with a contractor-related Insurance
Services Office (ISO) general liability code accounted for approximately 33 percent of our general liability premiums, which
are included in the commercial casualty line of business, and that policyholders with a contractor-related National Council on
Compensation Insurance Inc. (NCCI) workers’ compensation code accounted for approximately 45 percent of our workers’
compensation premiums.



Staying abreast of evolving market conditions is a critical function,
accomplished in both an informal and a formal manner. Informally, our field marketing representatives, underwriters and Target
Markets department associates are in continuous receipt of market intelligence from the agencies with which they work. Our commercial
lines product management group and field marketing representatives obtain competitive intelligence through various means. This
market information helps identify the top competitors by line of business or specialty program and also identifies our market strengths
and weaknesses. The information obtained encompasses pricing, breadth of coverage and underwriting/eligibility issues.



In addition to reviewing our competitive position, our product management
group and our underwriting audit group review compliance with our underwriting standards as well as the pricing adequacy of our
commercial insurance programs and coverages. Further, our Target Markets department analyzes opportunities and develops new
products and services, new coverage options and improvements to existing insurance products.



We support our commercial lines operations with a variety of technology
tools. e-CLAS®CPP for commercial package and auto coverages now has rolled out to all of our appointed agencies
in 34 states. It is being developed for additional coverages and remaining states that will be deployed over time. Since the
initial deployment of e-CLAS in late 2009, approximately 60 percent of our non-workers’ compensation commercial lines policies
in force at the end of 2011 have been processed through e-CLAS. Due to the three-year policy term for much of our commercial lines
business, some policies are not due for renewal processing in e-CLAS until 2012. In addition to increasing efficiency for our associates,
the system allows our agencies to quote and print commercial package policies in their offices, increasing their ease of doing
business with us. The e-CLAS platform also makes use of our real-time agency interface, CinciBridge®, which allows
the automated movement of key underwriting data from an agency’s management system to e-CLAS. This reduces agents’
data entry tasks and allows seamless quoting, rating and issuance capability.



Cincinnati Financial Corporation – 2011 10-K -14





Personal Lines Property Casualty
Insurance Segment



The personal lines property casualty insurance segment contributed
net earned premiums of $762 million to consolidated total revenues, or 20.0 percent of the total, and reported a loss
before income taxes of $181 million in 2011. Personal lines net earned premiums grew 6 percent in 2011 and 5 percent
in 2010, after declining less than 1 percent in 2009.



We prefer to write personal lines coverage in accounts that include
both auto and homeowner coverages as well as coverages that are part of our other personal business line. As a result, we believe
that our personal lines business is best measured and evaluated on a segment basis. However, we provide line of business data to
summarize growth and profitability trends separately for three business lines:



·Personal auto – Protects against liability to others for both bodily injury and property damage, medical payments to
insureds and occupants of their vehicle, physical damage to an insured’s own vehicle from collision and various other perils,
and damages caused by uninsured motorists. In addition, many states require policies to provide first-party personal injury protection,
frequently referred to as no-fault coverage.



·Homeowners – Protects against losses to dwellings and contents from a wide variety of perils, as well as liability arising
out of personal activities both on and off the covered premises. The company also offers coverage for condominium unit owners and
renters.



·Other personal lines – This includes the variety of other types of insurance products we offer to individuals such as
dwelling fire, inland marine, personal umbrella liability and watercraft coverages.



At year-end, we marketed personal lines insurance products through
1,195 or approximately 73 percent of our 1,648 reporting agency locations. The 1,195 personal lines agency locations are in
29 of the 39 states in which we offer standard market commercial lines insurance and represent nearly 80 percent of the reporting
agency locations in the 29 states. During 2010, we largely completed an initiative that began in 2008 to appoint for personal lines
existing agencies marketing only our commercial lines insurance products. We continue to evaluate opportunities to expand our marketing
of personal lines to other states. Primary factors considered in the evaluation of a potential new state include weather-related
catastrophe history and the legal climate.



In 2011, our 10 highest volume personal lines states generated 80.7 percent
of our earned premiums compared with 82.2 percent in 2010 and 84.1 percent in 2009. Earned premiums in the 10 highest
volume states increased 4 percent in 2011 while increasing 13 percent in the remaining states, reflecting progress
toward our long-term objective of geographic diversification through new states for our personal lines operation. The number
of reporting agency locations in our 10 highest volume states increased 7 percent to 798 in 2011 from 749 in 2010.



Personal Lines Earned Premiums by State

(Dollars in millions)Earnedpremiums% of totalearnedAgencylocationsAveragepremium perlocationYear ended December 31, 2011Ohio$24231.7%207$1.2Georgia668.6710.9Indiana648.4850.8Illinois567.4900.6Kentucky445.7381.2Alabama425.5411.0Michigan324.2970.3North Carolina283.7770.4Tennessee222.8450.5Virginia202.7470.4Year ended December 31, 2010Ohio$24634.1%199$1.2Georgia638.8690.9Indiana598.2820.7Illinois527.2860.6Alabama425.9381.1Kentucky405.5371.1Michigan283.8900.3Tennessee223.1430.5North Carolina202.8670.3Virginia202.8380.5



Cincinnati Financial Corporation – 2011 10-K -15





New and renewal personal lines business reflects our risk-specific
underwriting philosophy. Each agency selects personal lines business primarily from within the geographic territory that it serves,
based on the agent’s knowledge of the risks in those communities or familiarity with the policyholder. Personal lines activities
are supported by headquarters associates assigned to individual agencies. At year-end 2011, we had eight full-time personal
lines field marketing representatives who have underwriting authority and visit agencies on a regular basis. They focus primarily
on key states targeted for growth, reinforcing the advantages of our personal lines products and offering training in the use of
our processing system.



All of our personal lines policies are written for a one-year term.
Competitive advantages of our personal lines operation include broad coverage forms, flexible underwriting, superior claims service
and customizable endorsements for both the personal auto and homeowner policies. Our personal lines products are processed through
Diamond, our web-based real-time personal lines policy processing system that supports and allows streamlined processing.
Diamond incorporates features frequently requested by our agencies such as pre-filling of selected data for improved efficiency,
easy-to-use screens, local and headquarters policy printing options, data transfer to and from popular agency management systems
and real-time integration with third-party data such as insurance scores, motor vehicle reports and address verification.



Excess and Surplus Lines Property
Casualty Insurance Segment



The excess and surplus lines property casualty segment contributed
net earned premiums of $70 million to consolidated total revenues, or 1.8 percent of the total, and reported profit before
income taxes of $6 million in 2011, its fourth year of operation. Excess and surplus lines net earned premium increased 43 percent
in 2011 and 81 percent in 2010.



Our excess and surplus lines policies typically cover business risks
with unique characteristics, such as the nature of the business or its claim history, that are difficult to profitably insure in
the standard commercial lines market. Excess and surplus lines insurers have more flexibility in coverage terms and rates compared
with standard lines companies, generally resulting in policies with higher rates and terms and conditions customized for specific
risks, including restricted coverage where appropriate. We target small to midsized risks, seeking to avoid those we consider exotic
in nature. Our average excess and surplus lines policy size is approximately $5,000 in annual premiums, and policyholders in many
cases also have standard market insurance with one of The Cincinnati Insurance Companies. All of our excess and surplus lines policies
are written for a maximum term of one year. Approximately 80 percent of our 2011 premium volume for the excess and surplus lines
segment provided commercial casualty coverages and about 20 percent provided commercial property coverages. Those coverages
are described below.



·Commercial casualty – Covers businesses for third-party liability from accidents occurring on their premises or arising
out of their operations, including products and completed operations. The majority of these policies have coverage limits of $1
million or less. Miscellaneous errors and omissions and professional coverage for liability from actual or alleged errors in judgment,
breaches of duty or other wrongful acts related to activities of insured businesses is also available, as is excess liability coverage
that adds another layer of protection to the insured’s other liability insurance policies. Typical businesses covered include
contractors, consultants, bars or taverns, and manufacturers. Policies covering liability at special events are also available.



·Commercial property – Insures loss or damage to buildings, inventory, equipment and business income from causes of loss
such as fire, wind, hail, water, theft and vandalism. Examples of property we commonly insure with excess and surplus lines policies
include temporarily vacant buildings, restaurants and relatively higher-hazard manufacturing classes.



At the end of 2011, we marketed excess and surplus lines insurance
products in each of the 39 states in which we offer standard market commercial lines insurance. Offering excess and surplus lines
helps agencies representing The Cincinnati Insurance Companies meet the insurance needs of their clients when coverage is unavailable
in the standard market. By providing outstanding service, we can help agencies grow and prosper while also profitably growing our
property casualty business.



In 2011, our 10 highest volume excess and surplus lines states generated
62.8 percent of our earned premiums compared with 65.1 percent in the prior year.



Cincinnati Financial Corporation – 2011 10-K -16





Excess and Surplus Lines Earned Premiums by State

(Dollars in millions)Earnedpremiums% of totalearnedYear ended December 31, 2011Ohio$912.4%Indiana79.7Illinois56.8Georgia56.6Texas46.3Missouri45.4Pennsylvania34.2Michigan34.0Kentucky33.7North Carolina33.7Year ended December 31, 2010Ohio$713.2%Indiana511.0Illinois48.3Georgia47.3Missouri24.7Michigan24.7Pennsylvania24.2North Carolina24.1Texas23.9Kentucky23.7



Agencies representing The Cincinnati Insurance Companies write over
$2 billion in annual premiums for all excess and surplus lines carriers in total that they represent. We estimate that approximately
half of that premium volume matches the targeted business types and coverages we offer through our excess and surplus lines segment.
We structured the operations of this segment to meet the needs of these agencies and to market exclusively through them.



Agencies have access to The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance
Company’s product line through CSU Producer Resources, the wholly owned insurance brokerage subsidiary of parent-company
Cincinnati Financial Corporation. CSU Producer Resources has binding authority on all classes of business written through
The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company and maintains appropriate agent and surplus lines licenses to process non-admitted
business.



We seek to earn a share of each agency’s best excess and surplus
lines accounts by offering several unique benefits. Agency producers have direct access through CSU Producer Resources to a group
of our underwriters who focus exclusively on excess and surplus lines business. Those underwriters can tap into agencies’
broader Cincinnati relationships to bring their policyholders services such as experienced and responsive loss control and claims
handling. CSU Producer Resources gives extra support to our producers by remitting surplus lines taxes and stamping fees and retaining
admitted market diligent search affidavits, where required. Agencies marketing through CSU Producer Resources generally receive
a higher commission because use of our internal brokerage subsidiary eliminates some of the intermediary costs. This business is
also factored in their profit-sharing agreement with The Cincinnati Insurance Companies.



We use a web-based excess and surplus lines policy administration
system to quote, bind, issue and deliver policies electronically to agents. This system provides integration to existing document
management and data management systems, allowing for real-time processing of policies and billing. It provides a specimen policy
detailing coverages when a policy is quoted and delivers electronic copies of policies to producers within minutes of underwriting
approval and policy issue. In 2011, more than 95 percent of policies were issued within 24 hours of a request to bind a policy.



Cincinnati Financial Corporation – 2011 10-K -17





Life Insurance Segment



The life insurance segment contributed $165 million of net
earned premiums, representing 4.3 percent of consolidated total revenues, and negative $3 million of income before income
taxes in 2011. Life insurance segment profitability is discussed in detail in Item 7, Life Insurance Results of Operations,
Page 79. Life insurance net earned premiums grew 4 percent in 2011, 10 percent in 2010 and 13 percent in 2009.



The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company supports our agency-centered
business model. Cincinnati Life helps meet the needs of our agencies, including increasing and diversifying agency revenues. We primarily
focus on life products that feature a steady stream of premium payments and that have the potential for generating revenue growth
through increasing demand. By diversifying revenue and profitability for both the agency and our company, this strategy enhances
the already strong relationship built by the combination of the property casualty and life companies.



Life Insurance Business Lines



Four lines of business – term insurance, universal life insurance,
worksite products and whole life insurance – account for 96.2 percent of the life insurance segment’s revenues:



·Term insurance – policies under which a death benefit is payable only if the insured dies during a specific period of
time. For policies without a return of premium provision, no benefit is payable if the insured person survives to the end of the
term. For policies in force with a return of premium provision, a benefit equal to the sum of all paid base premiums is payable
if the insured person survives to the end of the term. Premiums are fixed and they must be paid as scheduled. The policies are
fully underwritten.



·Universal life insurance – long-duration life insurance policies. Contract premiums are neither fixed nor guaranteed;
however, the contract does specify a minimum interest crediting rate and a maximum cost of insurance charge and expense charge.
Premiums are not fixed and may be varied by the contract owner. The cash values, available as a loan collateralized by the cash
surrender value, are not guaranteed and depend on the amount and timing of actual premium payments and the amount of actual contract
assessments. The policies are fully underwritten. Contracts with death benefit guarantees are available for individuals as well
as for two lives on contracts called survivor universal life.



·Worksite products – term insurance, return of premium term insurance, whole life insurance, universal life and disability
insurance offered to employees through their employer. Premiums are collected by the employer using payroll deduction. Policies
are issued using a simplified underwriting approach and on a guaranteed issue basis. Worksite insurance products provide our property
casualty agency force with excellent cross-serving opportunities for both commercial and personal accounts. Agents report that
offering worksite marketing to employees of their commercial accounts provides a benefit to the employees at no cost to the employer.
Worksite marketing also connects agents with new customers who may not have previously benefited from receiving the services of
a professional independent insurance agent.



·Whole life insurance – policies that provide life insurance for the entire lifetime of the insured. The death benefit
is guaranteed never to decrease and premiums are guaranteed never to increase. While premiums are fixed, they must be paid
as scheduled. These policies provide guaranteed cash values that are available as loans collateralized by the cash surrender
value. The policies are fully underwritten.



In addition, Cincinnati Life markets:



·Disability income insurance that provides monthly benefits to offset the loss of income when the insured person is unable to
work due to accident or illness.



·Deferred annuities that provide regular income payments that commence after the end of a specified period or when the
annuitant attains a specified age. During the deferral period, any payments made under the contract accumulate at the crediting
rate declared by the company but not less than a contract-specified guaranteed minimum interest rate. A deferred annuity may be
surrendered during the deferral period for a cash value equal to the accumulated payments plus interest less the surrender
charge, if any.



·Immediate annuities that provide some combination of regular income and lump sum payments in exchange for a single premium.



Cincinnati Financial Corporation – 2011 10-K -18





Life Insurance Distribution



Cincinnati Life seeks to become the life insurance carrier of choice
for the independent agencies that work with our property casualty operations. We emphasize up-to-date products, responsive underwriting
and high quality service as well as competitive commissions. At year-end 2011, almost 85 percent of our 1,648 property
casualty reporting agency locations offered Cincinnati Life’s products to their clients. We also develop life business from
approximately 560 other independent life insurance agencies. We are careful to solicit business from these other agencies in a
manner that does not conflict with or compete with the marketing and sales efforts of our property casualty agencies.



When marketing through our property casualty agencies, we have specific
competitive advantages:



·Because our property casualty operations are held in high regard, property casualty agency management is predisposed to consider
selling our life products.



·Marketing efforts for both our property casualty and life insurance businesses are directed by our field marketing department,
which assures consistency of communication and operations. Life field marketing representatives are available to meet face-to-face
with agency personnel and their clients as well.



·Our life headquarters underwriters and other associates are available to the agents and field team to assist in the placement
of business. Fewer and fewer of our competitors provide direct, personal support between the agent and the insurance carrier.



We continue to emphasize the cross-serving opportunities of our
life insurance, including term and worksite products, for the property casualty agency’s personal and commercial accounts.
In both the property casualty and independent life agency distribution systems, we enjoy the advantages of offering competitive,
up-to-date products, providing close personal attention in combination with financial strength and stability.



·We primarily offer products addressing the needs of businesses with key person and buy-sell coverages. We offer personal and
commercial clients of our agencies quality, personal life insurance coverage.



·Term insurance is our largest life insurance product line. We continue to introduce new term products with features our agents
indicate are important, such as a return of premium benefit, and we have restructured our underwriting classifications to better
meet the needs of their clients.



Because of our strong capital position, we can offer a competitive
product portfolio including guaranteed products, giving our agents a marketing edge. Our life insurance company maintains strong
insurer financial strength ratings: A.M. Best – A (Excellent), Fitch – A+ (Strong) and Standard & Poor’s
– A (Strong), as discussed in Financial Strength, Page 5. Our life insurance company has chosen not to establish a Moody’s rating.



Cincinnati Financial Corporation – 2011 10-K -19



Investments Segment



Revenues of the investment segment are primarily from net investment
income and from realized investment gains and losses from investment portfolios managed for the holding company and each of the
operating subsidiaries.



Our investment department operates under guidelines set forth in
our investment policy statement along with oversight of the investment committee of our board of directors. These guidelines set
parameters for risk tolerances governing, among other items, the allocation of the portfolio as well as security and sector concentrations.
These parameters are part of an integrated corporate risk management program.



The fair value of our investment portfolio was $11.735 billion and
$11.424 billion at year-end 2011 and 2010, respectively. The overall portfolio remained in an unrealized gain position as
broad equity and fixed income markets experienced total returns ranging from modest to strong.



The cash we generate from insurance operations historically has
been invested in two broad categories of investments:



·Fixed-maturity investments – Includes taxable and tax-exempt bonds and redeemable preferred stocks. During 2011 and 2010,
purchases and market value gains served to more than offset sales and calls.

·Equity investments – Includes common and nonredeemable preferred stocks. During 2011, purchases and fair value gains
partially offset sales. During 2010, purchases and fair value gains more than offset sales.



At December 31, 2011At December 31, 2010Cost orPercentPercentCost orPercentPercent(In millions)amortized costof totalFair valueof totalamortized costof totalFair valueof totalTaxable fixed maturities$5,36952.4%$5,84749.8%$5,13950.5%$5,53348.4%Tax-exempt fixed maturities2,71526.52,93225.02,74927.02,85025.0Common equities2,08820.42,85424.32,21121.72,94025.7Preferred equities740.71020.9750.81010.9Total$10,246100.0%$11,735100.0%$10,174100.0%$11,424100.0%



When allocating cash to various asset classes we consider market
based factors such as risk adjusted after tax yields as well as internal measures based on regulatory and rating agency guidance.
In 2011, we had net dispositions in all asset classes except investment grade corporate bonds. The primary driver of this was routine
portfolio management as well as less new cash available for investment as a result of our unusual level of catastrophe activity.



At year-end 2011, less than 1 percent of the value of our investment
portfolio was made up of securities that are classified as Level 3 assets and that require management’s judgment to develop
pricing or valuation techniques. We generally obtain at least two outside valuations for these assets and generally use the more
conservative estimate. These investments include private placements, small issues and various thinly traded securities. See Item
7, Fair Value Measurements, Page 47, and Item 8, Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements Page 123, for additional
discussion of our valuation techniques.



In addition to securities held in our investment portfolio, at year-end
2011, other invested assets included $37 million of life policy loans and $29 million of venture capital fund investments.



Fixed-Maturity Investments



By maintaining a well diversified fixed-maturity portfolio, we attempt
to manage overall interest rate, reinvestment, credit and liquidity risk. We pursue a buy-and-hold strategy and do not attempt
to make large-scale changes to the portfolio in anticipation of rate movements. By investing new money on a regular basis and analyzing
risk-adjusted after-tax yields, we work to achieve a laddering effect to our portfolio that may mitigate some of the effects of
adverse interest rate movements.



Cincinnati Financial Corporation – 2011 10-K -20





Fixed-Maturity Portfolio Ratings



At year-end 2011, this portfolio’s fair value was 108.6 percent
of amortized cost, up from last year as a significant decline in the level of interest rates more than offset a general widening
of corporate credit spreads.



The portfolio grew in 2011 due to a combination of market performance
and purchases, most heavily concentrated in the investment grade corporate sector. The majority of our non-rated securities are
tax-exempt municipal bonds from smaller municipalities that chose not to pursue a credit rating. Credit ratings at year-end
2011 and 2010 for the fixed-maturity portfolio were:



At December 31, 2011At December 31, 2010FairPercentFairPercent(In millions)valueof totalvalueof totalMoody's Ratings and Standard & Poor's Ratings combined:Aaa, Aa, A, AAA, AA, A$5,50762.7%$5,21662.2%Baa, BBB2,84232.42,65631.7Ba, BB1952.22412.9B, B330.4420.5Caa, CCC50.1190.2Ca, CC00.000.0Daa, Da, D20.010.0Non-rated1952.22082.5Total$8,779100.0%$8,383100.0%



Our fixed-maturity portfolio as of December 31, 2011, included approximate
maturing amounts with pretax average yields-to-book value as follows: 4.9 percent maturing in 2012 with a 5.3 percent yield, 8.0
percent in 2013 with a 4.7 percent yield, and 8.7 in 2014 percent with a 5.3 percent yield. Additional maturity periods for our
fixed-maturity portfolio are shown in Item 8, Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 120. Attributes of the
fixed-maturity portfolio include:





At December 31,20112010Weighted average yield-to-amortized cost5.3%5.5%Weighted average maturity6.7yrs6.8yrsEffective duration4.4yrs5.0yrs





Taxable Fixed Maturities

The fair values of our taxable fixed-maturity portfolio for the
last two years were:

At December 31,(In millions)20112010Investment-grade corporate$5,100$4,695States, municipalities and political subdivisions320293Below investment-grade corporate198268Government sponsored enterprises160200Convertibles and bonds with warrants attached5969United States government75Foreign government33Total$5,847$5,533



While our strategy typically is to buy and hold fixed-maturity investments
to maturity, we monitor credit profiles and fair value movements when determining holding periods for individual securities. With
the exception of U.S. agency issues, no individual issuer's securities accounted for more than 0.9 percent of the taxable
fixed-maturity portfolio at year-end 2011. Investment grade corporate bonds had an average rating of Baa1 by Moody’s
or BBB+ by Standard & Poor’s and represented 87.2 percent of the taxable fixed-maturity portfolio’s fair value
at year end 2011, compared with 84.8 percent in 2010.



The investment-grade corporate bond portfolio is most heavily concentrated
in the financial-related sectors, including banking, financial services and insurance. The financial sectors represented 29.3 percent
of fair value of this portfolio at year-end 2011, compared with 28.9 percent, at year-end 2010. Although the financial-related
sectors make up our largest group of investment-grade corporate bonds, we believe our concentration is below the average for the
corporate bond market as a whole. No other sector exceeded 10 percent of our investment-grade corporate bond portfolio at
year-end 2011.



Most of the $320 million of securities issued by states, municipalities
and political subdivisions securities included in our taxable fixed-maturity portfolio at the end of 2011 were Build America Bonds.



Tax-Exempt Fixed Maturities



Our tax-exempt fixed-maturity portfolio’s fair value was $2.932
billion at December 31, 2011. We traditionally have purchased municipal bonds focusing on general obligation and essential services,
such as sewer, water or others. The portfolio is well diversified among approximately 1,000 municipal bond issuers. No single
municipal issuer accounted for more than 0.7 percent of the tax-exempt fixed-maturity portfolio at year-end 2011. Municipal
bond holdings in our larger states were:



Cincinnati Financial Corporation – 2011 10-K -21





(In millions)State issued generalobligation bondsLocal issued generalobligation bondsSpecial revenuebondsTotalPercent oftotalAt December 31, 2011Texas$-$425$99$52417.9%Indiana-1631633211.3Michigan-257122699.2Illinois-226232498.5Ohio-1321072398.2Washington3174392167.4Wisconsin2115251424.8Pennsylvania-768842.9Florida-2161822.8Arizona-5127782.7Colorado-4015551.9Kansas-2720471.6New Jersey-3017471.6New York-1824421.4Utah-2119401.4All other states126422148616.4Total$6$1,893$1,033$2,932100.0%At December 31, 2010Texas$-$425$107$53218.7%Indiana-2132834912.2Michigan-245122579.0Illinois-219232428.5Ohio-1311072388.4Washington-166321986.9Wisconsin-116191354.7Florida-1967863.0Pennsylvania-679762.7Arizona-4630762.7Colorado-3715521.8New Jersey-2817451.6Kansas-2420441.5New York31521391.4Utah-2017371.3All other states-23321144415.6Total$3$1,812$1,035$2,850100.0%



At year-end 2011, our tax-exempt fixed-maturity portfolio, with
a fair value of $2.932 billion, had an average rating of Aa2/AA. Almost 75 percent or $2.153 billion of the portfolio is insured,
and approximately 95.5 percent of the insured portion carried an underlying rating of at least A3 or A- by Moody’s
or Standard & Poor’s at year-end. We strongly prefer general obligation or essential services bonds, which we believe
provide a superior risk profile. The top three revenue resources of the $1.033 billion in special revenue bonds owned at year-end
2011 were 36 percent from leasing, 21 percent from water and sewer and 9 percent from higher education.



Equity Investments

After covering both our intermediate and long-range insurance obligations
with fixed-maturity investments, we historically used available cash flow to invest in equity securities. Investment in equity
securities has played an important role in achieving our portfolio objectives and has contributed to portfolio appreciation.
We remain committed to our long-term equity focus, which we believe is key to our company’s long-term growth and stability.



Common Stocks



Our cash allocation for common stock purchases is implemented only
after we ensure that insurance reserves are adequately covered by our fixed-maturity investments. We believe our strategy of primarily
investing in a diversified selection of larger capitalization, high quality, dividend-increasing companies generally results in
reduced volatility relative to the broader equity markets.



At December 31, 2011, no holding had a fair value equal to or greater
than 5 percent of our publicly traded common stock portfolio compared with one holding at that level at year-end 2010. Pepsico
Inc. (NYSE:PEP) was our largest single common stock investment at year end, comprising 4.7 percent of the publicly traded
common stock portfolio and 1.1 percent of the investment portfolio.



At year-end 2011, 28.3 percent of our common stock holdings
(measured by fair value) were held at the parent company level.



Cincinnati Financial Corporation – 2011 10-K -22





Common Stock Portfolio Industry Sector Distribution



Percent of Publicly Traded Common Stock PortfolioAt December 31, 2011At December 31, 2010CincinnatiFinancialS&P 500 IndustryWeightingsCincinnatiFinancialS&P 500 IndustryWeightingsSector:Information technology16.9%19.0%13.0%18.7%Energy14.012.312.912.0Consumer staples12.311.515.410.6Healthcare12.011.814.110.9Industrials11.810.711.711.0Consumer discretionary9.410.78.310.6Financial8.513.411.716.1Materials5.73.55.23.7Utilities5.53.94.23.3Telecomm services3.93.23.53.1Total100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%



Preferred Stocks



We evaluate preferred stocks in a manner similar to our evaluation
of fixed-maturity investments, seeking attractive relative yields. We generally focus on investment-grade preferred stocks
issued by companies with strong histories of paying common dividends, providing us with another layer of protection. When possible,
we seek out preferred stocks that offer a dividend received deduction for income tax purposes. We made no purchases or sales
for this portfolio during 2010 or 2011.



Additional information about the composition of investments is included
in Item 8, Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 120. A detailed listing of our portfolio is updated on our website,www.cinfin.com/investors, each quarter when we report our
quarterly financial results.



Other



We report as Other the non-investment operations of the parent company
and its subsidiary CFC Investment Company. This subsidiary offers commercial leasing and financing services to our agencies,
their clients and other customers. As of year-end 2011, CFC Investment Company had 2,217 accounts and $76 million
in receivables, compared with 2,227 accounts and $73 million in receivables at year-end 2010.



Regulation



The business of insurance primarily is regulated by state law. All
of our insurance company subsidiaries are domiciled in the state of Ohio except The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters, which is
domiciled in Delaware. Each insurance subsidiary is governed by the insurance laws and regulations in its respective state of domicile.
We also are subject to state regulatory authorities of all states in which we write insurance. The state laws and regulations
that have the most significant effect on our insurance operations and financial reporting are discussed below.



·Insurance Holding Company Regulation – We are regulated as an insurance holding company system in the respective states
of domicile of our primary standard market property casualty company subsidiary and its surplus lines and life insurance subsidiaries.
These regulations require that we annually furnish financial and other information about the operations of the individual companies
within the holding company system. All transactions within a holding company affecting insurers must be fair and equitable. Notice
to the state insurance commissioner is required prior to the consummation of transactions affecting the ownership or control of
an insurer and prior to certain material transactions between an insurer and any person or entity in its holding company group.
In addition, some of those transactions cannot be consummated without the commissioner’s prior approval.



·Subsidiary Dividends – The Cincinnati Insurance Company is 100 percent owned by Cincinnati Financial Corporation.
The dividend-paying capacity of The Cincinnati Insurance Company and its 100 percent owned subsidiaries is regulated by the
laws of the applicable state of domicile. Under these laws, our insurance subsidiaries must provide a 10-day advance informational
notice to the insurance commissioner for the domiciliary state prior to payment of any dividend or distribution to its shareholders.
Generally, the most our insurance subsidiary can pay without prior regulatory approval is the greater of 10 percent of policyholder
surplus or 100 percent of statutory net income for the prior calendar year. Dividends exceeding these limitations may be paid
only with approval of the insurance department of the domiciliary state.



The insurance company subsidiaries must give 30 days’
notice to and obtain prior approval from the state insurance commissioner before the payment of an extraordinary dividend as defined
by the state’s insurance code. You can find information about the dividends paid by our insurance subsidiary in 2011
in Item 8, Note 9 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 127.



Cincinnati Financial Corporation – 2011 10-K -23







·



The legislative and regulatory climate in Florida continues
to create uncertainty for the insurance industry. In February 2007, we adopted a marketing stance of continuing to service existing
accounts while writing no new business relationships in Florida. This remained our stance through 2009, except in the lines of
directors and officers, surety, machinery and equipment and life insurance, which we resumed writing in June 2007, subject to existing
guidelines. In 2009, we cautiously resumed writing additional commercial lines new business while working to more actively
manage the associated catastrophe risk, carefully underwriting new commercial submissions and non-renewing commercial and personal
lines policies that present the most risk of loss because of their age, construction and geographic characteristics. In 2011, our
property casualty net written premiums from Florida agencies were 1.7 percent of net written premiums, matching the percentage
in 2010.



On August 24, 2007, the company received administrative
subpoenas from the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation seeking documents and testimony concerning insurance for residential
risks located in Florida and communications with reinsurers, risk modeling companies, rating agencies and insurance trade associations.
We produced documents to respond to the subpoenas. Although inactive, these subpoenas remain outstanding as of December 31, 2011.
We continue to assess the changing insurance environment in Florida.



·Insurance Guaranty Associations – Each state has insurance guaranty association laws under which the associations may
assess life and property casualty insurers doing business in the state for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies
to policyholders and claimants. Typically, states assess each member insurer in an amount related to the insurer’s proportionate
share of business written by all member insurers in the state. Our insurance companies received a savings of less than $1 million
from guaranty association refunds in 2011 and a savings of less than $3 million in 2010. We cannot predict the amount and timing
of any future assessments or refunds on our insurance subsidiaries under these laws.



·Shared Market and Joint Underwriting Plans – State insurance regulation requires insurers to participate in assigned
risk plans, reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting associations, which are mechanisms that generally provide applicants
with various basic insurance coverages when they are not available in voluntary markets. Such mechanisms are most commonly instituted
for automobile and workers’ compensation insurance, but many states also mandate participation in FAIR Plans or Windstorm
Plans, which provide basic property coverages. Participation is based upon the amount of a company’s voluntary market share
in a particular state for the classes of insurance involved. Underwriting results related to these organizations could be adverse
to our company.



·Statutory Accounting – For public reporting, insurance companies prepare financial statements in accordance with GAAP.
However, certain data also must be calculated according to statutory accounting rules as defined in the National Association of
Insurance Commissioners’ (NAIC) Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual. While not a substitute for any GAAP measure of
performance, statutory data frequently is used by industry analysts and other recognized reporting sources to facilitate comparisons
of the performance of insurance companies.



Cincinnati Financial Corporation – 2011 10-K -24





·Insurance Reserves – State insurance laws require that property casualty and life insurers annually analyze the adequacy
of reserves. Our appointed actuaries must submit an opinion that reserves are adequate for policy claims-paying obligations and
related expenses.



·Risk-Based Capital Requirements – The NAIC’s risk-based capital (RBC) requirements for property casualty and
life insurers serve as an early warning tool for the NAIC and state regulators to identify companies that may be undercapitalized
and may merit further regulatory action. The NAIC has a standard formula for annually assessing RBC. The formula for calculating
RBC for property casualty companies takes into account asset and credit risks but places more emphasis on underwriting factors
for reserving and pricing. The formula for calculating RBC for life insurance companies takes into account factors relating to
insurance, business, asset and interest rate risks.



Although the federal government and its regulatory agencies generally
do not directly regulate the business of insurance, federal legislation and administrative rules adopted to implement them do affect
our business. Privacy laws, such as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Health Insurance Portability
and Accounting Act (HIPAA) are the federal laws that most affect our day-to-day operations. These apply to us because we gather
and use personal non-public information to underwrite insurance and process claims. We also are subject to other federal laws,
such as the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (TRIA), anti-money laundering statute (AML), and the rules and regulations of the Office
of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC).



Title V of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank) created the Federal Insurance Office to monitor the insurance industry and gather information to identify
issues or gaps in the regulation of insurers that could contribute to a systemic crisis in the insurance industry of the United
States financial system, and to recommend to the Financial Stability Oversight counsel that it designate an insurer as a systemically
significant entity requiring additional supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. We do not expect Dodd-Frank to result in federal
oversight of our operations as a systemically significant entity.



We do not expect to have any material effects on our expenditures,
earnings or competitive position as a result of compliance with any federal, state, or local provisions enacted or adopted relating
to the protection of the environment. We currently do not have any material estimated capital expenditures for environmental control
facilities.



Cincinnati Financial Corporation – 2011 10-K -25

















