10-K


a06623e10vk.htm

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY, INC.- DECEMBER 31, 2004

e10vk


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended

December 31, 2004

Commission file number

001-14905

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

47-0813844

State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification number)

1440 Kiewit Plaza, Omaha, Nebraska


(Address of principal executive office)

(Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code

(402) 346-1400

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange on which registered

Class A Common Stock, $5.00 Par Value

New York Stock Exchange

Class B Common Stock, $0.1667 Par Value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and
(2) has been subject to the filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule
12b-2 of the Act). Yes

þ

No

o

State the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant as of
June 30, 2004 $88,153,126,320*

Indicate number of shares outstanding of each of the Registrant’s classes of common stock:

February 28, 2005 — Class A Common Stock, $5 par value

1,267,197 shares

February 28, 2005 — Class B Common Stock, $0.1667 par value

8,161,362 shares

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Document

Incorporated In

Proxy Statement for Registrant’s

Annual Meeting to be held April 30, 2005

Part III

*

This aggregate value is computed at the last sale price of the common stock on June 30,
2004. It does not include the value of Class A Common Stock
(546,086 shares) and Class B
Common Stock (36,048 shares) held by Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant and
members of their immediate families, some of whom may not constitute “affiliates” for purpose
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934



Part I

Item 1. Business

Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (“Berkshire,” “Company” or “Registrant”) is a holding company owning
subsidiaries engaged in a number of diverse business activities. The most important of these are
insurance businesses conducted on both a primary basis and a reinsurance basis. Berkshire also
owns and operates a number of other businesses engaged in a variety of activities, as identified
herein. Berkshire was organized in 1998 in the state of Delaware, and its corporate headquarters
are located in Omaha, Nebraska.

Operating decisions for the various Berkshire businesses are made by managers of the business
units. Investment decisions with limited exceptions, and all major capital allocation decisions are
made by Warren E. Buffett, in consultation with Charles T. Munger. Mr. Buffett is Chairman and Mr.
Munger is Vice Chairman of Berkshire’s Board of Directors.

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

Berkshire’s insurance and reinsurance business activities are conducted through more than 50
domestic and foreign-based insurance companies. Berkshire’s insurance businesses provide insurance
and reinsurance of property and casualty risks primarily in the United States. In addition, as a
result of the General Re acquisition in December 1998, Berkshire’s insurance businesses also
include life, accident and health reinsurers, as well as internationally-based property
and casualty reinsurers.

In primary (or direct) insurance activities, the insurer assumes the risk of loss from persons
or organizations that are directly subject to the risks. Such risks may relate to property,
casualty (or liability), life, accident, health, financial or other perils that may arise from an
insurable event. In reinsurance activities, the reinsurer assumes defined portions of risks that
other primary insurers or reinsurers have assumed in their own insuring activities.

Reinsurance contracts are normally classified as treaty or facultative contracts. Treaty
reinsurance refers to automatic reinsurance coverage for all or a portion of a specified class of
risks ceded by the primary insurer, while facultative reinsurance involves coverage of specific
individual risks. Coverage of risks assumed under reinsurance contracts may be classified as
quota-share or excess. Under quota-share (proportional or pro-rata) reinsurance, the reinsurer
shares proportionally in the original premiums, losses, and expenses of the primary insurer or
reinsurer. Excess (or non-proportional) reinsurance provides for the indemnification of the primary
insurer or reinsurer for all or a portion of the loss in excess of an agreed upon amount or
“retention.” Both quota-share and excess reinsurance may provide for aggregate limits of
indemnification.

Except for regulatory considerations, there are virtually no barriers to entry into the
insurance and reinsurance industry. Competitors may be domestic or foreign, as well as licensed or
unlicensed. The number of competitors within the industry is not known. Insurers and reinsurers
compete on the basis of reliability, financial strength and stability, ratings, underwriting
consistency, service, business ethics, price, performance, capacity, policy terms and coverage
conditions.

Insurers and reinsurers based in the United States are subject to regulation by their states
of domicile and by those states in which they are licensed. The primary focus of regulation is to
assure that insurers are financially solvent and that policyholder interests are otherwise
protected. States establish minimum capital levels for insurance companies and establish
guidelines for permissible business and investment activities. States have the authority to
suspend or revoke a company’s authority to do business, as conditions warrant. States regulate the
payment of dividends by insurance companies to their shareholders. Dividends and capital
distributions of extraordinary amounts are subject to prior regulatory approval.

Insurers may market, sell and service insurance policies in the states that they are licensed.
These insurers are referred to as admitted insurers. Admitted insurers are, among other things,
generally required to obtain regulatory approval of policy forms issued and premium rates charged.
Non-admitted insurance markets have developed to provide insurance that is otherwise unavailable
from the admitted insurance markets for a state. Non-admitted insurance, often referred to as
“excess and surplus” lines, is procured by state-licensed surplus lines brokers who place risks
with insurers not licensed in that state. Non-admitted insurance is subject to considerably less
regulation with respect to policy rates and forms. Reinsurers are normally not required to obtain
approval of premium rates and policy forms.

The insurance regulators of every state participate in the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners (“NAIC”). The NAIC adopts forms, instructions and accounting procedures for use by
U.S. insurers and reinsurers in preparing and filing annual statutory financial statements.
However, an insurer’s state of domicile has ultimate authority over these matters.



Item 1. Business

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

(Continued)

Berkshire’s insurance companies maintain capital strength at exceptionally high levels. This
strength differentiates Berkshire’s insurance companies from their competitors. Collectively, the
aggregate statutory surplus of Berkshire’s U.S. based insurers was approximately $48 billion at
December 31, 2004. All of Berkshire’s major insurance subsidiaries are rated AAA by Standard &
Poor’s Corporation, the highest Financial Strength Rating assigned by Standard & Poor’s, and are
rated A++ (superior) by A.M. Best with respect to their financial condition and operating
performance.

In addition to its activities relating to the annual statement, the NAIC develops or
adopts statutory accounting principles, model laws, regulations and programs for use by its members. Such matters deal with
regulatory oversight of solvency, compliance with financial regulation standards, and risk-based
capital reporting requirements.

The insurance industry experienced severe losses from the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack.
On November 26, 2002, President Bush signed into law the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002
(commonly referred to as “TRIA”), which established within the Department of the Treasury a
Terrorism Insurance Program (“Program”) for commercial property and casualty insurers by providing
Federal reinsurance of insured terrorism losses. Under TRIA, the Department of the Treasury is
charged with certifying “acts of terrorism” as having been a terrorist act undertaken on behalf of
a foreign person or interest which resulted in an insured loss in excess of $5 million. To be
eligible for Federal reinsurance, insurers must make available insurance coverage for acts of
terrorism, by providing policyholders with clear and conspicuous notice of the amount of premium
that will be charged for this coverage and of the Federal share of any insured losses resulting
from any act of terrorism. Assumed reinsurance is specifically excluded from TRIA participation.
Thus, terrorism exclusions that were contained within reinsurance contracts remained in effect.
Reinsurers are not required to offer terrorism coverage and are not eligible for Federal
reinsurance of terrorism losses.

In the event of a certified act of terrorism, the Federal government will reimburse insurers
(conditioned on their satisfaction of policyholder notification requirements) for 90% of their
insured losses in excess of a company deductible. The company’s deductible is calculated based on
the direct earned premium for relevant commercial lines written by the insurer’s entire insurance
group. Berkshire’s deductible was 7% of the insurance group’s primary (direct) subject earned premium in 2003 and
10% in 2004 and will rise to 15% in 2005. Berkshire’s deductible for 2005 is expected to approximate $300 million. There
is also an annual cap on the Federal share in the amount of $100 billion for each Program year, and
insurers are free to exclude their liability for terrorism losses in excess of this amount. TRIA and the
Program are scheduled to expire on December 31, 2005.

For many years, the insurance industry has been subject to claims arising from the manufacture
of asbestos and its use in products. The magnitude of such losses has caused many manufacturers to
file for protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In recent years, increasing numbers of claims
have been filed against users of such products, including claims based upon exposure to asbestos,
even though no related illness has been identified. Consequently, the U.S. Congress has introduced
legislation to assure that resources are available to indemnify claimants suffering from
asbestos-related illnesses and to manage the overall cost of those claims. To date, no federal
legislation has passed. It is highly uncertain as to whether or not any Federal legislation will
be enacted and, if enacted, how the provisions of such laws will affect Berkshire.

In general, regulation of the insurance industry outside of the United States is subject to
the differing laws and regulations of each country in which the insurer has operations or writes
premiums. Some jurisdictions, such as the United Kingdom, impose complex regulatory requirements
on insurance businesses, while other jurisdictions, such as Germany, impose fewer requirements.
In certain foreign countries, reinsurers are required to be licensed by governmental authorities. These licenses may be subject to modification,
suspension or revocation dependent on such factors as amount and types of reserves and minimum
capital and solvency tests. The violation of regulatory requirements may result in fines, censures
and/or criminal sanctions in various jurisdictions. Berkshire subsidiaries also provide insuring
capacity to several syndicates at Lloyd’s of London. Such capacity entitles Berkshire to a share of
the risks and rewards of the activities of the syndicate in proportion to the amount of capacity
provided. This business is subject to regulation by the U.K. Financial Services Authority, which maintains
comprehensive rules and regulations covering the legal, financial and operating activities of
managing agents and syndicates.



Item 1. Business

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

(Continued)

Insurance underwriting operations are comprised of the following sub-groups: (1) GEICO and its
subsidiaries, (2) General Re and its subsidiaries, (3) Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group, and
(4) Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group. Except for certain reinsurance products that generate a
significant amount of up-front premiums along with estimated claims expected to be paid over very
long periods of time, each of Berkshire’s underwriting units strive to achieve a net underwriting
profit over time and to reject inadequately priced risks. Additional information related to each
of these four underwriting units follows.

GEICO

— Berkshire acquired GEICO in January 1996. GEICO is headquartered in Chevy Chase,
Maryland and its principal insurance subsidiaries include: Government Employees Insurance Company,
GEICO General Insurance Company, GEICO Indemnity Company, and GEICO Casualty Company. Over the
past five years, these companies have offered primarily private passenger automobile insurance to
individuals in 49 states and the District of Columbia. The subsidiaries market their policies
primarily through direct response methods, in which applications for insurance are submitted
directly to the companies by telephone, through the mail, or via the Internet.

GEICO competes for private passenger auto insurance customers with other companies that sell
directly to the customer, as well as with companies that use a traditional agency sales force.
Private passenger automobile insurance business is highly competitive in the areas of price and
service. Some insurance companies exacerbate price competition by selling their products for a
period of time at less than adequate rates, because they underestimate ultimate claim costs and/or
overestimate the amount of investment income expected to be earned from the cash flow generated as
a result of premiums being received before claims are paid. GEICO will not knowingly follow that
strategy.

For several years through 2000, premium volume grew as a result of significantly higher
advertising expenditures and competitive premium rates. In response to underwriting losses in
2000, GEICO increased premium rates and tightened underwriting standards. In addition, GEICO
reduced advertising expenditures in 2001 as such expenditures were not effectively producing
in-force policy growth. Consequently, new business sales declined significantly and
policies-in-force declined slightly in 2001. In 2002, aided by rate increases taken by
competitors, new business sales and policies-in-force increased over the prior year. Advertising
expenditures, new business sales and voluntary policies-in-force increased further in 2004.
Voluntary auto policies-in-force have increased a total of about 40% over the past five years.
GEICO is currently one of the five largest auto insurers, in terms of premium volume, in the United
States.

Seasonal variations in GEICO’s insurance business are not significant. However, extraordinary
weather conditions or other factors may have a significant effect upon the frequency or severity of
automobile claims.

Private passenger auto insurance is stringently regulated by state insurance departments. As
a result, it is difficult for insurance companies to differentiate their products to consumers.
Competition for preferred-risk private passenger automobile insurance, which is substantial, tends
to focus on price and level of customer service provided, whereas price tends to be the primary
focus for other risks. GEICO places great emphasis on customer satisfaction. GEICO’s cost
efficient direct response marketing methods and emphasis on customer satisfaction enable it to
offer competitive rates and value to customers.

Management believes that the name and reputation of GEICO is a material asset and protects its
name and other service marks through appropriate registrations.

General Re

— Berkshire acquired General Re in December 1998. General Re was established
in 1980 to serve as the holding company of General Reinsurance Corporation (“GRC”) and its
affiliates. General Re affiliates include Kölnische Rückversicherungs – Gesellschaft AG (“Cologne
Re”), a major international reinsurer based in Germany. General Re held a 91% ownership interest in
Cologne Re as of December 31, 2004. General Re subsidiaries currently conduct global reinsurance
business in approximately 72 cities and provide reinsurance coverage worldwide. General Re operates
the following reinsurance businesses: North American property/casualty, international
property/casualty, which principally consists of Cologne Re and the Faraday operations, and life/health reinsurance. General Re’s reinsurance operations
are primarily based in Stamford, Connecticut and Cologne, Germany. General Re is one of the
largest reinsurers in the world based on net premiums written and capital.

Property/Casualty Reinsurance

General Re’s North American property/casualty business is primarily treaty and facultative
reinsurance that is marketed directly to clients located throughout the United States and Canada
without involving a broker or intermediary. The North American property/casualty business
underwrites predominantly excess coverages. The



Item 1. Business

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

(Continued)

General Re

(Continued)

Property/Casualty Reinsurance

(continued)

operations are headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut, and are also conducted through 18 branch
offices. The business is domiciled in Delaware and licensed in the District of Columbia and all
states but Hawaii, where it is an accredited reinsurer.

Casualty reinsurance represented approximately 61% of North American property/casualty net
premiums written in 2004 and property reinsurance represented approximately 24%. North American
property/casualty business also includes a few smaller specialty insurers. These insurers,
domiciled in Connecticut, North Dakota and Ohio, underwrite primarily liability and workers’
compensation coverages on an excess and surplus basis. Also, they underwrite excess insurance for
self-insured programs. These insurers together represented approximately 15% of General Re’s North
American property/casualty net premiums written in 2004.

General Re’s direct international property/casualty reinsurance business operations are
conducted through Cologne Re as well as several other General Re subsidiaries in 27 countries and
provide multiple-lines of property and casualty reinsurance coverage worldwide. Principal markets
are in Europe and the United Kingdom. Coverages are written on both a quota-share and excess
basis. In 2004, the international property/casualty operations principally wrote direct
reinsurance in the form of treaties with lesser amounts written on a facultative basis.

At the end of 1998, General Re acquired Faraday Holdings Limited (“Faraday”, formerly D.P.
Mann Holdings Limited). International London-market business is primarily written through Faraday,
which owns the managing agent of Syndicate 435 at Lloyd’s of London and provides capacity and
participates in the results of Syndicate 435. Through Faraday, General Re participated in 100% of
the results of Syndicate 435 in 2004. Faraday writes property, casualty and aviation business on
risks worldwide.

Life/Health Reinsurance

This business includes the North American and international life/health operations of Cologne
Re. In 2004, approximately 51% of life/health net premiums were written in the United States, 18%
were written in Western Europe, and the remaining 31% were written throughout the rest of the
world. The life/health operations provide individual life, group life, group health, long-term
care, and individual health reinsurance. Most of the life reinsurance is written on a
proportional treaty basis, with smaller amounts written on a facultative basis, while health
business is predominantly written on an excess treaty basis. The life/health business is marketed
primarily on a direct basis with the exception of group health, which is marketed primarily through
brokers.

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group

— The Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group (“BHRG”)
operates from offices located in Stamford, Connecticut. BHRG provides principally excess and
quota-share reinsurance to other property and casualty insurers and reinsurers. The level of
BHRG’s underwriting activities often fluctuates significantly from year to year depending on the
perceived level of price adequacy in specific insurance and reinsurance markets. Also, BHRG’s mix
of business tends to change rapidly as a result of quickly entering or exiting markets when pricing
is deemed adequate or inadequate.

For many years BHRG has written catastrophe excess of loss treaty reinsurance contracts. In
recent years, BHRG has also written individual policies for primarily excess property risks on both
a primary and facultative reinsurance basis, referred to as “individual risk”, which are subject to
loss catastrophe events. Individual risk business includes numerous policies covering terrorism and aviation risks. A catastrophe excess policy
provides protection to the counterparty from the accumulation of primarily property losses arising
from a single loss event or series of events. Catastrophe and individual risk policies may provide
significant amounts of indemnification per contract and a single loss event may produce losses
under a number of contracts.

BHRG cedes essentially no risks assumed under catastrophe excess reinsurance contracts or
individual risk contracts, due to perceived uncertainties in recovering amounts from other
reinsurers that are financially weaker. As a result, this business can produce extreme volatility
in periodic underwriting results. Accounting consequences, however, do not influence decisions of
Berkshire’s management with respect to this or any other business. This factor and the
extraordinary financial strength of BHRG are believed to be the primary reasons why BHRG has become
a major provider of such coverages.



Item 1. Business

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

(Continued)

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group

(Continued)

During 2002 and 2003 industry
insuring capacity in certain markets became scarce and BHRG wrote a number of quota-share contracts
covering property and casualty risks of U.S. insurers as well as several quota-share arrangements
for Lloyd’s syndicates. Despite the significant level of new business written during the last three years, the level of
future rate adequacy and industry capacity subsequent to December 31, 2004 in certain markets is
uncertain. The level of business written in 2004 declined from 2003 and will likely decline further in
2005.

BHRG has entered into several retroactive reinsurance contracts over the past five years.
Coverage under such contracts is usually provided on an excess basis and amounts of indemnification
are subject to a large aggregate limit of indemnification. Retroactive reinsurance contracts
afford protection to ceding companies against the adverse development of claims arising under
policies issued in prior years. Significant amounts of environmental and latent injury claims may
arise under the contracts.

In BHRG’s retroactive reinsurance business, the concept of time-value-of-money is often an
important element in establishing prices and contract terms, since the payment of losses under the
insurance contracts are often expected to occur over lengthy periods of time. Losses payable under
the contracts are normally expected to exceed premiums and therefore, produce underwriting losses.
This business is accepted, in part, because of the large amounts of policyholder funds (“float”)
generated for investment, the economic benefit of which will be reflected through investment income
in future periods.

Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group

— The Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group is a collection of
primary insurance operations that provide a wide variety of insurance coverages to insureds located
principally in the United States. National Indemnity Company and certain affiliates underwrite
motor vehicle and general liability insurance to commercial enterprises on both an admitted and
excess and surplus basis. This business is written nationwide primarily through insurance agents
and brokers and is based in Omaha, Nebraska.

In 2000, Berkshire acquired U.S. Investment Corporation (“USIC”). USIC, through its three
subsidiaries led by U.S. Liability Insurance Company, is a specialty insurer that underwrites
commercial, professional and personal lines of insurance on an admitted and excess and surplus
basis. Policies are marketed in all 50 states and the District of Columbia through wholesale
insurance agents. USIC companies currently underwrite and market over 50 distinct specialty
property and casualty insurance products.

Other insurance operations include several companies referred to as the “Homestate Companies,”
based in California, Colorado and Nebraska and with branch offices in several other states, which
market various commercial coverages for standard risks to insureds in their state of domicile and
an increasing number of other states. Also included is Central States Indemnity Company of Omaha
located in Omaha, Nebraska, which provides credit and income protection insurance marketed
primarily through credit and debit card issuers and utility providers nationwide. Kansas Bankers
Surety (“KBS”) Company is an insurer of primarily crime, fidelity, errors and omissions, officers’
and directors’ liability and related insurance coverages directed toward small and medium-sized
banks throughout the Midwest United States.

Property and casualty loss reserves

Berkshire’s property and casualty insurance companies establish reserves for the estimated
unpaid losses and loss expenses with respect to claims occurring on or before the balance sheet
date. Such estimates include provisions for reported claims, or case estimates, provisions for
incurred-but-not-reported (“IBNR”) claims and legal and administrative costs to settle claims. The estimates of unpaid losses and amounts recoverable under reinsurance are established and
continually reviewed by each Berkshire insurance/reinsurance business using a variety of
statistical and analytical techniques.

Reserve estimates reflect past claims experience, currently known factors and trends and
estimates of future claim trends. Implicit in the factors considered in establishing ultimate
claim amounts are the effects of including social, legal and economic inflation. Irrespective of
the techniques used, estimation error is inherent in the process of establishing unpaid loss
reserves as of any given date. Uncertainties in projecting ultimate claim amounts are enhanced by
the time lag between when a claim actually occurs and when it becomes reported and settled. This
time lag is referred to as the “claim-tail.”



Item 1. Business

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

(Continued)

Property and casualty loss reserves

(Continued)

The claim-tail for most property coverages is normally short. The claim-tail for liability
coverages, such as product liability and workers’ compensation, can be especially long as claims
are often reported many years after the occurrence. The claim-tail for reinsurers is further
extended because claims are first reported through one or more intermediary primary insurers or
reinsurers. Liabilities assumed under retroactive reinsurance contracts may have an especially
long claim-tail, as a significant portion of the claims may derive from asbestos, environmental and
other latent injury perils. These policies contain aggregate limits of indemnification, so the
risks of additional claims under the contracts are limited.

Berkshire attempts to be reasonably conservative in establishing claim reserves. However, for
the reasons previously discussed, the amounts of the reserves established as of a given balance
sheet date and the subsequent actual losses and loss expenses paid will likely differ, perhaps by a
material amount. There is no guarantee that the recorded reserves will prove to be adequate.
Changes in unpaid loss estimates arising from the review process are charged or credited, as
applicable, to earnings in the period of the change.

Through 1998, Berkshire’s insurers ceded relatively minor amounts of risk to other reinsurers.
As a result of Berkshire’s acquisition of General Re at the end of 1998, larger amounts of risk
were ceded to other reinsurers, although since 1998 the amounts ceded by General Re have declined.
Reinsurance does not relieve the ceding company of its obligation to indemnify policyholders for
claims arising under its policies.

Certain North American workers’ compensation loss reserves of General Re are discounted
for both statutory and GAAP reporting purposes at an interest rate of 4.5 percent per annum for
claims occurring before 2003 and at 1 percent per annum for claims occurring after 2002. Such
discount rates were approved by the insurance department of General Re’s domiciliary state.
The amortization of the discount is included as a component of insurance losses and loss adjustment
expenses in periodic operating results.

In addition, incurred losses from property and casualty reinsurance include amortization of
deferred charges established on retroactive reinsurance contracts. At inception of these
contracts, unpaid losses are recorded at the estimated ultimate payment amount. However, a
deferred charge asset is also recorded at the inception of the contract. The deferred charges are
subsequently amortized over the expected claim payment period, with such charges recorded as a
component of insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses.

The following table presents the development of Berkshire’s consolidated net unpaid losses for
property/casualty contracts from 1994 through 2004. Data in the table related to acquired
businesses is included from the acquisition date forward. Most significantly, GEICO (acquired
January 2, 1996) is included as of December 31, 1995 and General Re (acquired December 21, 1998) is
included as of December 31, 1998.

The first section of the table reconciles the estimated liability for unpaid losses and loss
adjustment expenses recorded at the balance sheet date for each of the indicated years. The net
liability represents the estimated amount of claims and claim expenses, including IBNR, outstanding
as of the balance sheet date, reduced by estimates of amounts recoverable under ceded reinsurance,
deferred charges on retroactive reinsurance contracts, and reserve discounts.

The next section of the table shows the re-estimated amount of the previously recorded net
liability based on experience as of the end of each succeeding year. The estimate is increased or
decreased as losses are paid and more information becomes known about the frequency and severity of
unpaid claims. The line labeled “cumulative deficiency (redundancy)” represents the aggregate
change in the initial estimates from the original balance sheet date through December 31, 2004.
These amounts have been reported in earnings over time as a component of losses and loss adjustment
expenses. The redundancies or deficiencies shown in each column should be viewed independently of
the other columns, because such adjustments made in earlier years may also be included as a
component of the adjustments in the more recent years. To avoid misstating the cumulative
redundancies or deficiencies, liabilities assumed under retroactive reinsurance contracts are
treated as occurrences in the year the transaction was entered into, as opposed to when the
underlying losses actually occurred, which is, by definition, generally prior to the contract date.
Due to the significance of the deferred charges and reserve discounts, the cumulative changes in
such balances, which are included in the cumulative deficiency/redundancy amounts, are also
provided.



Item 1. Business

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

(Continued)

Property and casualty loss reserves

(Continued)

The bottom part of the table shows the cumulative amount of net losses and loss adjustment
expenses paid with respect to recorded net liabilities as of the end of each succeeding year.
While the information in the table provides a historical perspective on the adequacy of unpaid
losses and loss adjustment expenses established in previous years, readers are cautioned against
extrapolating redundancies or deficiencies of the past on current unpaid loss balances. Berkshire
management believes that the reserves established as of the end of 2004 are adequate. However, due
to the inherent uncertainties in the reserving process, it cannot be assured that such balances
will ultimately prove to be adequate. Dollar amounts are in millions.












Gross unpaid losses per

Consolidated Balance Sheet

$

3,199

$

5,690

$

6,059

$

6,637

$

22,804

$

26,600

$

32,868

$

40,562

$

43,771

$

45,393

$

45,219

Reserve discounts

—

—

—

—

1,666

1,663

1,675

2,022

2,405

2,435

2,611

Unpaid losses before discounts

3,199

5,690

6,059

6,637

24,470

28,263

34,543

42,584

46,176

47,828

47,830

Ceded reserves

(133

)

(255

)

(248

)

(274

)

(2,167

)

(2,331

)

(2,997

)

(2,957

)

(2,623

)

(2,597

)

(2,405

)

Net unpaid losses

3,066

5,435

5,811

6,363

22,303

25,932

31,546

39,627

43,553

45,231

45,425

Reserve discounts

—

—

—

—

(1,666

)

(1,663

)

(1,675

)

(2,022

)

(2,405

)

(2,435

)

(2,611

)

Deferred charges

(441

)

(390

)

(338

)

(480

)

(560

)

(1,518

)

(2,593

)

(3,232

)

(3,379

)

(3,087

)

(2,727

)

Net unpaid losses, net of

discounts/deferred charges

$

2,625

$

5,045

$

5,473

$

5,883

$

20,077

$

22,751

$

27,278

$

34,373

$

37,769

$

39,709

$

40,087

Liability re-estimated:

1 year later

2,662

4,936

5,324

5,673

19,663

22,239

28,569

36,289

39,206

40,618

2 years later

2,707

4,901

5,220

5,540

18,132

22,829

30,667

38,069

40,663

3 years later

2,690

4,859

5,093

5,386

18,464

24,079

32,156

40,023

4 years later

2,696

4,795

4,973

5,293

19,750

25,158

33,532

5 years later

2,658

4,707

4,906

5,304

20,581

26,894

6 years later

2,622

4,647

4,920

5,246

21,172

7 years later

2,600

4,673

4,891

5,311

8 years later

2,617

4,660

4,958

9 years later

2,611

4,728

10 years later

2,662

Cumulative deficiency (redundancy)


(317

)

(515

)

(572

)

1,095

4,143

6,254

5,650

2,894


Cumulative foreign exchange effect*

—

—

—

—

(550

)

(869

)

(1,827

)

(1,909

)

(1,485

)

(490

)

Net deficiency (redundancy)

$


$

(317

)

$

(515

)

$

(572

)

$


$

3,274

$

4,427

$

3,741

$

1,409

$


Cumulative payments:

1 year later

$


$

1,166

$

1,385

$

1,811

$

4,509

$

5,825

$

5,352

$

6,653

$

8,092

$

8,828

2 years later


1,912

2,379

2,463

7,596

8,289

8,744

11,396

14,262

3 years later


2,732

2,891

3,330

9,384

9,889

11,625

16,378

4 years later

1,309

3,129

3,372

3,507

10,436

11,513

15,608

5 years later

1,460

3,310

3,465

3,598

11,421

13,840

6 years later

1,591

3,357

3,518

3,694

12,221

7 years later

1,624

3,388

3,586

3,752

8 years later

1,639

3,449

3,635

9 years later

1,686

3,491

10 years later

1,716

Net deficiency (redundancy) above

$


$

(317

)

$

(515

)

$

(572

)

$


$

3,274

$

4,427

$

3,741

$

1,409

$


Deferred charge changes and reserve discounts







1,014


1,043


(Redundancy) deficiency before deferred
charges and reserve discounts

$

(342

)

$

(645

)

$

(805

)

$

(970

)

$


$

2,640

$

3,413

$

2,830

$


$


*

Beginning in 1998, unpaid losses include amounts related to the international property
and casualty business of General Re. The amount of re-estimated liabilities in the table above
related to these operations reflect the exchange rates as of the end of the re-estimation period.
The cumulative foreign exchange effect represents the cumulative effect of changes in foreign
exchange rates from the original balance sheet date to the end of the re-estimation period.



Item 1. Business

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

(Continued)

Investments

— Investments associated with insurance activities derive from shareholder
capital, including amounts acquired in business acquisitions, as well as funds provided from
policyholders through insurance and reinsurance business (“float”). The levels of reinsurance
assumed business in recent years, plus the acquisitions of GEICO and General Re, have produced an
exceptional increase in the amount of float held by Berkshire’s insurance businesses. Float is an
approximation of the amount of net policyholder funds available for investment. That term denotes
the sum of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, unearned premiums and other policyholder
liabilities, less the aggregate amount of premium balances receivable, losses recoverable from
reinsurance ceded, deferred policy acquisition costs, deferred charges on reinsurance contracts,
and related deferred income taxes. The amount of float has grown from about $6.9 billion at the
end of 1996 to about $46.1 billion at the end of 2004, through internal growth as well as the
acquisition of General Re in 1998. Equally important as the size of the float balance is its cost,
which is represented by the periodic net underwriting gain or loss of the business. The increases
in the amounts of float plus the substantial amounts of shareholder capital devoted to insurance
and reinsurance activities have generated meaningful increases in the levels of investments and
investment income over the past five years.

Investment portfolios of insurance subsidiaries include ownership of equity securities of other
publicly traded companies, which are concentrated in relatively few companies.
Investment portfolios of Berkshire’s insurance businesses also include large amounts of fixed
income securities, which consist of obligations of the U.S. Government, U.S. states and
municipalities, mortgage-backed securities issued primarily by the three major U.S. Government and
Government-sponsored agencies, as well as obligations of foreign governments and corporate
obligations. Investment portfolios are primarily managed by Berkshire’s corporate office.
Generally, there are no targeted investment allocation rates established by management with respect
to investment activities. Rather, management will increase or decrease investments in response to
perceived changes in opportunities of income or capital growth relative to risks associated with
the issuers of the securities.

Non-Insurance Businesses

The Registrant’s numerous and diverse non-insurance businesses are described below.

Apparel —

Berkshire’s apparel businesses include manufacturers and distributors of a variety
of clothing and footwear. Businesses engaged in the manufacture and distribution of clothing
include Fruit of the Loom (“FOL”), Garan and Fechheimer Brothers. Berkshire’s footwear businesses
include H.H. Brown Shoe Group and Justin Brands.

In April of 2002 Berkshire acquired FOL’s basic apparel businesses, which prior to the
acquisition date operated as debtors-in-possession pursuant to its Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing.
Berkshire did not acquire FOL’s ultimate parent as well as certain other entities in the FOL group
or assume any liabilities of the entities not acquired. FOL, headquartered in Bowling Green,
Kentucky, is a vertically integrated manufacturer and distributor of basic apparel products sold
principally under the

Fruit of the Loom

® label. FOL is a market leader in the mass merchandise
segment of the men’s and boys’ underwear market, and is one of the branded market leaders in the
women’s and girls’ underwear market. In addition FOL produces and sells undecorated T-shirts and
fleecewear under its own labels in a variety of colors and styles. Products are distributed from
FOL’s distribution centers to retailers and wholesalers in both North America and Europe.

As a vertically integrated manufacturer, FOL performs most of its own spinning, knitting,
cloth finishing, cutting, sewing and packaging. For the North American market, which comprised
more than 85% of FOL’s 2004 consolidated net sales, the majority of capital-intensive spinning and
cloth manufacturing operations are located in highly automated facilities in the United States with
a portion of cloth manufacturing performed offshore. Labor-intensive sewing and finishing
operations are located in lower labor cost facilities in Central America and the Caribbean. For
the European market, capital-intensive manufacturing operations are performed in Ireland and
Northern Ireland and sewing is performed in Morocco. During 2004, FOL announced the expansion of
facilities in Morocco to include yarn spinning and textile manufacturing. FOL intends to transfer
its European-market spinning and cloth making operations to Morocco in the next five years.

Berkshire acquired Garan in September of 2002. Garan, based in New York City, designs,
manufactures, and sells apparel primarily for children and to a lesser degree for men and women.
Products are sold under private labels of its customers as well as its own trademarks, including

Garanimals

®

.

Garan’s production facilities are primarily located in Central America.
Substantially all of Garan’s products are sold through its distribution centers in the U.S. to
major national chain stores, department stores, and specialty stores. In 2004, over 90% of Garan’s
sales were to Wal-Mart Stores.

FOL’s and Garan’s markets are highly competitive, consisting of many domestic and foreign
manufacturers and distributors. Competition is generally based upon price, product style, quality
and customer service.



Item 1. Business

Non-Insurance Businesses of Berkshire

(Continued)

Apparel

(Continued)

Fechheimer Brothers manufactures, distributes, and sells uniforms, principally for the public
service and safety markets, including police, fire, postal and military markets. Fechheimer was
acquired by Berkshire in 1986 and is based in Cincinnati, Ohio.

Justin Brands was acquired in August 2000 and H.H. Brown Shoe Group has been owned by
Berkshire for more than the past five years. Collectively, Berkshire’s footwear businesses
purchase or manufacture and distribute work, rugged outdoor and casual shoes (H.H. Brown Shoe
Group) and western-style footwear (Justin Brands) under a number of brand names. Significant
portions of the shoes sold by Berkshire’s shoe businesses are manufactured or purchased from
sources outside the United States. Over the past five years, a number of manufacturing facilities
in the United States and Canada have been closed. Products are principally sold in the United
States through a variety of channels including department stores, footwear
chains, specialty stores, catalogs and the Internet, as well as through company-owned retail
stores.

Building Products

— In August 2000, Berkshire entered the building products business with the
acquisition of Acme Building Brands (“Acme”). Acme, headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas, manufactures
and distributes clay bricks (

Acme Brick

), concrete block (

Featherlite

) and cut limestone (

Texas
Quarries

). In addition, Acme distributes a number of other building products of other
manufacturers, including glass block, brick, floor and wall tile and other masonry products. Acme
also sells ceramic floor and wall tile, as well as marble, granite and other stones through its
subsidiary, American Tile. Products are sold primarily in the Southwest United States through
company-operated sales offices. Acme distributes products primarily to homebuilders and masonry
and general contractors.

Acme operates 22 clay brick manufacturing facilities located in seven states, seven concrete
block facilities in Texas, and one stone quarry fabrication facility in Texas. The demand for
Acme’s products is seasonal, with higher sales in the warmer weather months, and is subject to the
level of construction, which can be cyclical. Acme also owns and leases properties and mineral
rights that supply raw materials used in many of its manufactured products. Raw materials supply
is believed to be adequate into the foreseeable future.

Berkshire acquired Benjamin Moore & Co. (“Benjamin Moore”) in December of 2000. Benjamin
Moore, headquartered in Montvale, New Jersey, is a leading formulator, manufacturer and retailer of
a broad range of primarily architectural coatings, available principally in the United States and
Canada. Products include water-thinnable and solvent-thinnable general purpose coatings (paints,
stains and clear finishes) for use by the general public, contractors and industrial and commercial
users. Products are marketed under various registered brand names, including

Regal

®,

Superspec

®,

Superhide

® and

Moorgard

®.

Benjamin Moore relies primarily on an independent dealer network for the distribution of its
products. The network consists of over 3,200 retailers with over 4,300 storefronts in the United
States and Canada. Benjamin Moore also owns and manages several multiple-outlet stores and
stand-alone stores in various parts of the United States and Canada serving primarily contractors
and general consumers. Included in the 4,300 storefronts at December 31, 2004 were 154 Benjamin
Moore majority-owned stores positioned in the market as independent retailers that offer a broad
array of products including Benjamin Moore® brands and other competitor coatings, wallcoverings,
window treatments and sundries.

The architectural coatings industry is highly competitive and has historically been subject to
intense price competition. It is estimated that there are approximately 500 coatings manufacturers
in the United States, many of which are small companies, that compete regionally and locally. The
top four companies in the industry, including Benjamin Moore positioned fourth, comprise about 50%
of the total market.

Berkshire acquired Johns Manville (“JM”) in February of 2001. JM has been serving the
building products industry for nearly 150 years and is a leading manufacturer of fiber glass wool
insulation products for walls, attics and floors in homes and commercial buildings, as well as
pipe, duct and equipment insulation products. JM is also the leading full-line supplier of roofing
systems and components for low-slope commercial and industrial roofs in North America. In
addition, JM manufactures nonwoven mats, fabrics and fibers used as reinforcements in building and
industrial applications, and high efficiency air filtration media. Fiber glass is the basic
material in a majority of JM’s products, although JM also manufactures a significant portion of its
products with other materials to satisfy the broader needs of its customers. JM is headquartered
in Denver, Colorado, and operates 43 manufacturing facilities in North America, Europe and China.

JM sells its products through a wide variety of channels including contractors, distributors,
retailers, manufacturers and fabricators. JM’s results of operations are affected by the levels of
new and repair/remodel commercial and residential construction and are moderately seasonal due to
increases in construction activity that typically occur in the second and third quarters of the
calendar year.



Item 1. Business

Non-Insurance Businesses of Berkshire

(Continued)

Building Products

(Continued)

JM has leading market positions in each of its businesses and typically competes with a few
large national competitors and several smaller, regional competitors. JM’s products compete
primarily on the basis of value, product differentiation and customization and breadth of product
line.

Berkshire acquired a 90% equity interest in MiTek Inc. (“MiTek”) in July 2001. MiTek is
headquartered in Chesterfield, Missouri and is a leading provider of engineered connector products,
engineering software and services, and manufacturing machinery to the truss fabrication segment of
the building components industry. Primary customers are truss fabricators who manufacture
pre-fabricated roof and floor trusses and wall panels for the residential building market as well
as the light commercial and institutional construction industry. MiTek also participates in the
light gauge steel framing market under the

Ultra-Span

® name.

MiTek operates 17 manufacturing facilities located in 10 countries and 26 sales/engineering
offices located in 14 countries. Products are sold to customers in approximately 80 countries, and
MiTek’s business is subject to seasonal and cyclical changes in the overall housing industry.

Finance and Financial Products

— Berkshire’s finance and financial products businesses engage
in a variety of finance related activities. BH Finance invests in fixed-income financial
instruments, often on a leveraged basis, pursuant to proprietary strategies with the objective of
earning above average returns. Management recognizes and accepts that losses may occur due to the
nature of the investments acquired as well as the markets in general. In addition, the level of
investments held will vary over time depending on the magnitude and number of strategies employed.
This business is conducted from Berkshire’s corporate headquarters.

On August 7, 2003, Berkshire acquired Clayton Homes, Inc. (“Clayton”). Clayton, headquartered
near Knoxville, Tennessee, is a vertically integrated manufactured housing company. At year-end
2004, Clayton operated 32 manufacturing plants in 12 states. Clayton’s homes are marketed in 48
states through a network of 1,540 retailers, 391 of which are company-owned sales centers. In
2004, Clayton acquired certain manufacturing facilities and lending operations of Oakwood Homes. Installment financing is offered to purchasers of Clayton’s
manufactured homes as well as those purchasing homes from selected independent retailers. Such
financing is provided through its wholly owned finance subsidiaries, Vanderbilt Mortgage and
Finance, Inc. (“VMF”) and 21

st

Mortgage Corporation (“21

st

”). Clayton also
develops, owns, and manages 90 manufactured housing communities located in 12 states.

Clayton competes at the manufacturing, retail, and finance levels on the basis of price,
service, delivery capabilities and product performance, and considers the ability to make financing
available to retail purchasers a major factor affecting the market acceptance of its product.
Retail sales are facilitated by Clayton’s offering of various finance and insurance programs.
Finance programs include VMF’s origination of installment contract receivables at company owned
sales centers and 21

st

originations from select independent retailers. Also included
are bulk purchases of manufactured housing contracts from banks and other lenders as well as
inventory financing provided to certain independent retailers by 21

st

. VMF and

st

also perform, on behalf of other lending institutions, servicing of manufactured
housing contracts that were not purchased or originated by them. These purchases and servicing
arrangements may relate to the portfolios of other lenders or finance companies, governmental
agencies, or other entities that purchase and hold manufactured housing contracts. Clayton also
acts as agent on physical damage insurance policies, family protection insurance policies, home
buyer protection plan policies, and other programs. Insurance programs offered by Clayton are
reinsured through various wholly owned and majority owned subsidiaries of Clayton.

Prior to Berkshire’s acquisition, the primary source of permanent funding for the lending
activities of VMF and 21

st

was in the form of asset-backed securities issued through a
special purpose entity. Berkshire now provides permanent funding for these activities with
loans to Clayton from its wholly owned subsidiary Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation (“BHFC”). BHFC was formed during 2003 and through December 31, 2004 issued $3.6 billion of medium term
notes with maturities of between 3 and 10 years. An additional $3.75 billion of medium term notes
were issued in January 2005 to finance Clayton’s acquisition of a portfolio of loans on December
30, 2004.

Berkshire acquired XTRA in September 2001. XTRA, headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri, is a
leading transportation equipment lessor. XTRA manages a diverse fleet of approximately 105,000
units, constituting a net investment of approximately $1 billion
as of December 31, 2004. The fleet includes over-the-road
and storage trailers, chassis, intermodal piggyback trailers and domestic containers. During the
fourth quarter of 2004, XTRA sold the assets of its international marine container business and the
assets of its intermodal chassis business. Subsequent to the end of 2004, XTRA acquired a trailer rental business from a competitor.
Management estimates that
XTRA is one of the two largest lessors (in terms of units available) of over-the-road trailers in
North America.



Item 1. Business

Non-Insurance Businesses of Berkshire

(Continued)

Finance and Financial Products

(Continued)

Transportation equipment customers lease equipment to cover cyclical, seasonal and geographic
needs and as a substitute for purchasing. In addition, capital and capacity constrained
transportation providers often use leasing to maximize their asset utilization and reduce capital
expenditures. By maintaining a large fleet, XTRA is able to provide customers with
a broad selection of equipment and quick response times.

CORT Business Services Corporation was acquired in 2000 by an 80.1% owned subsidiary of
Berkshire and is the leading national provider of rental furniture, accessories and related
services in the “rent-to-rent” segment of the furniture rental industry.

General Re Securities and affiliates (“GRS”) was acquired by Berkshire as part of the 1998
acquisition of General Re. GRS has been a dealer in derivative products for over the past five
years, offering a full line of interest rate, currency, and equity swap and option products, as
well as structured finance products. In January 2002, a decision was made to commence a long-term
run-off of GRS. Since January 2002, the number of open trades has declined
about 88%. The run-off will continue over several years, during which time GRS will unwind the
remaining asset and liability positions.

Berkshire’s finance businesses also include Berkshire Hathaway Credit Corporation (commercial real
estate financing), Berkshire Hathaway Life Insurance (sales of annuity contracts), and Scott Fetzer
Financial Group, Inc. (consumer receivable financing primarily in connection with sales of Kirby
products).

Flight Services

— In 1996, Berkshire acquired FlightSafety International Inc. (“FSI”). FSI’s
corporate headquarters is located at LaGuardia Airport in Flushing, New York. FSI engages primarily
in the business of providing high technology training to operators of aircraft and ships. FSI’s
training activities include: advanced pilot training in the operation of aircraft and air traffic
control procedures; aircrew training for military and other government personnel; aircraft
maintenance technician training; ab-initio (primary) pilot training to qualify individuals for
private and commercial pilots’ licenses; and ship handling and related training services. FSI also
develops classroom instructional systems and materials for use in its training business and for
sale to others.

A significant part of FSI’s training programs derives from the use of simulators, which
incorporate computer-based technology to replicate the operation of particular aircraft or
ocean-going vessels. Simulators reproduce, with a high degree of accuracy, certain sights,
movements, and aircraft or vessel control responses experienced by the operator of the aircraft or
ship. FSI utilizes 283 training devices, including 237 civil aviation simulators. FSI’s training
businesses are conducted primarily in the United States, with facilities located in 21 states. FSI
also operates training facilities in Australia, Brazil, Canada, France and the United Kingdom.
During 1997, FSI and The Boeing Company, a leading airplane manufacturer, established a joint
venture to provide pilot and aircrew training for airline customers around the world. In October
2002, FSI’s ownership interest in the joint venture was redeemed by the joint venture. FSI also designs and manufactures full motion flight simulators, visual displays, and other
training equipment for use in its training business and for sale to others. Manufacturing
facilities are located in Oklahoma and Missouri.

Berkshire acquired NetJets Inc. (“NJ”) in 1998. NJ is the world’s leading provider of
fractional ownership programs for general aviation aircraft. In 1986, NJ created the fractional
ownership of aircraft concept and introduced its NetJets® program in the United States with one
aircraft type. In 2004, the NetJets® program operated 15 aircraft types. In late 1996, NJ expanded its fractional ownership programs to Europe via a joint
venture arrangement which is now 100% owned by NJ. The fractional ownership of aircraft concept
permits customers to acquire a specific percentage of a certain aircraft type and allows them to
utilize the aircraft for a specified number of flight hours per annum. In addition, NJ provides
management, ground support and flight operation services to customers after the sale. NetJets as
an owner and operator of aircraft in the United States is subject to the rules and regulations of
the Federal Aviation Administration, which address aircraft registration and maintenance
requirements, pilot qualifications and airport operations, including flight planning and scheduling
as well as security issues.

The fractional ownership concept is designed to meet the needs of customers who cannot justify
the purchase of an entire aircraft based upon expected usage. In addition, fractional ownership
programs are available for corporate flight departments seeking to outsource their general aviation
needs or looking for additional capacity for peak periods and for others that previously chartered
aircraft. NJ places great emphasis on safety and customer service. Its programs are designed to
offer customers guaranteed availability of aircraft, lower and predictable operating costs and
increased liquidity.

NJ is currently believed to be the world’s largest purchaser of general aviation aircraft.
The company maintained approximately 450 aircraft in its fleet as of December 31, 2004. NJ
management believes that the market for fractional ownership of aircraft programs is large and
growing and will contribute to NJ’s continued



Item 1. Business

Non-Insurance Businesses of Berkshire

(Continued)

Flight Services

(Continued)

growth over the foreseeable future. NJ’s executive offices are located in New Jersey, while most
of its logistical and flight operations are based at Port Columbus International Airport in
Columbus, Ohio. NJ’s European operations are based in Lisbon, Portugal.

McLane Company –

Berkshire acquired McLane Company, Inc. (“McLane”) in May 2003 from Wal-Mart
Stores, Inc. (“Wal-Mart”). McLane provides wholesale distribution and logistics services in all 50
states and internationally in Brazil to customers that include discount retailers, convenience
stores, quick service restaurants, drug stores and movie theatre
complexes. For about 13 years prior to Berkshire’s
acquisition,  McLane had been
an integral part of the Wal-Mart distribution network, and under
Berkshire’s ownership continues to
provide wholesale distribution services to Wal-Mart, which accounted for approximately 35% of
McLane’s revenues during 2004. McLane’s business model is based on a high volume of sales, rapid
inventory turnover and tight expense control, with operations divided into two business units:
grocery distribution and foodservice operations.

McLane’s grocery distribution unit, based in Temple, Texas, enjoys the dominant market share
within the convenience store industry and serves most of the national convenience store chains and
major oil company retail outlets. Grocery operations provide products to more than 38,300 retail
locations nationwide, including Wal-Mart. McLane’s grocery distribution unit operates 20 facilities in 16 states,
which average approximately 350,000 square feet per facility. Also included in McLane’s grocery
operations are third party logistics services provided from four distribution centers in Brazil
that average approximately 375,000 square feet per facility.

McLane’s foodservice operations, based in Carrollton, Texas, focus on serving the quick
service restaurant industry with high quality, timely-delivered products. Operations are conducted
through 18 distribution centers in 16 states, which average approximately 160,000 square feet per
facility. The foodservice distribution unit is considered the second largest restaurant systems
supplier in the United States, servicing more than 17,400 chain restaurants nationwide.

Retail Businesses –

Berkshire’s retail businesses consist of several independently managed
home furnishings and jewelry retail operations. Information regarding each of these operations
follows.

The home furnishings businesses are the Nebraska Furniture Mart (“NFM”), R.C. Willey Home
Furnishings (“R.C. Willey”), Star Furniture Company (“Star”), and Jordan’s Furniture, Inc.
(“Jordan’s”). NFM is 80% owned by Berkshire, whereas R.C. Willey, Star and Jordan’s are 100% owned
by Berkshire. Berkshire has owned its interest in NFM since 1983, acquired R.C. Willey in 1995,
Star in 1997 and Jordan’s in 1999.

NFM, R.C. Willey, Star and Jordan’s each offer a wide selection of furniture, bedding and
accessories. In addition, NFM and R.C. Willey sell a full line of major household appliances,
electronics, computers and other home furnishings. NFM, R.C. Willey, Star and Jordan’s also offer
customer financing to complement their retail operations. An important feature of each of these
businesses is their ability to control costs and to produce high business volume from offering
significant value to their customers.

NFM operates its business from a very large retail complex and sizable warehouse and
administrative facilities in Omaha, Nebraska, which includes approximately 535,000 square feet of
retail space. NFM’s customers are drawn from a radius around Omaha of approximately 300 miles and
it is the largest furniture retailer in the area. In 2000, NFM acquired Homemakers Furniture
located in Des Moines, Iowa. Homemakers has two facilities that include approximately 225,000
square feet of retail space. In August 2003, NFM opened a new store in Kansas City, Kansas. This
store, which anchors a new retail and entertainment district, includes approximately 445,000 square
feet of retail space.

R.C. Willey, based in Salt Lake City, is the dominant home furnishings retailer in the
Intermountain West region of the United States. R.C. Willey operates nine full retail stores,
three retail clearance facilities and two distribution centers. These facilities — which include
approximately one million square feet of retail space — include nine stores strategically located
throughout northern Utah, one store in Meridian, Idaho, and two stores in the Las Vegas, Nevada
region. R.C. Willey plans to open a new store in Reno, Nevada in 2005.

Star’s retail facilities include about 704,000 square feet of retail space in eleven
locations. All of Star’s retail facilities are located in Texas, with eight in Houston. Star is
believed to be the largest furniture retailer, as measured by sales, in each of its markets.
Jordan’s operates a furniture retail business from four locations with approximately 520,000 square
feet of retail space in Massachusetts and New Hampshire. Jordan’s is believed to be the largest
furniture retailer, as measured by sales, in the Massachusetts and New Hampshire areas. Jordan’s
is well known in its markets for its unique store arrangements and advertising campaigns.



Item 1. Business

Non-Insurance Businesses of Berkshire

(Continued)

Retail Businesses

(Continued)

Since 1989, Berkshire has owned an interest (currently 88%) in Borsheim Jewelry Company, Inc.
(“Borsheim’s”). From its single store located in Omaha, Nebraska, Borsheim’s is a high volume
retailer of fine jewelry, watches, crystal, china, stemware, flatware, gifts and collectibles. In
1995, Berkshire acquired Helzberg’s Diamond Shops, Inc. (“Helzberg’s”). Helzberg’s, based in North
Kansas City, Missouri, operates a chain of 264 retail jewelry stores in 37 states. Most of
Helzberg’s stores are located in malls or power strip centers, and all stores operate under the
name

Helzberg Diamonds

. In 2000, Berkshire acquired The Ben Bridge Corporation (“Ben Bridge
Jeweler”). Ben Bridge Jeweler, based in Seattle, Washington, operates a chain of 74 upscale retail
jewelry stores in 11 states, primarily in the Western United States. Ben Bridge Jeweler stores are
located primarily in major shopping malls. Berkshire’s retail jewelry operations are subject to
seasonality with approximately 40% of annual revenues being earned in the fourth quarter.

Shaw Industries

— Berkshire acquired Shaw Industries, Inc. (“Shaw”) in 2001. Shaw,
headquartered in Dalton, Georgia, is the world’s largest carpet manufacturer based on both revenue
and volume of production. Shaw designs and manufactures over 3,000 styles of tufted and woven
carpet and laminate flooring for residential and commercial use under about 30 brand and trade
names and under certain private labels. Shaw’s manufacturing operations are fully integrated from
the processing of raw materials used to make fiber through the finishing of carpet. Shaw’s carpet
and laminate are sold in a broad range of prices, patterns, colors and textures.

Shaw sells its wholesale products to over 42,000 retailers, distributors and commercial users
throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico; through its own residential and commercial
contract distribution channels to various residential and commercial end-users in the United
States; and to a lesser degree, exports to additional overseas markets. Shaw also provides
installation services and sells ceramic tile and hardwood flooring. Shaw’s wholesale products are marketed domestically by over 1,700 salaried and commissioned
sales personnel directly to retailers and distributors and to large national accounts. Shaw’s
eight full-service distribution facilities and 30 redistribution centers, along with centralized
management information systems, enable it to provide prompt delivery of its products to both its
retail customers and wholesale distributors.

Substantially all carpet manufactured by Shaw is tufted carpet made from nylon, polypropylene,
polyester and wool. In the tufting process, yarn is inserted by multiple needles into a synthetic
backing, forming loops which may be cut or left uncut, depending on the desired texture or
construction. During 2004 Shaw processed approximately 97% of its requirements for carpet yarn in
its own yarn processing facilities.

The floor covering industry is highly competitive with more than 200 companies engaged in the
manufacture and sale of carpet in the United States and numerous manufacturers engaged in hard
surface floor covering production and sales. According to industry estimates, carpet accounts for
approximately 60% of the total United States production of all flooring types. The principal
competitive measures within the floor covering industry are quality, style, price and service.

Other Non-Insurance Businesses —

Berkshire’s other non-insurance businesses consist of a wide
array of businesses that engage in a variety of business activities. Additional information
related to these businesses is as follows.

Scott Fetzer Companies —

The Scott Fetzer Companies are a diversified group of 21 businesses
that manufacture and distribute a wide variety of products for residential, industrial and
institutional use. The two most significant of these businesses are Kirby home cleaning systems
and Campbell Hausfeld products.

The

Buffalo News

publishes three editions on Saturday and Sunday and eight editions each
weekday from its headquarters in Buffalo, New York.

See’s Candies

produces boxed chocolates and other confectionery products with an emphasis on
quality and distinctiveness in two large kitchens in California. See’s revenues are highly
seasonal with approximately 50% of total annual revenues being earned in the months of November and
December.

International Dairy Queen

services a system of approximately 6,000 stores operating under the
names

Dairy Queen, Orange Julius

and

Karmelkorn

that offer various dairy desserts, beverages,
prepared foods, blended fruit drinks, popcorn and other snack foods.

In 2002, Berkshire acquired

Albecca Inc.

(“Albecca”). Albecca is headquartered in
Norcross, Georgia, and primarily does business under the

Larson-Juhl

name. Albecca designs,
manufactures and distributes a complete line of high quality, branded custom framing products,
including wood and metal moulding, matboard, foamboard, glass, equipment and other framing
supplies.



Item 1. Business

Non-Insurance Businesses of Berkshire

(Continued)

Other Non-Insurance Businesses

(Continued)

Berkshire acquired

CTB International Corp.

(“CTB”) in 2002. CTB, headquartered in
Milford, Indiana, is a leading designer, manufacturer and marketer of systems used in the grain
industry and in the production of poultry, hogs, and eggs. Products are produced in the United
States and Europe and are sold primarily through a global network of independent dealers and
distributors, with peak sales occurring in the second and third quarters.

In 2002 Berkshire acquired

The Pampered Chef, LTD

(“TPC”), the largest direct seller
of high quality kitchen tools in the United States. Products are researched, designed and tested
by TPC, and manufactured by third party suppliers. From its Addison, Illinois headquarters, TPC
utilizes a network of more than 65,000 independent sales representatives to sell its products
through home-based party demonstrations, principally in the United States.

Berkshire currently holds securities possessing 9.9% of the voting interest and an 83.7%
(80.5% on a fully-diluted basis) economic interest in

MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company

(“MidAmerican”). Berkshire’s investments in MidAmerican are accounted for pursuant to the equity
method. Additional information concerning Berkshire’s investments in MidAmerican is provided in
Note 3 to the Registrant’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

MidAmerican and its subsidiaries are organized and managed on seven distinct platforms:
MidAmerican Energy Company, Kern River Gas Transmission Company, Northern Natural Gas Company, CE
Electric UK, CalEnergy Generation-Domestic, and HomeServices of America, Inc. Through these
platforms, MidAmerican owns and operates a combined electric and natural gas utility company in the
United States, two natural gas pipeline companies in the United States, two electricity
distribution companies in the United Kingdom, a diversified portfolio of domestic and international
independent power projects and the second largest residential real estate brokerage firm in the
United States.

MidAmerican’s energy subsidiaries generate, transmit, store, distribute and supply energy.
MidAmerican’s electric and natural gas utility subsidiaries currently serve approximately 4.4
million electricity customers and approximately 680,000 natural gas customers. Its natural gas
pipeline subsidiaries operate interstate natural gas transmission systems with approximately 18,300
miles of pipeline in operation and peak delivery capacity of 6.4 billion cubic feet of natural gas
per day. MidAmerican has interests in 6,777 net owned megawatts of power generation facilities in
operation and under construction, including 5,203 net owned megawatts in facilities that are part
of the regulated return asset base of its electric utility business and 1,574 net owned megawatts
in non-utility power generation facilities.

Berkshire Hathaway Inc., its subsidiaries and affiliates, employed approximately 180,000
persons at December 31, 2004.

Additional information with respect to Berkshire’s businesses

The amounts of revenue, earnings before taxes and identifiable assets attributable to the
aforementioned business segments are included in Note 21 to Registrant’s Consolidated Financial
Statements contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Additional
information regarding Registrant’s investments in fixed maturity and marketable equity securities
is included in Notes 5 and 6 to Registrant’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. maintains a website (

http://www.berkshirehathaway.com

) where its annual reports,
certain corporate governance documents, press releases, interim shareholder reports and links to
its subsidiaries’ websites can be found. Berkshire’s periodic reports filed with the SEC, which
include Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, Form 8-K and amendments thereto, may be accessed by the public free
of charge from the SEC and through Berkshire. Electronic copies of these reports can be accessed
at the SEC’s website (

http://www.sec.gov

) and indirectly through Berkshire’s website
(

http://www.berkshirehathaway.com

). Copies of these reports may also be obtained, free of charge,
upon written request to: Berkshire Hathaway Inc., 1440 Kiewit Plaza, Omaha, NE 68131, Attn:
Corporate Secretary. The public may read or obtain copies of these reports from the SEC at the
SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549 (1-800-SEC-0330).



Item 2. Description of Properties

The physical properties used by the Registrant and its significant business segments are
summarized below:

Approx.

Owned/

Square

Business

Location

Type of Property

Leased

Footage

Berkshire

Omaha, NE

Corporate offices

Leased

10,000

Insurance

GEICO

Chevy Chase, MD, New York,
Georgia, Texas, California,
Florida and Virginia

Offices

Owned

3,152,000

Over 50 locations throughout the
U.S.

Offices and drive-in
claims facilities

Leased

323,000

General Re

Cologne, Germany and
various non-U.S. locations

Offices

Owned

130,000

Stamford, CT and various U.S.
and non-U.S. locations

Offices

Leased

1,412,000

Berkshire Hathaway

Reinsurance Group

Stamford, CT and 4 other
locations in the U.S.

and U.K.

Offices

Leased

64,000

Berkshire Hathaway

Omaha, NE

Offices

Owned

81,000

Primary Group

Omaha, NE, Wayne, PA and 10
other locations in the U.S.
and U.K.

Offices

Leased

288,000

Apparel

Clothing

87 locations in 13 U.S. states,

Mfg. plants/Offices

Owned

3,925,000

Canada, Mexico, Europe, Africa

Mfg. plants/Offices

Leased

2,192,000

and Central America

Warehouses/Offices

Owned

4,093,000

Warehouses/Offices

Leased

905,000

Illinois, Georgia, Tennessee,

Retail stores

Owned

41,000

Florida and 4 other U.S.

Retail stores

Leased

128,000

states (17 stores)

Footwear

Pennsylvania, Texas, Maine

Mfg. plants/Offices/

Owned

1,937,000

and 6 other U.S. states

Warehouses

Mfg. plants/Offices/

Leased

114,000

Warehouses

Pennsylvania, Maine, New

Hampshire, New York,

Retail stores

Retail stores

Owned

Leased

264,000

343,000

Virginia and 11 other U.S.
states (71 stores)

Building products

280 locations in 32 U.S. states,

Mfg. plants/Offices

Owned

17,999,000

Canada, Mexico, Europe, Asia

Mfg. plants/Offices

Leased

1,697,000

and Africa

Warehouses

Owned

2,529,000

154 locations in 20 U.S. states
and Canada

Warehouses

Retail stores

Leased

Leased

2,307,000

628,000

Finance and financial
products

Manufactured
housing businesses

Knoxville, TN, North Carolina
and Texas

32 locations in Tennessee, North

Offices

Offices

Owned

Leased

250,000

7,000

Carolina, Texas and 9

Mfg. housing plants

Owned

4,579,000

other U.S. states

Mfg. housing plants

Leased

129,000

90 locations in Tennessee,
Florida,

Oklahoma, Texas, and 8
other

U.S. states

Mfg. housing
communities

Owned

4,862 acres

391 locations throughout the U.S.

Retail centers

Owned

1,088 acres

Retail centers

Leased

1,166 acres



Item 2. Description of Properties

(continued)

Approx.

Owned/

Square

Business

Location

Type of Property

Leased

Footage

Finance and financial products (cont.)

Furniture rental

199 locations in 34 U.S. states
and the District of Columbia

Showrooms/Clearance

centers/Warehouses

Owned

440,000

Showrooms/Clearance

centers/Warehouses

Leased

3,457,000

Transportation

13 locations in 8 U.S. states,

Offices

Owned

225,000

equipment

Canada and Mexico

Offices

Leased

276,000

leasing and

81 locations throughout the U.S.,

Storage lots

Owned

250 acres

other

Canada and Mexico

Storage lots

Leased

311 acres

Flight services

89 locations in 26 U.S. states,

Offices/Training

Owned

1,177,000

Canada, France, Germany,

facilities/Hangars

Leased

1,916,000

Switzerland, Portugal and the U.K.

Oklahoma and Missouri

Mfg. plant

Mfg. plant

Owned

Leased

188,000

146,000

McLane Company

24 locations in 16 U.S. states and

Brazil

Grocery distribution

centers/Offices

Owned

Leased

7,155,000

2,121,000

18 locations in 16 U.S. states

Foodservice distribution

centers/Offices

Owned

Leased

1,190,000

1,816,000

Retail

Furniture

Omaha, NE, Salt Lake City, UT,

Retail stores

Owned

2,803,000

Houston, TX, Avon, MA and 5

Retail stores

Leased

663,000

other U.S. states (32 stores)

Offices/Warehouses

Owned

3,364,000

Offices/Warehouses

Leased

547,000

Iowa

Mfg. plant

Owned

260,000

Jewelry

Omaha, NE, Kansas City, MO,

Retail stores

Leased

772,000

Seattle, WA and 36 other U.S.
states (339 stores)

Offices

Owned

99,000

Shaw Industries

203 locations in 33 U.S. states

Mfg. plants/Offices

Owned

17,851,000

Mfg. plants/Offices

Leased

1,354,000

Warehouses

Owned

6,514,000

Warehouses

Leased

4,410,000

All other businesses

Various locations primarily in the

Mfg. plants

Owned

5,689,000

U.S., Canada and Europe

Mfg. plants

Leased

1,261,000

Offices/Warehouses

Owned

1,152,000

Offices/Warehouses

Leased

2,154,000

275 locations primarily in the U.S.

Restaurants/Stores

Owned

111,000

Restaurants/Stores

Leased

454,000

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

Berkshire and its subsidiaries are parties in a variety of legal actions arising out of the normal course
of business. In particular, such legal actions affect Berkshire’s insurance and reinsurance businesses. Such
litigation generally seeks to establish liability directly through insurance contracts or indirectly through
reinsurance contracts issued by Berkshire subsidiaries. Plaintiffs occasionally seek punitive or exemplary
damages. Berkshire does not believe that such normal and routine litigation will have a material effect on
its financial condition or results of operations. Berkshire and certain of its subsidiaries are also involved in
other kinds of legal actions, some of which assert or may assert claims or seek to impose fines and penalties
in substantial amounts and are described below.

In October 2003, General Reinsurance Corporation (“General Reinsurance”), a wholly owned
subsidiary of General Re Corporation (“General Re”), and four of its current and former employees,
including its former president, received subpoenas for documents from the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern
District of Virginia, Richmond Division (the “U.S. Attorney”) in connection with the U.S. Attorney’s
investigation of



Item 3. Legal Proceedings

(continued)

Reciprocal of America (“ROA”). ROA was a Virginia-based reciprocal insurer of
physician, hospital and lawyer professional liability risks. General Reinsurance provided various
reinsurance coverages to ROA from the late 1970’s through 2002. In December 2004 and on several
occasions since then, the U.S. Attorney and the Department of Justice in Washington requested additional
information related to ROA and its affiliate, First Virginia Reinsurance, Ltd., and information related to
transactions between General Reinsurance or its subsidiaries and other insurers. General Reinsurance has
been providing such information and cooperating fully with the U.S. Attorney and the Department of
Justice in their ongoing investigation. Berkshire cannot at this time predict the outcome of this
investigation, is unable to estimate a range of possible loss, if any, and cannot predict whether or not that
outcome will have a material adverse effect on Berkshire’s results of operations for at least the quarterly
period when this investigation is completed or otherwise resolved.

General Reinsurance and four of its current and former employees, along with numerous other
defendants, also have been sued in a number of civil actions related to ROA, including seven purported class actions initiated by doctors, hospitals and lawyers that purchased insurance
through ROA or certain of its risk retention groups, and actions brought by the
Virginia Commissioner of Insurance, as Deputy Receiver of ROA, and the Tennessee Commissioner of
Insurance, as Liquidator for three Tennessee risk retention groups, which are collectively assigned to the U.S. District Court for the Western District of
Tennessee. The first of these actions was filed in March 2003 and additional actions were filed in
late March 2003 through July 2004. General Reinsurance is also a defendant in several lawsuits
filed in Alabama state courts by hospital groups or doctors, including two lawsuits filed in the
Circuit Court of Montgomery County in April 2004 and July 2004 and one lawsuit filed in the Circuit
Court of Jackson County in February 2005. Plaintiffs assert various claims in these ROA-related
civil actions, including breach of contract, unjust enrichment, fraud and conspiracy, against
General Reinsurance and others, arising from the various reinsurance coverages General Reinsurance
provided to ROA and related matters. The relief sought in these actions includes compensatory
damages and, in some case, treble and punitive damages. General Reinsurance intends to
deny the allegations in each of these actions but Berkshire cannot at this time predict the outcome of these actions, is unable to
estimate a range of possible loss, if any, and cannot predict whether or not that outcome will have a
material adverse effect on Berkshire’s results of operations for a least the quarterly period when these
actions are resolved.

In December 2004, General Re received a request from the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”) for documents and information relating to non-traditional products. In January 2005,
General Re also received a subpoena for the same documents and information from both and the SEC and the
New York State Attorney General. The subpoenas apply to General Re and its affiliates, including
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., as well as Berkshire’s other insurance subsidiaries. General Re, Berkshire and
certain of its other insurance subsidiaries have been cooperating fully with the SEC and the New York State
Attorney General, including by providing them with information relating to transactions between General
Re or its subsidiaries and other insurers. Berkshire cannot at this time predict the outcome of these
investigations, is unable to estimate a range of possible loss, if any, and cannot predict whether or not that
outcome will have a material adverse effect on Berkshire’s results of operations for at least the quarterly
period when these investigations are completed or otherwise resolved.

The Liquidator of both FAI Insurance Limited and HIH Insurance Limited has advised two
subsidiaries of General Reinsurance, General Reinsurance Australia (“GRA”) and Kolnische
Ruckversicherungs-Gessellschaft (“KR”), of claims it intends to assert arising from insurance transactions
GRA entered into with FAI in May and June 1998. The Liquidator contends, among other things, that
GRA and KR engaged in deceptive conduct that assisted FAI in improperly accounting for such
transactions as reinsurance, and that such deception was a casual factor that led to the insolvency of HIH.
GRA and KR do not know whether the Liquidator will pursue these or other claims, and Berkshire cannot
predict the outcome of any such action and is unable to estimate a range of possible loss, if any, and cannot
predict whether or not that outcome will have a material adverse effect on Berkshire’s results of operations
for at least the quarterly period when such action, if any, is resolved.

On
March 11, 2005, GRA received a Notice to Show Cause from the
Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority (“APRA”) under
Section 52(l) of the Australian Insurance Act of 1973 in
connection with a potential investigation of GRA concerning financial
reinsurance. According to the Notice, GRA has until March 29,
2005 to show cause why an investigation should not be undertaken. GRA
will fully cooperate with APRA.

GEICO is a defendant in a number of purported class action lawsuits related to the use of certain aftermarket
parts to calculate the costs of repairing claimants vehicles. Three such actions, filed in August 1999, December 1999 and August 2004, respectively, are pending
in the Circuit Court for Broward County, Florida against GEICO as the named defendant. The other
two, including an action filed in the Circuit Court of Madison County, Illinois in November 1999,
and an action filed in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Florida in April 2000, name
GEICO as well as other insurers and allege among other things that the defendants have engaged in a
conspiracy with respect to the use of such parts. These lawsuits generally seek compensatory
damages as well as declaratory and injunctive relief. GEICO intends to vigorously defend its position
on these claim settlement procedures. These lawsuits are in various stages of development and Berkshire
cannot at this time predict the outcome of these actions, is unable to estimate a range of possible loss, if
any, and cannot predict whether or not that outcome will have a material adverse effect on Berkshire’s
results of operations for at least the quarterly period when these actions are resolved.



Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None

Executive Officers of the Registrant

Following is a list of the Registrant’s executive officers:

Name

Age

Position with Registrant

Since

Warren E. Buffett


Chairman of the Board


Marc D. Hamburg


Vice President


Charles T. Munger


Vice Chairman of the Board


Each executive officer serves, in accordance with the by-laws of the Registrant, until the
first meeting of the Board of Directors following the next annual meeting of shareholders and until
his respective successor is chosen and qualified or until he sooner dies, resigns, is removed or
becomes disqualified. Mr. Buffett and Mr. Munger also serve as directors of the Registrant.

Part II

Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Stock and Related Security Holder Matters

Market Information

Berkshire’s Class A and Class B Common Stock are listed for trading on the New York Stock
Exchange, trading symbol: BRK.A and BRK.B. The following table sets forth the high and low sales
prices per share, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite List during the periods
indicated:



Class A

Class B

Class A

Class B

High

Low

High

Low

High

Low

High

Low

First Quarter.

$

95,700

$

84,000

$

3,195

$

2,795

$

73,005

$

60,600

$

2,437

$

2,015

Second Quarter

95,650

85,100

3,189

2,830

75,500

64,305

2,514

2,141

Third Quarter.

90,750

83,400

3,024

2,782

76,400

70,900

2,549

2,367

Fourth Quarter

89,500

81,150

2,994

2,685

84,700

75,150

2,824

2,496

Shareholders

Berkshire had approximately 6,400 record holders of its Class A Common Stock and 14,700 record
holders of its Class B Common Stock at March 2, 2005. Record owners included nominees holding at
least 500,000 shares of Class A Common Stock and 7,500,000 shares of Class B Common Stock on behalf
of beneficial-but-not-of-record owners.

Dividends

Berkshire has not declared a cash dividend since 1967.

Securities authorized for issuance under equity plans

In connection with certain business acquisitions, Berkshire has issued Class B common stock
options to replace outstanding options held by employees of the acquired entity. The terms of the
Berkshire stock options are essentially equivalent to the terms of the options of the acquired
entity, except that exercise prices were adjusted to give effect to the common stock exchange rate
applicable to each acquisition. No additional stock options have been granted. A summary of the
Registrant’s equity compensation plans under which equity securities are authorized for issuance as
of December 31, 2004 follows:

Number of Class B

shares remaining

available for

issuance under

Number of Class B

Weighted-average

equity compensation

shares to be issued

exercise price of

plans (excluding

upon exercise of

outstanding options

shares reflected in

Plan category

options (a)

(b)

column (a))

Plans not approved
by security holders

183,108

$ 1,779

None



Item 6. Selected Financial Data

Selected Financial Data for the Past Five Years

(dollars in millions except per share data)






Revenues:

Insurance premiums earned

$

21,085

$

21,493

$

19,182

$

17,905

$

19,343

Sales and service revenues

43,222

32,098

16,958

14,507

7,000

Interest, dividend and other
investment income

2,816

3,098

2,943

2,765

2,685

Interest and other revenues of
finance and financial
products businesses

3,763

3,041

2,234

1,928

1,322

Investment gains

(1)

3,496

4,129


1,488

4,499

Total revenues

$

74,382

$

63,859

$

42,235

$

38,593

$

34,849

Earnings:

Net earnings

(1) (2) (3)

$

7,308

$

8,151

$

4,286

$


$

3,328

Net earnings per share

(3)

$

4,753

$

5,309

$

2,795

$


$

2,185

Year-end data:

Total assets

$

188,874

$

180,559

$

169,544

$

162,752

$

135,792

Notes payable and other borrowings
of insurance and other non-finance
businesses

3,450

4,182

4,775

3,455

2,611

Notes payable and other borrowings of
finance businesses

5,387

4,937

4,513

9,049

2,168

Shareholders’ equity

85,900

77,596

64,037

57,950

61,724

Class A equivalent common shares
outstanding, in thousands

1,539

1,537

1,535

1,528

1,526

Shareholders’ equity per outstanding

Class A equivalent common share

$

55,824

$

50,498

$

41,727

$

37,920

$

40,442

(1)

The amount of investment gains and losses for any given period has no
predictive value, and variations in amount from period to period have no practical
analytical value, particularly in view of the unrealized appreciation now existing in
Berkshire’s consolidated investment portfolio. After-tax investment gains were $2,259
million in 2004, $2,729 million in 2003, $566 million in 2002, $923 million in 2001 and
$2,746 million in 2000.

(2)

Net earnings for the year ending December 31, 2001 includes pre-tax underwriting
losses of $2.4 billion in connection with the September 11

th

terrorist attack.
Such loss reduced net earnings by approximately $1.5 billion and earnings per share by $982.

(3)

Effective January 1, 2002, Berkshire adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” SFAS No. 142 changed the
accounting for goodwill from a model that required amortization of goodwill, supplemented by
impairment tests, to an accounting model that is based solely upon impairment tests.

A reconciliation of Berkshire’s Consolidated Statements of Earnings for each of the
five years ending December 31, 2004 from amounts reported to amounts exclusive of goodwill
amortization is shown below. Goodwill amortization for the years ending December 31, 2001 and
2000 includes $78 million and $65 million, respectively, related to Berkshire’s equity method
investment in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company.






Net earnings as reported

$

7,308

$

8,151

$

4,286

$


$

3,328

Goodwill amortization, after tax

—

—

—



Net earnings as adjusted

$

7,308

$

8,151

$

4,286

$

1,431

$

3,876

Earnings per Class A equivalent common share:

As reported

$

4,753

$

5,309

$

2,795

$


$

2,185

Goodwill amortization

—

—

—



Earnings per share as adjusted

$

4,753

$

5,309

$

2,795

$


$

2,545



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

Results of Operations

Net earnings for each of the past three years are disaggregated in the table that follows.
Amounts are after deducting income taxes and minority interests. Dollars are in millions.




Insurance – underwriting

$

1,008

$

1,114

$

(284

)

Insurance – investment income

2,045

2,276

2,096

Non-insurance businesses

1,913

1,745

1,668

Equity in earnings of MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company




Interest expense, unallocated

(59

)

(59

)

(55

)

Other

(95

)

(83

)

(64

)

Investment gains

2,259

2,729


Net earnings

$

7,308

$

8,151

$

4,286

Berkshire’s operating businesses are managed on a decentralized basis. There are essentially
no centralized or integrated business functions (such as sales, marketing, purchasing or human
resources) and there is minimal involvement by Berkshire’s corporate headquarters in the day-to-day
business activities of the operating businesses. Berkshire’s corporate office management
participates in and is ultimately responsible for significant capital allocation decisions,
investment activities and the selection of the Chief Executive to head each of the operating
businesses.

Accordingly, Berkshire’s reportable business segments are organized in a manner that reflects
how Berkshire’s top management views those business activities. Certain businesses have been
grouped based upon similar products or product lines, marketing, selling and distribution
characteristics even though those businesses are operated by separate local management. There are
approximately 40 separate reporting units.

The business segment data (Note 21 to Consolidated Financial Statements) should be read in
conjunction with this discussion.

Insurance — Underwriting

A summary follows of underwriting results from Berkshire’s insurance businesses for the past
three years. Dollars are in millions.




Underwriting gain (loss) attributable to:

GEICO

$


$


$


General Re



(1,393

)

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group


1,047


Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group




Underwriting gain (loss) — pre-tax

1,551

1,718

(398

)

Income taxes and minority interests



(114

)

Net underwriting gain (loss)

$

1,008

$

1,114

$

(284

)

Berkshire engages in both primary insurance and reinsurance of property and casualty risks.
Through General Re, Berkshire also reinsures life and health risks. In primary insurance
activities, Berkshire subsidiaries assume defined portions of the risks of loss from persons or
organizations that are directly subject to the risks. In reinsurance activities, Berkshire
subsidiaries assume defined portions of similar or dissimilar risks that other insurers or
reinsurers have subjected themselves to in their own insuring activities. Berkshire’s principal
insurance businesses are: (1) GEICO, one of the five largest auto insurers in the U.S., (2) General
Re, one of the four largest reinsurers in the world, (3) Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group
(“BHRG”) and (4) Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group. Berkshire’s management views insurance
businesses as possessing two distinct operations – underwriting and investing. Accordingly,
Berkshire evaluates performance of underwriting operations without any allocation of investment
income.

A significant marketing strategy followed by all these businesses is the maintenance of
extraordinary capital strength. Statutory surplus of Berkshire’s insurance businesses totaled
approximately $48 billion at December 31, 2004. This superior capital strength creates
opportunities, especially with respect to reinsurance activities, to negotiate and enter into
insurance and reinsurance contracts specially designed to meet unique needs of sophisticated
insurance and reinsurance buyers. Additional information regarding Berkshire’s insurance and
reinsurance operations follows.



Management’s Discussion

(Continued)

Insurance

—

Underwriting

(Continued)

GEICO

GEICO provides primarily private passenger automobile coverages to insureds in 49 states and
the District of Columbia. GEICO policies are marketed mainly by direct response methods in which
customers apply for coverage directly to the company over the telephone, through the mail or via
the Internet. This is a significant element in GEICO’s strategy to be a low cost insurer. In
addition, GEICO strives to provide excellent service to customers, with the goal of establishing
long-term customer relationships.

GEICO’s underwriting results for the past three years are summarized below. Dollars are in
millions.




Amount

%

Amount

%

Amount

%

Premiums written

$

9,212

$

8,081

$

6,963

Premiums earned

$

8,915

100.0

$

7,784

100.0

$

6,670

100.0

Losses and loss adjustment expenses

6,360

71.3

5,955

76.5

5,137

77.0

Underwriting expenses

1,585

17.8

1,377

17.7

1,117

16.8

Total losses and expenses

7,945

89.1

7,332

94.2

6,254

93.8

Pre-tax underwriting gain

$


$


$


Premiums earned in 2004 and 2003 increased 14.5% and 16.7%, respectively, over the
corresponding prior year amounts. The growth in premiums earned in 2004 for voluntary auto was
14.2% and reflects an 11.8% increase in policies-in-force during the past year and average rate
increases of less than two percent. During the third quarter of 2004 GEICO began selling auto
insurance in New Jersey, which will contribute to future policies-in-force growth. In late 2004
and early 2005, rate decreases have been implemented in several states in response to improved
claims experience.

During 2004, policies-in-force increased 8.8% in the preferred risk markets and 21.6% in the
standard and nonstandard markets. Voluntary auto new business sales in 2004 increased 14.9%
compared to 2003. Voluntary auto policies-in-force at December 31, 2004 were 635,000 higher than
at December 31, 2003 and reflect strong growth in the standard and nonstandard lines.

Losses and loss adjustment expenses in 2004 totaled $6,360 million, an increase of 6.8% over
2003. The loss ratio declined to 71.3% in 2004 compared to 76.5% in 2003 and 77.0% in 2002
primarily due to decreasing claim frequencies across all markets and most coverage types. In 2004,
claims frequencies for physical damage coverages have decreased in the two to four percent range
from 2003 while frequencies for bodily injury coverages decreased in the three to five percent
range. Bodily injury severity in 2004 increased in the two to four percent range over 2003 while
physical damage severity has increased in the three to six percent range. Incurred losses from
catastrophe events totaled approximately $71 million in 2004 (primarily from the hurricanes in the
third quarter) compared to $57 million in 2003.

Underwriting expenses in 2004 totaled $1,585 million, an increase of 15.1% over 2003, which
increased 23.3% over 2002. Policy acquisition expenses in 2004 increased 21.5% over 2003 to $889
million reflecting increased advertising and other costs associated with the increase in
policies-in-force. Other operating expenses for 2004 were $696 million, an increase of 7.7% over
2003. The increase in other expenses was due to higher salary, profit sharing and other employee
benefit expenses.

General Re

General Re conducts a reinsurance business offering property and casualty and life and health
coverages to clients worldwide. In North America, property and casualty reinsurance is written on
a direct basis through General Reinsurance Corporation. Internationally, property and casualty
reinsurance is written on a direct basis through 91% owned Cologne Re (based in Germany) and other
wholly-owned affiliates as well as through brokers with respect to Faraday in London. Life and
health reinsurance is written for clients worldwide through Cologne Re. General Re’s pre-tax
underwriting results are summarized for the past three years in the following table. Amounts are
in millions.

Pre-tax underwriting

Premiums written

Premiums earned

gain (loss)










Property/casualty:

North American

$

2,747

$

3,440

$

3,975

$

3,012

$

3,551

$

3,967

$


$


$

(1,019

)

International.

2,091

2,742

2,647

2,218

2,847

2,647

(93

)


(319

)

Life/health

2,022

1,839

1,899

2,015

1,847

1,886



(55

)

$

6,860

$

8,021

$

8,521

$

7,245

$

8,245

$

8,500

$


$


$

(1,393

)

Property/casualty

North American property/casualty premiums written in 2004 declined 20.1% from 2003 and 2003
premiums written declined 13.5% compared to 2002. International property and casualty premiums
written in 2004 decreased 23.7% from 2003, which increased 3.6% over 2002. The declines in 2004
reflect reductions in the amounts of business accepted over the past two years, offset in part by
higher rates. Underwriting performance is not evaluated based upon market share and underwriters
are instructed to reject inadequately priced risks. Management expects written premiums to
continue to decline during 2005, primarily due to maintaining underwriting discipline in an
increasingly price-competitive property/casualty market.



Insurance

—

Underwriting

(Continued)

General Re

(Continued)

Property/casualty (Continued)

The decline in premiums earned in 2004 from North American operations was attributed to
cancellations/non-renewals over new contracts (estimated at $697 million), partially offset by
renewal rate increases and changes in renewal terms and conditions across all lines of business
(estimated at $158 million). The decline in premiums earned in 2003 from 2002 reflected
cancellations/non-renewals exceeding new contracts (estimated at $761 million), partially offset by
rate increases across all lines (estimated at $345 million). The decline in international premiums
earned in 2004 versus 2003 reflected the reductions of premium volume partially offset by a lower
value of the U.S. dollar. In local currencies, 2004 premiums earned declined 29.1% compared with
2003, which, in turn, declined 5.5% in 2003 versus 2002.

The North American property/casualty business produced a pre-tax underwriting gain of $11
million in 2004 compared with a gain of $67 million in 2003, and a loss of $1,019 million in 2002.
The $11 million net underwriting gain in 2004 was comprised of current accident year gains of $166
million, partially offset by $155 million in prior accident year losses. Current accident year
results included approximately $120 million of catastrophe losses from the four hurricanes that
struck the Southeast United States in the third quarter. Despite these losses, current accident
year underwriting results benefited from the favorable effects of re-pricing efforts and improved
coverage terms and conditions implemented over the past three years and a one time reduction of $70
million in pension expense during the third quarter, resulting from the curtailment of certain
benefits at the end of 2005. Underwriting results for 2003 included net underwriting gains for the
current accident year of $200 million compared to $66 million in 2002. The current accident year
results in 2003 and 2002 reflected re-pricing efforts and unusually low amounts of large individual
and catastrophe-related property losses. In both 2003 and 2002, the current accident year gains
were reduced or eliminated by additional losses ($133 million in 2003 and $1,085 million in 2002)
established for prior accident years’ loss occurrences.

In 2004, the $155 million charge related to prior accident year loss occurrences consisted of
$729 million of increases in casualty and workers’ compensation reserves, $110 million related to
discount accretion on workers’ compensation reserves and deferred charge amortization on
retroactive reinsurance coverages, offset by $307 million of reserve reductions for prior year
property losses and $377 million of gains associated with contract commutations and settlements.
The aforementioned increases in workers’ compensation reserves in 2004 reflected escalating medical
utilization and inflation, and casualty reserve increases related primarily to losses under
financial institutions errors and omissions and directors and officers’ lines of business and
asbestos and environmental mass tort exposures. The decrease in property reserves in 2004 was
primarily due to reductions in estimated World Trade Center losses.

As previously stated, underwriting results in 2003 and 2002 included $133 million and $1,085
million, respectively, in losses related to prior accident years, which included $99 million and
$95 million, respectively, from discount accretion on workers’ compensation reserves and deferred
charge amortization on retroactive reinsurance contracts. In 2002, reserve increases also included
$990 million in increased loss estimates mostly related to casualty lines of business (general
liability, workers’ compensation, medical malpractice, auto liability and professional liability
coverages), principally for the 1997 through 2000 accident years, partially offset by $115 million
of reserve reductions related to reduced estimates for certain World Trade Center claims.

Although loss reserve levels are now believed to be adequate, there are no guarantees. A
relatively small change in the estimate of net reserves can produce large changes in annual
underwriting results. In addition, the timing and magnitude of catastrophe and large individual
property losses are expected to continue to contribute to volatile periodic underwriting results in
the future. See “Critical Accounting Policies” for additional information concerning loss
reserves.

International property/casualty businesses produced a pre-tax underwriting loss of $93 million
in 2004 compared with a gain of $20 million in 2003, and a loss of $319 million in 2002.
Underwriting results in 2004 include $110 million of catastrophe losses from the third quarter
hurricanes. In 2003, losses from catastrophes and large individual property losses were minimal
and in 2002 totaled $124 million, primarily from flood and storm losses in Europe. Underwriting
results for each of the last three years benefited from favorable results of the aviation business
and relatively low non-catastrophe property losses. Underwriting results of the international
businesses have improved overall over the last two years as a result of re-pricing efforts and more
disciplined underwriting. Underwriting results of the international property and casualty
businesses included losses from prior years’ loss occurrences of $102 million in 2004, $104 million
in 2003 and $320 million in 2002.

Life and health

Life and health premiums earned in 2004 increased $168 million (9.1%) over 2003, which
decreased by $39 million (2.1%) compared with 2002. Adjusting for the effects of foreign currency
exchange, premiums earned increased 3.7% in 2004 and declined 9.6% in 2003. The increase in
premiums earned is due in part to the strengthening of foreign currencies and an increase in
European life business. The decline in 2003 was primarily due to decreases in the group and
individual health businesses in the U.S. life/health operations.

Underwriting results for the global life/health operations produced pre-tax underwriting gains
of $85 million in 2004 and $58 million in 2003, compared with an underwriting loss of $55 million
in 2002. While both the U.S. and international life/health operations were profitable in both 2004
and 2003, most of the gains were earned in the international life business. The underwriting
losses for 2002 were principally due to increased reserves on run-off business in the U.S.
life/health operations.



Management’s Discussion

(Continued)

Insurance

—

Underwriting

(Continued)

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group

The Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group (“BHRG”) underwrites excess-of-loss reinsurance and
quota-share coverages for insurers and reinsurers around the world. BHRG’s business includes
catastrophe excess-of-loss reinsurance, excess direct and facultative reinsurance for large or
otherwise unusual discrete property risks referred to as individual risk. Retroactive reinsurance
policies provide indemnification of losses and loss adjustment expenses with respect to past loss
events. Other multi-line reinsurance refers to other contracts that are written on both a
quota-share and excess basis, and include participations in and contracts with Lloyd’s syndicates.
Amounts in the table below are in millions.

Premiums earned

Pre-tax underwriting gain (loss)







Catastrophe and individual risk

$

1,462

$

1,330

$

1,283

$


$

1,108

$

1,006

Retroactive reinsurance




(412

)

(387

)

(433

)

Other multi-line

2,064

2,574

1,610



(26

)

Total

$

3,714

$

4,430

$

3,300

$


$

1,047

$


Catastrophe and individual risk contracts may provide exceptionally large limits of
indemnification, often several hundred million dollars and occasionally in excess of $1 billion,
and cover catastrophe risks (such as hurricanes, earthquakes or other natural disasters) or other
property risks (such as aviation and aerospace, commercial multi-peril or terrorism). Catastrophe
and individual business written totaled about $1.5 billion in 2004 and $1.2 billion in 2003. The
level of business written in future periods will vary, perhaps materially, based upon market
conditions and management’s assessment of the adequacy of premium rates. Premiums written in 2004
included $165 million to reinstate coverages as a result of the third quarter hurricane losses.

In 2004, underwriting results from catastrophe and individual risk business included estimated
catastrophe losses of $790 million, primarily from four hurricanes that struck the U.S. and
Caribbean during the third quarter. The catastrophe and individual risk business produced
substantial underwriting gains in 2003 and 2002 due to the lack of catastrophic or otherwise large
loss events. However, catastrophic losses (such as the recent hurricane losses) are anticipated to
occur over time, which could exceed the gains earned in recent years. The pre-tax maximum probable
loss from a single event at December 31, 2004 is estimated to be $5 billion resulting from
potential risk of loss from a major earthquake in California. BHRG, as a matter of general
practice, does not cede catastrophe and individual risks to other reinsurers. The timing and
magnitude of such losses may produce extraordinary volatility in periodic underwriting results.
Nevertheless, Berkshire’s management remains willing to accept such volatility provided there is a
reasonable prospect of long-term underwriting profitability.

Retroactive reinsurance contracts indemnify ceding companies for losses arising under
insurance or reinsurance contracts written in the past, often many years ago. While contract terms
vary, losses under the contracts are subject to a very large aggregate dollar limit, occasionally
exceeding $1 billion under a single contract. Generally, it is also anticipated, although not
assured, that claims under retroactive contracts will be paid over long time periods. These
contracts do not produce an immediate underwriting loss for financial reporting purposes. The
excess of the estimated ultimate claims payable over the premiums received is established as a
deferred charge which is subsequently amortized over the expected claim settlement periods. Such
amortization is included as a component of losses incurred.

Underwriting losses from retroactive reinsurance are primarily attributed to the amortization
of deferred charges established on retroactive reinsurance contracts. Deferred charges, which
represent the difference between the policy premium and the estimated ultimate claim reserves, are
amortized over the expected claim payment period using the interest method. The timing and amount
of expected future losses are re-estimated periodically. Deferred charge balances are adjusted
accordingly on a retrospective basis via a cumulative adjustment.

Gross loss reserves established under retroactive reinsurance totaled approximately $10
billion as of December 31, 2004 and losses paid during the year totaled approximately $860 million.
Unamortized deferred charges at December 31, 2004 totaled approximately $2.45 billion compared to
approximately $2.85 billion as of December 31, 2003. Management believes that these charges are
reasonable relative to the large amount of float generated from these policies. Income generated
from the investment of float is reflected in investment income and investment gains.

Premiums earned in 2004 from traditional multi-line reinsurance decreased $510 million (19.8%)
compared to 2003. The comparative decrease was primarily due to declines in quota-share
participations (including Lloyd’s) and the termination of a major quota-share contract in mid-2003.
Several contracts were not renewed or were curtailed in 2004 so further premium declines are
anticipated in 2005. Pre-tax underwriting results in 2004 included losses of approximately $175
million arising from the third quarter hurricanes affecting the United States and Caribbean.
However, these losses were more than offset by increased underwriting gains in aviation coverages
and approximately $160 million in gains from the commutations of several reinsurance contracts in
2004. Underwriting gains in 2003 reflected low amounts of property and aviation losses. There were
no significant commutations in 2003.

Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group

Berkshire’s primary insurance group consists of a wide variety of smaller insurance businesses
that principally write liability coverages for commercial accounts. These businesses include:
National Indemnity Company’s primary group operation (“NICO Primary Group”), a writer of motor
vehicle and general liability coverages; U.S. Investment Corporation
(“USIC”),



Insurance

—

Underwriting

(Continued)

Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group

(Continued)

whose subsidiaries underwrite specialty insurance coverages; a group of companies referred to
internally as “Homestate” operations, providers of standard multi-line insurance; and Central
States Indemnity Company, a provider of credit and disability insurance to individuals nationwide
through financial institutions.

Collectively, Berkshire’s other primary insurance businesses produced earned premiums of
$1,211 million in 2004, $1,034 million in 2003, and $712 million in 2002. The increases in
premiums earned during the past two years were largely attributed to increased volume of USIC and
the NICO Primary Group. Net underwriting gains of Berkshire’s other primary insurance businesses
totaled $161 million in 2004, $74 million in 2003 and $32 million in 2002. The improvement in
year-to-year comparative underwriting results was due to the aforementioned increases in premiums
and better-than-expected claim experience.

Insurance — Investment Income

Following is a summary of the net investment income of Berkshire’s insurance operations for
the past three years. Dollars are in millions.




Investment income before taxes

$

2,824

$

3,223

$

3,050

Applicable income taxes and minority interests




Investment income after taxes and minority interests

$

2,045

$

2,276

$

2,096

Pre-tax investment income earned by Berkshire’s insurance businesses in 2004 totaled $2,824
million, a decrease of 12.4% from 2003. The decline reflects increased amounts invested in
low-yielding cash and cash equivalents in 2004 as well as a reduction in amounts invested in
high-yield corporate obligations.

In the second half of 2004, short-term interest rates in the United States increased, which
should result in increased earnings from such investments in 2005 periods when compared to 2004
periods. Management continues to seek to invest cash balances into long-term instruments,
including business acquisitions. However, absent such opportunities, investment income may remain
relatively low. Berkshire’s management believes that this current strategy, while potentially
hurting current earnings, is appropriate in preserving capital and maintaining flexibility to make
significant acquisitions when opportunities arise.

A summary of investments held in Berkshire’s insurance businesses follows. Dollar amounts are
in millions.

Dec. 31,

Dec. 31,

Dec. 31,




Cash and cash equivalents

$

38,706

$

29,908

$

9,468

Marketable equity securities

37,420

35,017

28,155

Fixed maturity securities

22,831

26,087

38,395

Other

2,059

2,656

3,133

$

101,016

$

93,668

$

79,151

Fixed maturity investments as of December 31, 2004 were as follows. Dollar amounts are in
millions.

Amortized

Unrealized

cost

gains

Fair value

U.S. Treasury, government corporations and agencies

$

1,576

$


$

1,590

States, municipalities and political subdivisions

3,569


3,725

Foreign governments

6,996


7,087

Corporate bonds and redeemable preferred stocks, investment grade

3,866


4,206

Corporate bonds and redeemable preferred stocks, non-investment grade

2,675

1,552

4,227

Mortgage-backed securities

1,903


1,996

$

20,585

$

2,246

$

22,831

All U.S. government obligations are rated AAA by the major rating agencies and about 95% of
all state, municipal and political subdivisions, foreign government obligations and mortgage-backed
securities were rated AA or higher by the major rating agencies. Non-investment grade securities
represent securities that are rated below BBB- or Baa3. Fair value reflects quoted market prices
where available or, if not available, prices obtained from independent pricing services.

Invested assets derive from shareholder capital and reinvested earnings as well as net
liabilities assumed under insurance contracts or “float.” The major components of float are unpaid
losses, unearned premiums and other liabilities to
policyholders less premiums and reinsurance receivables, deferred charges assumed under retroactive
reinsurance contracts and deferred policy acquisition costs. Float totaled $46.1 billion at
December 31, 2004, $44.2 billion at December 31, 2003 and $41.2 billion at December 31, 2002. The
cost of float, as represented by the ratio of pre-tax underwriting gain or loss to average float,
was negative for 2004 and 2003, as Berkshire’s insurance businesses generated pre-tax underwriting
gains.



Management’s Discussion

(Continued)

Non-Insurance Businesses

A summary follows of results from Berkshire’s non-insurance businesses for the past three
years. Dollars are in millions.




Pre-tax earnings

$

3,065

$

2,776

$

2,667

Income taxes and minority interests

1,152

1,031


Net earnings

$

1,913

$

1,745

$

1,668

A comparison of revenues and pre-tax earnings between 2004, 2003 and 2002 for the
non-insurance businesses follows. Dollars are in millions.

Revenues

Pre-tax earnings (loss)







Apparel

$

2,200

$

2,075

$

1,619

$


$


$


Building products

4,337

3,846

3,702




Finance and financial products

3,774

3,045

2,234




Flight services *

3,244

2,431

2,837




McLane Company

23,373

13,743

—



—

Retail

2,601

2,311

2,103




Shaw Industries

5,174

4,660

4,334




Other businesses

3,213

3,040

2,375




$

47,916

$

35,151

$

19,204

$

3,065

$

2,776

$

2,667

*

In 2004, Berkshire adopted the provisions of EITF 00-21(“Accounting for Revenue Arrangements
with Multiple Deliverables”). As a result, for consolidated reporting purposes, the method of
recognizing revenue related to NetJets’ fractional aircraft sales was changed. Management
continues to evaluate the results of NetJets under the prior revenue recognition criteria and
thus has shown revenues and pre-tax earnings for the flight services segment using the prior
revenue recognition method. The prior revenue recognition method results in the revenues and
pre-tax earnings in this table being $902 million greater and $74 million greater than the
amounts reported in Berkshire’s consolidated financial statements.

Apparel

Apparel revenues in 2004 totaled $2,200 million, an increase of $125 million (6%) over 2003.
Increased sales by Fruit of the Loom (“FOL”) accounted for essentially all of the increase, as unit
sales increased 14%, offset partially by lower net selling prices. FOL generated approximately 60%
of total apparel group revenues in 2004. Pre-tax earnings of apparel businesses totaled $325
million in 2004, an increase of 12% over 2003. About half of the increase in pre-tax earnings was
generated by FOL due to the aforementioned unit sales increase, although lower net selling prices
and higher cotton costs resulted in a decrease in FOL’s gross margin rate. In addition, increased
earnings were achieved in the footwear businesses (HH Brown and Justin) and children’s apparel
(Garan), which benefited from increased sales as well as expense controls. The increases in sales
and pre-tax earnings in 2003 over 2002 were due largely to acquisitions of FOL (April 2002) and
Garan (September 2002).

Building products

Building products revenues in 2004 totaled $4,337 million, an increase of $491 million (13%)
over 2003. Increased sales volume was generated in all significant product lines in 2004, including
insulation and roofing products (11%), paint (8%), brick and masonry (4%) and steel connector
plates and truss components (38%), which also reflected higher selling prices. Favorable housing
construction markets in the U.S. continued in 2004, which benefited the group as a whole.

Pre-tax earnings of the building products group in 2004 exceeded earnings in 2003 by $84
million (15%), reflecting increased pre-tax earnings from insulation products and connector
plate/truss components. In addition, the results for 2003 of the insulation business included a
loss of $21 million from a fire at a pipe insulation plant. (Eliminating the impact of the fire
loss reduces the earnings increase to about 11%). Over the past year, certain production costs
(such as steel, petroleum-based materials, and energy, such as natural gas) have risen
significantly. For instance, the cost of steel (used in manufacturing connector plates and
trusses) has risen about 100% over the past year. Also, average prices for natural gas (used in
manufacturing fiberglass and bricks) and gasoline (delivery costs) have risen significantly over
the past year. Such rapid increases produced declines in profit margins, which accelerated during
the last half of 2004. Revenues and pre-tax earnings of the building products group in 2003 and
2002 benefited from the favorable residential housing construction markets.



Non-Insurance Businesses

(Continued)

Finance and financial products

Revenues generated by the finance and financial products group in 2004 totaled $3,774 million,
an increase of 24% over 2003. Revenues in 2004 include Clayton Homes for the full year. Clayton
was acquired by Berkshire on August 7, 2003 and its results are included in Berkshire’s
consolidated financial statements beginning as of that date. See Note 2 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for information regarding this acquisition. Clayton generated total revenues
of approximately $2,024 million in 2004 compared to $512 million in 2003.

Excluding Clayton, finance revenues in 2004 declined $783 million from 2003. Life insurance
annuity premiums of $700 million were earned in the last half of 2003 from a few sizable
transactions. Annuity premiums generated in 2004 were nominal. The comparative declines in 2004
revenues also reflect lower interest income, resulting from lower amounts of invested assets
associated with leveraged investing activities, including reduced interest from Berkadia’s loan to
FINOVA, and higher proportions of low-yielding short-term investments to total invested assets.
Somewhat offsetting the decline was the fact that Value Capital was consolidated during the first
half of 2004. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information
regarding Value Capital.

Pre-tax earnings from finance and financial products businesses, excluding investment
gains/losses, in 2004 were $584 million, a decrease of $35 million (6%) from 2003. Pre-tax
earnings reflect the inclusion of Clayton for the full year of 2004 as well as much improved
earnings from leasing businesses (CORT and XTRA). In 2004, the leasing businesses generated
pre-tax earnings of $92 million compared to $34 million in 2003. In addition, the net loss from
the run-off of General Re’s finance business was reduced by $55 million in 2004.

Pre-tax earnings from leveraged investing activities declined approximately $163 million in
2004 as a result of comparatively lower amounts of invested assets. In addition, pre-tax earnings
for 2004 of the life/annuity insurance business declined approximately $142 million as a result of
higher allocations of investments in cash and cash equivalents, a significant reduction in the
early redemption of fixed-income securities purchased at a discount and adverse changes in
mortality assumptions.

Flight services

Flight service revenues increased $813 million (33%) over 2003. Over 90% of the revenue
increase resulted from the NetJets business where flight operations revenue increased just under
$400 million and revenues from aircraft sales increased about $360 million. The increase in flight
operations revenue was primarily due to higher usage, a larger percentage of hours being on larger
aircraft and a slight rate increase. Sales of fractional aircraft increased due to an
approximately 10% increase in aircraft sold and a higher percentage of sales being large cabin
aircraft which carry a higher sales price. In 2004, revenues from FlightSafety increased about $57
million (10% over the prior year). Increased revenues from simulator sales represent about 65% of
the increase with increased training revenues accounting for the remainder. Increased training
revenues in 2004 were attributed to a 13% increase in simulator usage, primarily from corporate
aviation and regional airline customers, offset by reduced revenues from government customers.

Pre-tax earnings of flight services businesses totaled $191 million in 2004, an increase of
$119 million as compared to 2003. About half of this increase is due to reduced write downs of
certain simulators and aircraft inventory. During 2003, such write downs were about $69 million
and during 2004 they were about $12 million. Pre-tax earnings from FlightSafety’s training
business, excluding asset write downs, increased about $33 million due to the aforementioned
revenue increases. Pre-tax earnings from NetJets’ flight operations business, excluding asset
write downs, improved by about $25 million.

Operating results of the flight services business have improved gradually since 2003. These
businesses were adversely affected by the attack on the World Trade Center and the deterioration in
the U.S. economy that followed. Revenues and pre-tax earnings of this segment in 2003 declined in
comparison with 2002.

McLane Company

On May 23, 2003, Berkshire acquired McLane Company, Inc., a distributor of grocery and food
products to retailers, convenience stores and restaurants. See Note 2 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional information regarding the McLane acquisition. Results of
McLane’s business operations are included in Berkshire’s consolidated results beginning on that
date. McLane’s revenues in 2004 totaled $23.4 billion and for the full year 2003 totaled about $22
billion. Pre-tax earnings totaled $228 million in 2004 and $225 million for the full year 2003.
The comparative year-to-date increases in sales reflect the addition of new customers since
Berkshire’s acquisition and growth in the food service business. In 2004, approximately 33% of
McLane’s annual revenues derived from sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. McLane’s business is marked
by high sales volume and very thin profit margins.

Retail

Berkshire’s principal retail operations consist of home furnishings and jewelry retailers.
Total revenues attributed to retail operations were $2.60 billion in 2004 and $2.31 billion in
2003. Same store sales in 2004 increased 2.4% from 2003. Pre-tax earnings of the retail group
totaled $163 million in 2004 compared to $165 million in 2003. The increase in sales was
substantially offset by higher costs associated with new home furnishings stores, including
increased salaries and benefits, depreciation, and distribution costs.



Management’s Discussion

(Continued)

Non-Insurance Businesses

(Continued)

Shaw Industries

Floor covering sales generated by Shaw Industries totaled $5.17 billion in 2004, an increase
of $514 million (11%) over 2003. The increase in revenues was driven by an approximate 9% increase
in square yards of carpet sold, higher net selling prices and increased hard surface and rug sales.
Sales in 2004 include those of two businesses acquired by Shaw (Georgia Tufters and the North
Georgia operations of the Dixie Group) in 2003, which contributed sales of $240 million in 2004 and
$50 million in 2003. Pre-tax earnings in 2004 totaled $466 million, an increase of $30 million
(7%) over 2003. During 2004, petroleum-based raw material costs increased on several occasions.
Production cost inflation was driven by higher petroleum-based raw material and energy related
costs. Sales price increases have lagged raw material supplier price increases resulting in a
decline in gross sales margins during 2004. Further margin declines in 2005 are possible.

Equity in Earnings of MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company

Earnings from MidAmerican represent Berkshire’s share of MidAmerican’s net earnings, as
determined under the equity method. In 2004, Berkshire’s share of MidAmerican’s net earnings was
$237 million versus $429 million in 2003. During the third quarter of 2004, MidAmerican recorded
an after-tax charge of $340 million (of which Berkshire’s share was about $255 million) to write
down certain assets of an operation that was shut down in the third quarter. In the fourth quarter
of 2004, MidAmerican realized a gain of $44 million (Berkshire’s share was about $33 million) from
the realization of certain Enron-related bankruptcy claims. Ignoring the effect to these two
non-recurring events Berkshire’s share of MidAmerican’s 2004 net earnings was $459 million, which
reflects improved results at most of MidAmerican’s major operating units. See Note 3 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding MidAmerican.

Investment Gains/Losses

Investment gains and losses arise when investments are sold and foreign currency forward
contracts are marked-to-market with a corresponding gain or loss included in earnings. Investment
gains and losses also arise in connection with investments by Berkshire in life settlement
contracts. Investment losses can also arise when available-for-sale or held-to-maturity securities
are deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired (“OTTI”). A summary of investment gains and
losses follows. Dollar amounts are in millions.




Investment gains (losses) from -

Sales of investments -

Insurance and other

$

1,527

$

2,873

$


Finance and financial products




OTTI securities

(19

)

(289

)

(607

)

Foreign currency forward contracts

1,839



Life settlement contracts

(207

)

—

—

Other



(51

)

Investment gains before income taxes and minority interests

3,489

4,121


Income taxes and minority interests

1,230

1,392


Net investment gains

$

2,259

$

2,729

$


Prior to January 1, 2004, Berkshire accounted for investments in life settlement contracts on
the cost basis. Therefore, the cost of the investment included the initial purchase price plus
periodic maintenance costs. Beginning in 2004, as a result of obtaining information which
suggested that the SEC believed that a different accounting method should be used, these
investments are being accounted for under FASB Technical Bulletin (“FTB”) 85-4 “Accounting for
Purchases of Life Insurance.” Under FTB 85-4, the carrying value of each contract at purchase and
at the end of each reporting period is equal to the cash surrender value of the contract. Cash
paid to purchase these contracts that is in excess of the cash surrender value at the date of
purchase is recognized as a loss immediately and periodic maintenance costs, such as premiums
necessary to keep the underlying policy in force, are charged to earnings immediately. The life
insurance benefits are payable to the Company. The loss during 2004 included $73 million related
to life settlement contracts held at December 31, 2003. Despite the accounting loss recorded for
these contracts, management views these contracts to have a current value no less than the cost
paid for the policies plus any subsequent maintenance costs and believes these contracts will
produce satisfactory earnings.

Gains and losses from foreign currency contracts arise as the value of the U.S. dollar changes
against certain foreign currencies. Small changes in certain foreign currency exchange rates can
produce material changes in the fair value of these contracts given the large net notional value of
Berkshire’s open contracts ($21.4 billion as of December 31, 2004) and consequently, may produce
exceptional volatility in reported earnings in a given period.



Financial Condition

Berkshire’s balance sheet continues to reflect significant liquidity and a strong capital
base. Consolidated shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2004 totaled $85.9 billion. Consolidated
cash and invested assets, excluding assets of finance and financial products businesses, totaled
approximately $102.9 billion at December 31, 2004 (including cash and cash equivalents of $40.0
billion) and $95.6 billion at December 31, 2003 (including $31.3 billion in cash and cash
equivalents).

Berkshire’s consolidated notes payable and other borrowings, excluding borrowings of finance
businesses, totaled $3.5 billion at December 31, 2004 and $4.2 billion at December 31, 2003.
During 2004, commercial paper and short-term borrowings of subsidiaries declined $388 million,
primarily from repayments arising from operating cash flow of NetJets and Shaw. Additionally,
investment contract balances of $226 million were repaid during 2004.

In May 2002, Berkshire issued the SQUARZ securities, which consist of $400 million par amount
of senior notes due in November 2007 together with warrants to purchase 4,464 Class A equivalent
shares of Berkshire common stock, which expire in May 2007. A warrant premium is payable to
Berkshire at an annual rate of 3.75% and interest is payable to note holders at a rate of 3.00%.
Each warrant provides the holder the right to purchase either 0.1116 shares of Class A or 3.348
shares of Class B stock for $10,000. In addition, holders of the senior notes have the option to
require Berkshire to repurchase the senior notes at par on May 15, 2005 and 2006, provided that the
holders also surrender a corresponding amount of warrants for cancellation. All warrants and
senior notes were outstanding as of December 31, 2004.

Assets of the finance and financial products businesses totaled $30.1 billion as of December
31, 2004, compared to $49.0 billion at June 30, 2004 and $28.3 billion at December 31, 2003.
Liabilities totaled $20.4 billion as of December 31, 2004 compared to $42.2 billion at June 30,
2004 and $22.0 billion at December 31, 2003. As discussed in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, Berkshire consolidated the accounts of Value Capital, L.P. beginning as of January 1,
2004, and as a result of a reduction of its ownership interest in the partnership, discontinued
consolidation effective July 1, 2004. As of June 30, 2004, Value Capital’s assets and liabilities
totaled $24.1 billion and $23.4 billion, respectively.

Cash and cash equivalents of finance and financial products businesses totaled $3.4 billion as
of December 31, 2004 and $4.7 billion as of December 31, 2003. During 2004, manufactured housing
loans of Clayton increased approximately $5.0 billion to $7.5 billion as of December 31, 2004. The
increase was primarily attributed to a loan portfolio acquisition of approximately $3.7 billion on
December 30, 2004. Clayton is a leading builder of manufactured housing, provides financing to
customers, and acquires other installment loan portfolios. Prior to its acquisition by Berkshire
in August 2003, Clayton securitized and sold a significant portion of its installment loans through
special purpose entities. In early 2003, Clayton discontinued loan securitizations and sales.

Notes payable and other borrowings of Berkshire’s finance and financial products businesses
totaled $5.4 billion at December 31, 2004 and $4.9 billion at December 31, 2003. During 2004,
Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation (“BHFC”) issued a total of $1.6 billion par amount of medium
term notes due from 2007 through 2014. The proceeds of these issues were used to finance
originated and acquired loans of Clayton. These medium term notes are guaranteed by Berkshire. On
January 4, 2005, BHFC issued an additional $3.75 billion par amount of medium term notes to finance
Clayton’s December 30, 2004 loan portfolio acquisition discussed above. In February 2004, the
remaining balance of Berkadia’s bank borrowing ($525 million) was repaid upon the collection of the
final $525 million loan to FINOVA and in the second quarter GRS repaid debt of approximately $550
million.

Berkshire believes that it currently maintains sufficient liquidity to cover its existing
contractual obligations and provide for contingent liquidity.

Contractual Obligations

A summary of long-term contractual obligations as of December 31, 2004 follows. Amounts
represent estimates of gross undiscounted amounts payable over time. In addition, certain losses
and loss adjustment expenses for property and casualty loss reserves are ceded to others under
reinsurance contracts and therefore are recoverable. Such potential recoverables are not reflected
in the table. Amounts are in millions.

Estimated payments due by period

Total


2006-2007

2008-2009

After 2009

Notes payable and other borrowings

(1)

$

11,753

$

1,937

$

2,138

$

2,321

$

5,357

Securities sold under agreements to
repurchase

(1)

5,831

5,831

—

—

—

Operating leases

1,628





Purchase obligations

(2)

7,759

3,103

2,285

1,504


Unpaid losses and loss expenses

47,878

11,023

12,280

6,637

17,938

Other long-term policyholder liabilities

4,308




4,064

Other

(3)

7,124




5,761

Total

$

86,281

$

22,782

$

17,826

$

11,278

$

34,395

(1)

Includes interest

(2)

Principally relates to NetJets’ aircraft purchases

(3)

Principally annuity reserves and employee benefits



Management’s Discussion

(Continued)

Contractual Obligations

(Continued)

Berkshire and its subsidiaries are parties to contracts associated with ongoing business and
financing activities, which will result in cash payments to counterparties in future periods.
Notes payable and securities sold under agreements to repurchase are reflected in the Consolidated
Financial Statements along with accrued but unpaid interest as of the balance sheet date. In
addition, Berkshire will be obligated to pay interest under debt obligations for periods subsequent
to the balance sheet date. Although certain principal balances may be prepaid in advance of the
maturity date, which could reduce future interest obligations, it is assumed that no principal
prepayments will occur for purposes of this disclosure. Further, while short-term borrowings and
repurchase agreements are currently expected to be renewed as they mature, such amounts are not
assumed to renew for purposes of this disclosure.

Berkshire and subsidiaries are also parties to long-term contracts to acquire goods or
services in the future, which are not currently reflected in the financial statements. Such
obligations, including future minimum rentals under operating leases, will be reflected in future
periods as the goods are delivered or services provided. Amounts due as of the balance sheet date
for purchases where the goods and services have been received and a liability incurred are not
included to the extent that such amounts are due within one year of the balance sheet date.

Contractual obligations for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses arising under property
and casualty insurance contracts are estimates. The timing and amount of such payments is
contingent upon the ultimate outcome of claim settlements that will occur over many years. The
amounts presented in the preceding table are based upon past claim settlement activities. The
timing and amount of such payments are subject to significant estimation error. The factors
affecting the ultimate amount of claims are discussed in the following section regarding
Berkshire’s critical accounting policies. Accordingly, the actual timing and amount of payments
may differ materially from the amounts shown in the table.

Critical Accounting Policies

Certain accounting policies require management to make estimates and judgments concerning
transactions that will be settled several years in the future. Amounts recognized in the financial
statements from such estimates are necessarily based on numerous assumptions involving varying and
potentially significant degrees of judgment and uncertainty. Accordingly, the amounts currently
reflected in the financial statements will likely increase or decrease in the future as additional
information becomes available.

Property and casualty losses

A summary of Berkshire’s consolidated liabilities for unpaid property and casualty losses is
presented in the table below. Except for certain workers’ compensation reserves, liabilities for
unpaid property and casualty reserves are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets without
discounting for time value, regardless of the length of the claim-tail. Dollars are in millions.

Gross unpaid losses

Net unpaid losses*

Dec. 31, 2004

Dec. 31, 2003

Dec. 31, 2004

Dec. 31, 2003

General Re

$

22,258

$

23,820

$

20,056

$

20,787

BHRG

16,235

15,769

13,132

12,513

GEICO

5,112

4,492

4,867

4,282

Berkshire Hathaway Primary

1,614

1,312

1,542

1,217

Total

$

45,219

$

45,393

$

39,597

$

38,799

*

Net of reinsurance recoverable and deferred charges reinsurance assumed and before foreign
currency translation effects.

Berkshire records liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses under property
and casualty insurance and reinsurance contracts based upon estimates of the ultimate amounts
payable under the contracts related to losses occurring on or before the balance sheet date.
Depending on the type of loss being estimated, the timing and amount of property and casualty loss
payments are subject to a great degree of variability and are contingent, among other things, upon
the timing of the claim reporting from insureds and cedants and the determination and payment of
the ultimate loss amount through the loss adjustment process. A variety of techniques are used to
establish and review the liabilities for unpaid losses recorded as of the balance sheet date.
While techniques may vary, significant judgments and assumptions are necessary in projecting the
ultimate amount payable in the future with respect to loss events that have occurred.

As of any balance sheet date, claims that have occurred have not all been reported, and if
reported may not have been settled. The time period between the occurrence date and payment date
of a loss is referred to as the “claim-tail.” Property claims usually have fairly short
claim-tails and, absent litigation, are reported and settled within no more than a few years after



Property and casualty losses

(Continued)

occurrence. Casualty losses usually have very long claim-tails, occasionally extending for
decades. Casualty claims are more susceptible to litigation and can be significantly affected by
changing contract interpretations and the legal environment, which contributes to extended
claim-tails. Claim-tails for reinsurers may be further extended due to delayed reporting by ceding
insurers or reinsurers due to contractual provisions or reporting practices. The loss and loss
expense reserves include provisions for those claims that have been reported (referred to as “case
reserves”) and for those claims that have not been reported, referred to as incurred but not yet
reported (“IBNR”) reserves.

Receivables recorded with respect to insurance losses ceded to other reinsurers under
reinsurance contracts are estimated in a manner similar to liabilities for insurance losses and,
therefore, are also subject to estimation error. In addition to the factors cited above,
reinsurance recoverables may ultimately prove to be uncollectible if the reinsurer is unable to
perform under the contract. Reinsurance contracts do not relieve the ceding company of its
obligations to indemnify its own policyholders.

Each of Berkshire’s significant insurance operations (including GEICO, General Re and BHRG)
utilize techniques for establishing reserves that are believed to best fit the business.
Additional information regarding reserves established by each of the significant businesses
follows.

GEICO

GEICO’s gross unpaid losses and loss adjustment expense reserves as of December 31, 2004
totaled $5,112 million and net of reinsurance recoverable were $4,867 million. As of December 31,
2004, gross reserves included $3,690 million of case reserves and $1,422 million of IBNR reserves.

GEICO predominantly writes private passenger auto insurance which has a relatively short
claim-tail. Accordingly, the risk of estimation error is thought to be much less at GEICO than for
either General Re or BHRG. The key assumptions affecting GEICO’s reserves include projections of
ultimate claim counts and average loss per claim (“severity”), which includes loss adjustment
expenses. GEICO’s reserving methodologies produce reserve estimates based upon the individual
claims (or a “ground-up” approach), which in the aggregate yields a point estimate of the ultimate
losses and loss adjustment expenses. Ranges of loss estimates are not calculated in the aggregate.
A detailed discussion of the process and significant factors considered in establishing reserves
follows.

Actuaries establish and evaluate unpaid loss reserves using recognized standard statistical
loss development methods and techniques. The significant reserve components (and percentage of
gross reserves) are: (1) average reserves (20%), (2) case and case development reserves (55%), and
(3) incurred-but-not-reported (“IBNR”) reserves (25%). Each component of loss reserves is affected
by the expected frequency and average severity of claims. Such amounts are analyzed using
statistical techniques on historical claims data and adjusted when appropriate to reflect perceived
changes in loss patterns. Data is analyzed by policy coverage, jurisdiction of loss, reporting
date and occurrence date, among other factors. A brief discussion of each component follows.

Average reserve amounts are established for property claims and new liability claims prior to
the development of an individual case reserve. Average reserve amounts are driven by the estimated
average severity per claim and the number of new claims opened. The average severity per claim
amount is projected each accident quarter, reflecting both reported claims and unreported claims.

Claim adjusters generally establish individual liability claim case loss and loss adjustment
expense reserve estimates as soon as the specific facts and merits of each claim can be evaluated.
Case reserves represent the amounts that in the judgment of the adjusters are reasonably expected
to be paid in the future to completely settle the claim, including expenses. Individual case
reserves are revised as more information becomes known.

For most liability coverages, case reserves alone are an insufficient measure of the ultimate
cost due in part to the longer claim-tail, the greater chance of protracted litigation and the
incompleteness of facts available at the time the claim is first reported. Therefore, additional
case development reserve estimates are established, usually as a percentage of the case reserve.
In general, case development factors are selected by historical statistical analysis, which
includes incurred case loss analysis for groups of claims from period-to-period projected to future
dates and amounts (or age-to-age techniques) when substantially all of the claims are expected to
be settled. Case development factors are reviewed and revised periodically based upon trends in
loss development patterns.

For unreported claims, IBNR reserve estimates are calculated by first projecting the ultimate
number of claims expected (reported and unreported) for each significant coverage by using
historical quarterly and monthly claim counts, to develop age-to-age projections of the ultimate
counts by accident quarter. Reported claims are subtracted from the ultimate claim projections to
produce an estimate of the number of unreported claims. The number of unreported claims is
multiplied by an estimate of the average cost per unreported claim to produce the IBNR reserve
amount. Actuarial techniques are difficult to apply reliably in certain situations, such as to new
legal precedents, class action suits, long-term claimants from personal injury protection coverages
or recent catastrophes. Consequently, supplemental IBNR reserves for these types of events may be
established.



Management’s Discussion

(Continued)

Property and casualty losses

(Continued)

GEICO

(Continued)

For each of its major coverages, GEICO tests the adequacy of the total loss reserves using one
or more actuarial projections based on claim closure models, paid loss triangles and incurred loss
triangles. Each type of projection analyzes loss occurrence data for claims occurring in a given
period over intervals of time until substantially all of the expected claims have been settled.

GEICO’s exposure to highly uncertain losses is believed to be limited to certain commercial
excess umbrella policies written during a period from 1981 to 1984. Remaining reserves associated
with such exposure is currently a relatively insignificant component of GEICO’s total reserves (3%)
and there is little if any apparent asbestos or environmental liability exposure. Related claim
activity over the past year was insignificant.

General Re

General Re’s unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses as of December 31, 2004 are summarized
below. Amounts are in millions.

Workers’

Property

Compensation

Casualty

Total

Reported case reserves

$

1,996

$

2,168

$

8,204

$

12,368

IBNR reserves

1,361


7,572

9,890

Gross reserves

$

3,357

$

3,125

$

15,776

22,258

Ceded reserves and deferred charges

(2,202

)

Net reserves

$

20,056

General Re’s process of establishing loss reserve estimates is based upon a ground-up
approach, beginning with case estimates and supplemented by additional case reserves (“ACR’s”) and
IBNR reserves. Critical judgments in the establishment of these loss reserves involve the
establishment of ACR’s by claim examiners, the expectation of ultimate loss ratios, which drive
IBNR reserve amounts and the case reserve reporting trends compared to the expected loss reporting
patterns. Actuaries do not routinely calculate loss reserve ranges, because it is currently
believed that the mathematics of determining ranges has not been sufficiently developed and the
myriad of assumptions required, render such resulting range to be unreliable. In addition, counts
of claims or average amount per claim are not utilized because clients do not consistently provide
reliable data in sufficient detail.

General Re claim examiners establish case reserve estimates based on the facts and
circumstances of the claims and the terms and provisions of the insurance and reinsurance
contracts. For reinsurance claims, claim examiners receive notices from client companies in a
manner that reflects the terms of the reinsurance contracts. Contract terms governing claim
reporting are generally based on the client’s view of the case loss (e.g., claims with reserves
greater than one-half the retention) or injury type (e.g., any claim arising from a fatality).
Some reinsurance contracts permit claims to be reported on a bulk basis. Bulk reporting provisions
generally apply to quota-share reinsurance contracts.

Upon notification of a reinsurance claim from a ceding company, claim examiners make
independent evaluations of loss amounts. In some cases, examiners’ estimates differ from amounts
reported by ceding companies. If the examiners’ estimates are significantly greater than the
ceding company’s estimates, the claims are further investigated. If deemed appropriate, ACR’s are
established above the amount reported by the ceding company. Examiners also conduct claim reviews
at client companies periodically and case reserves are often increased as a result. In 2004, claim
examiners conducted in excess of 400 claim reviews.

Actuaries classify all loss and premium data into segments (reserve cells) primarily based on
product (e.g., treaty, facultative, and program) and line of business (e.g., auto liability,
property, etc.). For each reserve cell, losses are aggregated by accident year and analyzed over
time. Depending on client reporting practices, some losses and premiums are aggregated by policy
year. These loss aggregations are called loss triangles, which are the primary basis for IBNR
reserve calculations. North American operations presently review over 300 reserve cells and the
international operations presently review about 900 reserve cells.

Loss triangles are used to determine the expected case loss emergence patterns and, in
conjunction with expected loss ratios by accident year, are further used to determine IBNR
reserves. Certain calculations are performed and form the basis for estimating the expected loss
emergence pattern. The determination of the expected loss emergence pattern is not strictly a
mechanical process. In instances where the historical loss data is insufficient, estimation
formulas are used along with reliance on other loss triangles and judgment. Factors affecting loss
development triangles include but are not limited to the following: changing client claims
practices, changes in claim examiners use of ACR’s or the frequency of client company claim
reviews, changes in the mix of policy terms and coverage (such as client loss retention levels and
occurrence and aggregate policy limits), changes in loss trends and changes in legal trends that
result in unanticipated losses, as well as other sources of statistical variability. These items
influence the selection of the expected loss emergence patterns.



General Re

(Continued)

Expected loss ratios are selected by reserve cell, by accident year, based upon reviewing
indicated ultimate loss ratios predicted from aggregated pricing statistics. Indicated ultimate
loss ratios are calculated using the selected loss emergence pattern, reported losses and earned
premium. If the selected emergence pattern is not accurate, then the indicated ultimate loss
ratios will not be correct and this can influence the selected loss ratios and hence the IBNR
reserve. As with selected loss emergence patterns, selecting expected loss ratios is not a
strictly mechanical process and judgment is used in the analysis of indicated ultimate loss ratios
and department pricing loss ratios.

IBNR reserves are estimated by reserve cell, by accident year, using the expected loss
emergence pattern and the expected loss ratios. The expected loss emergence patterns and expected
loss ratios are the critical IBNR reserving assumptions and are generally updated every year-end.
Once the year-end IBNR reserves are determined, actuaries calculate expected case loss emergence
for the upcoming calendar year. This calculation does not involve new assumptions and uses the
prior year-end expected loss emergence patterns and expected loss ratios. The expected losses are
then allocated into interim estimates that are compared to actual reported losses in the subsequent
year. This comparison provides a test of the adequacy of prior year-end IBNR reserves and forms
the basis for possibly changing IBNR reserve assumptions during the course of the year.

In certain reserve cells (excess directors and officers and errors and omissions) IBNR
reserves are based on estimated ultimate losses, without consideration of expected emergence
patterns. These cells typically involve a spike in loss activity arising from recent industry
developments making it difficult to select an expected loss emergence pattern as has been
experienced from the recent wave of corporate scandals that have caused an increase in reported
losses. Overall industry-wide loss experience data and informed judgment are used when internal
loss data is of limited reliability, such as in setting the estimates for asbestos and hazardous
waste claims. Unpaid environmental, asbestos and mass tort reserves at December 31, 2004 were
approximately $1.6 billion gross and $1.3 billion net of reinsurance. Such reserves were
approximately $1.2 billion gross and $1.0 billion net of reinsurance as of December 31, 2003.
Claims paid attributable to such losses were about $70 million in 2004.

BHRG

BHRG’s unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses as of December 31, 2004 are summarized as
follows. Amounts are in millions.

Property

Casualty

Total

Reported case reserves

$

1,526

$

1,506

$

3,032

IBNR reserves


2,167

3,158

Retroactive

—

10,045

10,045

Gross reserves

$

2,517

$

13,718

16,235

Ceded reserves and deferred charges

(3,103

)

Net reserves

$

13,132

As of December 31, 2004, BHRG’s gross loss reserves related to retroactive reinsurance
policies were attributed to casualty losses. Retroactive policies include excess of loss
contracts, in which losses above a contractual retention are indemnified as well as contracts that
indemnify all losses paid by the counterparty after the effective date. Retroactive losses paid in
2004 totaled $860 million. The classification “reported case reserves” has no practical analytical
value with respect to retroactive policies since the amount is derived from reports in bulk from
ceding companies, who may have inconsistent definitions of “case reserves.” Reserves are reviewed
and established in the aggregate including provisions for IBNR reserves.

In establishing retroactive reinsurance reserves, historical aggregate loss payment patterns
are analyzed and projected into the future under various scenarios. The claim-tail is expected to
be very long for many policies and may last several decades. Management attributes judgmental
probability factors to these aggregate loss payment scenarios and an expectancy outcome is
determined. Due to contractual limits of indemnification, maximum unpaid losses under retroactive
policies approximated $12.2 billion as of December 31, 2004. Management cannot reasonably estimate
the low-end of the retroactive reserve range given the nature of the liabilities assumed.

BHRG’s liabilities for environmental, asbestos, and latent injury losses and loss adjustment
expenses are presently believed to be concentrated within retroactive reinsurance contracts.
Reserves for such losses were approximately $4.2 billion at December 31, 2004 and $4.4 billion at
December 31, 2003. Claims paid in 2004 attributable to such losses were approximately $334
million. BHRG, as a reinsurer, does not regularly receive reliable information regarding numbers
of asbestos, environmental and latent injury claims from ceding companies on a consistent basis,
particularly with respect to multi-line treaty or aggregate excess of loss policies.

BHRG’s other property and casualty loss reserves derive from catastrophe, individual risk and
multi-line reinsurance policies. Reserve amounts are based upon loss estimates reported by ceding
companies and IBNR reserves, which are primarily a function of reported losses from ceding
companies and anticipated loss ratios established on an individual contract basis supplemented by
management’s judgment of the impact on each contract of major catastrophe events as they become
known. Anticipated loss ratios are based upon management’s judgment considering the type of
business covered, analysis of
each ceding company’s loss history and evaluation of that portion of the underlying contracts
underwritten by each ceding company, which are in turn ceded to BHRG. A range of reserve amounts
as a result of changes in underlying assumptions is not prepared.



Management’s Discussion

(Continued)

Other Critical Accounting Policies

Berkshire records as assets deferred charges with respect to liabilities assumed under
retroactive reinsurance contracts. At the inception of these contracts the deferred charges
represent the difference between the consideration received and the estimated ultimate liability
for unpaid losses. No net gain or loss is recognized at the inception of the contract. Deferred
charges are amortized using the interest method over an estimate of the ultimate claim payment
period and are reflected in earnings as a component of losses and loss expenses. The deferred
charge balances are adjusted periodically to reflect new projections of the amount and timing of
loss payments. Adjustments to these assumptions are applied retrospectively from the inception of
the contract. Unamortized deferred charges totaled $2.7 billion at December 31, 2004. Significant
changes in either the timing or ultimate amount of loss payments may have a significant effect on
unamortized deferred charges and the amount of periodic amortization.

Berkshire’s Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2004 includes goodwill of acquired
businesses of approximately $23 billion. These amounts have been recorded as a result of
Berkshire’s numerous prior business acquisitions accounted for under the purchase method. Prior to
2002, goodwill from each acquisition was generally amortized as a charge to earnings over periods
not exceeding 40 years. Under SFAS No. 142, which was adopted by Berkshire as of January 1, 2002,
periodic amortization ceased, in favor of an impairment-only accounting model.

A significant amount of judgment is required in performing goodwill impairment tests. Such
tests include periodically determining or reviewing the estimated fair value of Berkshire’s
reporting units. Under SFAS No. 142, fair value refers to the amount for which the entire
reporting unit may be bought or sold. There are several methods of estimating a reporting unit’s
fair value, including market quotations, asset and liability fair values and other valuation
techniques, such as discounted projected net earnings and multiples of earnings. If the carrying
amount of a reporting unit, including goodwill, exceeds the estimated fair value, then individual
assets, including identifiable intangible assets and liabilities of the reporting unit are
estimated at fair value. The excess of the estimated fair value of the reporting unit over the
estimated fair value of net assets would establish the implied value of goodwill. The excess of
the recorded amount of goodwill over the implied value is then charged to earnings as an impairment
loss.

Berkshire’s consolidated financial position reflects large amounts of invested assets. A
substantial portion of these assets are carried at fair values based upon current market quotations
and, when not available, based upon fair value pricing models. Certain fixed maturity securities
Berkshire owns are not actively traded in the markets. Further, Berkshire’s finance businesses
maintain significant balances of finance receivables, which are carried at amortized cost.
Considerable judgment is required in determining the assumptions used in certain pricing models,
including interest rate, loan prepayment speed, credit risk and liquidity risk assumptions.
Significant changes in these assumptions can have a significant effect on carrying values.

Information concerning recently issued accounting pronouncements which are not yet effective
is included in Note 1(r) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As indicated in Note 1(r) to
the Consolidated Financial Statements, Berkshire does not expect any of the recently issued
accounting pronouncements to have a material effect on its financial statements.

Market Risk Disclosures

Berkshire’s Consolidated Balance Sheets include a substantial amount of assets and liabilities
whose fair values are subject to market risks. Berkshire’s significant market risks are primarily
associated with interest rates and equity prices and to a lesser degree derivatives. The following
sections address the significant market risks associated with Berkshire’s business activities.

Interest Rate Risk

Berkshire’s management prefers to invest in equity securities or to acquire entire businesses
based upon the principles discussed in the following section on equity price risk. When unable to
do so, management may alternatively invest in bonds, loans or other interest rate sensitive
instruments. Berkshire’s strategy is to acquire securities that are attractively priced in
relation to the perceived credit risk. Management recognizes and accepts that losses may occur.
Berkshire has historically utilized a modest level of corporate borrowings and debt. Further,
Berkshire strives to maintain the highest credit ratings so that the cost of debt is minimized.
Berkshire utilizes derivative products to manage interest rate risks to a very limited degree.

The fair values of Berkshire’s fixed maturity investments and notes payable and other
borrowings will fluctuate in response to changes in market interest rates. Increases and decreases
in prevailing interest rates generally translate into decreases and increases in fair values of
those instruments. Additionally, fair values of interest rate sensitive instruments may be affected
by the creditworthiness of the issuer, prepayment options, relative values of alternative
investments, the liquidity of the instrument and other general market conditions. Fixed interest
rate investments may be more sensitive to interest rate changes than variable rate investments.

The following table summarizes the estimated effects of hypothetical increases and decreases
in interest rates on assets and liabilities that are subject to interest rate risk. It is assumed
that the changes occur immediately and uniformly to each category of instrument containing interest
rate risks. The hypothetical changes in market interest rates do not reflect what could be deemed
best or worst case scenarios. Variations in market interest rates could produce significant
changes in the timing of repayments due to prepayment options available. For these reasons, actual
results might differ from those reflected in the table. Dollars are in millions.



Interest Rate Risk

(Continued)

Estimated Fair Value after

Hypothetical Change in Interest Rates

(bp=basis points)

100 bp

100 bp

200 bp

300 bp

Fair Value

decrease

increase

increase

increase

Insurance and other businesses:

December 31, 2004

Investments in securities with fixed maturities

$

22,846

$

23,547

$

22,135

$

21,450

$

20,843

Notes payable and other borrowings

3,558

3,605

3,514

3,476

3,439

December 31, 2003

Investments in securities with fixed maturities

$

26,116

$

27,113

$

25,220

$

24,333

$

23,550

Notes payable and other borrowings

4,334

4,397

4,277

4,226

4,177

Finance and financial products businesses:*

December 31, 2004

Investments in securities with fixed maturities
and loans and finance receivables

$

17,909

$

18,712

$

17,067

$

16,267

$

15,507

Notes payable and other borrowings **

10,627

10,882

10,350

10,120

9,910

December 31, 2003

Investments in securities with fixed maturities
and loans and finance receivables

$

14,573

$

14,905

$

14,323

$

13,987

$

13,557

Notes payable and other borrowings **

11,617

11,838

11,419

11,244

11,079

*

Excludes General Re Securities – See Derivatives Dealer Risk section for discussion of risks
associated with this business.

**

Includes securities sold under agreements to repurchase.

Equity Price Risk

Strategically, Berkshire strives to invest in businesses that possess excellent economics,
with able and honest management and at sensible prices. Berkshire’s management prefers to invest a
meaningful amount in each investee. Accordingly, Berkshire’s equity investments are concentrated in
relatively few investees. At December 31, 2004, 65% of the total fair value of equity investments
was concentrated in four investees.

Berkshire’s preferred strategy is to hold equity investments for very long periods of time.
Thus, Berkshire management is not necessarily troubled by short term equity price volatility with
respect to its investments provided that the underlying business, economic and management
characteristics of the investees remain favorable. Berkshire strives to maintain above average
levels of shareholder capital to provide a margin of safety against short term equity price
volatility.

The carrying values of investments subject to equity price risks are based on quoted market
prices or management’s estimates of fair value as of the balance sheet dates. Market prices are
subject to fluctuation and, consequently, the amount realized in the subsequent sale of an
investment may significantly differ from the reported market value. Fluctuation in the market
price of a security may result from perceived changes in the underlying economic characteristics of
the investee, the relative price of alternative investments and general market conditions.
Furthermore, amounts realized in the sale of a particular security may be affected by the relative
quantity of the security being sold.

The table below summarizes Berkshire’s equity price risks as of December 31, 2004 and 2003 and
shows the effects of a hypothetical 30% increase and a 30% decrease in market prices as of those
dates. The selected hypothetical change does not reflect what could be considered the best or
worst case scenarios. Indeed, results could be far worse due both to the nature of equity markets
and the aforementioned concentrations existing in Berkshire’s equity investment portfolio. Dollars
are in millions.

Estimated

Hypothetical

Fair Value after

Percentage

Hypothetical

Hypothetical

Increase (Decrease) in

Fair Value

Price Change

Change in Prices

Shareholders’ Equity

As of December 31, 2004

$

37,717

30% increase

$

49,032

8.5

30% decrease

26,402

(8.5

)

As of December 31, 2003

$

35,287

30% increase

$

45,873

8.9

30% decrease

24,701

(8.9

)



Management’s Discussion

(Continued)

Foreign Currency Risk

Berkshire’s market risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates are
concentrated primarily in a portfolio of short duration foreign currency forward contracts.
Generally, these contracts provide that Berkshire receive certain foreign currencies and pay U.S.
dollars at specified exchange rates and at specified future dates. Management entered into these
contracts as a partial economic hedge of the adverse effect from a decline in the value of the U.S.
dollar on its net U.S. dollar-based assets. The value of these contracts changes daily due
primarily to changes in the spot exchange rates and to a lesser degree, interest rates and time
value. The average duration of the contracts is approximately six months. The aggregate notional
value of such contracts, which are spread among 12 currencies at December 31, 2004, was
approximately $21.4 billion compared to about $12.0 billion as of December 31, 2003. The fair
value asset of these contracts totaled approximately $1,761 million at December 31, 2004 and $630
million at December 31, 2003.

Berkshire monitors the currency positions daily for each currency. The following table
summarizes the outstanding foreign currency forward contracts as of December 31, 2004 and 2003 and
shows the estimated changes in values of the contracts assuming changes in the underlying exchange
rates applied immediately and uniformly across all currencies. The changes in value do not
necessarily reflect the best or worst case results and therefore, actual results may differ.
Dollars are in millions.

Estimated Fair Value Assuming a Hypothetical

Percentage Increase (Decrease) in the Value of

Foreign Currencies Versus the U.S. Dollar

Fair Value

(20%)

(10%)

(1%)

1%

10%

20%

December 31, 2004

$

1,761

$

(2,614

)

$

(475

)

$

1,533

$

1,991

$

4,127

$

6,669

December 31, 2003


(1,583

)

(512

)



1,865

3,230

Derivatives Dealer Risk

Berkshire, through General Re Securities (“GRS”), is a dealer in various types of derivative
instruments in conjunction with offering risk management products to its clients. Effective
January 2002, GRS commenced the run-off of its business. It is expected that the run-off will take
several years to complete. Since January 2002, approximately 88% of GRS’s contracts have
terminated. Accordingly, derivatives market risks from the GRS portfolio declined substantially.
While GRS may incur losses to unwind its remaining positions, market risks in the portfolio of
derivatives at December 31, 2004 have declined significantly and as of December 31, 2004 management
believes that market risks are no longer significant. However, credit risks from the potential
inability of counterparties to settle amounts due to GRS remains. Management monitors counterparty
credit constantly and contracts may require such exposures to be collateralized. Uncollateralized
credit exposure as of December 31, 2004 totaled $2.0 billion. No significant credit losses have
occurred to date.

Forward-Looking Statements

Investors are cautioned that certain statements contained in this document, as well as some
statements by the Company in periodic press releases and some oral statements of Company officials
during presentations about the Company, are “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Act”). Forward-looking statements include
statements which are predictive in nature, which depend upon or refer to future events or
conditions, which include words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,”
“estimates,” or similar expressions. In addition, any statements concerning future financial
performance (including future revenues, earnings or growth rates), ongoing business strategies or
prospects, and possible future Company actions, which may be provided by management are also
forward-looking statements as defined by the Act. Forward-looking statements are based on current
expectations and projections about future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and
assumptions about the Company, economic and market factors and the industries in which the Company
does business, among other things. These statements are not guaranties of future performance and
the Company has no specific intention to update these statements.

Actual events and results may differ materially from those expressed or forecasted in
forward-looking statements due to a number of factors. The principal important risk factors that
could cause the Company’s actual performance and future events and actions to differ materially
from such forward-looking statements, include, but are not limited to, changes in market prices of
Berkshire’s significant equity investees, the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events, such
as an earthquake, hurricane or an act of terrorism that causes losses insured by Berkshire’s
insurance subsidiaries, changes in insurance laws or regulations, changes in Federal income tax
laws, and changes in general economic and market factors that affect the prices of securities or
the industries in which Berkshire and its affiliates do business, especially those affecting the
property and casualty insurance industry.



Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Management of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 Rule 13a-15(f). Under the supervision and with the participation of our management,
including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an
evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2004 as required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rule 13a-15(c). In making
this assessment, we used the criteria set forth in the framework in

Internal Control – Integrated
Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on
our evaluation under the framework in

Internal Control – Integrated Framework

, our management
concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2004.

Our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2004 has been audited by Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public
accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears below.

Berkshire Hathaway Inc.

March 2, 2005

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of

Berkshire Hathaway Inc.

We have audited management’s assessment, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, that Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and subsidiaries (the
“Company”) maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004,
based on criteria established in

Internal Control – Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company’s management is responsible for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on management’s assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for our opinions.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the
supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons
performing similar functions, and effected by the company’s board of directors, management, and
other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes
those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the
possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to
error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any
evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods
are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management’s assessment that the Company maintained effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on
the criteria established in

Internal Control – Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained,
in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2004, based on the criteria established in

Internal Control – Integrated Framework

issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December
31, 2004 of the Company and our report dated March 3, 2005 expressed an unqualified opinion on
those financial statements.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Omaha, Nebraska

March 3, 2005



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of

Berkshire Hathaway Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and
subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated
statements of earnings, cash flows and changes in shareholders’ equity and comprehensive income for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2004. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects,
the financial position of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004 and
2003, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2004, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2004, based on the criteria established in

Internal Control – Integrated
Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our
report dated March 3, 2005 expressed an unqualified opinion on management’s assessment of the
effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting and an unqualified opinion
on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Omaha, Nebraska

March 3, 2005



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(dollars in millions except per share amounts)

December 31,



ASSETS

Insurance and Other:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

40,020

$

31,262

Investments:

Fixed maturity securities

22,846

26,116

Equity securities

37,717

35,287

Other

2,346

2,924

Receivables

11,291

12,314

Inventories

3,842

3,656

Property, plant and equipment

6,516

6,260

Goodwill of acquired businesses

23,012

22,948

Deferred charges reinsurance assumed

2,727

3,087

Other

4,508

4,468

154,825

148,322

Investments in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company

3,967

3,899

Finance and Financial Products:

Cash and cash equivalents

3,407

4,695

Investments in fixed maturity securities

8,459

9,803

Trading account assets

4,234

4,519

Funds provided as collateral

1,649

1,065

Loans and finance receivables

9,175

4,951

Other

3,158

3,305

30,082

28,338

$

188,874

$

180,559

LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Insurance and Other:

Losses and loss adjustment expenses

$

45,219

$

45,393

Unearned premiums

6,283

6,308

Life and health insurance benefits

3,154

2,872

Other policyholder liabilities

3,955

3,635

Accounts payable, accruals and other liabilities

7,500

6,871

Income taxes, principally deferred

12,247

10,994

Notes payable and other borrowings

3,450

4,182

81,808

80,255

Finance and Financial Products:

Securities sold under agreements to repurchase

5,773

7,931

Trading account liabilities

4,794

5,445

Funds held as collateral

1,619

1,121

Notes payable and other borrowings

5,387

4,937

Other

2,835

2,529

20,408

21,963

Total liabilities

102,216

102,218

Minority shareholders’ interests



Shareholders’ equity:

Common stock - Class A, $5 par value and Class B, $0.1667 par value



Capital in excess of par value

26,268

26,151

Accumulated other comprehensive income

20,435

19,556

Retained earnings

39,189

31,881

Total shareholders’ equity

85,900

77,596

$

188,874

$

180,559

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS

(dollars in millions except per share amounts)

Year Ended December 31,




Revenues:

Insurance and Other:

Insurance premiums earned

$

21,085

$

21,493

$

19,182

Sales and service revenues

43,222

32,098

16,958

Interest, dividend and other investment income

2,816

3,098

2,943

Investment gains

1,746

2,914


68,869

59,603

39,423

Finance and Financial Products:

Interest income

1,202

1,093

1,497

Investment gains

1,750

1,215


Other

2,561

1,948


5,513

4,256

2,812

74,382

63,859

42,235

Costs and expenses:

Insurance and Other:

Insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses

14,823

14,927

15,256

Insurance underwriting expenses

4,711

4,848

4,324

Cost of sales and services

35,882

25,737

11,971

Selling, general and administrative expenses

4,989

4,228

3,033

Interest expense




60,542

49,893

34,776

Finance and Financial Products:

Interest expense




Other

2,557

2,056


3,141

2,375

1,459

63,683

52,268

36,235

Earnings before income taxes and equity in earnings of
MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company

10,699

11,591

6,000

Equity in earnings of MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company




Earnings before income taxes and minority interests

10,936

12,020

6,359

Income taxes

3,569

3,805

2,059

Minority shareholders’ interests




Net earnings

$

7,308

$

8,151

$

4,286

Average common shares outstanding *

1,537,716

1,535,405

1,533,294

Net earnings per common share *

$

4,753

$

5,309

$

2,795

*

Average shares outstanding include average Class A common shares and average
Class B common shares determined on an equivalent Class A common stock basis. Net
earnings per common share shown above represents net earnings per equivalent Class A
common share. Net earnings per Class B common share is equal to one-thirtieth (1/30)
of such amount or $158 per share for 2004, $177 per share for 2003 and $93 per share
for 2002.

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(dollars in millions)

Year Ended December 31,




Cash flows from operating activities:

Net earnings

$

7,308

$

8,151

$

4,286

Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to operating cash flows:

Investment gains, securities and other investments

(1,636

)

(3,304

)

(621

)

Depreciation




Changes in operating assets and liabilities before business acquisitions:

Losses and loss adjustment expenses

(383

)


3,209

Deferred charges reinsurance assumed



(147

)

Unearned premiums

(52

)

(585

)

1,880

Receivables and certain originated loans


1,714

(896

)

Trading account assets and liabilities

(367

)


2,191

Collateral held and provided

(86

)

(273

)


Annuity liabilities



(24

)

Income taxes




Other assets and liabilities


(548

)


Net cash flows from operating activities

7,405

8,438

11,135

Cash flows from investing activities:

Purchases of securities with fixed maturities

(5,924

)

(9,924

)

(16,288

)

Purchases of equity securities

(2,032

)

(1,842

)

(1,756

)

Proceeds from sales of securities with fixed maturities

4,560

17,165

9,108

Proceeds from redemptions and maturities of securities
with fixed maturities

5,637

9,847

6,740

Proceeds from sales of equity securities

2,610

3,159

1,340

Finance loans and other investments purchased

(6,314

)

(2,641

)

(2,281

)

Principal collections on finance loans and other investments

2,736

4,140

5,226

Acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired

(414

)

(3,213

)

(2,620

)

Additions of property, plant and equipment

(1,201

)

(1,002

)

(928

)

Other




Net cash flows from investing activities


15,932

(1,311

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Proceeds from borrowings of finance businesses

1,668

2,479


Proceeds from other borrowings



1,472

Repayments of borrowings of finance businesses

(1,267

)

(2,260

)

(3,802

)

Repayments of other borrowings

(674

)

(783

)

(774

)

Changes in short term borrowings of finance businesses


(63

)

(1,207

)

Changes in other short term borrowings

(401

)

(642

)


Other


(714

)


Net cash flows from financing activities

(156

)

(1,161

)

(3,574

)

Increase in cash and cash equivalents

7,470

23,209

6,250

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

35,957

12,748

6,498

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year *

$

43,427

$

35,957

$

12,748

* Cash and cash equivalents at end of year are comprised of the following:

Insurance and Other

$

40,020

$

31,262

$

10,283

Finance and Financial Products

3,407

4,695

2,465

$

43,427

$

35,957

$

12,748

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(dollars in millions)

Year Ended December 31,




Class A & B Common Stock

Balance at beginning and end of year

$


$


$


Capital in Excess of Par Value

Balance at beginning of year

$

26,151

$

26,028

$

25,607

Common stock issued in connection with business acquisitions

—

—


Exercise of stock options issued in connection with business
acquisitions and SQUARZ warrant premiums




Balance at end of year

$

26,268

$

26,151

$

26,028

Retained Earnings

Balance at beginning of year

$

31,881

$

23,730

$

19,444

Net earnings

7,308

8,151

4,286

Balance at end of year

$

39,189

$

31,881

$

23,730

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income

Unrealized appreciation of investments

$

2,599

$

10,842

$

2,860

Applicable income taxes

(905

)

(3,802

)

(1,029

)

Reclassification adjustment for appreciation
included in net earnings

(1,569

)

(2,922

)

(638

)

Applicable income taxes


1,023


Foreign currency translation adjustments




Applicable income taxes


(127

)

(65

)

Minimum pension liability adjustment

(38

)


(279

)

Applicable income taxes


(3

)


Other

(34

)



Other comprehensive income


5,285

1,380

Accumulated other comprehensive income at beginning of year

19,556

14,271

12,891

Accumulated other comprehensive income at end of year

$

20,435

$

19,556

$

14,271

Comprehensive Income

Net earnings

$

7,308

$

8,151

$

4,286

Other comprehensive income


5,285

1,380

Total comprehensive income

$

8,187

$

13,436

$

5,666

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

and Subsidiaries

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2004

(1)

Significant accounting policies and practices



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(1) Significant accounting policies and practices

(Continued)



(1) Significant accounting policies and practices

(Continued)



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(1) Significant accounting policies and practices

(Continued)



(1) Significant accounting policies and practices

(Continued)

(r)

Accounting pronouncements to be adopted in 2005 (Continued)

In November 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 151 (“SFAS 151”), “Inventory Costs an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter
4.” SFAS 151 discusses the general principles applicable to the pricing of
inventory. This Statement amends ARB 43, Chapter 4, to clarify that abnormal
amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted materials
(spoilage) should be recognized as current-period charges. In addition, this
Statement requires that allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of
conversion be based on the normal capacity of production facilities. The provisions
of this Statement are effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years
beginning after June 15, 2005. The adoption of SFAS 151 is not expected to have a
material effect on Berkshire’s financial statements.

(2) Significant business acquisitions

Berkshire’s long-held acquisition strategy is to purchase businesses with consistent earning
power, good returns on equity, able and honest management and at sensible prices. Businesses with
these characteristics typically have market values that exceed net asset value, thus producing
goodwill for accounting purposes. During 2003 and 2002, Berkshire acquired several businesses
which are described in the following paragraphs.

On May 23, 2003, Berkshire acquired McLane Company, Inc. (“McLane”), from Wal-Mart Stores,
Inc. for cash consideration of approximately $1.5 billion. McLane is one of the nation’s largest
wholesale distributors of groceries and nonfood items to convenience stores, wholesale clubs, mass
merchandisers, quick service restaurants, theaters and others.

On August 7, 2003, Berkshire acquired all the outstanding common stock of Clayton Homes, Inc.
(“Clayton”) for cash consideration of approximately $1.7 billion in the aggregate. Clayton is a
vertically integrated manufactured housing company which at the time of the acquisition had 20
manufacturing plants, 306 company owned stores, 535 independent retailers, 89 manufactured housing
communities and financial services operations that provide mortgage services and insurance
protection.

During 2002, Berkshire completed five business acquisitions for cash consideration of
approximately $2.3 billion in the aggregate. Information concerning these acquisitions follows.

Albecca Inc.

(“Albecca”)

On February 8, 2002, Berkshire acquired all of the outstanding shares of Albecca. Albecca
designs, manufactures and distributes a complete line of high-quality custom picture framing
products primarily under the Larson-Juhl name.

Fruit of the Loom

(“FOL”)

On April 30, 2002, Berkshire acquired the basic apparel business of Fruit of the Loom, LTD.
FOL is a leading vertically integrated basic apparel company manufacturing and marketing underwear,
activewear, casualwear and childrenswear. FOL operates on a worldwide basis and sells its products
principally in North America under the Fruit of the Loom and BVD brand names.

Garan, Incorporated

(“Garan”)

On September 4, 2002, Berkshire acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Garan. Garan
is a leading manufacturer of children’s, women’s, and men’s apparel bearing the private labels of
its customers as well as several of its own trademarks, including GARANIMALS.

CTB International

(“CTB”)

On October 31, 2002, Berkshire acquired all of the outstanding shares of CTB, a manufacturer
of equipment and systems for the poultry, hog, egg production and grain industries.

The Pampered Chef, LTD

(“The Pampered Chef”)

On October 31, 2002, Berkshire acquired The Pampered Chef, LTD. The Pampered Chef is the
premier direct seller of kitchen tools in the U.S., primarily through branded product lines.

The results of operations for each of the entities acquired are included in Berkshire’s
consolidated results of operations from the effective date of each acquisition. The following
table sets forth certain unaudited consolidated earnings data for 2003, as if each of the
acquisitions discussed above were consummated on the same terms at the beginning of each year.
Dollars are in millions, except per share amounts.


Total revenues

$

72,945

Net earnings

8,203

Earnings per equivalent Class A common share

5,343



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(3) Investments in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company

On March 14, 2000, Berkshire acquired 900,942 shares of common stock and 34,563,395 shares of
convertible preferred stock of MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company (“MidAmerican”) for $35.05 per
share, or approximately $1.24 billion in the aggregate. During March 2002, Berkshire acquired
6,700,000 additional shares of the convertible preferred stock for $402 million. Such investments
currently give Berkshire about a 9.9% voting interest and an 83.7% economic interest in the equity
of MidAmerican (80.5% on a diluted basis). As of December 31, 2004, Berkshire and certain of its
subsidiaries also owned $1,478 million of MidAmerican’s 11% non-transferable trust preferred
securities. Walter Scott, Jr., a member of Berkshire’s Board of Directors, controls approximately
88% of the voting interest in MidAmerican. While the convertible preferred stock does not vote
generally with the common stock in the election of directors, it does give Berkshire the right to
elect 20% of MidAmerican’s Board of Directors. The convertible preferred stock is convertible into
common stock only upon the occurrence of specified events, including modification or elimination of
the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 so that holding company registration would not be
triggered by conversion. Additionally, the prior approval of the holders of convertible preferred
stock is required for certain fundamental transactions by MidAmerican. Such transactions include,
among others: a) significant asset sales or dispositions; b) merger transactions; c) significant
business acquisitions or capital expenditures; d) issuances or repurchases of equity securities;
and e) the removal or appointment of the Chief Executive Officer. Through the investments in
common and convertible preferred stock of MidAmerican, Berkshire has the ability to exercise
significant influence on the operations of MidAmerican.

MidAmerican’s Articles of Incorporation further provide that the convertible preferred shares:
a) are not mandatorily redeemable by MidAmerican or at the option of the holder; b) participate in
dividends and other distributions to common shareholders as if they were common shares and
otherwise possess no dividend rights; c) are convertible into common shares on a 1 for 1 basis, as
adjusted for splits, combinations, reclassifications and other capital changes by MidAmerican; and
d) upon liquidation, except for a de minimus first priority distribution of $1 per share, share
ratably with the shareholders of common stock. Further, the aforementioned dividend and
distribution arrangements cannot be modified without the positive consent of the preferred
shareholders. Accordingly, the convertible preferred stock is, in substance, a substantially
identical subordinate interest to a share of common stock and economically equivalent to common
stock. Therefore, Berkshire accounts for its investments in MidAmerican pursuant to the equity
method.

Berkshire’s equity in earnings from MidAmerican includes Berkshire’s proportionate share
(83.7% in 2004) of MidAmerican’s undistributed net earnings reduced by deferred taxes on such
undistributed earnings in accordance with SFAS 109, reflecting Berkshire’s expectation that such
deferred taxes will be payable as a consequence of dividends from MidAmerican. However, no
dividends from MidAmerican are likely for some time. It is possible that when, and if, a dividend
is paid MidAmerican will then be eligible for inclusion in Berkshire’s consolidated tax return and
a tax on the dividend would not be due. Berkshire’s share of MidAmerican’s interest expense
(after-tax) on Berkshire’s investments in MidAmerican’s trust preferred (debt) securities has been
eliminated.

Through its subsidiaries, MidAmerican owns a combined electric and natural gas utility company
in the United States, two natural gas pipeline companies in the United States, two electricity
distribution companies in the United Kingdom, a diversified portfolio of domestic and international
electric power projects and the second largest residential real estate brokerage firm in the United
States.

MidAmerican, through its subsidiaries, owns the rights to proprietary processes for the
extraction of zinc, manganese, silica, and other elements in the geothermal brine and fluids
utilized in energy production at certain geothermal energy generation facilities. Mineral
extraction facilities were installed near the energy generation sites (“the Project”). During
2004, MidAmerican’s management assessed the long-term economic viability of the Project in light of
current cash flow and operating losses and continuing efforts to increase production. MidAmerican’s
management evaluated estimates of projected cash flows for the Project, including the expected
impact of planned improvements to the mineral extraction processes and also began exploring other
operating alternatives, such as establishing strategic partnerships.

On September 10, 2004, MidAmerican’s management decided to cease operations of the Project,
effective immediately. Consequently, it was concluded that a non-cash impairment charge of
approximately $340 million, after tax, was required to write-off the Project, the rights to
quantities of extractable minerals, and the allocated goodwill to estimated net fair value.
MidAmerican incurred net after-tax losses attributed to the Project of $28 million in 2004, $27
million in 2003 and $17 million in 2002. MidAmerican expects to receive approximately $55 million
in future tax benefits. Berkshire’s share of the non-cash impairment charge was $255 million after
tax, and is included in equity in earnings of MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company.



(3) Investments in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company

(Continued)

Condensed consolidated balance sheets of MidAmerican are as follows (in millions).

December 31,

December 31,



Assets:

Properties, plants, and equipment, net

$

11,607

$

11,181

Goodwill

4,307

4,306

Other assets

3,990

3,658

$

19,904

$

19,145

Liabilities and shareholders’ equity:

Debt, except debt owed to Berkshire

$

10,528

10,296

Debt owed to Berkshire

1,478

1,578

Other liabilities and minority interests

4,927

4,500

16,933

16,374

Shareholders’ equity

2,971

2,771

$

19,904

$

19,145

Condensed consolidated statements of earnings of MidAmerican for each of the three years in
the period ending December 31, 2004 are as follows. Amounts are in millions.




Operating revenue and other income

$

6,727

$

6,143

$

4,903

Costs and expenses:

Cost of sales and operating expenses

4,390

3,913

3,092

Depreciation and amortization




Interest expense – debt held by Berkshire




Other interest expense




5,911

5,416

4,380

Earnings before taxes




Income taxes and minority interests




Earnings from continuing operations




Loss on discontinued operations

(368

)

(27

)

(17

)

Net earnings

$


$


$


(4) Loans and receivables

Loans and receivables of insurance and other businesses are comprised of the following (in
millions).

December 31,

December 31,



Insurance premiums receivable

$

3,968

$

5,183

Reinsurance recoverables

2,556

2,781

Trade and other receivables

5,225

4,791

Allowances for uncollectible accounts

(458

)

(441

)

$

11,291

$

12,314

Loans and finance receivables of finance and financial products businesses are comprised of
the following (in millions).

December 31,

December 31,



Consumer installment loans and finance receivables

$

7,740

$

2,794

Commercial loans and finance receivables

1,496

2,205

Allowances for uncollectible loans

(61

)

(48

)

$

9,175

$

4,951



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(5) Investments in fixed maturity securities

Investments in securities with fixed maturities as of December 31, 2004 and 2003 are shown
below (in millions).

Amortized

Unrealized

Unrealized

Fair

Cost

Gains

Losses

(a)

Value

December 31, 2004

Insurance and other:

Obligations of U.S. Treasury, U.S. government
corporations and agencies

$

1,576

$


$

(11

)

$

1,590

Obligations of states, municipalities
and political subdivisions

3,569


—

3,725

Obligations of foreign governments

6,996


(10

)

7,087

Corporate bonds and redeemable preferred stock

6,541

1,898

(6

)

8,433

Mortgage-backed securities

1,918


(2

)

2,011

$

20,600

$

2,275

$

(29

)

$

22,846

Finance and financial products, available-for-sale:

Obligations of U.S. Treasury, U.S. government
corporations and agencies

$

3,682

$


$

—

$

4,200

Corporate bonds



(1

)


Mortgage-backed securities

2,200


—

2,303

$

6,315

$


$

(1

)

$

7,015

Mortgage-backed securities, held-to-maturity

$

1,424

$


$

—

$

1,614

Amortized

Unrealized

Unrealized

Fair

Cost

Gains

Losses

Value

December 31, 2003

Insurance and other:

Obligations of U.S. Treasury, U.S. government
corporations and agencies

$

2,019

$


$

(5

)

$

2,109

Obligations of states, municipalities
and political subdivisions

4,659


—

4,900

Obligations of foreign governments

4,986


(26

)

5,040

Corporate bonds and redeemable preferred stocks

8,677

2,472

(23

)

11,126

Mortgage-backed securities

2,802


(6

)

2,941

$

23,143

$

3,033

$

(60

)

$

26,116

Finance and financial products, available-for-sale:

Obligations of U.S. Treasury, U.S. government
corporations and agencies

$

3,733

$


$

—

$

4,053

Corporate bonds



—


Mortgage-backed securities

4,076


—

4,256

$

8,513

$


$

—

$

9,092

Mortgage-backed securities, held-to-maturity

$


$


$

—

$


(a)

Primarily relates to securities whose amortized cost has exceeded fair value for less than twelve months.

Shown below are the amortized cost and estimated fair values of securities with fixed
maturities at December 31, 2004, by contractual maturity dates. Actual maturities will differ from
contractual maturities because issuers of certain of the securities retain early call or prepayment
rights. Amounts are in millions.

Amortized

Fair

Cost

Value

Due in 2005

$

4,657

$

4,803

Due 2006 – 2009

8,210

8,718

Due 2010 – 2014

6,606

7,818

Due after 2014

3,324

4,208

22,797

25,547

Mortgage-backed securities

5,542

5,928

$

28,339

$

31,475



(6) Investments in equity securities

Data with respect to investments in equity securities are shown below. Amounts are in
millions.

Unrealized

Fair

Cost

Gains

(3)

Value

December 31, 2004

Common stock of:

American Express Company

(1)

$

1,470

$

7,076

$

8,546

The Coca-Cola Company

1,299

7,029

8,328

The Gillette Company

(2)


3,699

4,299

Wells Fargo & Company


3,045

3,508

Other

5,505

7,531

13,036

$

9,337

$

28,380

$

37,717

December 31, 2003

Common stock of:

American Express Company

(1)

$

1,470

$

5,842

$

7,312

The Coca-Cola Company

1,299

8,851

10,150

The Gillette Company

(2)


2,926

3,526

Wells Fargo & Company


2,861

3,324

Other

4,683

6,292

10,975

$

8,515

$

26,772

$

35,287

(1)

Common shares of American Express Company (“AXP”) owned by Berkshire and its
subsidiaries possessed approximately 12% of the voting rights of all AXP shares outstanding at
December 31, 2004. The shares are held subject to various agreements which, generally,
prohibit Berkshire from (i) unilaterally seeking representation on the Board of Directors of
AXP and (ii) possessing 17% or more of the aggregate voting securities of AXP. Berkshire has
entered into an agreement with AXP which will remain effective so long as Berkshire owns 5% or
more of AXP’s voting securities. The agreement obligates Berkshire, so long as Kenneth Chenault
is chief executive officer of AXP, to vote its shares in accordance with the recommendations of
AXP’s Board of Directors. Additionally, subject to certain exceptions, Berkshire has agreed not
to sell AXP common shares to any person who owns 5% or more of AXP voting securities or seeks
to control AXP, without the consent of AXP.

(2)

On January 28, 2005, The Proctor and Gamble Company (“PG”) announced it had
signed an agreement to acquire 100% of The Gillette Company (“Gillette”). Under the terms of
the agreement, PG has agreed to issue 0.975 shares of its common stock for each outstanding
share of Gillette common stock. The transaction which is subject to certain conditions is
expected to close in the second half of 2005. Based upon recent trading prices of PG common
stock and the number of Gillette shares owned at December 31, 2004, Berkshire anticipates that
it will recognize a pre-tax investment gain of approximately $4.4 billion when the transaction
closes.

(3)

Net of unrealized losses of $65 million as of December 31, 2003. There were no
unrealized losses at December 31, 2004.

(7) Investment gains (losses)

Investment gains (losses) are summarized below (in millions).




Fixed maturity securities —

Gross gains from sales and other disposals

$


$

2,559

$


Gross losses from sales and other disposals

(63

)

(31

)

(8

)

Equity securities —

Gross gains from sales




Gross losses from sales

(1

)

(167

)

(66

)

Losses from other-than-temporary impairments

(19

)

(289

)

(607

)

Foreign currency forward contracts

1,839



Life settlement contracts

(207

)

—

—

Other investments



(17

)

$

3,496

$

4,129

$


Net gains are reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings as follows.

Insurance and other

$

1,746

$

2,914

$


Finance and financial products

1,750

1,215


$

3,496

$

4,129

$




Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(8) Goodwill of acquired businesses

Effective January 1, 2002, Berkshire adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(“SFAS”) No. 142 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” SFAS 142 changed the accounting for
goodwill from a model that required amortization of goodwill, supplemented by impairment tests, to
an accounting model that is based solely upon impairment tests. Thus, Berkshire’s Consolidated
Statements of Earnings for 2004, 2003 and 2002 include no periodic amortization of goodwill. A
reconciliation of the change in the carrying value of goodwill for 2004 and 2003 is as follows (in
millions).



Balance at beginning of year

$

22,948

$

22,298

Acquisitions of businesses and other



Balance at end of year

$

23,012

$

22,948

(9) Inventories

Inventories are comprised of the following (in millions):

December 31,

December 31,



Raw materials

$


$


Work in progress and other



Finished manufactured goods

1,201

1,175

Goods acquired for resale

1,858

1,794

$

3,842

$

3,656

(10) Property, plant and equipment

Property, plant and equipment is comprised of the following (in millions):

December 31,

December 31,



Land

$


$


Buildings and improvements

2,525

2,317

Machinery and equipment

5,763

5,212

Furniture, fixtures and other

1,332

1,259

9,932

9,079

Accumulated depreciation

(3,416

)

(2,819

)

$

6,516

$

6,260

(11) Derivatives

A summary of the fair value and gross notional value of open derivatives contracts follows.
Amounts are in millions.

December 31, 2004

December 31, 2003

Trading

Trading

Notional

Trading

Trading

Notional

Assets

Liabilities

Value

Assets

Liabilities

Value

Foreign currency forwards

$

1,767

$


21,445

$


$


11,347

Interest rate and foreign currency swaps

6,043

7,651

153,185

11,426

11,623

333,842

Equity options written and purchased



4,626



3,940

Foreign currency options written and
purchased



6,083



9,359

Interest rate options written and purchased



28,961

2,024

2,793

92,912

8,722

9,282

14,705

15,631

Adjustment for counterparty netting

(4,488

)

(4,488

)

(10,186

)

(10,186

)

Trading account assets and liabilities

$

4,234

$

4,794

$

4,519

$

5,445

Berkshire utilizes derivatives in order to manage economic risks of its businesses as well as
to assume specified amounts of market or credit risk from others. Beginning in 2002, Berkshire
began to enter into foreign currency forward



(11) Derivatives

(Continued)

contracts with the objective of partially hedging corporate-wide adverse risk from the decline in
the value of the U.S. Dollar. In addition, Berkshire, through its subsidiary General Re Securities
(“GRS”) operates as a dealer in various types of derivative instruments, such as swaps, forwards,
futures and options, which are used by clients to manage economic risks arising from interest rate,
foreign exchange rate, or market price movements. In January 2002, GRS commenced a long-term
run-off of its operations. The run-off is expected to occur over a number of years during which
GRS will limit its new business and will unwind its existing asset and liability positions in an
orderly manner. General Re Corporation, the parent of GRS, has guaranteed the obligations of GRS.

Derivative instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of market, credit, and liquidity
risks. Market risks may be controlled by taking offsetting positions in either cash instruments or
other derivatives. Exposures are managed on a portfolio basis and monitored continuously.

Master netting agreements are utilized to manage counterparty credit risk, where gains and
losses are netted across all contracts with that counterparty. In addition, counterparty credit
limits are established, and credit exposures are monitored in accordance with these limits. In
addition, Berkshire may receive cash or investment grade securities from counterparties as
collateral and, where appropriate, may purchase credit insurance or enter into other transactions
to mitigate exposure if balances exceed specified levels or if credit ratings of counterparties are
downgraded below specified levels. Berkshire may incorporate contractual provisions that allow the
unwinding of transactions under adverse conditions. Likewise, Berkshire may be required to post
cash or securities as collateral with counterparties under similar circumstances. At December 31,
2004, Berkshire held collateral with a fair value of $2,091 million, including cash of $1,619
million to secure trading account assets. At December 31, 2004, Berkshire posted collateral with a
fair value of approximately $1,681 million (which includes $1,166 million in cash) with
counterparties as security on trading account liabilities. Contractual terms with counterparties
often require additional collateral to be posted immediately in the event of a decline in the
financial rating of the counterparty or its guarantor.

Assuming non-performance by all counterparties on all contracts potentially subject to a loss,
the maximum potential loss, based on the cost of replacement, net of collateral held, at market
rates prevailing at December 31, 2004 approximated $2,226 million. The following table presents
derivatives portfolios by counterparty credit quality and maturity at December 31, 2004. The
amounts shown under gross exposure in the table are before consideration of netting arrangements
and collateral held by Berkshire affiliates. Net fair value shown in the table represents
contracts in gain positions, net of any loss owed to these counterparties on offsetting positions.
Net exposure shown in the table that follows is net fair value less collateral held. Amounts are
in millions.

Gross Exposure

0 – 5

6 – 10

Over 10

Net Fair

Net

Percentage

Credit quality

(years)

Total

Value

Exposure

of Total

AA and AAA

$

3,433

$

1,070

$

1,544

$

6,047

$

2,761

$

1,636


%

A

1,672



2,546

1,360



BBB and below








Total

$

5,173

$

1,478

$

2,071

$

8,722

$

4,234

$

2,226


%

(12) Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses

The balances of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses are based upon estimates of the
ultimate claim costs associated with property and casualty claim occurrences as of the balance
sheet dates including estimates for incurred but not reported (“IBNR”) claims. Considerable
judgment is required to evaluate claims and establish estimated claim liabilities, particularly
with respect to certain casualty or liability claims, which are typically reported over long
periods of time and subject to changing legal and litigation trends. This delay in claim reporting
is exacerbated in reinsurance of liability or casualty claims as claim reporting by ceding
companies is further delayed by contract terms.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(12) Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses

(Continued)

Supplemental data with respect to unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses of
property/casualty insurance subsidiaries is as follows (in millions).




Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses:

Gross liabilities at beginning of year

$

45,393

$

43,771

$

40,562

Ceded losses and deferred charges at beginning of year

(5,684

)

(6,002

)

(6,189

)

Net balance at beginning of year

39,709

37,769

34,373

Incurred losses recorded during the year:

Current accident year

13,043

13,135

12,206

All prior accident years



1,540

Total incurred losses

13,462

13,615

13,746

Payments during the year with respect to:

Current accident year

(4,746

)

(4,493

)

(4,042

)

All prior accident years

(8,828

)

(8,092

)

(6,653

)

Total payments

(13,574

)

(12,585

)

(10,695

)

Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses:

Net balance at end of year

39,597

38,799

37,424

Ceded losses and deferred charges at end of year

5,132

5,684

6,002

Foreign currency translation adjustment




Gross liabilities at end of year

$

45,219

$

45,393

$

43,771

Prior accident years losses incurred in 2004 include amortization of deferred charges related
to retroactive reinsurance contracts incepting prior to January 1, 2004. Amortization charges
included in prior accident years losses were $451 million in 2004, $432 million in 2003 and $430
million in 2002.

Certain workers’ compensation reserves are discounted. Net discounted liabilities at December
31, 2004 and 2003 were $2,280 million and $2,211 million, respectively, and are net of discounts
totaling $2,611 million and $2,435 million. Periodic accretions of these discounts are also a
component of prior years losses incurred. The accretion of discounted liabilities was
approximately $87 million in 2004, $85 million in 2003 and $81 million in 2002.

Incurred losses “all prior accident years” also reflects the amount of estimation error
charged or credited to earnings in each year with respect to the liabilities established as of the
beginning of that year. In both 2004 and 2003, Berkshire reduced the beginning of the year loss
and loss adjustment expense liability by $119 million and $37 million respectively. In 2002,
Berkshire recorded a loss of $1,029 million related to prior years loss occurrences. The most
significant component of losses from prior years occurrences in 2002 was reserve increases with
respect to General Re’s North American and international property/casualty reinsurance businesses.

Berkshire’s insurance subsidiaries are exposed to environmental, asbestos and other latent
injury claims arising from insurance and reinsurance contracts. Loss reserve estimates for
environmental and asbestos exposures include case basis reserves, which also reflect reserves for
legal and other loss adjustment expenses and IBNR reserves. IBNR reserves are determined based
upon Berkshire’s historic general liability exposure base and policy language, previous
environmental loss experience and the assessment of current trends of environmental law,
environmental cleanup costs, asbestos liability law and judgmental settlements of asbestos
liabilities.

The liabilities for environmental, asbestos, and latent injury claims and claims expenses net
of reinsurance recoverables were approximately $5.6 billion at December 31, 2004 and $5.5 billion
at December 31, 2003. These liabilities include $4.2 billion at December 31, 2004 and $4.4 billion
at December 31, 2003, of liabilities assumed under retroactive reinsurance contracts written by the
Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group. Claim liabilities arising from the retroactive contracts are
subject to aggregate policy limits. Thus, Berkshire’s exposure to environmental and latent injury
claims under these contracts is, likewise, limited. Claims paid or reserved under these contracts,
which may also cover losses unrelated to these exposures, were approximately 85% of aggregate
policy limits as of the end of 2004.



(12) Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses

(Continued)

Berkshire monitors evolving case law and its effect on environmental and latent injury claims.
Changing government regulations, newly identified toxins, newly reported claims, new theories of
liability, new contract interpretations and other factors could result in significant increases in
these liabilities. Such development could be material to Berkshire’s results of operations. It is
not possible to reliably estimate the amount of additional net loss, or the range of net loss, that
is reasonably possible.

(13) Notes payable and other borrowings

Notes payable and other borrowings of Berkshire and its subsidiaries are summarized below.
Amounts are in millions.

December 31,

December 31,



Insurance and other:

Issued by Berkshire:

SQUARZ notes due 2007

$


$


Investment Agreements due 2012-2033



Issued by subsidiaries and guaranteed by Berkshire:

Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings

1,139

1,527

Other debt due 2006-2035



Issued by subsidiaries and not guaranteed by Berkshire due 2005-2041

1,190

1,308

$

3,450

$

4,182

Finance and financial products:

Issued by subsidiaries and guaranteed by Berkshire:

3.4% notes due 2007*

$


$

—

3.375% notes due 2008*

1,049


4.20% notes due 2010*



4.625% notes due 2013*



5.1% notes due 2014*


—

Other borrowings



Issued by subsidiaries and not guaranteed by Berkshire due 2005-2030

1,449

2,143

$

5,387

$

4,937

*

Issued by Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation.

Investment agreements represent numerous individual borrowing arrangements under which
Berkshire is required to periodically pay interest over contract terms, which range from a few
months to over 30 years. Interest under such contracts may be at fixed or variable rates. The
weighted average interest rate on amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2004 and 2003 was 3.8% and
3.1%, respectively. Under certain conditions, principal amounts may be redeemed without premium
prior to the contractual maturity date at the option of the counterparties.

Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings are obligations of certain businesses that
utilize short-term borrowings as part of financing their operations. Weighted average interest
rates as of December 31, 2004 and 2003 were 2.4% and 1.3% respectively. Berkshire affiliates have
approximately $2.6 billion of available unused lines of credit and commercial paper capacity to
support their short-term borrowing programs and, otherwise, provide additional liquidity.

On May 28, 2002, Berkshire issued 40,000 SQUARZ securities for net proceeds of $398 million.
Each SQUARZ security consists of a $10,000 par amount senior note due in November 2007 together
with a warrant, which expires in May 2007. The warrants may be exercised to purchase either 0.1116
shares of Class A common stock (effectively at $89,606 per share) or 3.3480 shares (effectively at
$2,987 per share) of Class B common stock for $10,000. A warrant premium is payable to Berkshire
at an annual rate of 3.75% and interest is payable to note holders at a rate of 3.00% per annum.
All debt and warrants issued in conjunction with SQUARZ securities were outstanding at December 31,
2004.

In 2003, Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation (“BHFC”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Berkshire, issued $2.0 billion par in the aggregate of senior notes due from 2008 to 2013. In
2004, BHFC issued an additional $1.6 billion par in the aggregate of senior notes due from 2007 to
2014. The proceeds were used in the financing of manufactured housing loan originations and
portfolio acquisitions of Clayton Homes. On January 4, 2005, BHFC issued an additional



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(13) Notes payable and other borrowings

(Continued)

$3.75 billion par amount of senior notes consisting of $1.5 billion par of 4.125% notes due 2010,
$1.0 billion par of 4.85% notes due 2015, and $1.25 billion par of floating rate notes due 2008.
Aggregate proceeds of $3,733 million were used to finance a loan portfolio acquisition on December
30, 2004 by Clayton Homes.

Generally, Berkshire’s guarantee of a subsidiary’s debt obligation is an absolute,
unconditional and irrevocable guarantee for the full and prompt payment when due of all present and
future payment obligations of the issuer.

Payments of principal amounts expected during the next five years are as follows (in
millions).






Insurance and other

$

1,388

$


$


$


$


Finance and financial products




1,388


$

1,645

$


$

1,364

$

1,403

$


(14) Income taxes

The liability for income taxes as of December 31, 2004 and 2003 as reflected in the
accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets is as follows (in millions).



Payable currently

$

1,073

$


Deferred

11,174

10,950

$

12,247

$

10,994

The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of deferred
tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at December 31, 2004 and 2003 are shown below (in
millions).



Deferred tax liabilities:

Unrealized appreciation of investments

$

11,020

$

10,663

Deferred charges reinsurance assumed


1,080

Property, plant and equipment

1,201

1,124

Investments



Other



14,350

14,069

Deferred tax assets:

Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses

(1,129

)

(1,299

)

Unearned premiums

(388

)

(372

)

Other

(1,659

)

(1,448

)

(3,176

)

(3,119

)

Net deferred tax liability

$

11,174

$

10,950

Deferred income taxes have not been established with respect to undistributed earnings of
certain foreign subsidiaries. Such earnings are expected to remain reinvested indefinitely and
totaled approximately $490 million as of December 31, 2004. Upon distribution as dividends or
otherwise, such amounts would be subject to taxation in the United States as well as foreign
countries. However, U.S. tax liabilities could be offset, in whole or in part, by tax credits
allowable from taxes paid to foreign jurisdictions. Determination of the potential net tax due is
impracticable due to the complexities of hypothetical calculations involving uncertain timing and
amounts of taxable income and the effects of multiple taxing jurisdictions.

The Consolidated Statements of Earnings reflect charges for income taxes as shown below (in
millions).




Federal

$

3,313

$

3,490

$

1,916

State




Foreign




$

3,569

$

3,805

$

2,059

Current

$

3,746

$

3,346

$

2,218

Deferred

(177

)


(159

)

$

3,569

$

3,805

$

2,059



(14) Income taxes

(Continued)

Charges for income taxes are reconciled to hypothetical amounts computed at the U.S. Federal
statutory rate in the table shown below (in millions).




Earnings before income taxes

$

10,936

$

12,020

$

6,359

Hypothetical amounts applicable to above
Computed at the Federal statutory rate

$

3,828

$

4,207

$

2,226

Tax effects resulting from:

Tax-exempt interest income

(59

)

(88

)

(109

)

Dividends received deduction

(116

)

(100

)

(97

)

Net earnings of MidAmerican

(83

)

(150

)

(126

)

State income taxes, less Federal income tax benefit




Foreign rate differences

(41

)

(104

)


Other differences, net

(30

)

(13

)


Total income taxes

$

3,569

$

3,805

$

2,059

(15) Investment in Value Capital

Value Capital L.P., (“Value Capital”), a limited partnership, commenced operations in 1998. A
wholly owned Berkshire subsidiary is a limited partner in Value Capital. The partnership’s
objective is to achieve income and capital growth from investments and arbitrage in fixed income
investments. Profits and losses (after fees to the general partner) are allocated to the partners
based upon each partner’s investment. As a limited partner Berkshire’s exposure to loss is limited
to the carrying value of its investment. Berkshire does not guarantee any of Value Capital’s
liabilities and has no control over decisions made by the management of Value Capital or those of
its general partner.

Prior to January 1, 2004, Berkshire accounted for its investment in Value Capital pursuant to
the equity method. Effective January 1, 2004 and through June 30, 2004 Berkshire consolidated Value
Capital as a result of the adoption of FIN 46 because during that period Value Capital was deemed
to be a variable interest entity (“VIE”) and Berkshire was the primary beneficiary.

Since June 30, 2004, Value Capital accepted investments from new limited partners unrelated to
Berkshire and Value Capital redeemed $125 million of Berkshire’s investment in December 2004 as
permitted under the partnership agreement. As a result, Berkshire’s economic interest in Value
Capital declined from approximately 90% at June 30, 2004 to approximately 62% as of December 31,
2004.

Consequently, Berkshire reevaluated its investment in Value Capital under FIN 46 and concluded
that Value Capital was no longer a VIE. Since Berkshire possesses no voting or similar rights or
other rights that could otherwise represent a controlling financial interest, Berkshire ceased
consolidation of Value Capital as of July 1, 2004 and resumed accounting for the investment under
the equity method. The investment in Value Capital ($503 million as of December 31, 2004 and $634
million as of December 31, 2003) is included in other assets of finance and financial products
businesses in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

(16) Dividend restrictions – Insurance subsidiaries

Payments of dividends by insurance subsidiaries are restricted by insurance statutes and
regulations. Without prior regulatory approval, insurance subsidiaries may pay up to approximately
$5.7 billion as ordinary dividends during 2005.

Combined shareholders’ equity of U.S. based property/casualty insurance subsidiaries
determined pursuant to statutory accounting rules (Statutory Surplus as Regards
Policyholders) was approximately $48 billion at December 31, 2004 and $41 billion at December 31,
2003.

Statutory surplus differs from the corresponding amount determined on the basis of GAAP. The
major differences between statutory basis accounting and GAAP are that deferred charges reinsurance
assumed, deferred policy acquisition costs, unrealized gains and losses on investments in
securities with fixed maturities and related deferred income taxes are recognized under GAAP but
not for statutory reporting purposes. In addition, statutory accounting for goodwill of acquired
businesses requires amortization of goodwill over 10 years, whereas under GAAP, goodwill is subject
to periodic tests for impairment.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(17) Fair values of financial instruments

The estimated fair values of Berkshire’s financial instruments as of December 31, 2004 and
2003, are as follows (in millions).

Carrying Value

Fair Value





Insurance and other:

Investments in fixed maturity securities

$

22,846

$

26,116

$

22,846

$

26,116

Investments in equity securities

37,717

35,287

37,717

35,287

Notes payable and other borrowings

3,450

4,182

3,558

4,334

Finance and financial products:

Investments in fixed maturity securities

8,459

9,803

8,648

9,908

Trading account assets

4,234

4,519

4,234

4,519

Loans and finance receivables

9,175

4,951

9,382

5,067

Notes payable and other borrowings

5,387

4,937

5,499

5,019

Trading account liabilities

4,794

5,445

4,794

5,445

In determining fair value of financial instruments, Berkshire used quoted market prices when
available. For instruments where quoted market prices were not available, independent pricing
services or appraisals by Berkshire’s management were used. Those services and appraisals
reflected the estimated present values utilizing current risk adjusted market rates of similar
instruments. The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and payable,
other accruals, securities sold under agreements to repurchase and other liabilities are deemed to
be reasonable estimates of their fair values.

Considerable judgment is necessarily required in interpreting market data used to develop the
estimates of fair value. Accordingly, the estimates presented herein are not necessarily
indicative of the amounts that could be realized in a current market exchange. The use of
different market assumptions and/or estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the
estimated fair value.

(18) Common stock

Changes in issued and outstanding Berkshire common stock during the three years ended December
31, 2004 are shown in the table below.

Class A Common, $5 Par Value

Class B Common $0.1667 Par Value

(1,650,000 shares authorized)

(55,000,000 shares authorized)

Shares Issued and

Shares Issued and

Outstanding

Outstanding

Balance December 31, 2001

1,323,410

6,144,222

Common stock issued in connection
with a business acquisition

4,505

7,063

Conversions of Class A common stock
to Class B common stock and other

(16,729

)

552,832

Balance December 31, 2002

1,311,186

6,704,117

Conversions of Class A common stock
to Class B common stock and other

(28,207

)

905,426

Balance December 31, 2003

1,282,979

7,609,543

Conversions of Class A common stock
to Class B common stock and other

(14,196

)

489,632

Balance December 31, 2004

1,268,783

8,099,175

Each share of Class B common stock has dividend and distribution rights equal to one-thirtieth
(1/30) of such rights of a Class A share. Accordingly, on an equivalent Class A common stock basis
there are 1,538,756 shares outstanding as of December 31, 2004 and 1,536,630 shares as of December
31, 2003.

Each share of Class A common stock is convertible, at the option of the holder, into thirty
shares of Class B common stock. Class B common stock is not convertible into Class A common stock.
Each share of Class B common stock possesses voting rights equivalent to one-two-hundredth (1/200)
of the voting rights of a share of Class A common stock. Class A and Class B common shares vote
together as a single class.



(19) Pension plans

Certain Berkshire subsidiaries individually sponsor defined benefit pension plans covering
their employees. Benefits under the plans are generally based on years of service and compensation,
although benefits under certain plans are based on years of service and fixed benefit rates.
Funding policies are generally to contribute amounts required to meet regulatory requirements plus
additional amounts determined by management based on actuarial valuations. The measurement date
for the pension plans is predominantly December 31.

The components of net periodic pension expense for each of the three years ending December 31,
2004 are as follows (in millions).




Service cost

$


$


$


Interest cost




Expected return on plan assets

(171

)

(159

)

(147

)

Curtailment gain

(70

)

—

—

Net amortization, deferral and other




Net pension expense

$


$


$


During the third quarter of 2004 a Berkshire subsidiary amended its defined benefit plan to
freeze benefits as of the end of 2005. Such an event is considered a curtailment and the
curtailment gain included in the table above represents the elimination of projected plan benefits
beyond the end of 2005 and the recognition of unamortized prior service costs and actuarial losses
as of the amendment date.

The increase (decrease) in minimum liabilities included in other comprehensive income were $41
million in 2004, $(3) million in 2003, and $263 million in 2002. Such amounts include Berkshire’s
share of changes in minimum liabilities of MidAmerican.

The accumulated benefit obligation is the actuarial present value of benefits earned based on
service and compensation prior to the valuation date. The projected benefit obligation is the

actuarial present value of benefits earned based upon service and compensation prior to the
valuation date and includes assumptions regarding future compensation levels when benefits are
based on those amounts. Information regarding accumulated and projected benefit obligations and
plan assets are as follows (in millions).



Projected benefit obligation, beginning of year

$

3,192

$

2,862

Service cost



Interest cost



Benefits paid

(165

)

(150

)

Actuarial loss and other

(32

)


Projected benefit obligation, end of year

$

3,293

$

3,192

Accumulated benefit obligation, end of year

$

2,908

$

2,676

Plan assets at fair value, beginning of year

$

2,819

$

2,548

Employer contributions



Benefits paid

(165

)

(150

)

Actual return on plan assets



Other and expenses



Plan assets at fair value, end of year

$

3,039

$

2,819

Defined benefit pension plan obligations to U.S. employees are funded through assets held in
trusts and are not included as assets in Berkshire’s Consolidated Financial Statements. Pension
obligations under certain non-U.S. plans and non-qualified U.S. plans are unfunded. As of December
31, 2004 and 2003, total plan assets were invested as follows:



Cash and equivalents

$


$


U.S. Government obligations



Mortgage-backed securities



Corporate obligations



Equity securities



Other



$

3,039

$

2,819



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(19) Pension plans

(Continued)

Pension plan assets are generally invested with the long-term objective of earning sufficient
amounts to cover expected benefit obligations, while assuming a prudent level of risk. There are no
target investment allocation percentages with respect to individual or categories of investments.
Allocations may change rapidly as a result of changing market conditions and investment
opportunities. The expected rates of return on plan assets reflect Berkshire’s subjective
assessment of expected invested asset returns over a period of several years. Berkshire does not
give significant consideration to past investment returns when establishing assumptions for
expected long-term rates of returns on plan assets. Actual experience will differ from the assumed
rates, in particular over quarterly or annual periods as a result of market volatility and changes
in the mix of assets.

The funded status of the plans as of December 31, 2004 and 2003 is as follows (in millions).



Excess of projected benefit obligations over plan assets

$


$


Unrecognized net actuarial gains and other



Accrued benefit cost liability

$


$


The total net deficit status for plans (including unfunded plans) with accumulated benefit
obligations in excess of plan assets was $425 million and $378 million as of December 31, 2004 and
2003, respectively. Expected contributions to plans during 2005 are estimated to be $82 million.

The benefit payments, which reflect expected future service as appropriate, are expected to be
paid as follows (in millions): 2005 — $146; 2006 — $151; 2007 — $158; 2008 — $169; 2009 — $174;
and 2010 to 2014 — $1,133.

Weighted average assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations were as
follows. These rates are substantially the same as the weighted average rates used in determining
the net periodic pension expense.



Discount rate

5.9

6.0

Discount rate – non-U.S. plans

5.2

5.3

Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets

6.5

6.5

Rate of compensation increase

4.5

4.6

Rate of compensation increase – non-U.S. plans

3.7

2.6

Most Berkshire subsidiaries also sponsor defined contribution retirement plans, such as 401(k)
or profit sharing plans. The plans generally cover all employees who meet specified eligibility
requirements. Employee contributions to the plans are subject to regulatory limitations and the
specific plan provisions. Berkshire subsidiaries generally match these contributions up to levels
specified in the plans, and may make additional discretionary contributions as determined by
management. The total expenses related to employer contributions for these plans were $338
million, $242 million and $202 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002,
respectively.

(20) Supplemental cash flow information

A summary of supplemental cash flow information for each of the three years ending December
31, 2004 is presented in the following table (in millions).




Cash paid during the year for:

Income taxes

$

2,674

$

3,309

$

1,945

Interest of finance and financial products businesses




Interest of insurance and other businesses




Non-cash investing and financing activities:

Liabilities assumed in connection with acquisitions of businesses


2,167


Common shares issued in connection with acquisitions of businesses

—

—


Securities sold (purchased) offset by decrease (increase) in repurchase
agreements

2,075

5,936

6,666

Excess over cost in the value of equity securities acquired from exercise
of warrants


—

—



(21) Business segment data

Berkshire’s reportable business segments are organized in a manner that reflects how
management views those business activities. Certain businesses have been grouped together for
segment reporting based upon similar products or product lines, marketing, selling and distribution
characteristics, even though those business units are operated under separate local management.
There are approximately 40 separate business units.

The tabular information that follows shows data of reportable segments reconciled as needed to
amounts reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Intersegment transactions are not
eliminated in instances where management considers those transactions in assessing the results of
the respective segments. In 2004, Berkshire adopted the provisions of EITF 00-21 (“Accounting for
Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables”). As a result, for consolidated reporting
purposes, the method of recognizing revenue related to fractional aircraft sales was changed.
Management continues to evaluate the results of NetJets under the prior revenue recognition
criteria and thus has shown the revenues and earnings before taxes for the Flight Services segment
using the former revenue recognition method. Furthermore, Berkshire management does not consider
investment gains or amortization of purchase accounting adjustments in assessing the performance of
reporting units. Collectively, these items are included in reconciliations of segment amounts to
consolidated amounts.

Business Identity

Business Activity

GEICO

Underwriting private passenger automobile insurance

mainly by direct response methods

General Re

Underwriting excess-of-loss, quota-share and
facultative reinsurance worldwide

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group

Underwriting excess-of-loss and quota-share
reinsurance for property and casualty insurers and
reinsurers

Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group

Underwriting multiple lines of property and casualty
insurance policies for primarily commercial accounts

Fruit of the Loom, Garan, Fechheimer
Brothers, H.H. Brown Shoe, Lowell Shoe,
Justin Brands and Dexter Shoe (“Apparel”)

Manufacturing and distribution of a variety of
footwear and clothing products, including underwear,
activewear, children’s clothes and uniforms

Acme Building Brands, Benjamin Moore, Johns
Manville and MiTek (“Building products”)

Manufacturing and distribution of a variety of
building materials and related products and services

BH Finance, Clayton Homes, XTRA, CORT,
Berkshire Hathaway Life and General Re
Securities (“Finance and financial
products”)

Proprietary investing, manufactured housing and
related consumer financing, transportation equipment
leasing, furniture leasing, life annuities and risk
management products

FlightSafety and NetJets (“Flight services”)

Training to operators of aircraft and ships and
providing fractional ownership programs for general
aviation aircraft

McLane Company

Wholesale distributing of groceries and non-food items

Nebraska Furniture Mart, R.C. Willey Home
Furnishings, Star Furniture Company,
Jordan’s Furniture, Borsheim’s, Helzberg
Diamond Shops and Ben Bridge Jeweler
(“Retail”)

Retail sales of home furnishings, appliances,
electronics, fine jewelry and gifts

Shaw Industries

Manufacturing and distribution of carpet and floor
coverings under a variety of brand names

Other businesses not specifically identified consist of: Scott Fetzer, a diversified
manufacturer and distributor of commercial and industrial products; Buffalo News, a newspaper
publisher in Western New York; International Dairy Queen, which licenses and services a system of
about 6,000 Dairy Queen stores; See’s Candies, a manufacturer and distributor of boxed chocolates
and other confectionery products; Larson-Juhl, which designs, manufactures, and distributes custom
picture framing products; CTB International, a manufacturer of equipment and systems for the
poultry, hog, egg production and grain industries and The Pampered Chef, a direct seller of kitchen
tools.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(21) Business segment data

(Continued)

A disaggregation of Berkshire’s consolidated data for each of the three most recent years is
presented in the tables which follow on this and the following page. Amounts are in millions.

Revenues




Operating Businesses:

Insurance group:

Premiums earned:

GEICO

$

8,915

$

7,784

$

6,670

General Re

7,245

8,245

8,500

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group

3,714

4,430

3,300

Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group

1,211

1,034


Investment income

2,842

3,238

3,067

Total insurance group

23,927

24,731

22,249

Apparel

2,200

2,075

1,619

Building products

4,337

3,846

3,702

Finance and financial products

3,774

3,045

2,234

Flight services

3,244

2,431

2,837

McLane Company

23,373

13,743

—

Retail

2,601

2,311

2,103

Shaw Industries

5,174

4,660

4,334

Other businesses

3,213

3,040

2,375

71,843

59,882

41,453

Reconciliation of segments to consolidated amount:

Investment gains

3,496

4,129


Other revenues




Eliminations and other

(1,010

)

(191

)

(165

)

$

74,382

$

63,859

$

42,235

Earnings (loss) before taxes




Operating Businesses:

Insurance group:

Underwriting gain (loss):

GEICO

$


$


$


General Re



(1,393

)

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group


1,047


Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group




Net investment income

2,824

3,223

3,050

Total insurance group

4,375

4,941

2,652

Apparel




Building products




Finance and financial products




Flight services




McLane Company



—

Retail




Shaw Industries




Other businesses




7,440

7,717

5,319

Reconciliation of segments to consolidated amount:

Investment gains

3,489

4,121


Equity in earnings of MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company




Interest expense, excluding interest allocated to business segments

(92

)

(94

)

(86

)

Eliminations and other

(138

)

(153

)

(117

)

$

10,936

$

12,020

$

6,359



(21) Business segment data

(Continued)

Depreciation

Capital expenditures *

of tangible assets







Operating Businesses:

Insurance group

$


$


$


$


$


$


Apparel







Building products







Finance and financial products







Flight services







McLane Company



—



—

Retail







Shaw Industries







Other businesses







$

1,201

$

1,002

$


$


$


$


*

Excludes capital expenditures which were part of business acquisitions.

Goodwill

Identifiable assets

at year-end

at year-end





Operating Businesses:

Insurance group:

GEICO

$

1,370

$

1,370

$

15,968

$

14,088

General Re

13,518

13,515

37,734

38,831

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance and Primary Groups



61,057

56,085

Total insurance group

15,031

15,028

114,759

109,004

Apparel

(1)



1,582

1,523

Building products

2,159

2,131

2,803

2,593

Finance and financial products



30,086

28,338

Flight services

1,369

1,369

2,823

2,875

McLane Company

(2)



2,349

2,243

Retail



1,669

1,495

Shaw Industries

1,979

1,996

2,153

1,999

Other businesses

(3)



1,875

1,813

$

23,012

$

22,948

160,099

151,883

Reconciliation of segments to consolidated amount:

Corporate and other

1,796

1,829

Investments in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company

3,967

3,899

Goodwill

23,012

22,948

$

188,874

$

180,559



(1)

Excludes other intangible assets not subject to amortization of

$


$


(2)

Excludes other intangible assets not subject to amortization of



(3)

Excludes other intangible assets not subject to amortization of



Insurance premiums written by geographic region (based upon the domicile of the insured or
reinsured) are summarized below. Dollars are in millions.

Property/Casualty

Life/Health







United States

$

14,886

$

14,701

$

14,297

$

1,040

$

1,031

$

1,153

Western Europe

3,533

3,880

3,870




All other







$

19,006

$

19,378

$

18,967

$

2,022

$

1,838

$

1,899



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(21) Business segment data

(Continued)

Consolidated sales and service revenues in 2004, 2003 and 2002 totaled $43.2 billion, $32.1
billion and $17.0 billion respectively. Over 90% of such amounts in each year were in the United
States with the remainder primarily in Canada and Europe. In 2004, consolidated sales and service
revenues included $8.5 billion of sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. which were primarily related to
McLane’s wholesale distribution business that Berkshire acquired in May 2003.

Premiums written and earned by Berkshire’s property/casualty and life/health insurance
businesses during each of the three years ending December 31, 2004 are summarized below. Dollars
are in millions.

Property/Casualty

Life/Health







Premiums Written:

Direct

$

11,483

$

10,710

$

9,457

Assumed

8,039

9,227

10,471

$

2,775

$

2,517

$

2,031

Ceded

(516

)

(559

)

(961

)

(753

)

(679

)

(132

)

$

19,006

$

19,378

$

18,967

$

2,022

$

1,838

$

1,899

Premiums Earned:

Direct

$

11,301

$

10,342

$

8,825

Assumed

8,278

9,992

9,293

$

2,769

$

2,520

$

2,021

Ceded

(509

)

(688

)

(822

)

(754

)

(673

)

(135

)

$

19,070

$

19,646

$

17,296

$

2,015

$

1,847

$

1,886

(22) Contingencies and Commitments

Berkshire and its subsidiaries are parties in a variety of legal actions arising out of the
normal course of business. In particular, such legal actions affect Berkshire’s insurance and
reinsurance businesses. Such litigation generally seeks to establish liability directly through
insurance contracts or indirectly through reinsurance contracts issued by Berkshire subsidiaries.
Plaintiffs occasionally seek punitive or exemplary damages. Berkshire does not believe that such
normal and routine litigation will have a material effect on its financial condition or results of
operations. Berkshire and certain of its subsidiaries are also involved in other kinds of legal
actions, some of which assert or may assert claims or seek to impose fines and penalties in
substantial amounts and are described below.

In October 2003, General Reinsurance Corporation (“General Reinsurance”), a wholly owned
subsidiary of General Re Corporation (“General Re”), and four of its current and former employees,
including its former president, received subpoenas for documents from the U.S. Attorney for the
Eastern District of Virginia, Richmond Division (the “U.S. Attorney”) in connection with the U.S.
Attorney’s investigation of Reciprocal of America (“ROA”). ROA was a Virginia-based reciprocal
insurer of physician, hospital and lawyer professional liability risks. General Reinsurance
provided various reinsurance coverages to ROA from the late 1970’s through 2002. In December 2004
and on several occasions since then, the U.S. Attorney and the Department of Justice in Washington
requested additional information related to ROA and its affiliate, First Virginia Reinsurance,
Ltd., and information related to transactions between General Reinsurance or its subsidiaries and
other insurers. General Reinsurance has been providing such information and cooperating fully with
the U.S. Attorney and the Department of Justice in their ongoing investigation. Berkshire cannot
at this time predict the outcome of this investigation, is unable to estimate a range of possible
loss, if any, and cannot predict whether or not that outcome will have a material adverse effect on
Berkshire’s results of operations for at least the quarterly period when this investigation is
completed or otherwise resolved.

General Reinsurance and four of its current and former employees, along with numerous other
defendants, also have been sued in several civil actions related to ROA, including actions brought
by the Virginia Commissioner of Insurance, as Deputy Receiver of ROA, and the Tennessee
Commissioner of Insurance, as Liquidator for three Tennessee risk retention groups. Plaintiffs
assert various claims, including fraud and conspiracy, against General Reinsurance and others.
General Reinsurance intends to deny the allegations but Berkshire cannot at this time predict the
outcome of these actions, is unable to estimate a range of possible loss, if any, and cannot
predict whether or not that outcome will have a material adverse effect on Berkshire’s results of
operations for at least the quarterly period when these actions are resolved.

In December 2004, General Re received a request from the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”) for documents and information relating to non-traditional products. In January
2005, General Re also received a subpoena for the same documents and information from both the SEC
and the New York State Attorney General. The subpoenas apply to General Re and its affiliates,
including Berkshire Hathaway Inc., as well as Berkshire’s other insurance subsidiaries. General
Re, Berkshire and certain of its other insurance subsidiaries have been cooperating fully with the
SEC and the New York State Attorney General, including by providing them with information relating
to



(22) Contingencies and Commitments

(Continued)

transactions between General Re or its subsidiaries and other insurers. Berkshire cannot at this
time predict the outcome of these investigations, is unable to estimate a range of possible loss,
if any, and cannot predict whether or not that outcome will have a material adverse effect on
Berkshire’s results of operations for at least the quarterly period when these investigations are
completed or otherwise resolved.

The Liquidator of both FAI Insurance Limited and HIH Insurance Limited has advised two
subsidiaries of General Reinsurance, General Reinsurance Australia (“GRA”) and Kolnische
Ruckversicherungs-Gessellschaft (“KR”), of claims it intends to assert arising from insurance
transactions GRA entered into with FAI in May and June 1998. The Liquidator contends, among other
things, that GRA and KR engaged in deceptive conduct that assisted FAI in improperly accounting for
such transactions as reinsurance, and that such deception was a causal factor that led to the
insolvency of HIH. GRA and KR do not know whether the Liquidator will pursue these or other
claims, and Berkshire cannot predict the outcome of any such action and is unable to estimate a
range of possible loss, if any, and cannot predict whether or not that outcome will have a material
adverse effect on Berkshire’s results of operations for at least the quarterly period when such
action, if any, is resolved.

GEICO is a defendant in a number of class action lawsuits related to the use of certain
aftermarket parts to calculate the costs of repairing claimants vehicles. GEICO intends to
vigorously defend its position on these claim settlement procedures. These lawsuits are in various
stages of development and Berkshire cannot at this time predict the outcome of these actions, is
unable to estimate a range of possible loss, if any, and cannot predict whether or not that outcome
will have a material adverse effect on Berkshire’s results of operations for at least the quarterly
period when these actions are resolved.

The Company leases certain manufacturing, warehouse, retail and office facilities as well as
certain equipment. Total rent expense for all leases was $422 million, $384 million and $312
million in 2004, 2003 and 2002 respectively. Minimum rental payments for operating leases having
initial or remaining non-cancelable terms in excess of one year are as follows. Amounts are in
millions.

After







Total

$364

$290

$238

$180

$148

$408

$1,628

Several of the Company’s subsidiaries have made long-term commitments to purchase goods and
services used in their businesses. The most significant of these relate to NetJets’ commitments to
purchase up to 340 aircraft through 2014. Commitments under all such subsidiary arrangements are
approximately $3.1 billion in 2005, $1.2 billion in 2006, $1.1 billion in 2007, $990 million in
2008, $514 million in 2009 and $867 million after 2009.

(23) Quarterly data

A summary of revenues and earnings by quarter for each of the last two years is presented in
the following table. This information is unaudited. Dollars are in millions, except per share
amounts.


st


nd


rd


th

Quarter

Quarter

Quarter

Quarter


Revenues

$

17,184

$

17,996

$

19,172

$

20,030

Net earnings

(1)

1,550

1,282

1,137

3,339

Net earnings per equivalent Class A common share

1,008



2,171


Revenues

$

11,376

$

14,396

$

18,232

$

19,855

Net earnings

(1)

1,730

2,229

1,806

2,386

Net earnings per equivalent Class A common share

1,127

1,452

1,176

1,553

(1)

Includes investment gains, which, for any given period have no predictive
value, and variations in amount from period to period have no practical analytical value,
particularly in view of the unrealized appreciation now existing in Berkshire’s consolidated
investment portfolio. After-tax investment gains for the periods presented above are as
follows:


st


nd


rd


th

Quarter

Quarter

Quarter

Quarter

Investment gains – 2004

$


$

(172

)

$


$

1,498

Investment gains – 2003







Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure

None

Item 9 A. Controls and Procedures

At the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Corporation carried
out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Corporation’s
management, including the Chairman (Chief Executive Officer) and the Vice President-Treasurer
(Chief Financial Officer), of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Corporation’s
disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15. Based upon that
evaluation, the Chairman (Chief Executive Officer) and the Vice President-Treasurer (Chief
Financial Officer) concluded that the Corporation’s disclosure controls and procedures are
effective in timely alerting them to material information relating to the Corporation (including
its consolidated subsidiaries) required to be included in the Corporation’s periodic SEC filings.
The report called for by Item 308(a) of Regulation S-K is
incorporated herein by reference to Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, included on
page 36 of this report. The attestation report called for by Item 308(b) of Regulation S-K is
incorporated herein by reference to Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
internal control over financial reporting, included on page 36 of this report. There has been no change in the Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting during the
quarter ended December 31, 2004 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, the Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting.

Part III

Except for the information set forth under the caption “Executive Officers of the Registrant”
in Part I hereof, information required by this Part (Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14) is incorporated
by reference from the Registrant’s definitive proxy statement, filed pursuant to Regulation 14A,
for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Registrant to be held on April 30, 2005, which
meeting will involve the election of directors.

Part IV

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

(a)

1.

Financial Statements

The following Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as the Report of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, are included in Part II Item 8 of
this report:

PAGE

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2004 and 2003


Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the years ended
2004, 2003 and 2002


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
2004, 2003 and 2002


Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity and
Comprehensive Income for the years ended 2004, 2003 and 2002


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

42-64

2.

Financial Statement Schedule

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


Schedule I — Parent Company

Condensed Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2004
and 2003 and Condensed Statements of Earnings and
Cash Flows for the years ended 2004, 2003 and 2002

68-69

Other schedules are omitted because they are not required,
information therein is not applicable, or is reflected in
the Consolidated Financial Statements or notes thereto.

(b)

Exhibits

See the “Exhibit Index” at page 70.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto
duly authorized.

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

Date:

March 14, 2005

/s/ Marc D. Hamburg

Marc D. Hamburg

Vice President and

Principal Financial Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.

/s/ Warren E. Buffett

Chairman of the Board

March 14, 2005

Date

Warren E. Buffett

of Directors - Chief

Date

Executive Officer

/s/ Howard G. Buffett

Director

March 14, 2005

Howard G. Buffett

Date

/s/ William H. Gates III

Director

March 14, 2005

William H. Gates III

Date

/s/ Malcolm G. Chace

Director

March 14, 2005

Malcolm G. Chace

Date

/s/ David S. Gottesman

Director

March 14, 2005

David S. Gottesman

Date

/s/ Charlotte Guyman

Director

March 14, 2005

Charlotte Guyman

Date

/s/ Donald R. Keough

Director

March 14, 2005

Donald R. Keough

Date

/s/ Charles T. Munger

Vice Chairman of the

March 14, 2005

Charles T. Munger

Board of Directors

Date

/s/ Thomas S. Murphy

Director

March 14, 2005

Thomas S. Murphy

Date

/s/ Walter Scott, Jr.

Director

March 14, 2005

Walter Scott, Jr.

Date

/s/ Ronald L. Olson

Director

March 14, 2005

Ronald L. Olson

Date

/s/ Marc D. Hamburg

Vice President -

March 14, 2005

Marc D. Hamburg

Principal Financial Officer

Date

/s/ Daniel J. Jaksich

Controller

March 14, 2005

Daniel J. Jaksich

Date



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of

Berkshire Hathaway Inc.

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and
subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2004, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, and the effectiveness of the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, and have issued our
reports thereon dated March 3, 2005; such reports are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our
audits also included the financial statement schedule of the Company listed in Item 15. This
financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility
is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such financial statement schedule,
when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Omaha, Nebraska

March 3, 2005



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

(Parent Company)

Condensed Financial Information

(Dollars in millions)

Schedule I

Balance Sheets

December 31,



Assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$


$


Investments in consolidated subsidiaries

83,260

75,522

Investments in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company

3,140

3,026

Other assets



$

86,702

$

78,608

Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity:

Accounts payable and accrued expenses

$


$


Income taxes

(13

)

(28

)

Notes payable and other borrowings


1,032


1,012

Shareholders’ equity

85,900

77,596

$

86,702

$

78,608

Statements of Earnings

Year ended December 31,




Income items:

From consolidated subsidiaries:

Dividends

$


$


$


Undistributed earnings

6,369

7,112

3,484

7,195

7,866

4,019

Other income




7,215

7,876

4,025

Cost and expense items:

General and administrative




Interest to affiliates




Other interest




Income tax

(27

)

(35

)

(24

)




Equity in earnings of MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company




Net earnings

$

7,308

$

8,151

$

4,286

See Note to Condensed Financial Information



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

(Parent Company)

Condensed Financial Information

(Dollars in millions)

Schedule I (continued)

Statements of Cash Flows

Year ended December 31,




Cash flows from operating activities:

Net earnings

$

7,308

$

8,151

$

4,286

Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to cash flows
from operating activities:

Undistributed earnings of subsidiaries and MidAmerican Energy
Holdings Company

(6,513

)

(7,459

)

(3,801

)

Income taxes payable




Other



(2

)

Net cash flows from operating activities




Cash flows from investing activities:

Investments in and advances to subsidiaries

(534

)

(1,157

)

(226

)

Investments in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company



(1,185

)

Proceeds from sales of investments

—

—


Net cash flows from investing activities

(481

)

(1,078

)

(1,361

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Proceeds from borrowings




Repayments of borrowings

(267

)

(28

)

(3

)

Other




Net cash flows from financing activities

(124

)



Increase in cash and cash equivalents




Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year




Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$


$


$


Other cash flow information:

Income taxes paid

$

2,392

$

3,129

$

1,816

Interest paid




Note to Condensed Financial Information

During 2002, Berkshire issued 40,000 SQUARZ securities, consisting of $400 million par amount
of notes and 40,000 warrants that permit holders to acquire Berkshire’s Class A or Class B stock.
See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for additional information. In
addition, Berkshire’s other borrowings at December 31, 2004 and 2003 included $406 million and $632
million, respectively, from investment agreements entered into during 2003 and 2002. Principal is
payable under certain conditions at par prior to maturity and otherwise is payable after 2011.

Berkshire Hathaway Inc. has guaranteed certain debt obligations of its subsidiaries. As of
December 31, 2004, the unpaid balance of subsidiary debt guaranteed by Berkshire totaled
approximately $5.4 billion.

In addition, Berkshire has guaranteed the short term obligations of a member of its finance
and financial products group with respect to securities sold under agreements to repurchase.
Amounts due under such agreements totaled $5.8 billion at December 31, 2004, and were fully
collateralized with U.S. Government and mortgage-backed securities owned by that finance group member.



EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.


Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of June 19, 1998 between Registrant and General Re Corporation.

Incorporated by reference to Annex I to Registration Statement No. 333-61129 filed on Form S-4.

3 (i)

Restated Certificate of Incorporation

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Registration Statement No. 333-61129 filed on Form S-4.

3 (ii)

By-Laws

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Registration Statement No. 333-61129 filed on Form S-4.

4.1

Form of Indenture dated as of May 28, 2002 between Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and The
Bank of New York, note trustee with respect to 3% Notes due November 15, 2007 which were
issued in connection with the SQUARZ securities.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Registration Statement No. 333-98145 filed on Form S-3.

4.2

Form of Indenture dated as of October 6, 2003, between Berkshire Hathaway Finance
Corporation, Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and JP Morgan Trust Company (as successor trustee to Bank
One Trust Company, N.A.)

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Form 8-K of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. filed on
October 8, 2003.

Other instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of
Registrant and its subsidiaries are not being filed since the total amount of
securities authorized by all other such instruments does not exceed 10% of
the total assets of the Registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated
basis as of December 31, 2004. The Registrant hereby agrees to furnish to
the Commission upon request a copy of any such debt instrument to which it is
a party.


Statement of computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges


Subsidiaries of the Registrant


Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


Rule 13a - 14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications


Section 1350 Certifications

70