10-K


a88664e10vk.htm

10-K FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 12/31/2002

e10vk


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15

(d)

OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended

December 31, 2002

Commission file number

001-14905

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

47-0813844

State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification number)

1440 Kiewit Plaza, Omaha, Nebraska


(Address of principal executive office)

(Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number,
including area code

(402) 346-1400

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange on which registered

Class A Common Stock, $5.00 Par Value

New York Stock Exchange

Class B Common Stock, $0.1667 Par Value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to the filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [   ]

Indicate
by check mark whether the Registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes

x

No

o

State the aggregate market value of
the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant as of
June 28, 2002 $67,107,790,698*

Indicate number of shares outstanding of each of the Registrant’s classes of common stock:

March 5, 2003 — Class A Common Stock, $5 par value

1,309,423 shares

March 5, 2003 — Class B Common Stock, $0.1667 par value

6,763,493 shares

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Document

Incorporated In

Proxy Statement for Registrant’s

Annual Meeting to be held May 3, 2003

Part III

*

This aggregate value is computed at the last sale price of the common
stock on June 28, 2002. It does not include the value of Class A Common
Stock (530,037 shares) and Class B Common Stock (437 shares) held by
Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant and members of their
immediate families, some of whom may not constitute “affiliates” for
purpose of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.



Part I

Item 1. Business

Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (“Berkshire,” “Company” or “Registrant”) is a
holding company owning subsidiaries engaged in a number of diverse business
activities. The most important of these are insurance businesses conducted on
both a primary basis and a reinsurance basis. Berkshire also owns and operates
a number of other businesses engaged in a variety of activities, as identified
herein.

Operating decisions for the various Berkshire businesses are made by
managers of the business units. Investment decisions and all other capital
allocation decisions are made for Berkshire and its subsidiaries by Warren E.
Buffett, in consultation with Charles T. Munger. Mr. Buffett is Chairman and
Mr. Munger is Vice Chairman of Berkshire’s Board of Directors.

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

Berkshire’s insurance and reinsurance business activities are conducted
through more than 50 domestic and foreign-based insurance companies.
Berkshire’s insurance businesses provide insurance and reinsurance of property
and casualty risks primarily in the United States. In addition, as a result of
the General Re acquisition in December 1998, Berkshire’s insurance businesses
also include worldwide life, accident and health reinsurers, as well as
internationally-based property and casualty reinsurers.

In primary (or direct) insurance activities, the insurer assumes the risk
of loss from persons or organizations that are directly subject to the risks.
Such risks may relate to property, casualty (or liability), life, accident,
health, financial or other perils that may arise from an insurable event. In
reinsurance activities, the reinsurer assumes defined portions of risks that
other primary insurers or reinsurers have assumed in their own insuring
activities.

Reinsurance contracts are normally classified as treaty or facultative
contracts. Treaty reinsurance refers to automatic reinsurance coverage for all
or a portion of a specified class of risks ceded by the primary insurer, while
facultative reinsurance involves coverage of specific individual risks.
Coverage of risks assumed under reinsurance contracts may be classified as
quota-share or excess. Under quota-share (proportional or pro-rata)
reinsurance, the reinsurer shares proportionally in the original premiums,
losses, and expenses of the primary insurer or reinsurer. Excess (or
non-proportional) reinsurance provides for the indemnification of the primary
insurer or reinsurer for all or a portion of the loss in excess of an agreed
upon amount or “retention.” Both quota-share and excess reinsurance may
provide for aggregate limits of indemnification.

Except for regulatory considerations, there are virtually no barriers to
entry into the insurance and reinsurance industry. Competitors may be domestic
or foreign, as well as licensed or unlicensed. The number of competitors
within the industry is not known. Insurers and reinsurers compete on the basis
of reliability, financial strength and stability, ratings, underwriting
consistency, service, business ethics, price, performance, capacity, policy
terms and coverage conditions.

Insurers and reinsurers based in the United States are subject to
regulation by their states of domicile and by those states in which they are
licensed. The primary focus of regulation is to assure that insurers are
financially solvent and that policyholder interests are otherwise protected.
States establish minimum capital levels for insurance companies and establish
guidelines for permissible business and investment activities. States have the
authority to suspend or revoke a company’s authority to do business, as
conditions warrant. States regulate the payment of dividends by insurance
companies to their shareholders. Dividends of extraordinary amounts are
subject to prior regulatory approval.

Insurers may market, sell and service insurance policies in the states
that they are licensed. These insurers are referred to as admitted insurers.
Admitted insurers are, among other things, generally required to obtain
regulatory approval of policy forms issued and premium rates charged.
Non-admitted insurance markets have developed to provide insurance that is
otherwise unavailable from the admitted insurance markets for a state.
Non-admitted insurance, often referred to as “excess and surplus” lines, is
procured by state-licensed surplus lines brokers who place risks with insurers
not licensed in that state. Non-admitted insurance is subject to considerably
less regulation with respect to policy rates and forms. Reinsurers are normally
not required to obtain approval of premium rates and policy forms.

The insurance regulators of every state participate in the National
Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”). The NAIC adopts forms,
instructions and accounting procedures for use by U.S. insurers and reinsurers
in preparing and filing annual statutory financial statements. However, an
insurer’s state of domicile has ultimate authority over these matters.



Item 1. Business

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

(Continued)

Effective January 1, 2001, several new Statutory Accounting Principles
(“SAP”) were adopted in connection with the NAIC codification project, which
was intended to bring greater uniformity in accounting practices throughout the
United States. The amount of Berkshire’s aggregate reported regulatory
capital, also known as statutory surplus, declined due to the new requirement
under SAP to record deferred income taxes, including tax liabilities on
unrealized appreciation of investments. Previously, such liabilities were not
recognized under SAP. As a result of the adoption of the new statutory
accounting principles, the aggregate statutory surplus declined by about $8.0
billion.

Berkshire’s insurance companies maintain capital strength at exceptionally
high levels. This strength differentiates Berkshire’s insurance companies from
their competitors. Collectively, the aggregate statutory surplus of Berkshire’s
U.S. based insurers was approximately $28.4 billion at December 31, 2002. All
of Berkshire’s major insurance subsidiaries are rated AAA by Standard & Poor’s
Corporation, the highest Financial Strength Rating assigned by Standard &
Poor’s, and are rated A++ (superior) by A.M. Best with respect to their
financial condition and operating performance.

In addition to its activities relating to the annual statement and SAP,
the NAIC develops or adopts model laws, regulations and programs for use by its
members. Such matters deal with regulatory oversight of solvency, compliance
with financial regulation standards, and risk-based capital reporting
requirements.

The insurance industry and Berkshire’s reinsurers experienced severe
losses from the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack. On November 26, 2002,
President Bush signed into law the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002
(commonly referred to as “TRIA”), which established within the Department of
the Treasury a Terrorism Insurance Program (“Program”) for
commercial property and casualty insurers by providing Federal
reinsurance of insured terrorism losses. Under TRIA, the Department of the Treasury is charged with
certifying “acts of terrorism” as having been a terrorist act undertaken on
behalf of a foreign person or interest which resulted in an insured loss in
excess of $5 million. To be eligible for Federal reinsurance,
insurers must make available insurance
coverage for acts of terrorism, by providing policyholders with clear and
conspicuous notice of the amount of premium that will be charged for this
coverage and of the Federal share of any insured losses resulting from any act
of terrorism. Assumed reinsurance is specifically excluded from TRIA
participation. Thus, terrorism exclusions that were contained within
reinsurance contracts remained in effect. Reinsurers are not required
to offer terrorism coverage and are not eligible for Federal
reinsurance of terrorism losses.

In the
event of a certified act of terrorism, the Federal government will reimburse
insurers (conditioned on their satisfaction of policyholder notification
requirements) for 90% of their insured losses in excess of a company
deductible. The company’s deductible is calculated based on the direct earned
premium for relevant commercial lines written by the insurer’s entire insurance
group. For 2003, the company deductible is 7% of the insurance group
earned premium, which rises to 10% in 2004 and then to 15% in 2005,
assuming the Program is extended for a third year by the Treasury
Secretary. Berkshire’s deductible for 2003 is expected to
approximate $130 million. There is
also an annual cap on the Federal share in the amount of $100 billion for each
Program year, and insurers are free to exclude their liability for terrorism
losses in excess of this amount.

In general, regulation of the reinsurance industry outside of the United
States is subject to the differing laws and regulations of each country in
which the reinsurer has operations or writes premiums. Some jurisdictions,
such as the United Kingdom, impose complex regulatory requirements on
reinsurance businesses, while other jurisdictions, such as Germany, impose
fewer requirements. Local reinsurance business conducted by General Re’s
subsidiaries in some countries requires licenses issued by governmental
authorities. These licenses may be subject to modification, suspension or
revocation dependent on such factors as amount and types of reserves and
minimum capital and solvency tests. The violation of regulatory requirements
may result in fines, censures and/or criminal sanctions in various
jurisdictions.

Berkshire’s insurance and reinsurance operations are not significantly
affected by seasonal variances. However, periodic underwriting results from
Berkshire’s property/casualty insurance and reinsurance operations can be
volatile. Underwriting results can be significantly affected by the timing and
magnitude of catastrophe losses incurred as well as changes in estimates of
reserves for property and casualty losses.

Insurance underwriting operations are comprised of the following
sub-groups: (1) GEICO and its subsidiaries, (2) General Re and its
subsidiaries, (3) Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group, and (4) Berkshire
Hathaway Primary Group. Additional information related to each of these four
underwriting units follows.



Item 1. Business

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

(Continued)

GEICO

— Berkshire acquired GEICO in January 1996. GEICO is headquartered
in Chevy Chase, Maryland and its principal insurance subsidiaries include:
Government Employees Insurance Company, GEICO General Insurance Company, GEICO
Indemnity Company, and GEICO Casualty Company. Over the past five years, these
companies have offered primarily private passenger automobile insurance to
individuals in 48 states and the District of Columbia. The subsidiaries market
their policies primarily through direct response methods, in which applications
for insurance are submitted directly to the companies by telephone, through the
mail, or via the Internet.

For several years through 2000, premium volume grew as a result of
significantly higher advertising expenditures and competitive premium rates.
In response to underwriting losses in 2000, GEICO increased premium rates and
tightened underwriting standards. In addition, GEICO reduced advertising
expenditures in 2001 as such expenditures were not effectively producing
in-force policy growth. Consequently, new business sales declined
significantly and policies-in-force declined slightly in 2001. In 2002, aided
by recent rate increases taken by competitors, new business sales and
policies-in-force increased over the prior year. GEICO is currently the sixth
largest auto insurer, in terms of premium volume, in the United States.

Seasonal variations in GEICO’s insurance business are not significant.
However, extraordinary weather conditions or other factors may have a
significant effect upon the frequency or severity of automobile claims.

GEICO competes for private passenger auto insurance customers with other
companies that sell directly to the customer, as well as with companies that
use a traditional agency sales force. Private passenger automobile insurance
business is highly competitive in the areas of price and service. Some
insurance companies exacerbate price competition by selling their products for
a period of time at less than adequate rates, because they underestimate
ultimate claim costs and/or overestimate the amount of investment income
expected to be earned from the cash flow generated as a result of premiums
being received before claims are paid. GEICO will not knowingly follow that
strategy.

Private passenger auto insurance is stringently regulated by state
insurance departments. As a result, it is difficult for insurance companies to
differentiate their products to consumers. Competition for preferred-risk
private passenger automobile insurance, which is substantial, tends to focus on
price and level of customer service provided, whereas price tends to be the
primary focus for other risks. GEICO places great emphasis on customer
satisfaction. GEICO’s cost efficient direct response marketing methods and
emphasis on customer satisfaction enable it to offer competitive rates and
value to customers.

Management believes that the name and reputation of GEICO is a material
asset and protects its name and other service marks through appropriate
registrations.

General
Re

— Berkshire acquired General Re on December 21, 1998. General
Re was established in 1980 to serve as the holding company of General
Reinsurance Corporation (“GRC”) and its affiliates. General Re affiliates
include Kölnische Rückversicherungs — Gesellschaft AG (“Cologne Re”), a major
international reinsurer based in Germany. General Re held an 89% economic
interest in Cologne Re as of December 31, 2002.

General Re subsidiaries currently conduct global reinsurance businesses in
approximately 75 cities and provide reinsurance coverage worldwide. General Re
operates three principal reinsurance businesses: North American
property/casualty, international property/casualty, which consists of
reinsuance business written principally through Cologne Re and the London
market Faraday operations, and global life/health. General Re’s reinsurance
operations are primarily based in Stamford, Connecticut and Cologne, Germany.
General Re is one of the four largest reinsurers in the world based on net
premiums written and capital.

North American Property/Casualty Reinsurance

General Re’s North American property/casualty business is primarily treaty
and facultative reinsurance that is marketed directly to clients located
throughout the United States and Canada without involving a broker or
intermediary. The North American property/casualty businesses underwrite
predominantly excess coverages. The operations are headquartered in Stamford,
Connecticut, and are also conducted through 19 branch offices. The businesses
are domiciled in Delaware and licensed in the District of Columbia and all
states but Hawaii, where they are accredited reinsurers.



Item 1. Business

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

(Continued)

General Re

(Continued)

North American Property/Casualty Reinsurance

(continued)

Casualty reinsurance represented approximately 58% of North American
property/casualty net premiums written in 2002 and property reinsurance
represented approximately 32%. North American property/casualty business also
includes a few smaller specialty insurers. These businesses, domiciled in
Connecticut, North Dakota and Ohio, underwrite primarily liability and workers’
compensation coverages on an excess and surplus basis. Also, they underwrite
excess insurance for self-insured programs. These businesses together
represented approximately 10% of General Re’s North American property/casualty
net premiums written in 2002.

International Property/Casualty Reinsurance

In total, General Re operates its international property/casualty
reinsurance business in 31 countries and provides reinsurance coverage
worldwide. In 2002, the international property/casualty operations principally
wrote reinsurance in the form of treaties with lesser amounts written on a
facultative basis. Approximately 65% of international property/casualty
reinsurance is written on a direct basis. At the end of 1998, General Re acquired D.P. Mann
Holdings Limited, which was subsequently renamed Faraday Holdings Limited
(“Faraday”). International London-market business is primarily written through
Faraday, which owns both the managing agent of Syndicate 435 at Lloyd’s of
London and DP Mann Corporate Name Limited, which provides capacity and
participates in the results of Syndicate 435. Through Faraday, General Re’s
participation in Syndicate 435 was 97% in 2002 and will increase to 100% in
2003.

In 2002, approximately 48% of international premiums written related to
quota-share coverages and 52% were excess coverages. Property premiums written
were approximately 58% of total international property/casualty premiums and
casualty premiums were approximately 42%. Approximately 67% of international
property/casualty written premiums are attributed to Germany and Western
Europe.

Global Life/Health Reinsurance

This business includes the North American and international life/health
operations of Cologne Re. In 2002, approximately 61% of life/health net
premiums were written in the United States, 22% were written in Western Europe,
and the remaining 17% were written throughout the rest of the world. The
life/health operations provide individual life, group life, group health,
long-term care, individual health and finite risk reinsurance. Most of the
life reinsurance is written on a proportional treaty basis, with smaller
amounts written on a facultative basis, while health business is predominantly
written on an excess treaty basis. The life/health business is marketed
primarily on a direct basis with the exception of group health, which is
marketed primarily through brokers.

Berkshire
Hathaway Reinsurance Group

— The Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance
Group (“BHRG”) operates from offices located in Stamford, Connecticut. BHRG
provides principally excess and quota-share reinsurance to other property and
casualty insurers and reinsurers. Minimal organizational, but huge financial
resources are currently devoted to this business. The level of BHRG’s
underwriting activities can fluctuate significantly from year to year depending
on the perceived level of price adequacy in the various insurance and
reinsurance markets. Also, BHRG’s mix of business may change rapidly as a
result of quickly entering or exiting markets when pricing is deemed adequate
or inadequate.

For many years BHRG has written a considerable number of catastrophe
excess contracts. In 2002 BHRG also wrote a large volume of individual
policies for primarily excess property risks on both a primary and facultative
reinsurance basis. A catastrophe excess policy provides protection to the
counterparty from the accumulation of primarily property losses arising from a
single loss event or series of events. These policies may provide significant
amounts of indemnification per contract and a single loss event may produce
losses under a number of contracts.

BHRG does not generally cede any of the risks assumed under catastrophe
excess reinsurance contracts, due to perceived uncertainties in recovering
amounts from other reinsurers that are financially weaker. As a result, the
catastrophe excess reinsurance business can produce extreme volatility in
periodic underwriting results. Accounting consequences, however, do not
influence decisions of Berkshire’s management with respect to this or any other
business. This factor along with the extraordinary financial strength of BHRG,
are believed to be the primary reasons why BHRG has become a major provider of
such coverages.



Item 1. Business

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

(Continued)

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group

(Continued)

For several years prior to the second half of 2001, the amount of capital
(i.e. capacity) devoted to the catastrophe excess reinsurance business by the
industry had increased as a result of additional capital raised by newly-formed
entities and the introduction in the financial markets of new types of
catastrophe risk management products. The effect of such increased insuring
capacity had been a reduction in opportunities to write this business at
acceptable prices. In the latter part of 2001, the prices for property
coverages increased. As a result, BHRG has written a significant amount of
business since that time, including excess catastrophe reinsurance, and primary
insurance and facultative reinsurance of large individual property risks. As
overall pricing in the insurance and reinsurance markets improved during 2002
and industry insuring capacity in certain markets became scarce, BHRG wrote a
number of quota-share contracts covering property and casualty risks of U.S.
insurers as well as several quota-share arrangements for Lloyd’s syndicates.
Despite the increased level of new business written in 2002, the level of
future rate adequacy and industry capacity subsequent to December 31, 2002 in
certain markets is uncertain, thus the level of acceptances of such business in
the future is uncertain.

BHRG has entered into several retroactive reinsurance contracts over the
past five years. Coverage under such contracts is usually provided on an
excess basis and amounts of indemnification are subject to an aggregate limit,
which is usually substantial. Retroactive reinsurance contracts afford
protection to ceding companies against the adverse development of claims
arising under policies issued in prior years. Significant amounts of
environmental and latent injury claims may arise under the contracts.

In BHRG’s non-catastrophe reinsurance business, the concept of
time-value-of-money is often an important element in establishing prices and
contract terms, since the payment of losses under the insurance contracts are
often expected to occur over lengthy periods of time. Losses payable under the
contracts are normally expected to exceed premiums and therefore, produce
underwriting losses. This business is accepted, in part, because of the large
amounts of policyholder funds (“float”) generated for investment, the economic
benefit of which will occur through investment income in future periods.

Berkshire
Hathaway Primary Group

— The Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group is
a collection of smaller primary insurance operations that provide a wide
variety of insurance coverages to insureds principally in the United States.
National Indemnity Company and certain affiliates underwrite motor vehicle and
general liability insurance to commercial enterprises. This business is
written nationwide primarily through insurance agents and brokers and is based
in Omaha, Nebraska.

Other insurance operations include several companies referred to as the
“Homestate Companies,” based in Colorado and Nebraska and with branch offices
in several other states, which market various commercial coverages for standard
risks to insureds in their state of domicile and an increasing number of other
states. Also included is Central States Indemnity Company of Omaha located in
Omaha, Nebraska, which provides credit and income protection insurance marketed
primarily through credit card issuers and utility providers nationwide and
Kansas Bankers Surety (“KBS”) Company. Based in Kansas, KBS is an insurer of
primarily crime, fidelity, errors and omissions, officers and directors
liability and related insurance coverages directed toward small and
medium-sized banks throughout the Midwest United States.

In 2000, Berkshire acquired U.S. Investment Corporation (“USIC”). USIC,
through its three subsidiaries, is a specialty insurer that underwrites
commercial, professional and personal lines of insurance on an admitted and
excess and surplus basis. Policies are marketed in all 50 states and the
District of Columbia. USIC companies currently underwrite and market over 50
distinct specialty insurance products.

Property and casualty loss reserves

Berkshire’s property and casualty insurance companies establish reserves
for the estimated unpaid losses and loss expenses with respect to claims
occurring on or before the balance sheet date. Such estimates include
provisions for reported claims, or case estimates, provisions for
incurred-but-not-reported (“IBNR”) claims and legal and administrative costs to
settle claims.

The estimates of unpaid losses and amounts recoverable under reinsurance
are continually reviewed using a variety of statistical and analytical
techniques. Reserve estimates are based upon past claims experience, currently
known factors and trends and estimates of future claim trends. Implicit in the
factors considered in establishing ultimate claim amounts are the effects of
including social, legal and economic inflation. Irrespective of the techniques
used, estimation error is inherent in the process of establishing unpaid loss
reserves as of any given date. Uncertainties in projecting ultimate claim
amounts are enhanced by the time lag between when a claim actually occurs and
when it becomes reported and settled. This time lag is referred to as the
“claim-tail.”



Item 1. Business

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

(Continued)

Property and casualty loss reserves

(Continued)

The claim-tail for most property coverages is expected to be relatively
short. The claim-tail for liability coverages, such as product liability and
workers’ compensation, can be especially long as claims are often reported
years after the occurrence. The claim-tail for reinsurers is further extended
because claims are first reported through one or more intermediary primary
insurers or reinsurers. Liabilities assumed under retroactive reinsurance
contracts are often expected to have an especially long-tail, as a significant
portion of the claims are expected to derive from asbestos, environmental and
other latent injury perils. These policies contain aggregate limits of
indemnification, so the risks of additional claims under the contracts are
limited.

Berkshire attempts to be reasonably conservative in establishing claim
reserves. However, for the reasons previously discussed, the amounts of the
reserves established as of a given balance sheet date and the subsequent actual
losses and loss expenses paid will likely differ, perhaps by a material amount.
There is no guaranty that the recorded reserves will prove to be adequate.
Changes in unpaid loss estimates arising from the review process are charged or
credited, as applicable, to earnings in the period of the change.

Through 1998, Berkshire’s insurers ceded relatively minor amounts of risk
to other reinsurers. As a result of Berkshire’s acquisition of General Re at
the end of 1998, larger amounts of risk were ceded to other reinsurers.
Reinsurance does not relieve the ceding company of its obligation to indemnify
policyholders for claims arising under its policies.

Berkshire discounts structured settlement reinsurance liabilities at
market rates prevailing at the contract inception date. Such liabilities are
characterized as being fixed and determinable in both amount and duration at
the contract inception date. Certain North American workers’ compensation loss
reserves of General Re are being discounted for both statutory and GAAP
reporting purposes at an interest rate of 4.5 percent per annum. The
amortization of the discount is included as a component of insurance losses and
loss adjustment expenses in periodic operating results.

In addition, incurred losses from property and casualty reinsurance
include amortization of deferred charges established on retroactive reinsurance
contracts. At inception of these contracts, unpaid losses are recorded at the
estimated ultimate payment amount. However, a deferred charge asset is also
recorded at the inception of the contract. The liabilities, net of deferred
charges established, are recorded as losses incurred. The deferred charges are
subsequently amortized over the expected claim payment period, with such
charges recorded as a component of insurance losses and loss
adjustment expenses.

The table which follows presents the development of Berkshire’s
consolidated net unpaid losses for property/casualty contracts from 1992
through 2002. Data in the table related to acquired businesses is included
from the acquisition date forward. Most significantly, GEICO (acquired January
2, 1996) is included as of December 31, 1995 and General Re (acquired December
21, 1998) is included as of December 31, 1998.

The first section of the table reconciles the estimated liability for
unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses recorded at the balance sheet date for each of
the indicated years. The net liability represents the estimated amount of
claims and claim expenses, including IBNR, outstanding as of the balance sheet
date, reduced by estimates of amounts recoverable under ceded reinsurance,
deferred charges on retroactive reinsurance contracts, and reserve discounts.

The next section of the table shows the re-estimated amount of the
previously recorded net liability based on experience as of the end of each
succeeding year. The estimate is increased or decreased as losses are paid and
more information becomes known about the frequency and severity of unpaid
claims. The line labeled “cumulative deficiency (redundancy)” represents the
aggregate change in the initial estimates from the original balance sheet date
through December 31, 2002. These amounts have been reported in earnings over
time as a component of losses and loss adjustment expenses. The redundancies or deficiencies shown in
each column should be viewed independently of the other columns, because such
adjustments made in earlier years may also be included as a component of the
adjustments in the more recent years. To avoid misstating the cumulative
redundancies or deficiencies, liabilities assumed under retroactive reinsurance
contracts are treated as occurrences in the year the transaction was entered
into, as opposed to when the underlying losses actually occurred, which is, by
definition, generally prior to the contract date. Due to the significance of
the deferred charges and reserve discounts, the cumulative changes in such
balances, which are included in the cumulative deficiency/redundancy amounts,
are also provided.



Item 1. Business

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

(Continued)

Property and casualty loss reserves

(Continued)

The bottom part of the table shows the cumulative amount of net losses and
loss adjustment expenses paid with respect to recorded net liabilities as of the end of
each succeeding year. While the information in the table provides a historical
perspective on the adequacy of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses established in
previous years, readers are cautioned against extrapolating redundancies or
deficiencies of the past on current unpaid loss balances. Berkshire management
believes that the reserves established as of the end of 2002 are adequate.
However, due to the inherent uncertainties in the reserving process, it cannot
be assured that such balances will ultimately prove to be adequate. Dollar
amounts are in millions.

Beginning in 1998, unpaid losses include amounts related to the
international property and casualty business of General and Cologne Re. The
amount of re-estimated liabilities in the table above related to these
operations reflect the exchange rates as of the end of the re-estimation
period. The cumulative foreign exchange effect represents the cumulative
effect of changes in foreign exchange rates from the original balance sheet
date to the end of the re-estimation period.



Item 1. Business

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

(Continued)

Investments —

The levels of reinsurance assumed business in recent years,
plus the acquisitions of GEICO and General Re, have produced an exceptional
increase in the amount of “float” held by Berkshire’s insurance businesses.
Float is an approximation of the amount of net policyholder funds available for
investment. That term denotes the sum of unpaid losses and loss adjustment
expenses, unearned premiums and other policyholder liabilities, less the
aggregate amount of premium balances receivable, losses recoverable from
reinsurance ceded, deferred policy acquisition costs, deferred charges on
reinsurance contracts, and related deferred income taxes. The amount of float
has grown from about $3.8 billion at the end of 1995 to about $41.2 billion at
the end of 2002. Float increased by about $2.6 billion upon Berkshire’s
acquisition of GEICO in 1996 and another $14.9 billion upon Berkshire’s
acquisition of General Re in 1998. Since their respective acquisition dates,
float of GEICO and General Re have increased. Also, float of BHRG has
increased significantly over the past five years, largely due to retroactive
reinsurance policies. The increases in the amounts of float plus the
substantial amounts of shareholder capital devoted to insurance and reinsurance
activities have generated meaningful increases in the levels of investments and
investment income.

Investment portfolios of insurance subsidiaries include equity ownership
percentages of other publicly traded companies, which are primarily
concentrated in relatively few companies. Investment portfolios of Berkshire’s
insurance businesses also include large amounts of fixed income securities,
which consist of obligations of the U.S. Government, U.S. states and
municipalities, mortgage-backed securities issued primarily by the three major
U.S. Government and Government-sponsored agencies, as well as obligations of
foreign governments and corporate obligations. Investment portfolios are
primarily directed by Berkshire’s corporate office.

Non-Insurance Businesses of Berkshire

The Registrant’s numerous and diverse non-insurance businesses are
described below.

Apparel —

Berkshire’s apparel businesses include manufacturers and
distributors of a variety of clothing and footwear. Businesses engaged in the
manufacture and distribution of clothing include Fruit of the Loom (“FOL”),
Garan and Fechheimer Brothers. Berkshire’s footwear businesses include H.H.
Brown Shoe Group and Justin Brands.

On April 30, 2002 Berkshire acquired FOL’s basic apparel businesses, which
prior to the acquisition date operated as debtors-in-possession pursuant to its
Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing. Berkshire did not acquire FOL’s ultimate parent
as well as certain other entities in the FOL group or assume any liabilities of
the entities not acquired. FOL, headquartered in Bowling Green, Kentucky, is a
vertically integrated manufacturer and distributor of basic apparel products
sold principally under the

Fruit of the Loom

® and

BVD

® labels. FOL is a market
leader in the men’s and boys’ underwear market, and is one of the branded
market leaders in the women’s and girls’ underwear market. In addition FOL
produces and sells undecorated T-shirts and fleecewear under its own labels in
a variety of colors and styles. Products are distributed from FOL’s
distribution centers to retailers, mass merchandisers and wholesalers in North
America and Europe.

As a vertically integrated manufacturer, FOL performs most of its own
spinning, knitting, cloth finishing, cutting, sewing and packaging. For the
North American market, the majority of capital-intensive spinning and cloth
manufacturing operations are located in highly automated facilities in the
United States with a portion of cloth manufacturing performed offshore.
Labor-intensive sewing and finishing operations are located in lower labor cost
facilities in Central America, Mexico, and the Caribbean. For the European
market, capital-intensive manufacturing operations are performed in Ireland and
Northern Ireland and sewing is performed in Morocco.

Berkshire acquired Garan on September 4, 2002. Garan, based in New York
City, designs, manufactures, and sells apparel primarily for children and to a
lesser degree for men and women. Products are sold under private labels of its
customers as well as its own trademarks, including

Garanimals

®

.

Over the past
five years, the production of most of Garan’s products has moved outside of the
United States to facilities primarily located in Central America. Substantially
all of Garan’s products are sold through its distribution centers in the U.S.
to major national chain stores, department stores, and specialty stores. Over
85% of Garan’s sales are to Wal-Mart.

FOL’s and Garan’s markets are highly competitive, consisting of many
domestic and foreign manufacturers and distributors. Competition is generally
based upon price, product style, quality and customer service.

Fechheimer Brothers manufactures, distributes, and sells uniforms,
principally for the public safety markets, including police, fire, postal and
military markets. Fechheimer was acquired by Berkshire in 1986 and is based in
Cincinnati, Ohio.



Item 1. Business

Non-Insurance Businesses of Berkshire

(Continued)

Apparel

(Continued)

Justin Brands was acquired in August 2000 and H.H. Brown Shoe Group has
been owned by Berkshire for more than the past five years. Collectively,
Berkshire’s shoe businesses purchase or manufacture and distribute work and
casual shoes (H.H. Brown Shoe Group) and western-style footwear
(Justin Brands) under
a number of brand names. A significant portion of the shoes produced by
Berkshire’s shoe businesses is manufactured or purchased from sources outside
the U.S. Over the past three years, a number of manufacturing facilities in
the United States and Canada have been closed. Products are principally sold
in the United States through a variety of channels including major retailers
and department stores, footwear chains, specialty stores as well as through
company-owned retail stores.

Building Products

- In August 2000, Berkshire entered the building
products business with the acquisition of Acme Building Brands (“Acme”). Acme,
headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas, manufactures and distributes clay bricks
(

Acme Brick

), concrete block (

Featherlite

) and cut limestone (

Texas Quarries

).
In addition, Acme distributes a number of other building products of other
manufacturers, including glass block, brick, floor and wall tile and other
masonry products. Acme also sells ceramic floor and wall tile, as well as
marble, granite and other stones through its subsidiary, American Tile.
Products are sold primarily in the Central and Southwest United States through
company-operated sales offices. Acme distributes products primarily to
homebuilders and masonry and general contractors.

Acme operates 24 clay brick manufacturing facilities located in eight
states, eight concrete block facilities in Texas and Louisiana, and one stone
quarry fabrication facility in Texas. The demand for Acme’s products is
seasonal, with higher sales in the warmer weather months, and is subject to the
level of construction, which can be cyclical. Acme also owns and leases
properties and mineral rights that supply raw materials used in many of its
manufactured products.

Berkshire acquired Benjamin Moore & Co. (“Benjamin Moore”) in December of
2000. Benjamin Moore, headquartered in Montvale, New Jersey, is a leading
formulator, manufacturer and retailer of a broad range of primarily
architectural coatings, available principally in the United States and Canada.
Products include water-thinnable and solvent-thinnable general purpose coatings
(paints, stains and clear finishes) for use by the general public, contractors
and industrial and commercial users. Products are marketed under various
registered brand names, including

Regal

®,

Superspec

®,

Superhide

® and

Moorgard

®.

Benjamin Moore relies primarily on an independent dealer network for the
distribution of its products. The network consists of over 3,200 retailers
with over 4,100 storefronts in the United States and Canada. Benjamin Moore
also owns and manages several multiple-outlet dealerships and stand-alone
stores in various parts of the U.S. and Canada serving primarily contractors
and general consumers. Included in the 4,100 storefronts at December 31, 2002
were 162 Benjamin Moore majority-owned stores positioned in the market as
independent dealers that offer a broad array of products including Benjamin
Moore brands and other competitor coatings, wallcoverings, window treatments
and sundries.

The architectural coatings industry is highly competitive and has
historically been subject to intense price competition. It is estimated that
there are approximately 500 coatings manufacturers in the United States, many
of which are small companies, which compete regionally and locally. The top
three companies in the industry, which includes Benjamin Moore positioned
third, comprise about 50% of the total market.

Berkshire acquired Johns Manville (“JM”) in February 2001. JM is a
leading manufacturer of fiber glass wool insulation products for walls, attics
and floors in homes and commercial buildings, as well as pipe, duct and
equipment insulation products. JM is also the leading full-line supplier of
roofing systems and components for low-slope commercial and industrial roofs in
North America. In addition, JM manufactures nonwoven mats, fabrics and fibers
used as reinforcements in building and industrial applications, and high
efficiency air filtration media. Fiber glass is the basic material in a
majority of JM’s products, although JM also manufactures a significant portion
of its products with other materials to satisfy the broader needs of its
customers. JM is headquartered in Denver, Colorado, and operates 47
manufacturing facilities in North America, Europe and China.

JM sells its products through a wide variety of channels including
contractors, distributors, retailers, manufacturers and fabricators. JM’s
results of operations are affected by the levels of new and repair/remodel
commercial and residential construction and are moderately seasonal due to
increases in construction activity that typically occur in the second and third
quarters of the calendar year.



Item 1. Business

Non-Insurance Businesses of Berkshire

(Continued)

Building Products

(Continued)

JM has leading market positions in each of its businesses and typically
competes with a few large national competitors and several smaller, regional
competitors. JM’s products compete primarily on the basis of value, product
differentiation and customization and breadth of product line.

Berkshire acquired a 90% equity interest in MiTek Inc. (“MiTek”) in July
2001. MiTek is headquartered in Chesterfield, Missouri, and is the world’s
leading supplier of engineered connector products, engineering software and
services, and manufacturing machinery to the truss fabrication segment of the
building components industry. Primary customers are truss fabricators who
manufacture pre-fabricated roof and floor trusses and wall panels for the
residential building market. MiTek also participates in the light commercial
and institutional construction industry with all-steel framing products
marketed under the

Ultra-Span

name.

MiTek operates 16 manufacturing facilities located in 11 countries and 29
sales/engineering offices located in 19 countries. Products are sold to
customers in approximately 80 countries, and MiTek’s business is subject to
seasonal and cyclical changes in the overall housing industry.

Finance and Financial Products

- Berkshire’s finance and financial
products businesses engage in a variety of finance related activities. BH
Finance invests in fixed-income financial instruments, often on a leveraged
basis, pursuant to proprietary strategies with the objective of earning above
average returns. Management recognizes and accepts that losses may occur due to the nature
of the investments acquired as well as the markets in general. In addition the
level of investments held will vary over time depending on the magnitude and
number of strategies employed. This business is conducted from Berkshire’s
corporate headquarters.

Gen Re Securities and affiliates (“GRS”) was acquired by Berkshire as part
of the December 1998 acquisition of General Re. GRS has been a dealer in
derivative products for over the past five years, offering a full line of
interest rate, currency, and equity swap and option products, as well as
structured finance products. In January 2002, a decision was made to commence
a long-term run-off of GRS. The run-off is expected to occur over a period of
several years, during which GRS will limit its new business to certain risk
management transactions and will unwind its existing asset and liability
positions in an orderly manner.

Berkshire acquired XTRA in September 2001. XTRA, operationally based in
St. Louis, Missouri and headquartered in Westport, Connecticut, is a leading
global transportation equipment lessor with operations in the North American
over-the-road, domestic intermodal and marine container markets. XTRA manages
a diverse fleet of approximately 225,000 units, constituting a net investment
of approximately $1.1 billion. The fleet includes over-the-road trailers,
intermodal chassis and piggyback trailers, and domestic and marine containers.

Transportation equipment customers lease equipment to cover cyclical,
seasonal and geographic needs and as a substitute for purchasing. In addition,
capital and capacity constrained transportation providers often use leasing to
maximize their asset utilization and reduce capital expenditures. By
maintaining a large and diversified fleet, XTRA is able to provide customers
with a broad selection of equipment and quick response times.

Berkshire’s other finance businesses include Berkshire Hathaway Credit
Corporation (commercial real estate financing), Berkshire Hathaway Life
Insurance (sales of annuity contracts), and Scott Fetzer Financial Group, Inc.
(consumer receivable financing primarily in connection with sales of Kirby
products).

Flight Services

- In 1996, Berkshire acquired FlightSafety International
Inc. (“FSI”). FSI’s corporate headquarters is located at LaGuardia Airport in
Flushing, New York. FSI engages primarily in the business of providing high
technology training to operators of aircraft and ships. FSI’s training
activities include: advanced pilot training in the operation of aircraft and
air traffic control procedures; aircrew training for military and other
government personnel; aircraft maintenance technician training; ab-initio
(primary) pilot training to qualify individuals for private and commercial
pilots’ licenses; and ship handling and related training services. FSI also
develops classroom instructional systems and materials for use in its training
business and for sale to others.



Item 1. Business

Non-Insurance Businesses of Berkshire

(Continued)

Flight Services

(Continued)

A significant part of FSI’s training programs derives from the use of
simulators, which incorporate computer-based technology to replicate the
operation of particular aircraft or ocean-going vessels. Simulators reproduce,
with a high degree of accuracy, certain sights, movements, and aircraft or
vessel control responses experienced by the operator of the aircraft or ship.
FSI utilizes approximately 261 training devices, including 219 civil aviation
simulators. FSI’s training businesses are conducted primarily in the United
States, with facilities located in 21 states. FSI also operates training
facilities in Australia, Brazil, Canada, France and the United Kingdom. During
1997, FSI and The Boeing Company, a leading airplane manufacturer, established
a joint venture to provide pilot and aircrew training for airline customers
around the world. In October 2002, FSI’s ownership interest in the joint
venture was redeemed by the joint venture.

FSI also designs and manufactures full motion flight simulators, visual
displays, and other training equipment for use in its training business and for
sale to others. Manufacturing facilities are located in Oklahoma and Missouri.

Berkshire acquired NetJets Inc. (“NJ” — formerly Executive Jet, Inc.), in
1998. NJ is the world’s leading provider of fractional ownership programs for
general aviation aircraft. The fractional ownership of aircraft concept
permits customers to acquire a specific percentage of a certain aircraft type
and allows them to utilize the aircraft for a specified number of flight hours
per annum. In addition, NJ provides management, ground support and flight
operation services to customers after the sale. NJ’s revenues derive from both
the sale of fractional interests as well as management and usage fees charged
to clients in connection with flight operations.

The fractional ownership concept is designed to meet the needs of
customers who cannot justify the purchase of an entire aircraft based upon
expected usage. In addition, fractional ownership programs are available for
corporate flight departments seeking to outsource their general aviation needs
or looking for additional capacity for peak periods and for others that
previously chartered aircraft. NJ places great emphasis on safety and customer
service. Its programs are designed to offer customers guaranteed availability
of aircraft, lower and predictable operating costs and increased liquidity.

In 1986, NJ created the fractional ownership of aircraft concept and
introduced its NetJets® program in the United States with one aircraft type.
In 2002 the NetJets® program operated 13 aircraft types, including the Boeing
Business Jet. In late 1996, NJ expanded its fractional ownership programs to
Europe via a joint venture arrangement which is now 100% owned by NJ.

NJ is currently believed to be the world’s largest purchaser of general
aviation aircraft. The company maintained approximately 400 aircraft in its
fleet as of December 31, 2002. NJ management believes that the market for
fractional ownership of aircraft programs is large and growing and will
contribute to NJ’s continued growth over the foreseeable future. NJ’s
executive offices are located in New Jersey, while most of its logistical and
flight operations are based at Port Columbus International Airport in Columbus,
Ohio. NJ’s European operations are based in Lisbon, Portugal.

Retail Businesses —

Berkshire’s retail businesses consist of several
independently managed home furnishings and jewelry retail operations.
Information regarding each of these operations follows.

The retail furniture businesses are the Nebraska Furniture Mart (“NFM”),
R.C. Willey Home Furnishings (“R.C. Willey”), Star Furniture Company (“Star”),
and Jordan’s Furniture, Inc. (“Jordan’s”). NFM is 80% owned by Berkshire,
whereas R.C. Willey, Star and Jordan’s are 100% owned by Berkshire. Berkshire
has owned its interest in NFM since 1983, acquired R.C. Willey in 1995, Star in
1997 and Jordan’s was acquired in 1999.

NFM, R.C. Willey, Star and Jordan’s each offer a wide selection of
furniture and accessories. In addition, NFM and R.C. Willey sell a full line
of major household appliances, electronics, computers and other home
furnishings. NFM, R.C. Willey, Star and Jordan’s also offer customer financing
to complement their retail operations. An important feature of each of these
businesses is their ability to control costs and to produce high business
volume from offering significant value to their customers.



Item 1. Business

Non-Insurance Businesses of Berkshire

(Continued)

Retail Businesses

(Continued)

NFM operates its business from a very large retail complex and sizable
warehouse and administrative facilities in Omaha, Nebraska, which includes
approximately 550,000 square feet of retail space. NFM’s customers are drawn
from a radius around Omaha of approximately 300 miles and it is the largest
furniture retailer in the area. In 2000, NFM acquired Homemakers Furniture
located in Des Moines, Iowa. Homemakers has two facilities that include
approximately 225,000 square feet of retail space. NFM began the development
of a new store near Kansas City, Missouri in 2001. The store will anchor a new
retail and entertainment district and is expected to open in the third quarter
of 2003.

R.C. Willey, based in Salt Lake City, is the dominant home furnishings
retailer in the Intermountain West region of the United States. R.C. Willey
operates eight full retail stores, two distribution centers and three clearance
facilities. These facilities — which include approximately 925,000 square feet
of retail space — are strategically located throughout northern Utah, Meridian,
Idaho, and Henderson, Nevada. The Henderson store opened in September 2001,
and a new store is scheduled to open in Nevada in 2003.

Star’s retail facilities include about 575,000 square feet of retail space
in nine locations, with an additional location scheduled to open in 2003. Six
retail locations are in Houston, Texas where Star is a major furniture retailer
in that market. Jordan’s operates a furniture retail business from four
locations with approximately 325,000 square feet of retail space in
Massachusetts and New Hampshire. Jordan’s is believed to be the largest
furniture retailer, as measured by sales, in the Massachusetts and New
Hampshire areas. Jordan’s is well known in its markets for its unique store
arrangements and advertising campaigns.

Since 1989, Berkshire has owned an interest (currently 88%) in Borsheim
Jewelry Company, Inc. (“Borsheim’s”). From its single store located in Omaha,
Nebraska, Borsheim’s is a high volume retailer of fine jewelry, watches,
crystal, china, stemware, flatware, gifts and collectibles. In 1995, Berkshire
acquired Helzberg’s Diamond Shops, Inc. (“Helzberg’s”). Helzberg’s, based in
North Kansas City, Missouri, operates a chain of 247 retail jewelry stores in
35 states. Most of Helzberg’s stores are located in malls or power strip
centers, and operate under the name

Helzberg Diamonds

. In July 2000, Berkshire
acquired The Ben Bridge Corporation (“Ben Bridge Jeweler”). Ben Bridge
Jeweler, based in Seattle, Washington, operates a chain of 69 upscale retail
jewelry stores in 11 states, primarily in the Western United States. Ben
Bridge Jeweler stores are located primarily in major shopping malls.

Scott Fetzer Companies

- The Scott Fetzer Companies are a diversified
group of 21 businesses that manufacture and distribute a wide variety of
products for residential, industrial and institutional use. The two most
significant of these businesses are Kirby home cleaning systems and Campbell
Hausfeld

.

Kirby’s home cleaning systems are sold to approximately 740 independent
authorized factory distributors in the United States and foreign countries.
Sales are made through in-the-home demonstrations by independent salespeople.
The distributors independently establish the prices at which they offer Kirby
products. Kirby and its distributors believe they offer a premium product, and
it is believed that prices are generally higher than most of its major
competitors.

Campbell Hausfeld manufactures a variety of products including air
compressors, air tools, painting systems, pressure washers and welders, which
are marketed primarily to retailers and industrial products distributors.
Scott Fetzer management believes that Campbell Hausfeld offers products that
are a superior value to the consumer in comparison to its competitors.

Shaw Industries

- Berkshire acquired Shaw Industries, Inc. (“Shaw”) in
January 2001. Shaw, headquartered in Dalton, Georgia, is the world’s largest
carpet manufacturer based on both revenue and volume of production. Shaw
designs and manufactures approximately 1,600 styles of tufted and woven carpet
for residential and commercial use under about 20 brand and trade names and
under certain private labels. Shaw’s manufacturing operations are fully
integrated from the processing of yarns through the finishing of carpet.
Shaw’s carpet is sold in a broad range of prices, patterns, colors and
textures.

Shaw sells its wholesale products to over 50,000 retailers, distributors
and commercial users throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico; through
its own residential and commercial contract distribution channels to various
residential and commercial end-users in the United States; and to a lesser
degree, exports to additional overseas markets. Shaw also provides
installation services and sells laminate flooring, ceramic tile and hardwood
flooring.



Item 1. Business

Non-Insurance Businesses of Berkshire

(Continued)

Shaw Industries

(Continued)

Substantially all carpet manufactured by Shaw is tufted carpet made from
nylon, polypropylene, polyester and wool. In the tufting process, yarn is
inserted by multiple needles into a synthetic backing, forming loops which may
be cut or left uncut, depending on the desired texture or construction. During
2002 Shaw processed approximately 97% of its requirements for carpet yarn in
its own yarn processing facilities.

Shaw’s wholesale products are marketed domestically by approximately 1,600
salaried and commissioned sales personnel directly to retailers and
distributors and to large national accounts. Shaw’s seven full-service
distribution facilities and 19 redistribution centers, along with centralized
management information systems, enable it to provide prompt delivery of its
products to both its retail customers and wholesale distributors.

The floor covering industry is highly competitive with more than 200
companies engaged in the manufacture and sale of carpet in the United States
and numerous manufacturers engaged in hard surface floor covering production
and sales. According to industry estimates, carpet accounts for approximately
65% of the total United States production of all flooring types. The principal
methods of competition within the floor covering industry are quality, style,
price and service.

Other Non-Insurance Businesses —

Berkshire’s other non-insurance
businesses consist of a wide array of businesses that engage in a variety of
business activities. Additional information related to these businesses is as
follows.

The

Buffalo News

publishes a Sunday edition and eight editions each
weekday from its headquarters in Buffalo, New York.

See’s Candies

produces boxed chocolates and other confectionery products
with an emphasis on quality in two large kitchens in California.

International Dairy Queen

services a system of over 6,000 stores operating
under the names

Dairy Queen, Orange Julius

and

Karmelkorn

that offer various
dairy desserts, beverages, prepared foods, blended fruit drinks, popcorn and
other snack foods.

CORT Business Services Corporation

was acquired in 2000 by an 80.1% owned
subsidiary of Berkshire and is the leading national provider of rental
furniture, accessories and related services in the “rent-to-rent” segment of
the furniture rental industry.

Berkshire holds securities possessing 9.7% of the voting interest and an
83.4% (80.2% on a fully-diluted basis) economic interest in

MidAmerican Energy
Holdings Company

(“MidAmerican”). Additional information concerning
Berkshire’s investments in MidAmerican is provided in Note 3 to the
Registrant’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

MidAmerican is a U.S. based global energy company that generates,
distributes and supplies energy to utilities, government entities, retail
customers and other customers located throughout the world. MidAmerican’s
businesses include MidAmerican Energy Company (“MidAmerican Energy”), a
regulated public utility principally engaged in the business of generating,
transmitting, distributing and selling electric energy and distributing,
selling and transporting natural gas at the retail level in Iowa, Illinois,
South Dakota and Nebraska. In addition to retail sales, MidAmerican Energy
delivers electric energy to other utilities, marketers and municipalities, who
distribute it to end-use customers.

Through its various subsidiaries, MidAmerican also distributes electricity
and engages in other auxiliary businesses in the United Kingdom, operates
geothermal power plants in the Philippine Islands, and has interests in other
power generating facilities in the United States. During 2002 MidAmerican
acquired two interstate natural gas pipelines which transport natural gas to
customers in the Southwest and Upper Midwest regions of the United States.
MidAmerican also owns the second largest real estate brokerage firm in the U.S.



Item 1. Business

Non-Insurance Businesses of Berkshire

(Continued)

In February 2002, Berkshire acquired

Albecca Inc.

(“Albecca”). Albecca is
headquartered in Norcross, Georgia, and primarily does business under the

Larson-Juhl

name. Albecca designs, manufactures and distributes a complete
line of high quality, branded custom framing products, including wood and metal
moulding, matboard, foamboard, glass, equipment and other framing supplies.

Berkshire acquired

CTB International Corp.

(“CTB”) in October 2002. CTB,
headquartered in Milford, Indiana, is a leading designer, manufacturer and
marketer of systems used in the grain industry and in the production of
poultry, hogs, and eggs. Products are produced in the United States and Europe
and are sold through a global network of independent dealers and distributors,
with peak sales occurring in the second and third quarters.

In October 2002 Berkshire acquired

The Pampered Chef, LTD

(“TPC”), the
largest direct seller of high quality kitchen tools in the United States.
Products are researched, designed and tested by TPC, and manufactured by third
party suppliers. From its Addison, Illinois headquarters, TPC utilizes a
network of more than 67,000 independent sales representatives to sell its
products through home-based demonstrations, principally in the United States.

Berkshire Hathaway Inc., its subsidiaries and affiliates, employed
approximately 147,000 persons at December 31, 2002.

Additional information with respect to Berkshire’s businesses

The amounts of revenue, operating profit and identifiable assets
attributable to the aforementioned business segments are included in Note 18 to
Registrant’s Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8, Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data. Additional information regarding
Registrant’s investments in fixed maturity and marketable equity securities is
included in Notes 4 and 5 to Registrant’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

Berkshire’s
periodic reports filed with the SEC, which include Form 10-K, Form
10-Q, Form 8-K and amendments thereto, may be accessed by the
public free of charge from the SEC and through Berkshire. Electronic
copies of these reports can be accessed at the SEC’s website
(http://www.sec.gov) and indirectly through Berkshire’s website
(http://www.berkshirehathaway.com). Copies of these reports may also
be obtained, free of charge, upon written request to: Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., 1440 Kieiwit Plaza, Omaha, NE 68131, Attn. Corporate
Secretary. The public may read or obtain copies of these reports
from the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street
N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549 (1-800-SEC-0330).



Item 2. Properties

The physical properties used by the Registrant and its significant
business segments are summarized below:

Approx.

Owned/

Square

Business

Location

Type of Property

Leased

Footage

Berkshire

Omaha, NE

Corporate offices

Leased

10,000

GEICO

Chevy Chase, MD, New York,

Georgia, Texas, California,

Florida and Virginia

Offices

Owned

2,800,000

Various locations throughout the

U.S

Offices and drive-in

claims facilities

Leased

250,000

General Re

Cologne, Germany and

various non-U.S. locations

Stamford, CT, various U.S.

and non-U.S. locations

Offices

Offices

Owned

Leased

148,000

1,445,000

Berkshire Hathaway

Reinsurance Group

Stamford, CT and 6 other locations

in the U.S. and U.K

Offices

Leased

73,000

Berkshire Hathaway

Primary Group

Omaha, NE

Omaha, NE, Wayne, PA and

12 other locations throughout

the U.S. and U.K.

Offices

Offices

Owned

Leased

81,000
196,000

Apparel businesses

Clothing

86 locations in 13 U.S. states,

Canada, Mexico, Europe, Africa

and Central America

Illinois, Georgia, Tennessee,

Florida and 8 other U.S.

states (21 stores)

Mfg. plants/Offices

Mfg. plants/Offices

Warehouses/Offices

Warehouses/Offices

Retail stores

Retail stores

Owned

Leased

Owned

Leased

Owned

Leased

6,238,000
1,854,000
2,942,000
756,000
41,000
182,000

Footwear

Pennsylvania, Texas, Maine

and 6 other U.S. states

Pennsylvania, Maine, New

Hampshire, New York,

Florida and 13 other U.S.

states (94 stores)

Mfg. plants/Offices/

Warehouses

Mfg. plants/Offices/

Warehouses

Retail stores

Retail stores

Owned

Leased

Owned

Leased

2,062,000

209,000

285,000
419,000

Building products

250 locations in 32 U.S. states,

Canada, Mexico, Europe, Asia

and Africa

165 locations in 20 U.S. states

and Canada

Mfg. plants/Offices

Mfg. plants/Offices

Warehouses

Warehouses

Retail stores

Owned

Leased

Owned

Leased

Leased

20,327,000
1,600,000
3,967,000
1,695,000
696,000

Finance and financial
products

16 locations in 10 U.S. states, the

U.K. and Mexico

84 locations throughout the U.S.,

Canada and Mexico

Offices

Offices

Equipment

storage lots

Owned

Leased

Owned

Leased

201,000
347,000
411 acres
303 acres

Flight services

77 locations in 26 U.S. states,

Canada, France, Mexico,

Switzerland, Portugal and the U.K.

Oklahoma and Missouri

Offices/Training

facilities/Hangars

Mfg. plant

Mfg. plant

Owned

Leased

Owned

Leased

1,098,000
1,764,000

188,000
146,000



Item 2. Properties (continued)

Approx.

Owned/

Square

Business

Location

Type of Property

Leased

Footage

Retail businesses

Furniture

Omaha, NE, Salt Lake City, UT,
   Houston, TX, Avon, MA and 4

other U.S. states (28 stores)

Iowa

Retail stores

Retail stores

Offices/Warehouses

Offices/Warehouses

Mfg. plant

Owned

Leased

Owned

Leased

Owned

1,982,000
653,000
2,506,000
799,000
260,000

Jewelry

Omaha, NE, Kansas City, MO,

Seattle, WA and 34 other U.S.

states (317 stores)

Retail stores

Offices

Leased

Owned

733,000
99,000

Scott Fetzer Companies

Cleveland, OH, and other

locations in 16 U.S. states

(49 locations)

Canada, England, Taiwan and

Mexico

Mfg. plants/

Warehouses/

Offices

Warehouses/Offices

Warehouses/Offices

Owned

Leased

Leased

2,326,000

923,000
86,000

Shaw Industries

183 locations in 28 U.S. states

Mfg. plants/Offices

Mfg. plants/Offices

Warehouses

Warehouses

Owned

Leased

Owned

Leased

16,656,000
912,000
4,128,000
3,909,000

All other businesses

Various locations primarily in

the U.S., Canada and Europe

Approximately 279 locations
   primarily in the U.S.

Mfg. plants

Mfg. plants

Offices/Warehouses

Offices/Warehouses

Restaurants/Stores

Restaurants/Stores

Owned

Leased

Owned

Leased

Owned

Leased

3,020,000
1,397,000
1,701,000
5,365,000
90,000
468,000



Item 3. Legal Proceedings

Litigation pending against the Company and its subsidiaries is not
considered material or is ordinary routine litigation incidental to the
business.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None

Executive Officers of the Registrant

Following is a list of the Registrant’s executive officers:

Name

Age

Position with Registrant

Since

Warren E. Buffett


Chairman of the Board


Marc D. Hamburg


Vice President


Charles T. Munger


Vice Chairman of the Board


Each executive officer serves, in accordance with the by-laws of the
Registrant, until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the
next annual meeting of shareholders and until his respective successor is
chosen and qualified or until he sooner dies, resigns, is removed or becomes
disqualified. Mr. Buffett and Mr. Munger also serve as directors of the
Registrant.

Part II

Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Stock and Related Security Holder Matters

Market Information

Berkshire’s Class A and Class B Common Stock are listed for trading on the
New York Stock Exchange, trading symbol: BRK.A and BRK.B. The following table
sets forth the high and low sales prices per share, as reported on the New York
Stock Exchange Composite List during the periods indicated:



Class A

Class B

Class A

Class B

High

Low

High

Low

High

Low

High

Low

First Quarter

$

74,900

$

69,000

$

2,499

$

2,285

$

74,600

$

63,000

$

2,475

$

2,085

Second Quarter

78,500

66,500

2,620

2,215

69,800

62,800

2,330

2,075

Third Quarter

75,900

59,600

2,530

1,925

70,900

59,000

2,367

1,977

Fourth Quarter

75,000

67,800

2,500

2,244

75,600

66,600

2,525

2,210

Shareholders

Berkshire had approximately 8,200 record holders of its Class A Common
Stock and 14,300 record holders of its Class B Common Stock at March 5, 2003.
Record owners included nominees holding at least 400,000 shares of Class A
Common Stock and 6,500,000 shares of Class B Common Stock on behalf of
beneficial-but-not-of-record owners.

Dividends

Berkshire has not declared a cash dividend since 1967.



Item 6. Selected Financial Data

Selected Financial Data for the Past Five Years

(dollars in millions except per share data)



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Results of Operations

Net earnings for each of the past three years are disaggregated in the
table that follows. Amounts are after deducting income taxes and minority
interest.

— (dollars in millions) —




Insurance – underwriting

$

(292

)

$

(2,662

)

$

(1,041

)

Insurance – investment income

2,096

1,968

1,946

Non-insurance businesses

2,218

1,305


Interest expense

(55

)

(60

)

(61

)

Purchase-accounting adjustments

(65

)

(603

)

(818

)

Other




Earnings before realized investment gains

3,903

(47

)


Realized investment gains



2,392

Net earnings

$

4,286

$


$

3,328

The business segment data (Note 18 to Consolidated Financial Statements)
should be read in conjunction with this discussion.

Insurance — Underwriting

A summary follows of underwriting results from Berkshire’s insurance
businesses for the past three years.

— (dollars in millions) —




Underwriting gain (loss) attributable to:

GEICO

$


$


$

(224

)

General Re

(1,393

)

(3,671

)

(1,254

)

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group


(647

)

(162

)

Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group




Underwriting loss — pre-tax

(411

)

(4,067

)

(1,615

)

Income taxes and minority interest

(119

)

(1,405

)

(574

)

Net underwriting loss

$

(292

)

$

(2,662

)

$

(1,041

)

Berkshire engages in both primary insurance and reinsurance of property
and casualty risks. Through General Re, Berkshire also reinsures life and
health risks. In primary insurance activities, Berkshire subsidiaries assume
defined portions of the risks of loss from persons or organizations that are
directly subject to the risks. In reinsurance activities, Berkshire
subsidiaries assume defined portions of similar or dissimilar risks that other
insurers or reinsurers have subjected themselves to in their own insuring
activities. Berkshire’s principal insurance businesses are: (1) GEICO, the
sixth largest auto insurer in the U.S., (2) General Re, one of the four largest
reinsurers in the world, (3) Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group (“BHRG”) and
(4) Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group. Berkshire’s management views insurance
businesses as
possessing two distinctive operations – underwriting and investment.
Accordingly, Berkshire evaluates performance of underwriting operations without
any allocation of investment income.

A significant marketing strategy followed by all these businesses is the
maintenance of extraordinary capital strength. Statutory surplus of
Berkshire’s insurance businesses totaled approximately $28.4 billion at
December 31, 2002. This superior capital strength creates opportunities,
especially with respect to reinsurance activities, to negotiate and enter into
contracts of insurance and reinsurance specially designed to meet unique needs
of sophisticated insurance and reinsurance buyers. Additional information
regarding Berkshire’s insurance and reinsurance operations follows.



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Insurance

—

Underwriting

(Continued)

GEICO

GEICO provides primarily private passenger automobile coverages to
insureds in 48 states and the District of Columbia. GEICO policies are
marketed mainly by direct response methods in which customers apply for
coverage directly to the company over the telephone, through the mail or via
the Internet. This is a significant element in GEICO’s strategy to be a low
cost insurer and, yet, provide high value to policyholders.

GEICO’s underwriting results for the past three years are summarized
below.

Premiums earned in 2002 were $6,670 million, up 10.1% from $6,060 million
in 2001. The growth in premiums earned for voluntary auto was 9.6%, reflecting
a 9.0% increase in policies-in-force during the past year. In 2001, premiums
earned were $6,060 million, an increase of 8.0% over 2000. The increase in
premiums in 2001 was due to increased rates, as policies-in-force declined
0.8%.

Policies-in-force over the last twelve months increased 7.0% in the
preferred risk auto market and increased 17.4% in the standard and nonstandard
auto lines. Voluntary auto new business sales in 2002 increased 30.9% compared
to 2001. The sales closure ratio (new policies written to quotes) and the
policy retention rate both improved in 2002 aided by recent rate increases
taken by competitors. Total voluntary auto policies-in-force at December 31,
2002 were 419,000 higher than at December 31, 2001, following a slight decline
in policies-in-force in 2001 from 2000.

Losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred increased 6.1% to $5,137
million in 2002. GEICO’s loss ratio was 77.0% in 2002 compared to 79.9% in
2001. The improvement reflects the impact of rate increases and better than
expected loss experience. Claims frequency changes have been slight for most
coverages. In 2002, claim frequencies benefited from mild winter weather
during the first quarter while during 2001 claim frequencies were lower than
normal due to the September 11th terrorist attack. In 2002, claim severity
continued to increase but at a slower rate than in 2001. Catastrophe losses
added 0.3 points to the loss ratio in 2002 compared to 0.8 points in 2001.

GEICO companies are defendants in several class action lawsuits related to
the use of collision repair parts not produced by the original auto
manufacturers, the calculation of “total loss” value and whether to pay
diminished value as part of the settlement of certain claims. GEICO intends to
vigorously defend its position on these claim settlement procedures. However,
the lawsuits are in various stages of development and the ultimate outcome
cannot be reasonably determined at this time.

Underwriting expenses for 2002 were $1,117 million, an increase of $120
million (12.0%) from 2001, following a decrease of $28 million in 2001 from
2000. Advertising expense was unchanged in 2002 as compared to 2001 and
significantly lower than in 2000. Underwriting expenses reflect higher
associate profit sharing expense than in 2001.

GEICO’s business produced outstanding underwriting results in each of the
past two years reflecting favorable claims experience and the effects of rate
increases taken primarily in 2000. GEICO believes its rates are adequate in
nearly all states and expects additional policy growth in 2003 as competitors
increase their rates.

General Re

General Re conducts a reinsurance business, which provides reinsurance
coverage in the United States and worldwide. General Re’s principal
reinsurance operations are comprised of: (1) North American property/casualty,
(2) international property/casualty, which consists of reinsurance business
written principally through Germany-based Cologne Re and London market business
written principally through the Faraday operations, and (3) global life/health.
At December 31, 2002, General Re had an 89% economic ownership interest in
Cologne Re.



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Insurance

—

Underwriting

(Continued)

General Re (Continued)

General Re’s pre-tax underwriting results for the past three years are
summarized below.

— (dollars in millions) —

Premiums earned

Pre-tax underwriting loss







North American property/casualty

$

3,967

$

3,968

$

3,389

$

(1,019

)

$

(2,843

)

$

(656

)

International property/casualty

2,647

2,397

3,046

(319

)

(746

)

(518

)

Global life/health

1,886

1,988

2,261

(55

)

(82

)

(80

)

$

8,500

$

8,353

$

8,696

$

(1,393

)

$

(3,671

)

$

(1,254

)

General Re’s underwriting results were negatively impacted in both 2002
and 2001 by increases in loss reserve estimates established for claims
occurring in prior years with respect to the North American property/casualty
business. Additionally, underwriting results for 2001 were severely impacted
by losses from the September 11th terrorist attack.

General Re took significant underwriting actions to better align premium
rates with coverage terms during the past two years. Improved current accident
year results for 2002 in the North American, London market and global
life/health operations, in part, reflect these efforts. However, management
continues to believe that additional premium rate increases and more favorable
coverage terms are needed in certain lines and territories to achieve targeted
long-term underwriting profitability. Information with respect to each of
General Re’s underwriting units is presented below.

North American property/casualty

General Re’s North American property/casualty operations underwrite
predominantly excess reinsurance across multiple lines of business. Excess
reinsurance provides indemnification of losses above a stated retention on
either an individual claim basis or in the aggregate across all claims in a
portfolio. Reinsurance contracts are written on both a treaty (group of risks)
and facultative (individual risk) basis.

Premiums earned in 2002 were unchanged from premiums earned in 2001.
Premiums earned in 2001 increased over 2000 levels by $579 million (17.1%).
Premiums earned in 2002 were primarily impacted by rate increases (estimated at
approximately $800 million) across most lines of business, partially offset by
reductions from cancellations in excess of new business written. Premiums
earned in 2001 included $400 million from one retroactive reinsurance contract
and a large quota share agreement. An aggregate excess reinsurance contract
produced earned premiums of $404 million in 2000. There were no such contracts
written in 2002.

The North American property/casualty business had underwriting losses of
$1,019 million in 2002, $2,843 million in 2001, and $656 million in 2000. The
underwriting loss in 2002 included charges of $990 million (24.9% of premiums
earned in 2002) from increases to prior years’ loss reserves. Underwriting
losses for 2001 and 2000 included charges of $800 million and $92 million
respectively for prior years’ loss reserve increases. Underwriting results in
2002 also included a net gain of $66 million with respect to the 2002 accident
year. The favorable effects of re-pricing efforts and improved contract terms
and conditions implemented over the past two years contributed to the net gain.
In addition, underwriting results for 2002 were favorably impacted by the
absence of major catastrophes and other large individual property losses ($20
million or greater), a condition that is unusual and should not be expected to
occur regularly in the future. As a result, 2002 accident year results for
property lines were better than normally expected. Underwriting results for
2001 included approximately $1.54
billion of net losses from the September 11th terrorist attack, as well as
$87 million of losses from other catastrophes (principally Tropical Storm
Allison) and other large individual property losses. Results for 2000 included
$53 million of catastrophe and other large property losses and a loss of $239
million from a large excess reinsurance contract.

The adjustment of $990 million to prior year loss estimates in 2002 was from
casualty lines of business and related principally to the 1997 through 2000
accident years. Increases in prior years’ general liability claims totaled
about $400 million. The remainder of the increase in prior years’ reserves in
2002 was split fairly evenly among



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Insurance

—

Underwriting

(Continued)

General Re (Continued)

workers’ compensation, medical malpractice, auto liability and professional
liability coverages. The 2002 prior year loss reserve adjustment was net of a
$115 million reduction in reserves established in connection with the September
11th terrorist attack. The reduction in reserves related to the September 11th
terrorist attack was due primarily to decreased loss estimates for certain
claims. As of December 31, 2002, approximately $241 million of claims arising
as a result of the September 11th terrorist attack have been paid.

About $386 million of the reserve increases for prior years’ claims
resulted from actual reported claims exceeding expectations. This
under-estimation of expected claims indicated that the level of premium rate
erosion that occurred in recent years was greater than had been previously
contemplated in General Re’s earlier loss reserve estimates. As a result of
the higher than anticipated reported losses, General Re increased reserves for
incurred but not reported (“IBNR”) claims by an additional $604 million.

The process of establishing reserves by General Re, like most other
reinsurers, requires numerous estimates and judgments by management. Loss
reserve estimates are based primarily on claims reported by ceding companies
(such amounts generally exclude IBNR claims), analysis of historical claim
reporting patterns of ceding companies, and estimates of expected overall loss
amounts for all accident periods. Expected overall losses are partly based
upon assumptions with respect to both General Re’s and ceding companies’
premium rate adequacy. Premium rate adequacy assumptions are an indicator of
the profitability of the subject business reinsured and are important in
establishing reserves for claims that will be reported and settled over long
periods into the future. Claim frequency or count analyses are generally not
practicable because such data is either not provided by ceding companies or
otherwise not timely or reliable. Loss reserves, which are established based
on estimates by line of business and type of coverage, are regularly
re-evaluated and appropriate adjustments are made to bring reserves in line
with the revised estimates.

IBNR reserves are largely comprised of liability and workers’ compensation
exposures because these claims tend to be reported by and settled with ceding
companies over long time periods. Therefore, such claims are subject to a
higher degree of estimation error as a result of changes in the legal
environment, jury awards, medical cost trends and general cost inflation.
Based upon statistical analysis of past reporting trends, General Re estimates
how much IBNR is required to cover claims that will be reported by ceding
companies in future years. Subsequently, as claims are reported, amounts are
measured against previous expectations, with variances (positive or negative)
recognized in earnings as a component of losses and loss adjustment expenses.
Significant variances are analyzed and revised judgments are made with respect
to remaining IBNR reserve levels, and are also recognized in earnings.

There is considerable judgment employed in developing the estimates
because of inherent delays in claim emergence and reporting by ceding
companies, particularly with respect to liability claims. Normally only about
15% of ultimate excess casualty reinsurance claims are reported in the year of
loss occurrence. General Re has not quantified a range of possible reserve
estimates.

Among other factors, management believes the revised estimates in 2002 for
prior years were due to: (a) an increase in claim severity, which has a
leveraged effect on excess of loss coverages provided by General Re by
producing a disproportionate increase in claims exceeding General Re’s
attachment point; (b) escalating medical inflation and utilization that
adversely affect workers’ compensation and other casualty lines; (c) an
increased frequency in corporate bankruptcies, scandals and accounting
restatements which increased losses under directors and officers coverages; (d)
broadened coverage terms under General Re’s reinsurance contracts during 1997
through 2000; (e) increased ceding companies’ reserve inadequacies, likely
arising from broadened terms and conditions, as well as previously unrecognized
premium inadequacies; and (f) increased primary company insolvencies, which
changed historical claim reporting patterns.

General Re continuously estimates its liabilities and related reinsurance
recoverables for environmental and asbestos claims and claim expenses. Most
liabilities for such claims arise from exposures in North America.
Environmental and asbestos exposures do not lend themselves to traditional
methods of loss development determination and therefore reserves related to
these exposures may be considered less reliable than reserves for standard
lines of business (e.g., automobile). The estimate for environmental and
asbestos losses is composed of four parts: known claims, development on known
claims, IBNR and direct excess coverage litigation expenses. At December 31,
2002, environmental and asbestos loss reserves for North America were $1,161
million ($1,008



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Insurance

—

Underwriting

(Continued)

General Re (Continued)

million net of reinsurance). As of December 31, 2001 such amounts totaled
$1,248 million ($966 million net of reinsurance). Net paid losses on such
claims were $59 million in 2002. The changing legal environment concerning
asbestos claims together with the widespread use of asbestos related products
in the U.S. over the past century has made quantification of potential
exposures very difficult. Future changes to the legal environment may
precipitate significant changes in reserves.

Due to the long-tail nature of casualty business, a very high degree of
estimation is involved in establishing loss reserves for current accident year
occurrences. Thus, the ultimate level of underwriting gain or loss with
respect to the 2002 accident year will not be fully known for many years.
North American property/casualty loss reserves were $16.2 billion ($14.9
billion net of reinsurance) at December 31, 2002 and $15.1 billion ($13.6
billion net of reinsurance) at December 31, 2001. About 50% of these amounts
represent estimates of IBNR losses.

Although loss reserve levels are now believed to be adequate, there can be
no guarantees. A relatively small change in the estimate of net reserves can
produce large changes in annual underwriting results. For instance, a one
percentage point change in net reserves at year end 2002 would produce a
pre-tax underwriting gain or loss of $149 million, or roughly 4% of premiums
earned in 2002. In addition, the timing and magnitude of catastrophes and
large individual property losses are expected to continue to contribute to
volatile periodic underwriting results in the future.

International property/casualty

The international property/casualty operations write quota-share and
excess reinsurance on risks around the world. International property/casualty
business is written on a direct reinsurance basis (primarily through Cologne
Re) and in the London market (through Faraday). In recent years, General Re’s
largest international markets have been in Western Europe.

Overall premiums earned in 2002 exceeded 2001 amounts by $250 million
(10.4%). Adjusting for the effects of foreign exchange rates, premiums earned
in local currencies increased 8.5% in 2002. In local currencies, premiums
earned in the direct markets declined 2.1% in 2002, primarily due to a
substantial decline in premiums in Argentina, the non-renewal of
under-performing business in continental Europe and parts of Asia, partially
offset by increases in the United Kingdom and Australia. London market
premiums in local currencies increased 41.9% primarily due to increased
participation in Faraday Syndicate 435 from 60.6% in 2001 to 96.7% in 2002.
Premiums earned in 2001 declined $649 million from 2000. The primary reason
for the decline was the elimination of the one-quarter lag in reporting by this
business in the fourth quarter of 2000. As a result, 2000’s fourth quarter
included two quarters of activity for the international property/casualty
operations. Otherwise, international property/casualty premiums earned in 2001
reflected growth in the London market operations from increased participation
in Faraday Syndicate 435 (60.6% in 2001 versus 39.7% in 2000).

The direct market reinsurance operations produced an underwriting loss of
$315 million for 2002. Significantly impacting 2002 results were $240 million
of net losses on prior years’ loss estimates, where claims reported exceeded
actuarial expectations, and approximately $107 million in catastrophe and other
large individual property losses, principally European flood losses in August
and European storm Jeanette in October. The underwriting loss of $568 million
in 2001 included $247 million of net losses related to the September 11th
terrorist attack and $143 million resulting from other large individual
property losses. Large individual property losses for 2000 aggregated $80
million.

London market operations produced an underwriting loss in 2002 of $4
million, compared with an underwriting loss of $178 million in 2001.
Underwriting results in 2002 benefited from improved market conditions and
below normal property losses in the current accident year, but were adversely
impacted by $17 million of European flood losses and $80 million of increases
in prior years’ loss reserve estimates. The London market underwriting loss in
2001 included $66 million from the September 11th terrorist attack as well as
relatively high property losses.



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Insurance

—

Underwriting

(Continued)

General Re (Continued)

At December 31, 2002, the international property/casualty operations had
gross loss reserves accrued of $7.1 billion, ($6.4 billion net of reinsurance).
Loss reserves for these operations are established based on methodologies
similar to those used in the North American property/casualty operations;
however, cedant reports for continental Europe and certain other international
markets are generally required less frequent or are due later than those
provided by North American cedants.

Global life/health

General Re’s global life/health affiliates reinsure such risks worldwide.
Premiums earned in 2002 for the global life/health operations declined $102
million (5.1%) from 2001. In 2001, premiums declined $273 million from 2000,
primarily due to the elimination of the one quarter reporting lag in the fourth
quarter of 2000. Global life/health generated underwriting losses of $55
million in 2002, compared with $82 million in 2001, and $80 million in 2000.
Underwriting results for 2001 include $19 million of net losses related to the
September 11th terrorist attack. Otherwise, the poor underwriting results in
2002 and 2001 reflected losses generated from discontinued lines of the health
business and in 2000 were from the international health business.

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group

The Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group (“BHRG”) underwrites
excess-of-loss and quota-share reinsurance coverages for insurers and
reinsurers around the world. BHRG is believed to be one of the leaders in
providing catastrophe excess-of-loss reinsurance. Since July 2001, BHRG has
also written a number of policies or contracts primarily for large or otherwise
unusual discrete commercial property risks on a direct and facultative
reinsurance basis. This business is referred to as individual risk. BHRG’s
pre-tax underwriting results are summarized in the table below.

— (dollars in millions) —

Premiums earned

Pre-tax underwriting gain







Catastrophe and individual risk

$

1,283

$


$


$

1,006

$

(150

)

$


Retroactive reinsurance


1,993

3,944

(446

)

(371

)

(191

)

Quota share

1,289



(86

)

(57

)

(3

)

Other





(69

)

(164

)

Total

$

3,300

$

2,991

$

4,712

$


$

(647

)

$

(162

)

During the second half of 2001, opportunities for BHRG to write
catastrophe and individual risk business increased significantly, particularly
post-September 11. Contracts written may provide exceptionally large limits of
indemnification, often several hundred million dollars and occasionally in
excess of $1 billion, and may cover catastrophe risks (such as hurricanes,
earthquakes or other natural disasters) or other property risks (such as
aviation and aerospace, commercial multi-peril or terrorism). Industry
capacity devoted to these coverages will likely increase in the future which
will reduce the opportunities for BHRG to underwrite risks at acceptable
prices. Consequently, the volume of such business may decline, perhaps
significantly.

The catastrophe and individual risk business produced substantial
underwriting gains in 2002 and 2000, due to the lack of catastrophic or
otherwise large loss events. The net underwriting loss in 2001 included about
$410 million from the September 11th terrorist attack. Losses related to the
September 11th terrorist attack were reduced by about $85 million in 2002, as
payments to settle claims under certain policies were below original estimates.
Approximately $300 million of reserves related to the terrorist attack
remained as of December 31, 2002. Although a very large underwriting gain was
achieved in 2002 as a result of unusually low catastrophe occurrences, a single
loss event could have easily eliminated those gains. Berkshire’s management
expects a catastrophic event will one day occur that will produce an
extraordinary level of losses under policies written by BHRG.

BHRG cedes virtually none of the risk associated with this business to
other reinsurers due to the perceived uncertainty of collecting recoverable
losses ceded to financially weaker companies. Underwriting results of this
business will remain subject to extreme volatility. Nevertheless, Berkshire’s
management remains willing to accept such volatility provided there is a
reasonable prospect of long-term profitability.



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Insurance

—

Underwriting

(Continued)

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group (Continued)

Retroactive reinsurance contracts indemnify ceding companies for losses
arising under insurance or reinsurance contracts written in the past, usually
many years ago. While contract terms vary, losses under the contracts are
subject to a very large aggregate dollar limit, occasionally exceeding $1
billion under a single contract. Generally, it is also anticipated, although
not assured, that claims under retroactive contracts will be paid over long
time periods. As a result, premiums paid by ceding companies are, in part,
discounted for time value. However, these contracts do not produce an
immediate underwriting loss for financial reporting purposes. The excess of
the estimated ultimate claims payable over the premiums received is established
as a deferred charge asset which is subsequently amortized over the expected
claim settlement periods. Such amortization is included as a component of
losses incurred and essentially represents the net underwriting losses from
this business in each of the past three years.

Retroactive reinsurance contracts are expected to generate significant
underwriting losses over time due to the amortization of these deferred
charges. This business is accepted due to the exceptionally large amounts of
float generated which totaled about $7.5 billion at December 31, 2002.
Unamortized deferred charges under BHRG contracts were $3.2 billion at December
31, 2002 and $3.1 billion as of December 31, 2001. It is currently expected
that losses incurred in 2003 will include about $400 million of deferred charge
amortization from contracts in effect as of December 31, 2002.

In 2002, BHRG wrote an increasing amount of business under quota-share
contracts. Most of the increased premium volume in 2002 derived from several
new contracts with Lloyd’s syndicates and from a new contract with a major U.S.
based insurer. In a quota-share arrangement, BHRG essentially participates
proportionately in the premiums and claims of the business written by the
ceding company. BHRG was willing to enter into these new contracts because it
believed the level of rate adequacy in certain property/casualty markets was
much improved in relation to past years. BHRG’s continued participation in
this business will depend on the availability of other sources of capacity for
Lloyd’s syndicates as well as the expectation of continued rate adequacy of the
Lloyd’s business being reinsured. Accordingly, the level of this business
expected to be written in 2003 is uncertain.

Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group

Berkshire’s other primary insurance businesses consist of a wide variety
of smaller insurance businesses that principally write liability coverages for
commercial accounts. These businesses include: National Indemnity Company’s
primary group operation (“NICO Primary Group”), a writer of motor vehicle and
general liability coverages; U.S. Investment Corporation (“USIC”), acquired by
Berkshire in August 2000 and whose subsidiaries underwrite specialty insurance
coverages; a group of companies referred to internally as “Homestate”
operations,
providers of standard multi-line insurance; and Central States Indemnity
Company, a provider of credit and disability insurance to individuals
nationwide through financial institutions.

Collectively, Berkshire’s other primary insurance businesses produced
earned premiums of $712 million in 2002, $501 million in 2001 and $325 million
in 2000. The increases in premiums earned during the past two years were
largely attributed to increased volume at USIC and the NICO Primary Group. Net
underwriting gains of Berkshire’s other primary insurance businesses totaled
$32 million in 2002, $30 million in 2001 and $25 million in 2000. The
improvement in year-to-year comparative underwriting results was due in large
part to USIC and the NICO Primary Group offset by poor results in the workers’
compensation business of the Homestate Group.

Insurance — Investment Income

Following is a summary of the net investment income of Berkshire’s
insurance operations for the past three years.

— (dollars in millions) —




Investment income before taxes

$

3,050

$

2,824

$

2,773

Applicable income taxes and minority interest




Investment income after taxes and minority interest

$

2,096

$

1,968

$

1,946

Investment income from insurance operations in 2002 increased $226
million (8.0%) over 2001. Investment income in 2001 exceeded amounts
earned in 2000 by $51 million (1.8%). Investment income in 2000 included
five quarters with respect to General Re’s international reinsurance
operations, as a result of the elimination



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Insurance — Investment Income

(Continued)

of the one quarter lag in reporting in the fourth quarter. Pre-tax investment
income in 2000 included $103 million related to the extra quarter.

Invested assets increased during 2002 by $7 billion to $79 billion at
December 31, 2002 following a decrease of $4 billion during 2001. The increase
in invested assets during 2002 was primarily the result of significant
operating cash flow, represented by a $6 billion increase in policyholder
float. In 2001 the decrease in invested assets was primarily attributed to a
$6 billion decline in the market values of Berkshire’s major equity investments
and $4 billion of dividends paid to Berkshire during the year. Partially
offsetting these declines was an increase in investments resulting from an
increase in float generated by insurance operations.

Float represents an estimate of the amount of funds ultimately payable to
policyholders that is available for investment. The total float at December
31, 2002 was approximately $41.2 billion compared to $35.5 billion at December
31, 2001 and about $27.9 billion at December 31, 2000. Increases in float were
achieved at all underwriting units in 2002. The cost of float, represented by
the ratio of the pre-tax underwriting loss over the average float, was about
1.1% for 2002 as compared to 12.8% for 2001. In 2000, the cost of float was
approximately 6.1%.

During 2002, Berkshire increased its investments in high-yield corporate
bonds to approximately $8 billion at December 31, 2002. Approximately $7
billion of these investments are held by Berkshire insurance subsidiaries with
the remaining portion held by finance subsidiaries. These investments were
primarily acquired at distressed prices. The credit risk associated with these
investments is much greater than with other fixed income investments, which are
generally U.S. Government, municipal and mortgage-backed securities.
Approximately $4 billion of these investments were issued by companies in the
energy industry and approximately $2 billion were issued by telecommunications
businesses. Berkshire believes that credit losses may eventually occur with
respect to some of these investments. However, the Company also believes that
over time these investments will produce reasonable returns in relation to
credit risk.

Non-Insurance Businesses

Berkshire’s numerous non-insurance businesses grew significantly through
the acquisition of a number of businesses subsequent to December 31, 1999.
Additional information regarding these acquisitions is contained in Notes 2 and
3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. As a result of these acquisitions,
three new non-insurance business segments were formed in the last two years.

A summary follows of results from Berkshire’s non-insurance businesses for
the past three years.

— (dollars in millions) —




Amount

%

Amount

%

Amount

%

Revenues

$

19,603


$

16,628


$

8,903


Cost and expenses

16,207


14,522


7,503


Pre-tax earnings

3,396


2,106


1,400


Income taxes and minority interest

1,178






Net earnings

$

2,218


$

1,305


$



A comparison of revenues and pre-tax earnings between 2002, 2001 and 2000
for the non-insurance businesses follows.

— (dollars in millions) —

Revenues

Pre-tax earnings (loss)

Non-Insurance Businesses







Apparel

$

1,619

$


$


$


$

(33

)

$


Building products

3,702

3,269





Finance and financial products

2,126

1,658

1,505

1,016



Flight services

2,837

2,563

2,279




Retail

2,103

1,998

1,864




Scott Fetzer Companies







Shaw Industries

4,334

4,012

—



—

Other businesses

1,983

1,488

1,436




$

19,603

$

16,628

$

8,903

$

3,396

$

2,106

$

1,400



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Non-Insurance Businesses

(Continued)

The largest new segment in terms of revenue is Shaw Industries (“Shaw”),
in which Berkshire acquired an 87.3% interest on January 8, 2001. In January
2002, Berkshire acquired the remaining interest in Shaw. The building products
segment consists of four recently acquired businesses (MiTek Inc., acquired in
July 2001; Johns Manville, acquired in February 2001; Benjamin Moore, acquired
in December 2000; and Acme Building Brands, acquired in August 2000). The
third new segment, apparel, consists of several businesses, including Fruit of
the Loom (acquired in April 2002), Garan (acquired in September 2002), Justin
Brands (acquired in August 2000) and several other businesses that have been
owned by Berkshire for many years but were previously not part of a reportable
segment (H.H. Brown Shoe Group and Fechheimer).

Berkshire’s finance and financial products businesses segment grew in 2001
with the September acquisition of XTRA Corporation. Berkshire also acquired
Ben Bridge Jeweler in July 2000, which is included as part of Berkshire’s
retail segment. Other businesses acquired during the last three years include
CORT Business Services (February 2000), MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company
(March 2000), Albecca (February 2002), CTB (October 2002) and The Pampered Chef
(October 2002). The results of each of the aforementioned businesses are
reflected in Berkshire’s earnings from their respective acquisition dates.

2002 compared to 2001

Apparel

Berkshire’s apparel businesses grew significantly during 2002 as a result
of the Fruit of the Loom and Garan acquisitions. From their acquisition dates,
these two businesses generated combined revenues of $957 million and pre-tax
earnings of $190 million. Revenues from Berkshire’s other apparel businesses
declined $64 million in 2002 as compared to 2001 primarily due to lower
revenues from the Dexter shoe business. Pre-tax earnings in 2002 from the
other apparel businesses totaled $39 million compared to a pre-tax loss of $33
million in 2001 which included significant operating losses and a restructuring
charge at Dexter.

Building products

Each of Berkshire’s building products businesses manufactures and
distributes products and services for the residential and commercial
construction and home improvement markets. Revenues of the building products
group in 2002 totaled $3.7 billion compared to $3.3 billion in 2001. Pre-tax
earnings of these businesses in 2002 were $516 million compared to $461 million
in 2001.

On a comparative full year basis, building products revenues in 2002 were
roughly unchanged from 2001. In 2002, a volume decline of 12% in insulation and
roofing systems (Johns Manville) was offset by 5% growth in paint and coatings
volume (Benjamin Moore), higher sales of connector plates and related products
(MiTek) and increased brick and block unit sales (Acme). Full year pre-tax
earnings of $516 million were relatively unchanged from 2001. A decline in
pre-tax earnings occurred at Johns Manville where comparative results were
negatively affected by the weakness in U.S. commercial construction and roofing
markets. The other units benefited from relatively good conditions in the
residential markets.

Finance and financial products

Several finance and financial products businesses are included in this
segment. Generally, these businesses invest in various types of fixed-income
securities, loans, leases and other financial instruments, often utilizing
leverage in the process. The most significant of these businesses are BH
Finance, a business engaged in proprietary trading strategies, General Re
Securities (“GRS”), a dealer in derivative contracts, Berkadia LLC, a special
purpose commercial lender, and XTRA Corporation, a transportation equipment
leasing business.

Pre-tax earnings of the finance and financial products group in 2002
increased $497 million (95.8%) to $1,016 million. Pre-tax earnings of BH
Finance in 2002 increased $425 million from 2001, due primarily to lower
interest expense as a result of declining short-term rates as well as an
increase of $152 million in realized investment gains. Under the current
market conditions, BH Finance is expected to continue to produce significant
earnings in 2003.



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Non-Insurance Businesses

(Continued)

Finance and financial products (Continued)

GRS had a pre-tax loss in 2002 of $173 million compared to earnings of $11
million in 2001. In January 2002, it was announced that GRS would commence a
long-term run-off of its business. During the run-off period, GRS will limit
new business to certain risk management transactions and will unwind existing
asset and liability positions in an orderly manner. It is expected that the
run-off will take a number of years to complete. The pre-tax loss in 2002
included a charge of $31 million for employee severance and related run-off
costs as well as net transaction and position losses of $68 million.
Additional losses will likely be incurred over time in connection with the
run-off. The timing and amounts of such losses is uncertain.

In August 2001, Berkadia LLC commenced operation by lending $5.6 billion
to FINOVA in connection with that company’s bankruptcy reorganization. The
structure of this transaction and risks associated with this transaction are
described in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. This special
purpose lender generated pre-tax earnings of $115 million in 2002 compared to a
loss of $40 million in 2001, which included a charge of $189 million from the
writedown of FINOVA common stock received in the loan transaction. Earnings of
Berkadia are directly correlated with the outstanding amount of the loan to
FINOVA, which declined $2.725 billion in 2002 to $2.175 billion at December 31,
2002. Consequently, Berkadia’s earnings will decline in 2003.

Flight services

This segment includes FlightSafety, a leading provider of high technology
training to operators of aircraft and ships and NetJets, the world’s leading
provider of fractional ownership programs for general aviation aircraft.
FlightSafety’s worldwide clients include corporations, the military and
government agencies. Revenues in 2002 from flight services increased $274
million (10.7%) over 2001 due to increases in flight operations and aircraft
sales at NetJets. Total revenues from FlightSafety in 2002 were relatively
unchanged as compared to 2001 as a decline in training and product revenues was
offset by a one-time gain of $60 million from the disposition of its interest
in a joint venture training operation with Boeing. Excluding the
aforementioned gain, pre-tax earnings from flight services in 2002 decreased
$21 million from 2001 due to a slowdown in business aviation activity.
NetJet’s pre-tax earnings in 2002 were relatively unchanged from 2001 as each
year’s results reflect losses related to expansion into Europe somewhat offset
by small profits from its domestic operations.

Retail

Berkshire’s retailing businesses consist of four independently managed
retailers of home furnishings (Nebraska Furniture Mart and its subsidiaries
(“NFM”), R.C. Willey Home Furnishings (“R.C. Willey”), Star Furniture (“Star”)
and Jordan’s Furniture) and three independently managed retailers of fine
jewelry (Borsheim’s Jewelry, Helzberg’s Diamond Shops (“Helzberg”), and Ben
Bridge Jeweler). Revenues of the retail businesses in 2002 increased $105
million (5.3%) as compared to 2001. The increase in revenues in 2002 was
primarily attributed to comparatively higher sales at R.C. Willey’s recently
opened Nevada location and to several new Helzberg stores. Comparative pre-tax
earnings of the retail group in 2002 declined $9 million (5.1%) from 2001.
Higher earnings associated with the new R.C. Willey store were more than offset
by start-up costs incurred in connection with a new store being built in
metropolitan Kansas City by NFM and comparatively lower pre-tax earnings at
Star and Helzberg.

Scott Fetzer Companies

The Scott Fetzer companies are a group of about twenty diverse
manufacturing and distribution businesses under common management. Principal
businesses in this group of companies sell products under the Kirby (home
cleaning systems), Campbell Hausfeld (air compressors, paint sprayers,
generators and pressure washers) and World Book (encyclopedias and other
educational products) names. Revenues in 2002 from Scott Fetzer’s businesses
decreased $15 million (1.6%) as compared to 2001. Pre-tax earnings in 2002
were $129 million, unchanged from 2001.

Shaw Industries

Shaw is a leading manufacturer and distributor of carpet and rugs for
residential and commercial use. Shaw also provides installation services and
offers hardwood floor and other floor coverings. Shaw’s revenues in 2002 of
$4.3 billion increased by $322 million (8.0%) from 2001. The increase in
revenues reflects a 5% increase in the volume of residential carpets sold and
increased sales of hard floor surfaces. In 2002, Shaw’s pre-tax earnings
totaled $424 million, an increase of $132 million (45.2%) over 2001. Shaw’s
operating results in 2002 benefited from higher operating efficiencies and the
increased levels of unit sales.



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Non-Insurance Businesses

(Continued)

Other
businesses

Revenues in 2002 of Berkshire’s other businesses increased $495 million to
$1,983 million and pre-tax earnings increased $314 million to $691 million.
Pre-tax earnings from other businesses include interest on trust preferred
securities issued by MidAmerican Energy as well as Berkshire’s proportionate
share of MidAmerican’s net earnings related to Berkshire’s investments in
common and convertible preferred stock of MidAmerican. Berkshire’s earnings
from these investments totaled $435 million in 2002 and $165 million in 2001.
MidAmerican’s earnings in 2002 benefited from acquisitions of two natural gas
pipelines and acquisitions of three real estate brokerage businesses. The
remainder of the comparative increases in revenues and operating profits was
primarily due to the inclusion of the results of businesses acquired in 2002
from their respective acquisition dates (Albecca—February 8, 2002, The Pampered
Chef and CTB International—both October 31, 2002).

2001 compared to 2000

Revenues from the non-insurance businesses increased $7,725 million
(86.8%) in 2001 as compared to 2000. Pre-tax earnings of $2,106 million during
2001 increased $706 million (50.4%) from the comparable 2000 amount. Business
acquisitions, principally Shaw and the building products group, which were all
completed during 2000 and 2001, account for much of the comparative revenue and
earnings increases.

Purchase-Accounting Adjustments

Purchase-accounting adjustments reflect the after-tax effect on net
earnings with respect to the amortization of fair value adjustments to certain
assets and liabilities recorded at various business acquisition dates. Prior
to 2002, this amount also included the systematic amortization of goodwill.

Effective January 1, 2002, Berkshire ceased amortizing goodwill of
previously acquired businesses in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No.
142. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information related to this new accounting standard. Purchase-accounting
adjustments for 2001 and 2000 included $636 million and $548 million,
respectively, of after-tax goodwill amortization. These amounts include
Berkshire’s share of goodwill amortization charges taken by MidAmerican, with
respect to Berkshire’s investments accounted for under the equity method.

Other purchase-accounting adjustments consist primarily of the
amortization of the excess of market value over historical cost of fixed
maturity investments held by certain businesses at their acquisition dates.
Berkshire included such excess in the cost of the investments and subsequently
amortizes it over the remaining lives of the investments.

Realized Investment Gains

Realized investment gains and losses have been a recurring element in
Berkshire’s net earnings for many years. Such amounts — recorded when
investments are: (1) sold; (2) other-than-temporarily impaired; or (3)
marked-to-market with a corresponding gain or loss included in earnings — may
fluctuate significantly from period
to period, resulting in a meaningful effect on reported net earnings.
However, the amount of realized gains in a given period has no practical
analytical value, especially given the magnitude of unrealized gains existing
in Berkshire’s consolidated investment portfolio.

The Consolidated Statements of Earnings include after-tax realized
investment gains of $383 million in 2002, $842 million in 2001 and $2,392
million in 2000. In 2002 and 2001, realized investment gains were net of
after-tax losses of $373 million and $161 million related to charges for
other-than-temporary impairments. Management evaluates investments for
impairment as of each balance sheet date. Factors considered in determining
whether an impairment charge is warranted include the length of time the
unrealized loss has existed, the financial condition of the investee, future
business prospects and creditworthiness of the investee, and Berkshire’s
ability and intent to hold the investment until the value recovers. When an
impairment charge is recorded, the cost of the investment is written down to
fair value through a charge to earnings. Consequently, impairment charges
related to essentially all of Berkshire’s investments produced no effect on
total shareholders’ equity because these investments were already carried at
fair value with the difference between fair value and cost included directly in
shareholders’ equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income.



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Financial Condition

Berkshire’s balance sheet continues to reflect significant liquidity and a
strong capital base. Consolidated shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2002
totaled $64.0 billion. Consolidated cash and invested assets, excluding assets
of finance and financial products businesses, totaled approximately $80.8
billion at December 31, 2002 and $72.5 billion at December 31, 2001. During
2002, Berkshire deployed about $3.9 billion in internally generated cash for
business acquisitions, including $1.3 billion of additional investments in
MidAmerican Energy interest bearing trust preferred securities. During 2001
and 2000, additional cash of $8.5 billion was deployed in business
acquisitions.

Berkshire’s consolidated borrowings under investment agreements and other
debt, excluding borrowings of finance businesses, totaled $4.8 billion at
December 31, 2002 and $3.5 billion at December 31, 2001. The increase in
borrowings during 2002 relates to pre-acquisition debt of Albecca Inc., which
was acquired in February 2002, Berkshire’s issuance of the SQUARZ securities in
May 2002, a net increase in Berkshire’s borrowings under investment agreements
and increases in short-term borrowing by certain Berkshire subsidiaries.
Albecca’s outstanding borrowings at December 31, 2002 primarily consisted of
$135 million of 10.75% senior subordinated notes, due in August 2008. The
notes are redeemable beginning in August 2003 and it is Berkshire’s intention
to redeem the notes at that time. The SQUARZ securities consist of $400 million
par amount of senior notes due in November 2007 together with warrants to
purchase Berkshire Class A or Class B common stock, which expire in May 2007.
A warrant premium is payable to Berkshire at an annual rate of 3.75% and
interest is payable to note holders at a rate of 3.00%.

During the second quarter of 2001, Berkshire filed a shelf registration to
issue up to $700 million in new debt securities at a future date. The intended
purpose of the future issuance of debt is to fund the repayment of currently
outstanding borrowings of certain Berkshire subsidiaries. The timing and
amount of the debt to be issued under the shelf registration has not yet been
determined.

Berkshire is contingently liable for the borrowings of Berkadia LLC
through a primary guaranty of 90% of its debt and a secondary guaranty of the
remaining 10% of Berkadia’s borrowings through Fleet Bank. At December 31,
2002, Berkadia’s unpaid loan balance was $2.175 billion. Through February
2003, the loan balance was subsequently reduced through prepayments to $1.725
billion.

Assets of the finance and financial products businesses totaled $33.6
billion at December 31, 2002 and $41.6 billion at December 31, 2001. The
overall decline reflects a decline in assets of BH Finance as a result of the
liquidation of certain fixed income investments and $2.725 billion in
repayments of Berkadia’s loan to FINOVA.

Notes payable and other borrowings of Berkshire’s finance and financial
products businesses totaled $4.5 billion at December 31, 2002 and $9.0 billion
at December 31, 2001. These balances include Berkadia’s outstanding term loan
of $2.175 billion at December 31, 2002 and $4.9 billion at December 31, 2001.
The remaining decrease in finance business borrowings relates to decreases in
notes payable and commercial paper borrowings by GRS.

Berkshire believes that it currently maintains sufficient liquidity to
cover its existing requirements and provide for contingent liquidity.

Market Risk Disclosures

Berkshire’s Consolidated Balance Sheet includes a substantial amount of
assets and liabilities whose fair values are subject to market risks.
Berkshire’s significant market risks are primarily associated with interest
rates and equity prices and to a lesser degree financial products. The
following sections address the significant market risks associated with
Berkshire’s business activities.

Interest Rate Risk

Berkshire’s management prefers to invest in equity securities or to
acquire entire businesses based upon the principles discussed in the following
section on equity price risk. When unable to do so, management may
alternatively invest in bonds, loans or other interest rate sensitive
instruments. Berkshire’s strategy is to acquire securities that are
attractively priced in relation to the perceived credit risk. Management
recognizes and accepts that losses may occur. Berkshire has historically
utilized a modest level of corporate borrowings and debt. Further, Berkshire
strives to maintain the highest credit ratings so that the cost of debt is
minimized. Berkshire utilizes derivative products to manage interest rate
risks to a very limited degree.



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Interest Rate Risk

(Continued)

The fair values of Berkshire’s fixed maturity investments and notes
payable and other borrowings will fluctuate in response to changes in market
interest rates. Increases and decreases in prevailing interest rates generally
translate into decreases and increases in fair values of those instruments.
Additionally, fair values of interest rate sensitive instruments may be
affected by the creditworthiness of the issuer, prepayment options, relative
values of alternative investments, the liquidity of the instrument and other
general market conditions.

The following table summarizes the estimated effects of hypothetical
increases and decreases in interest rates on assets and liabilities that are
subject to interest rate risk. It is assumed that the changes occur
immediately and uniformly to each category of instrument containing interest
rate risks. The hypothetical changes in market interest rates do not reflect
what could be deemed best or worst case scenarios. Variations in market
interest rates could produce significant changes in the timing of repayments
due to prepayment options available. For these reasons, actual results might
differ from those reflected in the table. Dollars are in millions.

Estimated Fair Value after

Hypothetical Change in Interest Rates

(bp=basis points)

100 bp

100 bp

200 bp

300 bp

Insurance and other businesses

Fair Value

decrease

increase

increase

increase

As of December 31, 2002

Investments in securities with fixed maturities

$

38,096

$

40,411

$

36,087

$

34,129

$

32,262

Notes payable and other borrowings

4,957

5,042

4,879

4,809

4,744

As of December 31, 2001

Investments in securities with fixed maturities

$

36,219

$

38,532

$

33,969

$

31,809

$

29,820

Notes payable and other borrowings

3,624

3,708

3,545

3,474

3,407

Finance and financial products businesses *

As of December 31, 2002

Investments in securities with fixed maturities
and loans and other receivables

$

20,011

$

20,152

$

20,062

$

19,779

$

19,161

Notes payable and other borrowings **

17,205

17,285

17,080

17,000

16,930

As of December 31, 2001

Investments in securities with fixed maturities
and loans and other receivables

$

28,126

$

28,545

$

27,221

$

26,140

$

25,025

Notes payable and other borrowings **

26,373

26,451

26,307

26,244

26,186

*

Excludes General Re Securities – See Financial Products Risk section for
discussion of risks associated with this business.

**

Includes securities sold under agreements to repurchase.

Equity Price Risk

Strategically, Berkshire strives to invest in businesses that possess
excellent economics, with able and honest management and at sensible prices.
Berkshire’s management prefers to invest a meaningful amount in each
investee. Accordingly, Berkshire’s equity investments are concentrated in
relatively few investees. At December 31, 2002, 68.9% of the total fair value
of equity investments was concentrated in four investees.

Berkshire’s preferred strategy is to hold equity investments for very long
periods of time. Thus, Berkshire management is not necessarily troubled by
short term equity price volatility with respect to its investments provided
that the underlying business, economic and management characteristics of the
investees remain favorable. Berkshire strives to maintain above average levels
of shareholder capital to provide a margin of safety against short term equity
price volatility.



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Equity Price Risk

(Continued)

The carrying values of investments subject to equity price risks are based
on quoted market prices or management’s estimates of fair value as of the
balance sheet dates. Market prices are subject to fluctuation and,
consequently, the amount realized in the subsequent sale of an investment may
significantly differ from the reported market value. Fluctuation in the market
price of a security may result from perceived changes in the underlying
economic characteristics of the investee, the relative price of alternative
investments and general market conditions. Furthermore, amounts realized in the
sale of a particular security may be affected by the relative quantity of the
security being sold.

The table below summarizes Berkshire’s equity price risks as of December
31, 2002 and 2001 and shows the effects of a hypothetical 30% increase and a
30% decrease in market prices as of those dates. The selected hypothetical
change does not reflect what could be considered the best or worst case
scenarios. Indeed, results could be far worse due both to the nature of equity
markets and the aforementioned concentrations existing in Berkshire’s equity
investment portfolio. Dollars are in millions.

Estimated

Hypothetical

Fair Value after

Percentage

Hypothetical

Hypothetical

Increase (Decrease) in

Fair Value

Price Change

Change in Prices

Shareholders’ Equity

As of December 31, 2002

$

28,363

30% increase

$

36,872

8.6

30%decrease

19,854

(8.6

)

As of December 31, 2001

$

28,675

30%increase

$

37,277

9.6

30%decrease

20,072

(9.6

)

Financial Products Risk

General Re Securities (“GRS”) operates as a dealer in various types of
derivative instruments in conjunction with offering risk management products to
its clients. As previously noted, in January 2002, it was announced
that GRS would commence a long-term run off of its business. It is expected that the orderly
run-off will take several years to complete. GRS monitors its market risk on a
daily basis across all swap and option products by estimating the effect on
operating results of potential changes in market variables over a one week
period, based on historical market volatility, correlation data and informed
judgment. This evaluation is performed on an individual trading book basis,
against limits set by individual book, to a 99% probability level. GRS sets
market risk limits for each type of risk, and for an aggregate measure of risk
across all trading books, based on a 99% probability that movements in market
rates will not affect the results from operations in excess of the risk limit
over a one week period. GRS’s weekly aggregate market risk limit was $15
million in 2002. In 2002, weekly losses exceeded the estimated value at risk
twice. There were no days during 2002 when the value at risk exceeded the
aggregate limit. In addition to these daily and weekly assessments of risk,
GRS prepares periodic stress tests to assess its exposure to extreme movements
in various market risk factors.

The table below shows the highest, lowest and average value at risk, as
calculated using the above methodology, by broad category of market risk to
which GRS is exposed over one week intervals. Dollars are in millions.


Foreign


Interest Rate

Exchange Rate

Equity

Credit

All Risks

All Risks

Highest

$


$


$


$


$


$


Lowest







Average







GRS evaluates and records a fair-value adjustment to recognize
counterparty credit exposure and future costs associated with administering
each contract. The expected credit exposure for each trade is initially
established on the trade date and is estimated through the use of a proprietary
credit exposure model that is based on historical default probabilities, market
volatilities and, if applicable, the legal right of setoff. These exposures
are continually monitored and adjusted due to changes in the credit quality of
the counterparty, changes in interest and currency rates or changes in other
factors affecting credit exposure. During 2002, GRS did not experience any
credit losses.



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Critical Accounting Policies

In applying certain accounting policies, Berkshire’s management is
required to make estimates and judgments regarding transactions that have
occurred and ultimately will be settled several years in the future. Amounts
recognized in the financial statements from such estimates are necessarily
based on assumptions about numerous factors involving varying, and possibly
significant, degrees of judgment and uncertainty. Accordingly, the amounts
currently recorded in the financial statements may prove, with the benefit of
hindsight, to be inaccurate. The balance sheet items most significantly
affected by these estimates are property and casualty insurance and reinsurance
related liabilities, invested assets where no market quotations are available
and goodwill.

Berkshire accrues liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment
expenses under property and casualty insurance and reinsurance contracts based
upon estimates of the ultimate amounts payable under the contracts related to
losses occurring on or before the balance sheet date. As of any balance sheet
date, all claims have not yet been reported and some claims may not be reported
for many years. As a result, the liability includes significant estimates for
incurred-but-not-reported claims. Additionally, reported claims are in various
stages of the settlement process. Each claim is settled individually based
upon its merits and certain liability or workers’ compensation claims may take
years to settle, especially if legal action is involved.

Berkshire uses a variety of techniques to establish the liabilities for
unpaid claims recorded at the balance sheet date. While techniques may vary,
each employs significant judgments and assumptions. Techniques may involve
detailed statistical analysis of past claim reporting, settlement activity,
claim frequency and severity data when sufficient information exists to lend
statistical credibility to the analysis. The analysis may be based upon
internal loss experience, the experience of clients or industry experience.
Techniques may vary depending on the type of claim being estimated. More
judgmental techniques are used in lines of business when statistical data is
insufficient or unavailable. Liabilities may also reflect implicit or explicit
assumptions regarding the potential effects of future economic and social
inflation, judicial decisions, law changes, and recent trends in such factors.

Receivables recorded with respect to insurance losses ceded to other
reinsurers under reinsurance contracts are estimated in a manner similar to
liabilities for insurance losses and, therefore, are also subject to estimation
error. In addition to the factors cited above, reinsurance recoverables may
ultimately prove to be uncollectible if the reinsurer is unable to perform
under the contract. Reinsurance contracts do not relieve the ceding company of
its obligations to indemnify its own policyholders.

Berkshire’s Consolidated Balance Sheet includes estimated liabilities for
unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses from property and casualty insurance
and reinsurance contracts of $43.9 billion and reinsurance recoverables of $2.6
billion at December 31, 2002. Due to the inherent uncertainties in the process
of establishing these amounts, the actual ultimate claims amounts will differ
from the currently recorded estimated amounts. A small percentage change in
estimates of this magnitude will result in a material effect on reported
earnings. For instance, a 5% increase in the December 31, 2002 net estimate
would produce a $2.1 billion charge to pre-tax earnings. Future effects from
changes in these estimates will be recorded as a component of losses incurred
in the period of the change.

Berkshire records deferred charges as assets on its balance sheet with
respect to liabilities assumed under retroactive reinsurance contracts. At the
inception of these contracts the deferred charges represent the difference
between the consideration received and the estimated ultimate liability for
unpaid losses. The deferred charges are amortized as a component of losses
incurred using the interest method over an estimate of the ultimate claim
payment period. The deferred charge balance may be adjusted periodically to
reflect new projections of the amount and timing of loss payments. Adjustments
to these assumptions are applied retrospectively from the inception of the
contract. Unamortized deferred charges totaled $3.4 billion at December 31,
2002. Significant changes in either the timing or ultimate amount of loss
payments may have a significant effect on unamortized deferred charges and the
amount of periodic amortization.

Berkshire’s financial position reflects large amounts of invested assets,
including assets of its finance and financial products businesses. A
substantial portion of these assets are carried at fair values based upon
current market quotations and, when not available, based upon fair value
pricing models. Berkshire’s finance businesses maintain significant balances
of finance receivables, which are carried at amortized cost. Considerable
judgment is required in determining the assumptions used in certain pricing
models, which may address interest rates, loan prepayment speeds, and
creditworthiness of the issuer.



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Critical Accounting Policies

(Continued)

Berkshire’s Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2002 includes
goodwill of acquired businesses of approximately $22.3 billion. These amounts
have been recorded as a result of Berkshire’s numerous prior business
acquisitions accounted for under the purchase method. Prior to 2002, goodwill
from each acquisition was generally amortized as a charge to earnings over
periods not exceeding 40 years. Under SFAS No. 142, which was adopted by
Berkshire as of January 1, 2002, periodic amortization ceased, in favor of an
impairment-only accounting model.

A significant amount of judgment is required in performing goodwill
impairment tests. Such tests include periodically determining or reviewing the
estimated fair value of Berkshire’s reporting units. Under SFAS No. 142, fair
value refers to the amount for which the entire reporting unit may be bought or
sold. There are several methods of estimating reporting unit values, including
market quotations, asset and liability fair values and other valuation
techniques, such as discounted cash flows and multiples of earnings or
revenues. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit, including goodwill,
exceeds the estimated fair value, then individual assets, including
identifiable intangible assets and liabilities of the reporting unit are
estimated at fair value. The excess of the estimated fair value of the
reporting unit over the estimated fair value of net assets would establish the
implied value of goodwill. The excess of the recorded amount of goodwill over
the implied value is then charged to earnings as an impairment loss.

Forward-Looking Statements

Investors are cautioned that certain statements contained in this
document, as well as some statements by the Company in periodic press releases
and some oral statements of Company officials during presentations about the
Company, are “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Act”). Forward-looking
statements include statements which are predictive in nature, which depend upon
or refer to future events or conditions, which include words such as “expects,”
“anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” or similar
expressions. In addition, any statements concerning future financial
performance (including future revenues, earnings or growth rates), ongoing
business strategies or prospects, and possible future Company actions, which
may be provided by management are also forward-looking statements as defined by
the Act. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and
projections about future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and
assumptions about the Company, economic and market factors and the industries
in which the Company does business, among other things. These statements are
not guaranties of future performance and the Company has no specific intention
to update these statements.

Actual events and results may differ materially from those expressed or
forecasted in forward-looking statements due to a number of factors. The
principal important risk factors that could cause the Company’s actual
performance and future events and actions to differ materially from such
forward-looking statements, include, but are not limited to, changes in market
prices of Berkshire’s significant equity investees, the occurrence of one or
more catastrophic events, such as an earthquake or hurricane that causes losses
insured by Berkshire’s insurance subsidiaries, changes in insurance laws or
regulations, changes in Federal income tax laws, and changes in general
economic and market factors that affect the prices of securities or the
industries in which Berkshire and its affiliates do business, especially those
affecting the property and casualty insurance industry.



Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

See “Market Risk Disclosures” contained in Item 7. “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders

Berkshire Hathaway Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, and the
related consolidated statements of earnings, cash flows and changes in
shareholders’ equity and comprehensive income for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2002. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2002 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America.

As described in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company
adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 (“SFAS 142”),
“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”, effective January 1, 2002.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

March 6, 2003

Omaha, Nebraska



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(dollars in millions except per share amounts)

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(dollars in millions except per share amounts)

*

Class B common stock has economic rights equal to one-thirtieth
(1/30) of the economic rights of Class A common stock. Accordingly,
on an equivalent Class A common stock basis, there are 1,534,657
shares outstanding at December 31, 2002 versus 1,528,217 shares
outstanding at December 31, 2001.

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS

(dollars in millions except per share amounts)

*

Average shares outstanding include average Class A common
shares and average Class B common shares determined on an
equivalent Class A common stock basis. Net earnings per common
share shown above represents net earnings per equivalent Class A
common share. Net earnings per Class B common share is equal to
one-thirtieth (1/30) of such amount or $93 per share for 2002, $17
per share for 2001, and $73 per share for 2000.

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(dollars in millions)

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(dollars in millions)

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

and Subsidiaries

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2002

(1)

Significant accounting policies and practices



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(1)

Significant accounting policies and practices

(Continued)



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

(1) Significant accounting policies and practices

(Continued)



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(1)

Significant accounting policies and practices

(Continued)



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

(1)

Significant accounting policies and practices

(Continued)

(p)

Accounting pronouncements to become effective subsequent to December
31, 2002 (Continued)

In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN No. 46, “Consolidation
of Variable Interest Entities,” which addresses the consolidation
of certain entities (“variable interest entity”) when control
exists through other than voting interests. FIN 46 requires that
a variable interest entity be consolidated by the holder of the
majority of the risks and rewards associated with the activities
of the variable interest entity. FIN 46 is effective immediately
for variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003.
For variable interest entities created prior to February 1, 2003,
FIN 46 is effective for the first interim period beginning after
June 15, 2003, and may be applied retroactively or prospectively.
Berkshire has not completed its assessment of FIN 46. However,
based on a preliminary review, Berkshire believes that its
investment in Value Capital L.P., currently accounted for under
the equity method, will be subject to consolidation in accordance
with the guidelines established by FIN 46 (see Note 9).

(2)

Significant business acquisitions

Berkshire’s long-held acquisition strategy is to purchase businesses with
consistent earning power, good returns on equity, able and honest management
and at sensible prices. Businesses with these characteristics typically have
market values that exceed net asset value, thus producing goodwill for
accounting purposes.

During 2002, Berkshire completed five business acquisitions for cash
consideration of approximately $2.3 billion in the aggregate. Information
concerning these acquisitions follows.

Albecca Inc.

(“Albecca”)

On February 8, 2002, Berkshire acquired all of the outstanding shares of
Albecca. Albecca designs, manufactures and distributes a complete line of
high-quality custom picture framing products primarily under the Larson-Juhl
name.

Fruit of the Loom

(“FOL”)

On April 30, 2002, Berkshire acquired the basic apparel business of Fruit
of the Loom, LTD. FOL is a leading vertically integrated basic apparel company
manufacturing and marketing underwear, activewear, casualwear and
childrenswear. FOL operates on a worldwide basis and sells its products
principally in North America under the Fruit of the Loom and BVD brand names.

Garan, Incorporated

(“Garan”)

On September 4, 2002, Berkshire acquired all of the outstanding common
stock of Garan. Garan is a leading manufacturer of children’s, women’s, and
men’s apparel bearing the private labels of its customers as well as several of
its own trademarks, including GARANIMALS.

CTB International

(“CTB”)

On October 31, 2002, Berkshire acquired all of the outstanding shares of
CTB, a manufacturer of equipment and systems for the poultry, hog, egg
production and grain industries.

The Pampered Chef, LTD

(“The Pampered Chef”)

On October 31, 2002, Berkshire acquired The Pampered Chef, LTD. The
Pampered Chef is the largest branded kitchenware company and the largest direct
seller of housewares in the U.S.

In addition, Berkshire completed four business acquisitions during 2001.
Information concerning these acquisitions follows.

Shaw Industries, Inc.

(“Shaw”)

On January 8, 2001, Berkshire acquired approximately 87.3% of the common
stock of Shaw for $19 per share, or $2.1 billion in total. Robert E. Shaw,
Chairman and CEO of Shaw, Julian D. Saul, President of Shaw, certain family
members and related family interests of Messrs. Shaw and Saul, and certain
other Shaw directors and members of management acquired the remaining 12.7%
interest. In January 2002, Berkshire acquired the remaining shares in exchange
for 4,505 shares of Berkshire Class A common stock and 7,063 shares of Class B
common stock. The aggregate market value of Berkshire stock issued was
approximately $324 million.

Shaw is the world’s largest manufacturer of tufted broadloom carpet and
rugs for residential and commercial applications throughout the U.S. Shaw
markets its residential and commercial products under a variety of brand names.

Johns Manville Corporation

(“Johns Manville”)

On February 27, 2001, Berkshire acquired all of the outstanding shares of
Johns Manville for $13 per share, or $1.8 billion in total. Johns Manville is
a leading manufacturer of insulation and building products. Johns Manville
manufactures and markets products for building and equipment insulation,
commercial and industrial roofing systems, high-efficiency filtration media,
and fibers and non-woven mats used as reinforcements in building and industrial
applications.



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(2)

Significant business acquisitions

(Continued)

MiTek Inc.

(“MiTek”)

On July 31, 2001, Berkshire acquired a 90% interest in MiTek for
approximately $400 million. Existing MiTek management acquired the remaining
10% interest. MiTek produces steel connector products, design engineering
software and ancillary services for the building components market.

XTRA Corporation

(“XTRA”)

On September 20, 2001, Berkshire acquired all of the outstanding shares of
XTRA for approximately $578 million. XTRA is a leading operating lessor of
transportation equipment, including over-the-road trailers, marine containers
and intermodal equipment.

Berkshire completed five acquisitions in 2000. Aggregate consideration
paid for the five business acquisitions consummated in 2000 totaled $2,370
million, consisting of $2,146 million in cash and the remainder in Berkshire
Class A and Class B common stock. Information concerning these acquisitions
follows.

On February 18, 2000, Wesco Financial Corporation, an 80.1% owned
subsidiary of Berkshire, acquired CORT Business Services Corporation, a leading
national provider of rental furniture, accessories and related services in the
“rent-to-rent” segment of the furniture industry. On July 3, 2000, Berkshire
acquired Ben Bridge Jeweler, a leading operator of upscale jewelry stores based
in major shopping malls in the Western U.S. On August 1, 2000, Berkshire
acquired Justin Industries, Inc., a leading manufacturer and producer of face
brick, concrete masonry products and ceramic and marble floor and wall tile
(Acme Brick) and a leading manufacturer of Western footwear under a number of
brand names (Justin Brands). On August 8, 2000, Berkshire acquired U.S.
Investment Corporation, the parent of the United States Liability Insurance
Group, one of the premier U.S. writers of specialty insurance. On December 18,
2000, Berkshire acquired Benjamin Moore & Co., a formulator, manufacturer and
retailer of a broad range of architectural and industrial coatings, available
principally in the U.S. and Canada.

The results of operations for each of the entities acquired are included
in Berkshire’s consolidated results of operations from the effective date of
each acquisition. The following table sets forth certain unaudited
consolidated earnings data for 2002 and 2001, as if each of the acquisitions
discussed above were consummated on the same terms at the beginning of each
year. Dollars are in millions, except per share amounts.



Total revenues

$

43,634

$

42,120

Net earnings

4,402


Earnings per equivalent Class A common share

2,870


(3)

Investments in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company

On March 14, 2000, Berkshire acquired 900,942 shares of common stock and
34,563,395 shares of convertible preferred stock of MidAmerican Energy Holdings
Company (“MidAmerican”) for $35.05 per share, or approximately $1.24 billion in
the aggregate. During 2002, Berkshire acquired an additional 6,700,000 shares
of convertible preferred stock for $402 million. Such investments currently
give Berkshire about a 9.7% voting interest and an 83.4% economic interest in
the equity of MidAmerican (80.2% on a fully diluted basis). Berkshire and
certain of its subsidiaries have also acquired approximately $1,728 million of
11% non-transferable trust preferred securities, of which $455 million were
acquired in 2000 and $1,273 million were acquired in 2002. Mr. Walter Scott,
Jr., a member of Berkshire’s Board of Directors, controls approximately 86% of
the voting interest in MidAmerican.

MidAmerican is a U.S. based global energy company whose principal
businesses are regulated electric and natural gas utilities, regulated
interstate natural gas transmission and electric power generation. Through its
subsidiaries it owns and operates a combined electric and natural gas utility
company in the U.S., two natural gas pipeline companies in the U.S., two
electricity distribution companies in the United Kingdom and a diversified
portfolio of domestic and international electric power projects. It also owns
the second largest residential real estate brokerage firm in the U.S.

While the convertible preferred stock does not vote generally with the
common stock in the election of directors, the convertible preferred stock
gives Berkshire the right to elect 20% of MidAmerican’s Board of Directors.
The convertible preferred stock is convertible into common stock only upon the
occurrence of specified events, including modification or elimination of the
Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 so that holding company registration
would not be triggered by conversion. Additionally, the prior approval of the
holders of convertible preferred stock is required for certain fundamental
transactions by MidAmerican. Such transactions include, among others: a)
significant asset sales or dispositions; b) merger transactions; c) significant
business acquisitions or capital expenditures; d) issuances or repurchases of
equity securities and e) the removal or appointment of the Chief Executive
Officer. Through its investments in common and convertible preferred stock of
MidAmerican, Berkshire has the ability to exercise significant influence on the
operations of MidAmerican.



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

(3)

Investments in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company

(

Continued)

MidAmerican’s Articles of Incorporation further provide that the
convertible preferred shares: a) are not mandatorily redeemable by MidAmerican
or at the option of the holder; b) participate in dividends and other
distributions to common shareholders as if they were common shares and
otherwise possess no dividend rights; c) are convertible into common shares on
a 1 for 1 basis, as adjusted for splits, combinations, reclassifications and
other capital changes by MidAmerican and d) upon liquidation, except for a de
minimus first priority distribution of $1 per share, share ratably with the
shareholders of common stock. Further, the aforementioned dividend and
distribution arrangements cannot be modified without the positive consent of
the preferred shareholders. Accordingly, the convertible preferred stock is, in
substance, a substantially identical subordinate interest to a share of common
stock and economically equivalent to common stock. Therefore, Berkshire is
accounting for its investments in common and convertible preferred stock of
MidAmerican pursuant to the equity method.

Berkshire’s aggregate investments in MidAmerican are included in the
Consolidated Balance Sheets as Investments in MidAmerican Energy Holdings
Company, and include the common and convertible preferred stock investments
accounted for pursuant to the equity method totaling $1,923 million at December
31, 2002 and $1,371 million at December 31, 2001. The 11% non-transferable
trust preferred securities are classified as held-to-maturity and are carried
at cost.

Condensed consolidated balance sheets of MidAmerican are as follows.
Amounts are in millions.

*

Shareholders’ equity was reduced during 2002 by a net charge to
other comprehensive income of $177 million, consisting of a minimum
pension liability charge of $313 million net of a credit of $136 million
related primarily to a foreign currency translation adjustment.

Condensed consolidated statements of earnings of MidAmerican for the years
ending December 31, 2002 and 2001 and for the period March 14, 2000 through
December 31, 2000 are as follows. Amounts are in millions.



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(4)

Investments in securities with fixed maturities

Investments in securities with fixed maturities as of December 31, 2002
and 2001 are shown below (in millions).



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

(4)

Investments in securities with fixed maturities

(Continued)

Shown below are the amortized cost and estimated fair values of
securities with fixed maturities at December 31, 2002, by contractual
maturity dates. Actual maturities will differ from contractual maturities
because issuers of certain of the securities retain early call or prepayment
rights. Amounts are in millions.

Amortized

Fair

Cost

Value

Due in one year or less

$

4,184

$

4,301

Due after one year through five years

7,601

7,995

Due after five years through ten years

9,881

10,850

Due after ten years

12,508

13,647

34,174

36,793

Mortgage-backed securities

17,376

18,166

$

51,550

$

54,959

(5)

Investments in equity securities

Data with respect to investments in equity securities are shown below.
Amounts are in millions.

(1)

Common shares of American Express Company (“AXP”) owned by Berkshire and
its subsidiaries possessed approximately 11.5% of the voting rights of all
AXP shares outstanding at December 31, 2002. The shares are held subject to
various agreements which, generally, prohibit Berkshire from (i)
unilaterally seeking representation on the Board of Directors of AXP and
(ii) possessing 17% or more of the aggregate voting securities of AXP.
Berkshire has entered into an agreement with AXP which will remain effective
so long as Berkshire owns 5% or more of AXP’s voting securities. The
agreement obligates Berkshire, so long as Kenneth Chenault is chief
executive officer of AXP, to vote its shares in accordance with the
recommendations of AXP’s Board of Directors. Additionally, subject to
certain exceptions, Berkshire has agreed not to sell AXP common shares to
any person who owns 5% or more of AXP voting securities or seeks to control
AXP, without the consent of AXP.

(2)

Net of unrealized losses of $406 million and $143 million as of
December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(6)

Realized investment gains (losses)

Realized gains (losses) from sales and redemptions of investments are
summarized below (in millions). Realized losses include impairment charges of
$574 million and $247 million in 2002 and 2001, respectively.




Equity securities and other investments —

Gross realized gains

$


$

1,522

$

4,467

Gross realized losses

(583

)

(369

)

(317

)

Securities with fixed maturities —

Gross realized gains




Gross realized losses

(255

)

(201

)

(348

)

$


$

1,363

$

3,955

(7)

Goodwill of acquired businesses

Effective January 1, 2002, Berkshire adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.”
SFAS No. 142 changed the accounting for goodwill from a model that required
amortization of goodwill, supplemented by impairment tests, to an accounting
model that is based solely upon impairment tests. Thus, Berkshire’s
Consolidated Statement of Earnings for the year ended December 31, 2002
includes no periodic amortization of goodwill.

Berkshire completed its initial assessment of goodwill during the second
quarter of 2002 and no transitional impairment charges were required. In
addition, goodwill was reviewed during the fourth quarter of 2002 and no
impairment charges were required. Subsequently, goodwill must be reviewed for
impairment at least annually, and impairments, if any, will be charged to
operating earnings.

The increase in goodwill from December 31, 2001 to December 31, 2002
reflects Berkshire’s acquisitions that were completed during 2002.
Substantially all of the $788 million increase is attributable to the several
business acquisitions described in Note 2.

A reconciliation of Berkshire’s Consolidated Statements of Earnings for
each of the three years ended December 31, 2002 from amounts reported to
amounts exclusive of goodwill amortization is shown below. Goodwill
amortization for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000 includes $78
million, and $65 million, respectively, related to Berkshire’s equity method
investment in MidAmerican. Dollar amounts are in millions, except per share
amounts.

During the fourth quarter of 2000, Berkshire concluded that an impairment
of goodwill existed with respect to the Dexter Shoe business. Goodwill
amortization shown in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Earnings for
2000 includes a goodwill impairment charge of $219 million related to this
business.

(8)

Derivatives

General Re Securities (“GRS”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Berkshire,
regularly utilizes derivatives in providing risk management products to
clients. In January 2002, it was announced that GRS would commence a long-term
run-off of its operations. The run-off is expected to occur over a number of
years during which GRS will limit its new business to certain risk management
transactions and will unwind its existing asset and liability positions in an
orderly manner. Additional information regarding GRS’s derivative instruments
follows.

The derivative financial instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements
of market, credit, and liquidity risks. GRS controls market risk exposures by
taking offsetting positions in either cash instruments or other derivatives.
GRS manages its exposures on a portfolio basis and monitors its market risk on
a daily basis across all products by calculating the effect on operating
results of potential changes in market variables, which include volatility,
correlation and



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

(8)

Derivatives

(Continued)

liquidity over a one week period. GRS has established $15 million as its value
at risk limit with a 99th percentile confidence interval for potential losses
over a weekly horizon.

GRS evaluates and records a fair value adjustment against trading revenue
to recognize counterparty credit exposure and future costs associated with
administering each contract. The fair value adjustment for counterparty credit
exposures and future administrative costs on existing contracts was $95 million
at December 31, 2002. Counterparty credit limits are established, and credit
exposures are monitored in accordance with these limits. GRS receives cash
and/or investment grade securities from certain counterparties as collateral
and, where appropriate, may purchase credit insurance or enter into other
transactions to mitigate its credit exposure. GRS also incorporates into
contracts with certain counterparties provisions which allow the unwinding of
these transactions in the event of a downgrade in credit rating or other
indications of decline in creditworthiness of the counterparty.

At December 31, 2002, GRS had accepted collateral that is permitted by
contract or industry practice to sell or repledge with a fair value of $1,884
million. Of the securities held as collateral, approximately $83 million were
repledged as of December 31, 2002. At December 31, 2002, securities owned by
GRS with a fair value of approximately $421 million (which includes $83 million
of repledged securities as described above) were pledged against derivative
transactions with a fair value of $753 million. Further, securities with a
fair value of approximately $75 million were pledged against futures positions
at two futures clearing brokers. Contractual terms with counterparties often
require additional collateral to be posted immediately in the event of a
decline in the financial rating of the counterparty or its guarantor.

Assuming non-performance by all counterparties on all contracts
potentially subject to a loss, the maximum potential loss, based on the cost of
replacement, net of collateral held, at market rates prevailing at December 31,
2002 approximated $4,933 million. The following table presents GRS’s
derivatives portfolio by counterparty credit quality and maturity at December
31, 2002. The amounts shown under gross exposure in the table are before
consideration of netting arrangements and collateral held by GRS. Net fair
value shown in the table represents unrealized gains on financial instrument
contracts in gain positions, net of any unrealized loss owed to these
counterparties on offsetting positions. Net exposure shown in the table that
follows is net fair value less collateral held by GRS. Amounts are in
millions.

Gross Exposure

Net Fair

Net

Percentage

0-5

6 - 10

Over 10

Total

Value

Exposure

of Total

Credit quality

(years)

AAA

$

1,201

$

1,026

$

1,072

$

3,299

$


$



%

AA

3,749

3,514

3,734

10,997

3,124

2,437


A

3,649

2,999

3,787

10,435

2,106

1,303


BBB and Below








Total

$

9,088

$

7,903

$

8,698

$

25,689

$

6,582

$

4,933


%

Liquidity risk can arise from funding of GRS’s portfolio of open
transactions. Movements in underlying market variables affect both future cash
flows related to the transactions and collateral required to cover the value of
open positions. Strategies have been developed to ensure GRS has sufficient
resources to cover its potential liquidity needs through its access to General
Re Corporation’s (the parent company of GRS) internal sources of liquidity,
commercial paper program, lines of credit and medium-term program.

(9)

Investment in Value Capital

On July 1, 1998, Value Capital L.P., (“Value Capital”) a limited
partnership commenced operations. A wholly owned Berkshire subsidiary is a
limited partner in Value Capital. The partnership’s objective is to achieve
income and capital growth from investments and arbitrage in fixed income
investments. Berkshire currently accounts for this investment pursuant to the
equity method. Since inception Berkshire has contributed $430 million to the
partnership and other partners, including the general partner, have contributed
$20 million. Profits and losses of the partnership are allocated to the
partners based upon each partner’s investment. At December 31, 2002, the
carrying value of $603 million (including Berkshire’s share of accumulated
earnings of $173 million) is included as a component of other assets of finance
and financial products businesses. Berkshire possesses no management authority
over the activities conducted by Value Capital and it does not provide any
financial support of the obligations of this partnership or of the other
partners. As a limited partner, Berkshire’s exposure to loss is limited to the
carrying value of its investment.



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(9)

Investment in Value Capital

(Continued)

As discussed in Note 1(p), Berkshire has preliminarily concluded that
Value Capital is a variable interest entity. Accordingly, pursuant to the
provisions of FIN 46, Berkshire will be required to consolidate the accounts of
Value Capital in the third quarter of 2003. This change will have no effect on
reported net earnings but based upon December 31, 2002 balances will increase
Berkshire’s reported assets by about $20 billion with a corresponding increase
to liabilities and minority interest.

(10)

Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses

Supplemental data with respect to unpaid losses and loss adjustment
expenses of property/casualty insurance subsidiaries (in millions) is as
follows.

The balances of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses are based upon
estimates of the ultimate claim costs associated with claim occurrences as of
the Balance Sheet dates including estimates for incurred but not reported
(“IBNR”) claims. Considerable judgment is required to evaluate claims and
establish estimated claim liabilities, particularly with respect to certain
lines of business, such as reinsurance assumed because of the inherent delays
in receiving loss information from ceding companies. Also, certain types of
claims, such as asbestos, environmental or latent injury liabilities are both
long-tailed and subject to changing legal and settlement cost trends.
Additional information regarding incurred losses will be revealed over time and
the estimates will be revised resulting in gains or losses in the periods made.

Incurred losses “all prior accident years” reflects the amount of
estimation error charged or credited to earnings in each year with respect to
the liabilities established as of the beginning of that year. During 2002,
Berkshire’s insurance subsidiaries recorded additional losses of $1,553 million
in connection with claims occurring in years prior to 2002. This amount
includes $1,310 million arising from General Re’s North American and
international property/casualty business. The reserve increases were
attributed to casualty lines of businesses.

Prior accident years’ losses incurred also include amortization of
deferred charges related to retroactive reinsurance contracts incepting prior
to January 1, 2002. Amortization charges included in prior accident years’
losses were $430 million in 2002, $328 million in 2001, and $145 million in
2000. The increases in such charges are the result of several new contracts
written over the past three years. Net discounted liabilities at December 31,
2002 and 2001 were $2,169 million and $1,834 million, respectively, and are net
of discounts totaling $2,974 million and $2,653 million. Periodic accretions
of these discounts are also a component of prior years’ losses incurred. The
accretion of discounted liabilities is included in incurred losses for all
prior accident years and was approximately $95 million in 2002 and $80 million
in both 2001 and 2000.



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

(10)

Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses

(Continued)

Estimates of unpaid losses resulting from the September 11th terrorist
attack were $1.9 billion as of December 31, 2002 and $2.4 billion as of
December 31, 2001. Berkshire’s management believes it will take many years to
resolve complicated coverage issues, which could produce a material change in
the ultimate loss amount.

As previously indicated, Berkshire’s insurance subsidiaries are exposed to
environmental, asbestos and other latent injury claims arising from insurance
and reinsurance contracts. Loss reserve estimates for environmental and
asbestos exposures include case basis reserves, which also reflect reserves for
legal and other loss adjustment expenses and IBNR reserves. IBNR reserves are
determined based upon Berkshire’s historic general liability exposure base and
policy language, previous environmental and loss experience and the assessment
of current trends of environmental law, environmental cleanup costs, asbestos
liability law and judgmental settlements of asbestos liabilities.

The liabilities for environmental, asbestos, and latent injury claims and
claims expenses net of reinsurance recoverables were approximately $6.6 billion
at December 31, 2002 and $6.3 billion at December 31, 2001. Approximately, $5.2
billion of year end 2002 reserves were assumed under retroactive reinsurance
contracts written by the Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group. Claim
liabilities arising from these contracts are subject to aggregate policy
limits. Thus, Berkshire’s exposure to environmental and latent injury claims
under these contracts are, likewise, limited. Claims paid or reserved under
these policies were approximately 85% of aggregate policy limits as of the end
of 2002.

Berkshire monitors evolving case law and its effect on environmental and
latent injury claims. Changing government regulations, newly identified
toxins, newly reported claims, new theories of liability, new contract
interpretations and other factors could result in significant increases in
these liabilities. Such development could be material to Berkshire’s results
of operations. It is not possible to estimate reliably the amount of
additional net loss, or the range of net loss, that is reasonably possible.

(11) Notes payable and other borrowings

Notes payable and other borrowings of Berkshire and its subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2002 and 2001 are summarized below. Amounts are in millions.

Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings are obligations of
certain businesses that utilize short-term borrowings as part of their
day-to-day operations. Berkshire affiliates have approximately $3.6 billion
available unused lines of credit to support their short-term borrowing programs
and, otherwise, provide additional liquidity.

Borrowings under investment agreements are made pursuant to contracts
calling for interest payable, normally semiannually, at fixed rates ranging
from 2.5% to 8.6% per annum. Contractual maturities of borrowings under
investment agreements generally range from 3 months to 30 years. Under certain
conditions, these borrowings may be redeemable without premium prior to the
contractual maturity dates.

On May 28, 2002, Berkshire issued 40,000 SQUARZ securities for net
proceeds of $398 million. Each SQUARZ security consists of a $10,000 par
amount senior note due in November 2007 together with a warrant, which expires
in May 2007, to purchase either 0.1116 shares of Class A common stock or 3.3480
shares of Class B common stock for $10,000. A warrant premium is payable to
Berkshire at an annual rate of 3.75% and interest is payable to note holders at
a rate of 3.00% per annum. All debt and warrants issued in conjunction with
SQUARZ securities were outstanding at December 31, 2002.



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(11)

Notes payable and other borrowings

(Continued)

During the second quarter of 2001, Berkshire filed a shelf registration to
issue up to $700 million in new debt securities at a future date. The intended
purpose of the future issuance of debt is to fund the repayment of borrowings
of certain Berkshire subsidiaries. The timing and amount of the debt to be
issued under the shelf registration has not yet been determined.

Borrowings of Berkadia LLC (“Berkadia”) relate to Berkadia’s loan to
FINOVA Capital Corporation (“FNV Capital”), a subsidiary of The FINOVA Group
(“FNV”). On August 21, 2001, Berkshire and Leucadia National Corporation
(“Leucadia”), through Berkadia LLC, a newly formed and jointly owned entity
formed for this purpose, loaned $5.6 billion on a senior secured basis (the
“Berkadia Loan”) to FNV Capital, in connection with a restructuring of all of
FNV Capital’s then outstanding bank debt and publicly traded debt securities.
Berkadia financed the entire Berkadia Loan through a third party lending
facility led by Fleet Bank (“Fleet Loan”). Both the Berkadia Loan and the Fleet
Loan are due on August 20, 2006. Under the terms of the Fleet Loan, which is
collateralized by the Berkadia Loan, Berkadia is obligated to use the proceeds
received from principal prepayments on the Berkadia Loan to prepay the Fleet
Loan. Among other things, the Fleet Loan requires that FNV maintain a minimum
ratio of its consolidated assets to the outstanding Fleet Loan balance.
Berkadia is required to pay down the loan to the extent such ratio is under the
minimum. Berkshire provided Berkadia’s lenders with a 90% primary guaranty of
the Berkadia Loan and also provided a secondary guaranty to a 10% primary
guaranty provided by Leucadia. Berkshire has a 90% economic interest in both
the Berkadia Loan and the Fleet Loan. Subsequent to December 31, 2002, FNV has
prepaid an additional $450 million principal amount on the Berkadia Loan and
Berkadia has prepaid an identical amount on the Fleet Loan.

In connection with the restructuring and concurrent with Berkadia’s loan
to FNV Capital, Berkadia received 61,020,581 shares of FNV common stock
representing 50% of the total FNV outstanding shares. Berkadia initially
recorded the FNV common stock at fair value and subsequently accounted for the
stock pursuant to the equity method. Berkshire and Leucadia each possess a 50%
economic interest in Berkadia’s ownership of FNV common stock. Due to large
operating losses of FNV between August 21, 2001 and September 30, 2001,
Berkadia’s investment in FNV common stock was written down to zero through the
application of the equity method. Consequently, the equity method was
suspended as of September 30, 2001, because neither Berkshire nor Berkadia has
guaranteed any obligations of FNV.

Payments of principal amounts expected during the next five years are as
follows (in millions).






Insurance and other

$

2,270

$


$


$


$


Finance and financial products

1,612

1,093




$

3,882

$

1,116

$


$


$


(12)

Income taxes

The liability for income taxes as of December 31, 2002 and 2001 as
reflected in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets is as follows (in
millions).



Payable currently

$

(21

)

$

(272

)

Deferred

8,072

7,293

$

8,051

$

7,021

The Consolidated Statements of Earnings reflect charges for income taxes
as shown below (in millions).



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

(12)

Income taxes

(Continued)

The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant
portions of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at December 31,
2002 and 2001 are shown below (in millions).

Charges for income taxes are reconciled to hypothetical amounts computed
at the Federal statutory rate in the table shown below (in millions).




Earnings before income taxes

$

6,435

$

1,469

$

5,587

Hypothetical amounts applicable to above
computed at the Federal statutory rate

$

2,252

$


$

1,955

Decreases resulting from:

Tax-exempt interest income

(109

)

(123

)

(135

)

Dividends received deduction

(174

)

(129

)

(116

)

Goodwill amortization

—



State income taxes, less Federal income tax benefit




Foreign tax rate differential




Other differences, net




Total income taxes

$

2,134

$


$

2,018

(13)

Dividend restrictions — Insurance subsidiaries

Payments of dividends by insurance subsidiaries are restricted by
insurance statutes and regulations. Without prior regulatory approval,
insurance subsidiaries may pay up to approximately $2.45 billion as ordinary
dividends during 2003.

Combined shareholders’ equity of U.S. based property/casualty insurance
subsidiaries determined pursuant to statutory accounting rules (Statutory
Surplus as Regards Policyholders) was approximately $28.4 billion at
December 31, 2002 and $27.2 billion at December 31, 2001. Effective January 1,
2001, Berkshire’s U.S. based insurance subsidiaries adopted several new
statutory accounting policies as required under the Codification of Statutory
Accounting Principles. The adoption of the new statutory accounting policies
reduced the combined statutory surplus of Berkshire’s U.S. based insurance
subsidiaries by approximately $8.0 billion. The most significant new
accounting policy related to the recording of net deferred income tax
liabilities, which included deferred taxes on existing unrealized gains in
equity securities.

Statutory surplus differs from the corresponding amount determined on the
basis of GAAP. The major differences between statutory basis accounting and
GAAP are that deferred charges reinsurance assumed, deferred policy acquisition
costs, unrealized gains and losses on investments in securities with fixed
maturities and related deferred income taxes are recognized under GAAP but not
for statutory reporting purposes. In addition, statutory accounting for
goodwill of acquired businesses requires amortization of goodwill over 10 years
as compared to 40 years under GAAP for periods ending December 31, 2001 and
prior. As described in Note 7, as of January 1, 2002, goodwill is no longer
amortized under GAAP and is only subject to tests for impairment.



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(14) Common stock

Changes in issued and outstanding Berkshire common stock during the three
years ended December 31, 2002 are shown in the table below.

Each share of Class A common stock is convertible, at the option of the
holder, into thirty shares of Class B common stock. Class B common stock is
not convertible into Class A common stock. Each share of Class B common stock
possesses voting rights equivalent to

one-two-hundredth (1/200) of the voting
rights of a share of Class A common stock. Class A and Class B common shares
vote together as a single class.

(15) Fair values of financial instruments

The estimated fair values of Berkshire’s financial instruments as of
December 31, 2002 and 2001, are as follows (in millions).

Carrying
Value

Fair
Value





Investments in securities with fixed maturities

$

38,096

$

36,219

$

38,096

$

36,219

Investments in equity securities

28,363

28,675

28,363

28,675

Assets of finance and financial products businesses

33,578

41,591

33,881

41,710

Notes payable and other borrowings

4,807

3,485

4,957

3,624

Liabilities of finance and financial products businesses

28,726

37,791

29,090

37,917

In determining fair value of financial instruments, Berkshire used quoted
market prices when available. For instruments where quoted market prices were
not available, independent pricing services or appraisals by Berkshire’s
management were used. Those services and appraisals reflected the estimated
present values utilizing current risk adjusted market rates of similar
instruments. The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables and
accounts payable, accruals and other liabilities are deemed to be reasonable
estimates of their fair values.

Considerable judgment is necessarily required in interpreting market data
used to develop the estimates of fair value. Accordingly, the estimates
presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that could be
realized in a current market exchange. The use of different market assumptions
and/or estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated
fair value.

(16) Pension plans

Certain Berkshire subsidiaries individually sponsor defined benefit pension
plans covering their employees. Benefits under the plans are generally based
on years of service and compensation, although benefits under certain plans are
based on years of service and fixed benefit rates. Funding policies are
generally to contribute amounts required to meet regulatory requirements plus
additional amounts determined by management based on actuarial valuations.
Most plans for U.S. employees are funded through assets held in trust.
However, pension obligations under plans for non-



Item 8. Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data

(16) Pension plans

(Continued)

U.S. employees are generally unfunded. Plan assets are primarily invested in
fixed income obligations of U.S. government corporations and agencies, cash
equivalents and equity securities.

The components of net periodic pension expense for each of the three years
ending December 31, 2002 are as follows (in millions).




Service cost

$


$


$


Interest cost




Expected return on plan assets

(147

)

(137

)

(73

)

Net amortization, deferral and other



(2

)

Net pension expense

$


$


$


Changes in the projected benefit obligations and plan assets during 2002
and 2001 are as follows (in millions).

The funded status of the plans as of December 31, 2002 and 2001 is as
follows (in millions).



Plan assets under projected benefit obligations

$

(321

)

$

(161

)

Unrecognized net actuarial gains and other

(104

)

(114

)

Accrued benefit cost liability

$

(425

)

$

(275

)

Certain actuarial assumptions which were being used to value the assets
and obligations of these plans were revised in 2001 and 2002 to better reflect
the current economic environment and, in particular, the recent decline in
interest rates. The total net deficit status for plans with accumulated
benefit obligations in excess of plan assets was $324 million and $195 million
as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

Weighted average assumptions used in determining projected benefit
obligations were as follows.



Discount rate

6.3

6.6

Discount rate – non-U.S. plans

5.9

6.0

Long-term expected rate of return on plan assets

6.5

6.7

Rate of compensation increase

4.7

4.8

Rate of compensation increase – non-U.S. plans

3.8

4.3

Most Berkshire subsidiaries also sponsor defined contribution retirement
plans, such as a 401(k) or profit sharing plans. The plans generally cover all
employees who meet specified eligibility requirements. Employee contributions
to the plans are subject to regulatory limitations and the specific plan
provisions. Berkshire subsidiaries generally match these contributions up to
levels specified in the plans, and may make additional discretionary
contributions as determined by management. The total expenses related to
employer contributions for these plans were $193 million, $70 million and $80
million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(17) Litigation

GEICO is a defendant in a number of class action lawsuits related to the
use of replacement repair parts not produced by the original auto manufacturer,
the calculation of “total loss” value and whether to pay diminished value as
part of the settlement of certain claims. Management intends to vigorously
defend GEICO’s position on these claim settlement procedures. However, these
lawsuits are in various stages of development and the ultimate outcome cannot
be reasonably determined.

Berkshire and its subsidiaries are parties in a variety of legal actions
arising out of the normal course of business. In particular, such legal actions
affect Berkshire’s insurance and reinsurance businesses. Such litigation
generally seeks to establish liability directly through insurance contracts or
indirectly through reinsurance contracts issued by Berkshire subsidiaries.
Plaintiffs occasionally seek punitive or exemplary damages. Berkshire does not
believe that such normal and routine litigation will have a material effect on
its financial condition or results of operations.

(18) Business segment data

Information related to Berkshire’s reportable business operating segments
is shown below.

Other businesses not specifically identified above consist of: Buffalo
News, a daily newspaper publisher in Western New York; International Dairy
Queen, which licenses and services a system of about 6,000 Dairy Queen stores;
See’s Candies, a manufacturer and distributor of boxed chocolates and other
confectionery products; CORT Business Services, a leading national provider of
rental furniture and related services; Albecca, which designs, manufactures,
and distributes high-quality custom picture framing products; CTB
International, a manufacturer of equipment and systems for the poultry, hog,
egg production and grain industries and The Pampered Chef, a direct seller of
houseware products.



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

(18) Business segment data

(Continued)

A disaggregation of Berkshire’s consolidated data for each of the three
most recent years is presented in the tables which follow on this and the
following page. Amounts are in millions.

*

Amounts of interest expense represent interest on borrowings under
investment agreements and other debt exclusive of that of finance and
financial products businesses and interest allocated to certain other
businesses.



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(18) Business segment data

(Continued)

Deprec. & amort.

Capital expenditures *

of tangible assets

Operating Businesses:







Insurance group:

GEICO

$


$


$


$


$


$


General Re







Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group

—

—

—

—

—

—

Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group







Total insurance group







Apparel







Building products







Finance and financial products







Flight services







Retail







Scott Fetzer Companies







Shaw Industries



—



—

Other businesses







$


$


$


$


$


$


*

Excludes expenditures which were part of business acquisitions.

(1)

Excludes other intangible assets not subject to amortization of $314.

(2)

Excludes other intangible assets not subject to amortization of $697.



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

(19) Insurance premium and supplemental cash flow information

Premiums written and earned by Berkshire’s property/casualty and
life/health insurance businesses during each of the three years ending December
31, 2002 are summarized below. Dollars are in millions.

Insurance premiums written by geographic region (based upon the domicile of the
insured) are summarized below.

Property/Casualty

Life/Health







United States

$

14,297

$

13,319

$

11,409

$

1,153

$

1,176

$

1,296

Western Europe

3,870

2,352

5,064

*




All other


1,065





$

18,967

$

16,736

$

17,399

$

1,899

$

2,005

$

2,263

*Premiums attributed to Western Europe include $2,438 million from a single
reinsurance policy.

A summary of supplemental cash flow information for each of the three
years ending December 31, 2002 is presented in the following table (in
millions).




Cash paid during the year for:

Income taxes

$

1,945

$


$

1,396

Interest of finance and financial products businesses




Other interest




Non-cash investing and financing activities:

Liabilities assumed in connection with acquisitions of businesses


3,507


Common shares issued in connection with acquisitions of businesses


—


(20) Quarterly data

A summary of revenues and earnings by quarter for each of the last two
years is presented in the following table. This information is unaudited.
Dollars are in millions, except per share amounts.

1st

2nd

3rd

4th

Quarter

Quarter

Quarter

Quarter


Revenues

$

9,521

$

10,051

$

10,637

$

12,144

Net earnings

(1)


1,045

1,141

1,184

Net earnings per equivalent Class A common share






Revenues

$

8,304

$

10,886

$

9,554

$

9,899

Net earnings (loss)

(1)



(679

)

(2)


Net earnings (loss) per equivalent Class A common share



(445

)


(1)

Includes realized investment gains, which, for any given period have no
predictive value, and variations in amount from period to period have no
practical analytical value, particularly in view of the unrealized
appreciation now existing in Berkshire’s consolidated investment
portfolio. After-tax realized investment gains for the periods presented
above are as follows:

1st

2nd

3rd

4th

Quarter

Quarter

Quarter

Quarter

Realized investment gains – 2002

$


$


$


$


Realized investment gains – 2001





(2)

Includes pre-tax underwriting losses of $2.275 billion related to the
then estimated losses incurred in connection with the September 11th
terrorist attack.



Item 9. Changes in and
Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None

Part III

Except for the information set forth under the caption
“Executive Officers of the Registrant” in Part I hereof, information
required by this Part (Items 10, 11, 12, and 13) is incorporated by
reference from the Registrant’s definitive proxy statement, filed
pursuant to Regulation 14A, for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders
of the Registrant to be held on May 3, 2003, which meeting will
involve the election of directors.

Part IV

Item 14. Controls and Procedures

Within
the 90 days prior to the date of filing this Annual Report
on Form 10-K, the Corporation carried out an evaluation, under
the supervision and with the participation of the Corporation’s
management, including the Chairman (Chief Executive Officer) and
the Vice President-Treasurer (Chief Financial Officer), of the
effectiveness of the design and operation of the Corporation’s
disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rule
13a-14. Based upon that evaluation, the Chairman (Chief Executive
Officer) and the Vice President-Treasurer (Chief Financial
Officer) concluded that the Corporation’s disclosure controls and
procedures are effective in timely alerting them to material
information relating to the Corporation (including its
consolidated subsidiaries) required to be included in the
Corporation’s periodic SEC filings. Subsequent to the date of
that evaluation, there have been no significant changes in the
Corporation’s internal controls or in other factors that could
significantly affect internal controls, nor were any corrective
actions required with regard to significant deficiencies and
material weaknesses.

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial
Statement Schedule, and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)

1.

Financial Statements

2.

Financial Statement Schedule

Independent Auditors’ Report on Schedule


Schedule I — Parent Company

67-68

Condensed Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2002

and 2001 and Condensed Statements of Earnings and
Cash Flows

for the years ended 2002, 2001 and 2000.

Other schedules are omitted because they are not required,
information therein is not applicable, or is reflected in
the Consolidated Financial Statements or notes thereto.

3.

Exhibit

See the “Exhibit Index” at page 69.

(b)

Reports on Form 8-K

Form 8-K dated October 28, 2002. Other Events. Financial
Statements and Exhibits. Report included certain transitional
disclosures required pursuant to statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 142 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” Such
disclosures were for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2001,
2000, 1999, 1998 and 1997 and for the six-month periods ended June
30, 2002 and 2001.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC

Date:  March 27, 2003

/s/  Marc D. Hamburg

Marc D. Hamburg

Vice President and

Principal Financial Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



FORM 10-K

Fiscal year ended December 31, 2002

Certifications Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

CERTIFICATION

I, Warren E. Buffett, certify that:

1.

I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Berkshire Hathaway
Inc.;

2.

Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
this annual report;

3.

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual
report;

4.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and we
have:

a)

designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is
being prepared;

b)

evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls
and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of
this annual report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

c)

presented in this annual report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our
evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on
our most recent evaluation, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit
committee of registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent function):

a)

all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal
controls which could adversely affect the registrant’s ability to
record, process, summarize and report financial data and have
identified for the registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in
internal controls; and

b)

any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
other employees who have a significant role in the registrant’s
internal controls; and

6.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have indicated in this
annual report whether or not there were significant changes in internal
controls or in other factors that could significantly affect internal
controls subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including
any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and
material weaknesses.

Date:

March 27, 2003

/s/ Warren E. Buffett

Chairman – Principal Executive Officer



FORM 10-K

Fiscal year ended December 31, 2002

CERTIFICATION

I, Marc D. Hamburg, certify that:

1.

I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Berkshire Hathaway
Inc.;

2.

Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
this annual report;

3.

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual
report;

4.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and we
have:

a)

designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is
being prepared;

b)

evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls
and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of
this annual report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

c)

presented in this annual report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our
evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on
our most recent evaluation, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit
committee of registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent function):

a)

all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal
controls which could adversely affect the registrant’s ability to
record, process, summarize and report financial data and have
identified for the registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in
internal controls; and

b)

any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
other employees who have a significant role in the registrant’s
internal controls; and

6.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have indicated in this
annual report whether or not there were significant changes in internal
controls or in other factors that could significantly affect internal
controls subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including
any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and
material weaknesses.

Date:

March 27, 2003

/s/ Marc D. Hamburg

Vice President – Principal Financial  Officer



INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT ON SCHEDULE

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders

Berkshire Hathaway Inc.

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2002
and 2001, and for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2002, and have issued our report thereon dated
March 6, 2003 (which report expresses an unqualified opinion and
includes an explanatory paragraph relating to the adoption of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142,
“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”); such consolidated financial statements and report are
included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our audits also included the
financial statement schedule of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., listed in
Item 15. The financial statement schedule is the responsibility
of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such financial
statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents
fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Omaha, Nebraska

March 6, 2003



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

(Parent Company)

Condensed Financial Information

(Dollars in millions)

Schedule I

Balance Sheets

Statements of Earnings

See Note to Condensed Financial Information



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

(Parent Company)

Condensed Financial Information

(Dollars in millions)

Schedule I (continued)

Statements of Cash Flows

Note to Condensed Financial Information

During 2002, Berkshire issued 40,000 SQUARZ securities, consisting of $400
million par amount of notes and 40,000 warrants that permit holders to acquire
Berkshire’s Class A or Class B stock. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements in Item 8 for additional information. In addition, Berkshire’s
other borrowings at December 31, 2002 included $386 million from an investment
agreement entered into during 2002. Interest accrues under this agreement at a
variable rate based upon the one-year U.S. Treasury rate. Principal is payable
under certain conditions at par prior to maturity and otherwise is payable in
2012.

Berkshire Hathaway Inc. has guaranteed certain debt obligations of its
subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2002, the unpaid balance of subsidiary debt
guaranteed by Berkshire totaled approximately $4.0 billion. This amount
includes the outstanding bank loan of Berkadia LLC, which totaled $2.2 billion.

In addition, Berkshire has guaranteed the short term obligations of a
member of its finance and financial products group with respect to securities
sold under agreements to repurchase. Amounts due under such agreements totaled
$13.8 billion at December 31, 2002, and were fully collateralized with
mortgage-backed securities owned by that finance group member.



EXHIBIT INDEX

69