10-K


a18139e10vk.htm

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. - 12/31/2005

e10vk


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d)

OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005

Commission file number 001-14905

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

47-0813844

State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification number)

1440 Kiewit Plaza, Omaha, Nebraska


(Address of principal executive office)

(Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code  (402) 346-1400

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange on which registered

Class A Common Stock, $5.00 Par Value

New York Stock Exchange

Class B Common Stock, $0.1667 Par Value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act. Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and
(2) has been subject to the filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K (§ 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of “accelerated filer and large accelerated filer” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer

þ

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Act).

Yes

o

No

þ

State the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant as of
June 30, 2005 $83,465,258,000*

Indicate number of shares outstanding of each of the Registrant’s classes of common stock:

February 28, 2006 — Class A Common Stock, $5 par value

1,260,748 shares

February 28, 2006 — Class B Common Stock, $0.1667 par value

8,405,300 shares

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Document

Incorporated In

Proxy Statement for Registrant’s

Annual Meeting to be held May 6, 2006

Part III

*

This aggregate value is computed at the last sale price of the common stock on June 30, 2005. It
does not include the value of Class A Common Stock (540,048 shares) and Class B Common Stock
(39,283 shares) held by Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant and members of their
immediate families, some of whom may not constitute “affiliates” for purpose of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934.



Part I

Item 1. Business

Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (“Berkshire,” “Company” or “Registrant”) is a holding company owning
subsidiaries engaged in a number of diverse business activities. The most important of these are
insurance businesses conducted on both a primary basis and a reinsurance basis. Berkshire also
owns and operates a large number of other businesses engaged in a variety of activities, as
identified herein. Berkshire is domiciled in the state of Delaware, and its corporate headquarters
are located in Omaha, Nebraska.

Berkshire's
operating businesses are managed on an unusually decentralized basis.
There are essentially no centralized or integrated business functions
(such as sales, marketing, purchasing, legal or human resources) and
there is minimal involvement by Berkshire's corporate headquarters in
the day-to-day business activities of the operating businesses.
Berkshire's corporate office management participates in and is
ultimately responsible for significant capital allocation decisions,
investment activities and the selection of the Chief Executive to
head each of the operating businesses.

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

Berkshire’s insurance and reinsurance business activities are conducted through approximately
60 domestic and foreign-based insurance entities. Berkshire’s insurance businesses provide
insurance and reinsurance of property and casualty risks world-wide and also reinsure life, accident
and health risks world-wide.

In primary (or direct) insurance activities, the insurer assumes the risk of loss from persons
or organizations that are directly subject to the risks. Such risks may relate to property,
casualty (or liability), life, accident, health, financial or other perils that may arise from an
insurable event. In reinsurance activities, the reinsurer assumes defined portions of risks that
other primary insurers or reinsurers have assumed in their own insuring activities.

Reinsurance contracts are normally classified as treaty or facultative contracts. Treaty
reinsurance refers to reinsurance coverage for all or a portion of a specified class of risks ceded
by the primary insurer, while facultative reinsurance involves coverage of specific individual
risks. Coverage of risks assumed under reinsurance contracts may be classified as quota-share or
excess. Under quota-share (proportional or pro-rata) reinsurance, the reinsurer shares
proportionally in the original premiums, losses, and expenses of the primary insurer or reinsurer.
Excess (or non-proportional) reinsurance provides for the indemnification of the primary insurer or
reinsurer for all or a portion of the loss in excess of an agreed upon amount or “retention.” Both
quota-share and excess reinsurance may provide for aggregate limits of indemnification.

Except for regulatory considerations, there are virtually no barriers to entry into the
insurance and reinsurance industry. Competitors may be domestic or foreign, as well as licensed or
unlicensed. The number of competitors within the industry is not known. Insurers and reinsurers
compete on the basis of reliability, financial strength and stability, ratings, underwriting
consistency, service, business ethics, price, performance, capacity, policy terms and coverage
conditions.

Insurers and reinsurers based in the United States are subject to regulation by their states
of domicile and by those states in which they are licensed or write
policies on a non-admitted
basis. The primary focus of regulation is to assure that insurers are financially solvent and that
policyholder interests are otherwise protected. States establish minimum capital levels for
insurance companies and establish guidelines for permissible business and investment activities.
States have the authority to suspend or revoke a company’s authority to do business, as conditions
warrant. States regulate the payment of dividends by insurance companies to their shareholders.
Dividends and capital distributions of extraordinary amounts are subject to prior regulatory
approval.

Insurers may market, sell and service insurance policies in the states that they are licensed.
These insurers are referred to as admitted insurers. Admitted insurers are, among other things,
generally required to obtain regulatory approval of policy forms issued and premium rates charged.
Non-admitted insurance markets have developed to provide insurance that is otherwise unavailable
from the admitted insurance markets for a state. Non-admitted insurance, often referred to as
“excess and surplus” lines, is procured by state-licensed surplus lines brokers who place risks
with insurers not licensed in that state. Non-admitted insurance is subject to considerably less
regulation with respect to policy rates and forms. Reinsurers are normally not required to obtain
approval of premium rates and policy forms.

The insurance regulators of every state participate in the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners (“NAIC”). The NAIC adopts forms, instructions and accounting procedures for use by
U.S. insurers and reinsurers in preparing and filing annual statutory financial statements.
However, an insurer’s state of domicile has ultimate authority over these matters.



Item 1. Business

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

(Continued)

Berkshire’s insurance companies maintain capital strength at exceptionally high levels. This
strength differentiates Berkshire’s insurance companies from their competitors. Collectively, the
aggregate statutory surplus of Berkshire’s U.S. based insurers
was approximately $52 billion at
December 31, 2005. All of Berkshire’s major insurance subsidiaries are rated AAA by Standard &
Poor’s Corporation, the highest Financial Strength Rating
assigned by Standard & Poor’s, and nearly all are
rated A++ (superior) by A.M. Best with respect to their financial condition and operating
performance.

In addition to its activities relating to the annual statement, the NAIC develops or adopts
statutory accounting principles, model laws, regulations and programs for use by its members. Such
matters deal with regulatory oversight of solvency, compliance with financial regulation standards,
and risk-based capital reporting requirements.

The insurance industry experienced severe losses from the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack.
On November 26, 2002, President Bush signed into law the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002,
which established within the Department of the Treasury a Terrorism Insurance Program (“Program”)
for commercial property and casualty insurers by providing Federal reinsurance of insured terrorism
losses. In December 2005, the Program was extended to December 31, 2007 through the passage of the
Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005. Hereinafter the 2002 and 2005 Acts are collectively referred
to as TRIA. Under TRIA, the Department of the Treasury is charged with certifying “acts of
terrorism” as having been a terrorist act undertaken on behalf of a foreign person or interest
which resulted in an insured loss in excess of $5 million. After March 31, 2006, TRIA also
establishes that the industry insured loss must exceed $50 million ($100 million in 2007) in order
for the loss to be certified. To be eligible for Federal reinsurance, insurers must make available
insurance coverage for acts of terrorism, by providing policyholders with clear and conspicuous
notice of the amount of premium that will be charged for this coverage and of the Federal share of
any insured losses resulting from any act of terrorism. Assumed reinsurance is specifically
excluded from TRIA participation. Beginning in 2006 TRIA also excludes certain forms of direct
insurance (commercial auto, burglary, theft, surety and certain professional liability lines).
Terrorism exclusions that were contained within reinsurance contracts remained in effect.
Reinsurers are not required to offer terrorism coverage and are not eligible for Federal
reinsurance of terrorism losses.

In the event of a certified act of terrorism, the Federal government will reimburse insurers
(conditioned on their satisfaction of policyholder notification requirements) for 90% (in 2005) of
their insured losses in excess of a company deductible. The reimbursement levels decline to 85% in
2007. The company’s deductible is calculated based on the direct earned premium for relevant
commercial lines written by the insurer’s entire insurance group. Berkshire’s deductible was 15% in
2005 of the insurance group’s primary (direct) subject earned premium and will rise to 17.5% in
2006 and 20% in 2007. Berkshire’s deductible for 2006 is
expected to approximate $375 million.
There is also an aggregate limit of $100 billion on the amount
of the Federal government coverage for each Program
year.

For many years, the insurance industry has been subject to claims arising from the manufacture
of asbestos and its use in products. The magnitude of such losses has caused many manufacturers to
file for protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In recent years, increasing numbers of claims
have been filed against users of such products, including claims based upon exposure to asbestos,
even though no related illness has been identified. Consequently, the U.S. Congress has introduced
legislation to assure that resources are available to indemnify claimants suffering from
asbestos-related illnesses and to manage the overall cost of those claims. To date, no federal
legislation has passed. It is highly uncertain as to whether or not any Federal legislation will
be enacted and, if enacted, how the provisions of such laws will affect Berkshire.

In general, regulation of the insurance industry outside of the United States is subject to
the differing laws and regulations of each country in which the insurer has operations or writes
premiums. Some jurisdictions impose complex regulatory requirements on insurance businesses, while
other jurisdictions impose fewer requirements. In certain foreign countries, reinsurers are
required to be licensed by governmental authorities. These licenses may be subject to
modification, suspension or revocation dependent on such factors as amount and types of reserves
and minimum capital and solvency tests. The violation of regulatory requirements may result in
fines, censures and/or criminal sanctions in various jurisdictions. Berkshire subsidiaries have
historically provided insuring capacity to several syndicates at Lloyd’s of London. Such capacity
entitles Berkshire to a share of the risks and rewards of the activities of the syndicate in
proportion to the amount of capacity provided. This business is subject to regulation by the U.K.
Financial Services Authority, which maintains comprehensive rules and regulations covering the
legal, financial and operating activities of managing agents and syndicates.



Item 1. Business

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

(Continued)

Berkshire’s insurance underwriting operations are comprised of the following
sub-groups: (1) GEICO and its subsidiaries, (2) General Re and its subsidiaries, (3) Berkshire
Hathaway Reinsurance Group, and (4) Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group. Except for certain
reinsurance products that generate a significant amount of up-front premiums along with estimated
claims expected to be paid over very long periods of time, each of Berkshire’s underwriting units
strive to achieve a net underwriting profit over time and to reject inadequately priced risks.
Additional information related to each of these four underwriting groups follows.

GEICO

— Berkshire acquired GEICO in January 1996. GEICO is headquartered in Chevy Chase,
Maryland and its principal insurance subsidiaries include: Government Employees Insurance Company,
GEICO General Insurance Company, GEICO Indemnity Company, and GEICO Casualty Company. Over the
past five years, these companies have primarily offered private passenger automobile insurance to
individuals in 49 states and the District of Columbia. The subsidiaries market their policies
primarily through direct response methods, in which applications for insurance are submitted
directly to the companies via the Internet, by telephone or through the mail.

GEICO competes for private passenger auto insurance customers with other companies that sell
directly to the customer, as well as with companies that use a traditional agency sales force.
Private passenger automobile insurance business is highly competitive in the areas of price and
service. Some insurance companies exacerbate price competition by selling their products for a
period of time at less than adequate rates, because they underestimate ultimate claim costs and/or
overestimate the amount of investment income expected to be earned from the cash flow generated as
a result of premiums being received before claims are paid. GEICO will not knowingly follow that
strategy.

As a result of an aggressive advertising campaign and competitive rates, new business sales
and voluntary policies-in-force increased each year from 2002 through 2005. Voluntary auto
policies-in-force have increased a total of about 40% over the past five years. GEICO is currently
the fourth largest auto insurer, in terms of premium volume, in the United States.

Seasonal variations in GEICO’s insurance business are not significant. However, extraordinary
weather conditions or other factors may have a significant effect upon the frequency or severity of
automobile claims.

Private passenger auto insurance is stringently regulated by state insurance departments. As
a result, it is difficult for insurance companies to differentiate their products to consumers.
Competition for preferred-risk private passenger automobile insurance, which is substantial, tends
to focus on price and level of customer service provided, whereas price tends to be the primary
focus for other risks. GEICO places great emphasis on customer
satisfaction. GEICO’s cost-efficient direct response marketing methods and emphasis on customer satisfaction enable it to
offer competitive rates and value to customers.

Management believes that the name and reputation of GEICO is a material asset and protects its
name and other service marks through appropriate registrations.

General Re

— Berkshire acquired General Re in December 1998. General Re was established in
1980 to serve as the holding company of General Reinsurance Corporation (“GRC”) and its affiliates.
General Re affiliates include Kölnische Rückversicherungs – Gesellschaft AG (“Cologne Re”), a
major international reinsurer based in Germany. General Re held a 91% ownership interest in
Cologne Re as of December 31, 2005. General Re subsidiaries currently conduct global reinsurance
business in approximately 62 cities and provide reinsurance coverage
world-wide. General Re
operates the following reinsurance businesses: North American property/casualty, International
property/casualty, which principally consists of Cologne Re and the Faraday operations, and
life/health reinsurance. General Re’s reinsurance operations are primarily based in Stamford,
Connecticut and Cologne, Germany. General Re is one of the largest reinsurers in the world based
on net premiums written and capital.

Property/Casualty Reinsurance

General Re’s North American property/casualty business is marketed directly to clients located
throughout the United States and Canada without involving a broker or intermediary. The North
American property/casualty business underwrites predominantly excess coverages. The operations are
headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut, and are also conducted
through 16 branch offices. The
business is domiciled in Delaware and licensed in the District of Columbia and all states but
Hawaii, where it is an accredited reinsurer.

Casualty
reinsurance represented approximately 40% of North American property/casualty net
premiums written in 2005 and property reinsurance represented
approximately 37%. North American
property/casualty business also includes a few smaller specialty insurers. These insurers,
domiciled in Connecticut, North Dakota and Ohio, underwrite primarily liability and workers’
compensation coverages on an excess and surplus basis. Also, they underwrite excess insurance for
self-insured programs. These insurers together represented
approximately 23% of General Re’s North
American property/casualty net premiums written in 2005.



Item 1. Business

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

(Continued)

General Re

(Continued)

Property/Casualty Reinsurance

(continued)

General Re’s International property/casualty reinsurance business operations are conducted on
a direct basis and through brokers. Cologne Re as well as several other General Re subsidiaries in
26 countries provide multiple-lines of property and casualty
reinsurance coverage world-wide.
Coverages are written on both a quota-share and excess basis. In 2005, the International
property/casualty operations principally wrote direct reinsurance in the form of treaties with
lesser amounts written on a facultative basis. International business through brokers is primarily
written through Faraday, which owns the managing agent of Syndicate 435 at Lloyd’s of London and
provides capacity and participates in the results of Syndicate 435. Through Faraday, General Re
participated in 100% of the results of Syndicate 435 in 2005. Faraday writes property, casualty
and aviation business on risks worldwide.

Life/Health Reinsurance

In
2005, approximately 50% of life/health net premiums were written in
the United States, 25% were written in Western Europe, and the
remaining 25% were written throughout the rest of the world. These
operations provide life, health, long-term care and disability
reinsurance on an individual and group basis. Most of this business
is written on a proportional treaty basis, with the exception of
U.S. group health and disability business which is predominately
written on an excess treaty basis. Smaller amounts of life and
disability business are also written on a facultative basis. The
life/health business is marketed on a direct basis.

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group

— The Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group (“BHRG”)
operates from offices located in Stamford, Connecticut. BHRG provides principally excess and
quota-share reinsurance to other property and casualty insurers and reinsurers. The level of
BHRG’s underwriting activities often fluctuates significantly from year to year depending on the
perceived level of price adequacy in specific insurance and reinsurance markets. Also, BHRG’s mix
of business tends to change rapidly as a result of quickly entering or exiting markets when pricing
is deemed adequate or inadequate.

For many years BHRG has written catastrophe excess of loss treaty reinsurance contracts. In
recent years, BHRG has also written individual policies for primarily excess property risks on both
a primary and facultative reinsurance basis, referred to as
“individual risk,” which are subject to
losses from catastrophe events. Individual risk business includes numerous policies covering
terrorism and aviation risks. A catastrophe excess policy provides protection to the counterparty
from the accumulation of primarily property losses arising from a single loss event or series of
events. Catastrophe and individual risk policies may provide significant amounts of indemnification
per contract and a single loss event may produce losses under a number of contracts.

BHRG cedes essentially no risks assumed under catastrophe excess reinsurance contracts or
individual risk contracts, due to perceived uncertainties in recovering amounts from other
reinsurers that are financially weaker. As a result, this business can produce extreme volatility
in periodic underwriting results. Accounting consequences, however, do not influence decisions of
Berkshire’s management with respect to this or any other business. This factor and the
extraordinary financial strength of BHRG are believed to be the primary reasons why BHRG has become
a major provider of such coverages.

The volume of quota-share business has declined in recent years reflecting changing market
conditions. However, in 2004 and 2005, BHRG has increased its overall
volume of aviation and workers’ compensation business. The
volume of future business conducted in these markets, like all other markets, is dependent on
changes in market conditions, including changes in prevailing premium rates and coverage terms.

BHRG has entered into several retroactive reinsurance contracts over the past five years.
Coverage under such contracts is usually provided on an excess basis and amounts of indemnification
are subject to a large aggregate limit of indemnification. Retroactive reinsurance contracts
afford protection to ceding companies against the adverse development of claims arising under
policies issued in prior years. Significant amounts of environmental and latent injury claims may
arise under the contracts.

In BHRG’s retroactive reinsurance business, the concept of time-value-of-money is often an
important element in establishing prices and contract terms, since the payment of losses under the
insurance contracts are often expected to occur over lengthy periods of time. Losses payable under
the contracts are normally expected to exceed premiums and therefore, produce underwriting losses.
This business is accepted, in part, because of the large amounts of policyholder funds (“float”)
generated for investment, the economic benefit of which will be reflected through investment income
in future periods.



Item 1. Business

Insurance
and Reinsurance Businesses

(Continued)

Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group

— The Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group is a collection of
primary insurance operations that provide a wide variety of insurance coverages to insureds located
principally in the United States. National Indemnity Company and certain affiliates underwrite
motor vehicle and general liability insurance to commercial enterprises on both an admitted and
excess and surplus basis. This business is written nationwide primarily through insurance agents
and brokers and is based in Omaha, Nebraska.

In 2000, Berkshire acquired U.S. Investment Corporation (“USIC”). USIC, through its three
subsidiaries led by U.S. Liability Insurance Company, is a specialty insurer that underwrites
commercial, professional and personal lines of insurance on an admitted and excess and surplus
basis. Policies are marketed in all 50 states and the District of Columbia through wholesale
insurance agents. USIC companies currently underwrite and market over 80 distinct specialty
property and casualty insurance products.

In
2005, Berkshire acquired Medical Protective Company (“Med Pro”). Med Pro, based in
Fort Wayne, Indiana, is one of the nation’s premier professional liability insurers for physicians,
dentists and other primary health care providers. Though its wholly-owned subsidiary, Med Pro is a
national leader in primary medical professional liability coverage and risk solutions to
physicians, dentists, professional corporations and small hospitals. As one of the nation’s first
providers of medical professional liability insurance, Med Pro has provided insurance coverage to
healthcare providers for over 100 years. Its offerings include professional liability insurance on
both claims-made and occurrence forms, risk management consulting and education, premium finance
solutions, insurance support services, and — through affiliates and partners — additional financial
products and services for its insureds. Med Pro’s insurance policies are distributed through a
nationwide network of employee market managers and appointed agents.

Other insurance operations include several companies referred to as the “Homestate Companies,”
based in California, Colorado and Nebraska and with branch offices in several other states, which
market various commercial coverages for standard risks to insureds in their state of domicile and
an increasing number of other states. Also included is Central States Indemnity Company of Omaha
located in Omaha, Nebraska, which provides credit and income protection insurance marketed
primarily through credit and debit card issuers and utility providers nationwide. The Kansas
Bankers Surety (“KBS”) Company is an insurer of primarily crime, fidelity, errors and omissions,
officers’ and directors’ liability and related insurance coverages directed toward small and
medium-sized banks throughout the Midwest United States.

Property and casualty loss reserves

Berkshire’s property and casualty insurance companies establish reserves for the estimated
unpaid losses and loss expenses with respect to claims occurring on or before the balance sheet
date. Such estimates include provisions for reported claims, or case estimates, provisions for
incurred-but-not-reported (“IBNR”) claims and legal and administrative costs to settle claims. The
estimates of unpaid losses and amounts recoverable under reinsurance are established and
continually reviewed by using a variety of actuarial, statistical and analytical techniques.

Reserve estimates reflect past claims experience, currently known factors and trends and
estimates of future claim trends. Implicit in the factors considered in establishing ultimate
claim amounts are the effects of including social, legal and economic inflation. Irrespective of
the techniques used, estimation error is inherent in the process of establishing unpaid loss
reserves as of any given date. Uncertainties in projecting ultimate claim amounts are enhanced by
the time lag between when a claim actually occurs and when it becomes reported and settled. This
time lag is referred to as the “claim-tail.”

The claim-tail for most property coverages is normally short. The claim-tail for liability
coverages, such as product liability and workers’ compensation, can be especially long as claims
are often reported many years after the occurrence. The claim-tail for reinsurers is further
extended because claims are first reported through one or more intermediary primary insurers or
reinsurers. Liabilities assumed under retroactive reinsurance contracts may have an especially
long claim-tail, as a significant portion of the claims may derive from asbestos, environmental and
other latent injury perils. Retroactive policies generally contain aggregate limits of indemnification, so the
risks of additional claims under the contracts are likewise limited.

Berkshire attempts to be reasonably conservative in establishing claim reserves. However, for
the reasons previously discussed, the amounts of the reserves established as of a given balance
sheet date and the subsequent actual losses and loss expenses paid will likely differ, perhaps by a
material amount. There is no guarantee that the recorded reserves will prove to be adequate.
Changes in unpaid loss estimates arising from the review process are charged or credited, as
applicable, to earnings in the period of the change.



Item 1. Business

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

(Continued)

Property and casualty loss reserves

(Continued)

Through 1998, Berkshire’s insurers ceded relatively minor amounts of risk to other reinsurers.
As a result of Berkshire’s acquisition of General Re at the end of 1998, larger amounts of risk
were ceded to other reinsurers, although since 1998 the amounts ceded by General Re have declined.
Reinsurance does not relieve the ceding company of its obligation to indemnify policyholders for
claims arising under its policies.

Certain North American workers’ compensation loss reserves of General Re are discounted for
both statutory and GAAP reporting purposes at an interest rate of 4.5% per annum for claims
occurring before 2003 and at 1% per annum for claims occurring after 2002. Such discount rates
were approved by the insurance department of General Re’s
domiciliary state. The discount accretion is included as a component of insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses in
periodic operating results.

In addition, incurred losses from property and casualty reinsurance include amortization of
deferred charges established on retroactive reinsurance contracts. At inception of these
contracts, unpaid losses are recorded at the estimated ultimate payment amount. However, a
deferred charge asset is also recorded at the inception of the contract. The deferred charges are
subsequently amortized over the expected claim payment period, with such charges recorded as a
component of insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses.

The following table presents the development of Berkshire’s consolidated net unpaid losses for
property/casualty contracts from 1995 through 2005. Data in the table related to acquired
businesses is included from the acquisition date forward. General Re (acquired December 21, 1998)
is included as of December 31, 1998.

The first section of the table reconciles the estimated liability for unpaid losses and loss
adjustment expenses recorded at the balance sheet date for each of the indicated years. The net
liability represents the estimated amount of claims and claim expenses, including IBNR, outstanding
as of the balance sheet date, reduced by estimates of amounts recoverable under ceded reinsurance,
deferred charges on retroactive reinsurance contracts, and reserve discounts.

The next section of the table shows the re-estimated amount of the previously recorded net
liability based on experience as of the end of each succeeding year. The estimate is increased or
decreased as losses are paid and more information becomes known about the frequency and severity of
unpaid claims. The line labeled “cumulative deficiency (redundancy)” represents the aggregate
change in the initial estimates from the original balance sheet date through December 31, 2005.
These amounts have been reported in earnings over time as a component of losses and loss adjustment
expenses. The redundancies or deficiencies shown in each column should be viewed independently of
the other columns, because such adjustments made in earlier years may also be included as a
component of the adjustments in the more recent years. To avoid misstating the cumulative
redundancies or deficiencies, liabilities assumed under retroactive reinsurance contracts are
treated as occurrences in the year the transaction was entered into, as opposed to when the
underlying losses actually occurred, which is, by definition, generally prior to the contract date.
Due to the significance of the deferred charges and reserve discounts, the cumulative changes in
such balances, which are included in the cumulative deficiency/redundancy amounts, are also
provided.



Item 1. Business

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

(Continued)

Property and casualty loss reserves

(Continued)

The bottom part of the table shows the cumulative amount of net losses and loss adjustment
expenses paid with respect to recorded net liabilities as of the end of each succeeding year.
While the information in the table provides a historical perspective on the adequacy of unpaid
losses and loss adjustment expenses established in previous years, readers are cautioned against
extrapolating redundancies or deficiencies of the past on current unpaid loss balances. Berkshire
management believes that the reserves established as of the end of 2005 are adequate. However, due
to the inherent uncertainties in the reserving process, it cannot be assured that such balances
will ultimately prove to be adequate. Dollar amounts are in millions.












Unpaid losses per

Consolidated Balance Sheet

$

5,690

$

6,059

$

6,637

$

22,804

$

26,600

$

32,868

$

40,562

$

43,771

$

45,393

$

45,219

$

48,034

Reserve discounts

—

—

—

1,666

1,663

1,675

2,022

2,405

2,435

2,611

2,798

Unpaid losses before discounts

5,690

6,059

6,637

24,470

28,263

34,543

42,584

46,176

47,828

47,830

50,832

Ceded reserves

(255

)

(248

)

(274

)

(2,167

)

(2,331

)

(2,997

)

(2,957

)

(2,623

)

(2,597

)

(2,405

)

(2,812

)

Net unpaid losses

5,435

5,811

6,363

22,303

25,932

31,546

39,627

43,553

45,231

45,425

48,020

Reserve discounts

—

—

—

(1,666

)

(1,663

)

(1,675

)

(2,022

)

(2,405

)

(2,435

)

(2,611

)

(2,798

)

Deferred charges

(390

)

(338

)

(480

)

(560

)

(1,518

)

(2,593

)

(3,232

)

(3,379

)

(3,087

)

(2,727

)

(2,388

)

Net unpaid losses, net of
discounts/deferred charges

$

5,045

$

5,473

$

5,883

$

20,077

$

22,751

$

27,278

$

34,373

$

37,769

$

39,709

$

40,087

$

42,834

Liability
re-estimated:     1 year later

4,936

5,324

5,673

19,663

22,239

28,569

36,289

39,206

40,618

39,002

2 years later

4,901

5,220

5,540

18,132

22,829

30,667

38,069

40,663

39,723

3 years later

4,859

5,093

5,386

18,464

24,079

32,156

40,023

40,517

4 years later

4,795

4,973

5,293

19,750

25,158

33,532

40,061

5 years later

4,707

4,906

5,304

20,581

26,894

34,096

6 years later

4,647

4,920

5,246

21,172

26,676

7 years later

4,673

4,891

5,311

21,244

8 years later

4,660

4,958

5,268

9 years later

4,728

4,931

10 years later

4,709

Cumulative deficiency (redundancy)

(336

)

(542

)

(615

)

1,167

3,925

6,818

5,688

2,748


(1,085

)

Cumulative foreign exchange effect*

—

—

—

(29

)

(260

)

(1,231

)

(1,094

)

(745

)



Net deficiency (redundancy)

$

(336

)

$

(542

)

$

(615

)

$

1,138

$

3,665

$

5,587

$

4,594

$

2,003

$


$

(357

)

Cumulative
payments:     1 year later

$

1,166

$

1,385

$

1,811

$

4,509

$

5,825

$

5,352

$

6,653

$

8,092

$

8,828

$

7,793

2 years later

1,912

2,379

2,463

7,596

8,289

8,744

11,396

14,262

13,462

3 years later

2,732

2,891

3,330

9,384

9,889

11,625

16,378

18,111

4 years later

3,129

3,372

3,507

10,436

11,513

15,608

19,658

5 years later

3,310

3,465

3,598

11,421

13,840

18,504

6 years later

3,357

3,518

3,694

12,221

15,855

7 years later

3,388

3,586

3,752

13,870

8 years later

3,449

3,635

4,254

9 years later

3,491

4,060

10 years later

3,873

Net deficiency (redundancy) above

$

(336

)

$

(542

)

$

(615

)

$

1,138

$

3,665

$

5,587

$

4,594

$

2,003

$


$

(357

)

Deferred charge changes and reserve discounts








1,113



(Redundancy) deficiency before deferred
charges and reserve discounts

$

(687

)

$

(841

)

$

(1,043

)

$


$

2,850

$

4,607

$

3,722

$


$

(265

)

$

(497

)

*   Beginning
in 1998, unpaid losses include amounts related to the International property
and casualty business of General Re. The amount of re-estimated liabilities in the table above
related to these operations reflect the exchange rates as of the end of the re-estimation period.
The cumulative foreign exchange effect represents the cumulative effect of changes in foreign
exchange rates from the original balance sheet date to the end of the re-estimation period.



Item 1. Business

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

(Continued)

Investments

— Investments associated with insurance activities derive from shareholder
capital, including amounts acquired in business acquisitions, as well as funds provided from
policyholders through insurance and reinsurance business (“float”). The levels of reinsurance
assumed business in recent years, plus the acquisitions of GEICO and General Re, have produced an
exceptional increase in the amount of float held by Berkshire’s insurance businesses. Float is an
approximation of the amount of net policyholder funds available for investment. That term denotes
the sum of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, unearned premiums and other policyholder
liabilities, less the aggregate amount of premium balances receivable, losses recoverable from
reinsurance ceded, deferred policy acquisition costs, deferred charges on reinsurance contracts,
and related deferred income taxes. The amount of float has grown from about $6.9 billion at the
end of 1996 to $49.3 billion at the end of 2005, through internal growth as well as the
acquisition of General Re in 1998. Equally important as the size of the float balance is its cost,
which is represented by the periodic net underwriting gain or loss of the overall Insurance Group.
The increases in the amount of float plus the substantial amounts of shareholder capital devoted
to insurance and reinsurance activities have generated meaningful increases in the levels of
investments and investment income over the past five years.

Investment portfolios of insurance subsidiaries include ownership of equity securities of
other publicly traded companies, which are concentrated in relatively few companies. Investment
portfolios of Berkshire’s insurance businesses also include large amounts of fixed income
securities, which consist of obligations of the U.S. Government, U.S. states and municipalities,
mortgage-backed securities issued primarily by the three major U.S. Government and
Government-sponsored agencies, as well as obligations of foreign governments and corporate
obligations. Investment portfolios are primarily managed by Berkshire’s corporate office.
Generally, there are no targeted investment allocation rates established by management with respect
to investment activities. Rather, management will increase or decrease investments in response to
perceived changes in opportunities of income or capital growth relative to risks associated with
the issuers of the securities.

Non-Insurance
Businesses of Berkshire

The Registrant’s numerous and diverse non-insurance businesses are described below.

Apparel —

Berkshire’s apparel businesses include manufacturers and distributors of a variety
of clothing and footwear. Businesses engaged in the manufacture and distribution of clothing
include Fruit of the Loom (“FOL”), Garan and Fechheimer Brothers. Berkshire’s footwear businesses
include H.H. Brown Shoe Group and Justin Brands.

Berkshire acquired FOL in 2002. Headquartered in Bowling Green, Kentucky, FOL is a vertically
integrated manufacturer and distributor of basic apparel products sold principally under the

Fruit
of the Loom

®

label. FOL is a market leader in the mass merchandise segment of the men’s and boys’
underwear market, and is one of the branded market leaders in the women’s and girls’ underwear
market. In addition FOL produces and sells undecorated T-shirts and fleecewear under its own
labels in a variety of colors and styles. Products are distributed to retailers and wholesalers in
North America, Europe and Asia.

As a vertically integrated manufacturer, FOL performs most of its own spinning, knitting,
cloth finishing, cutting, sewing and packaging. For the North American market, which comprised
more than 85% of FOL’s 2005 consolidated net sales, the majority of capital-intensive spinning and
cloth manufacturing operations are located in highly automated facilities in the United States with
a portion of cloth manufacturing performed offshore. Labor-intensive sewing and finishing
operations are located in lower labor cost facilities in Central America and the Caribbean. For
the European market, capital-intensive manufacturing operations are performed in Ireland and
Northern Ireland and sewing is performed in Morocco. During 2004, FOL announced the expansion of
facilities in Morocco to include yarn spinning and textile manufacturing. FOL intends to transfer
its European-market spinning and cloth making operations to Morocco over the next five years.

Berkshire acquired Garan in 2002. Based in New York City, Garan designs, manufactures, and
sells apparel primarily for children and to a lesser degree for men and women. Products are sold
under private labels of its customers as well as its own trademarks, including

Garanimals

®

.

Garan’s production facilities are primarily located in Central America. Substantially all of
Garan’s products are sold through its distribution centers in the U.S. to major national chain
stores, department stores, and specialty stores. In 2005, over 90% of Garan’s sales were to
Wal-Mart Stores.

FOL’s and Garan’s markets are highly competitive, consisting of many domestic and foreign
manufacturers and distributors. Competition is generally based upon price, product style, quality
and customer service.



Item 1. Business

Non-Insurance Businesses of Berkshire

(Continued)

Apparel

(Continued)

Fechheimer Brothers manufactures, distributes, and sells uniforms, principally for the public
service and safety markets, including police, fire, postal and
military markets. Fechheimer Brothers was
acquired by Berkshire in 1986 and is based in Cincinnati, Ohio.

Justin Brands and H.H. Brown Shoe Group have been owned by Berkshire for more than the past
five years. Collectively, Berkshire’s footwear businesses purchase or manufacture and distribute
work, rugged outdoor and casual shoes (H.H. Brown Shoe Group) and western-style footwear (Justin
Brands) under a number of brand names. Significant portions of the shoes sold by Berkshire’s shoe
businesses are manufactured or purchased from sources outside the United States. Over the past
five years, a number of manufacturing facilities in the United States and Canada have been closed.
Products are principally sold in the United States through a variety of channels including
department stores, footwear chains, specialty stores, catalogs and the Internet, as well as through
company-owned retail stores.

Building Products

— Berkshire entered the building products business in 2000 with the
acquisition of Acme Building Brands (“Acme”). Acme, headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas,
manufactures and distributes clay bricks (

Acme Brick

), concrete block (

Featherlite

) and cut
limestone (

Texas Quarries

). In addition, Acme distributes a number of other building products of
other manufacturers, including glass block, brick, floor and wall tile and other masonry products.
Acme also sells ceramic floor and wall tile, as well as marble, granite and other stones through
its subsidiary, American Tile. Products are sold primarily in the Southwest United States through
company-operated sales offices. Acme distributes products primarily to homebuilders and masonry
and general contractors.

Acme operates 23 clay brick manufacturing facilities located in six states, seven concrete
block facilities in Texas, and one stone quarry fabrication facility in Texas. The demand for
Acme’s products is seasonal, with higher sales in the warmer weather months, and is subject to the
level of construction, which can be cyclical. Acme also owns and leases properties and mineral
rights that supply raw materials used in many of its manufactured products. Raw materials supply
is believed to be adequate into the foreseeable future.

Berkshire acquired Benjamin Moore & Co. (“Benjamin Moore”) at the end of 2000. Benjamin
Moore, headquartered in Montvale, New Jersey, is a leading formulator, manufacturer and retailer of
a broad range of primarily architectural coatings, available principally in the United States and
Canada. Products include water-thinnable and solvent-thinnable general purpose coatings (paints,
stains and clear finishes) for use by the general public, contractors and industrial and commercial
users. Products are marketed under various registered brand names, including

Regal

®

,

Superspec

®

,

Superhide

®

and

Moorgard

®

.

Benjamin Moore relies primarily on an independent dealer network for the distribution of its
products. The network consists of over 3,600 retailers with over 4,700 storefronts in the United
States and Canada. Benjamin Moore also owns and manages several multiple-outlet stores and
stand-alone stores in various parts of the United States and Canada serving primarily contractors
and general consumers. Included in the 4,700 storefronts at December 31, 2005 were 153 Benjamin
Moore majority-owned stores positioned in the market as independent retailers that offer a broad
array of products including Benjamin Moore

®

brands and other competitor coatings, wallcoverings,
window treatments and sundries.

The architectural coatings industry is highly competitive and has historically been subject to
intense price competition. It is estimated that there are approximately 300 coatings manufacturers
in the United States, many of which are small companies, that compete regionally and locally. The
top four companies in the industry, including Benjamin Moore positioned fourth, comprise about 62%
of the total market. Benjamin Moore is positioned second in the Canadian marketplace.

Berkshire acquired Johns Manville (“JM”) in 2001. JM has been serving the building products
industry for nearly 150 years and is a leading manufacturer of fiber glass wool insulation products
for walls, attics and floors in homes and commercial buildings, as well as pipe, duct and equipment
insulation products. JM is also a leading full-line supplier of roofing systems and components for
low-slope commercial and industrial roofs in North America. In addition, JM manufactures nonwoven
mats, fabrics and fibers used as reinforcements in building and industrial applications, and high
efficiency air filtration media. Fiber glass is the basic material in a majority of JM’s products,
although JM also manufactures a significant portion of its products with other materials to satisfy
the broader needs of its customers. The raw materials in JM’s products are readily available in
sufficient quantities from various sources to maintain and expand JM’s current production levels.
JM regards its patents and licenses as valuable, however it does not consider any of its businesses
to be materially dependent on any single patent or license. JM is headquartered in Denver,
Colorado, and operates 43 manufacturing facilities in North America, Europe and China and conducts
research and development at several other facilities.

JM sells its products through a wide variety of channels including contractors, distributors,
retailers, manufacturers and fabricators. JM’s results of operations are affected by the levels of
new and repair/remodel



Item 1. Business

Non-Insurance Businesses of Berkshire

(Continued)

Building Products

(Continued)

commercial and residential construction and are moderately seasonal due to increases in
construction activity that typically occur in the second and third quarters of the calendar year.
In addition, JM’s operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental
laws and regulations. These laws and regulations regulate the discharge of materials into the air,
land, and water and govern the use and disposal of hazardous substances.

JM has leading market positions in each of its businesses and typically competes with a few
large national competitors and several smaller, regional competitors. JM’s products compete
primarily on the basis of value, product differentiation and customization and breadth of product
line.

Berkshire acquired a 90% equity interest in MiTek Inc. (“MiTek”) in 2001. MiTek is
headquartered in Chesterfield, Missouri and is a leading provider of engineered connector products,
engineering software and services, and manufacturing machinery to the truss fabrication segment of
the building components industry. Primary customers are truss fabricators who manufacture
pre-fabricated roof and floor trusses and wall panels for the residential building market as well
as the light commercial and institutional construction industry. MiTek also participates in the
light gauge steel framing market under the

Ultra-Span

®

name.

MiTek operates 16 manufacturing facilities located in 10 countries and 26 sales/engineering
offices located in 14 countries. Products are sold to customers in approximately 80 countries, and
MiTek’s business is subject to seasonal and cyclical changes in the overall housing industry.

Finance and Financial Products

— Berkshire’s finance and financial products businesses engage
in a variety of finance related activities. BH Finance invests in fixed-income financial
instruments, often on a leveraged basis, pursuant to proprietary strategies with the objective of
earning above average returns. BH Finance also enters into derivative
contracts and assumes foreign currency, equity price, and credit
default risk. Management recognizes and accepts that losses may occur due to the
nature of these activities as well as the markets in general. In addition, the level of
investments and derivative contracts will vary over time depending on the magnitude and number of strategies employed.
This business is conducted from Berkshire’s corporate headquarters.

Berkshire acquired Clayton Homes, Inc. (“Clayton”) in 2003. Clayton, headquartered near
Knoxville, Tennessee, is a vertically integrated manufactured housing company. At December 31,
2005, Clayton operated 36 manufacturing plants in 13 states. Clayton’s homes are marketed in 48
states through a network of 1,626 retailers, 462 of which are company owned sales centers. In
2005, Clayton acquired the retail operations of Fleetwood Homes and acquired four manufacturing
facilities of Karsten Homes. Installment financing is offered to purchasers of Clayton’s
manufactured homes as well as those purchasing homes from selected independent retailers. Such
financing is provided through its wholly owned finance subsidiaries, Vanderbilt Mortgage and
Finance, Inc. (“VMF”) and 21

st

Mortgage Corporation (“21

st

”). Clayton also
develops, owns, and manages 77 manufactured housing communities located in 12 states and operates 8
housing subdivisions in 2 states.

Clayton competes at the manufacturing, retail, and finance levels on the basis of price,
service, delivery capabilities and product performance, and considers the ability to make financing
available to retail purchasers a major factor affecting the market acceptance of its product.
Retail sales are facilitated by Clayton’s offering of various finance and insurance programs.
Finance programs include VMF’s origination of installment contract receivables at company owned
sales centers and 21

st

originations from select independent retailers. Also included
are bulk purchases of manufactured housing contracts from banks and other lenders as well as
inventory financing provided to certain independent retailers by 21

st

. VMF and

st

also service manufactured housing contracts that were not purchased or originated
by them. These purchases and servicing arrangements may relate to the portfolios of other lenders
or finance companies, governmental agencies, or other entities that purchase and hold manufactured
housing contracts. Clayton also acts as agent on physical damage insurance policies, family
protection insurance policies, home buyer protection plan policies, and other programs. Insurance
programs offered by Clayton are reinsured through various wholly owned and majority owned
subsidiaries of Clayton.

Prior to Berkshire’s acquisition, the primary source of permanent funding for the lending
activities of VMF and 21

st

was in the form of asset-backed securities issued through a
special purpose entity. Berkshire now provides permanent funding for these activities with loans
to Clayton from its wholly owned subsidiary Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation (“BHFC”). BHFC
was formed during 2003 and through December 31, 2005 issued $8.85 billion of medium term notes with
maturities of between 3 and 10 years.

Berkshire acquired XTRA in 2001. XTRA, headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri, is a leading
transportation equipment lessor operating under the XTRA Lease brand name. XTRA manages a diverse
fleet of approximately 129,000 units, constituting a net investment of approximately $1.2 billion
as of December 31, 2005. The fleet includes over-the-road and storage trailers, chassis,
temperature controlled vans, flatbeds, and intermodal trailers. During February 2005, XTRA
acquired a trailer rental business from a competitor, which included a fleet of approximately 23,000
over-the-road and storage trailers. Management believes that XTRA is one of the two largest
lessors (in terms of units available) of over-the-road trailers in North America.



Item 1. Business

Non-Insurance Businesses of Berkshire

(Continued)

Finance and Financial Products

(Continued)

Transportation equipment customers lease equipment to cover cyclical, seasonal and geographic
needs and as a substitute for purchasing. In addition, capital and capacity constrained
transportation providers often use leasing to maximize their asset utilization and reduce capital
expenditures. By maintaining a large fleet, XTRA is able to provide customers with a broad
selection of equipment and quick response times.

CORT Business Services Corporation was acquired in 2000 by an 80.1% owned subsidiary of
Berkshire and is the leading national provider of rental furniture, accessories and related
services in the “rent-to-rent” segment of the furniture rental industry.

General Re Securities and affiliates (“GRS”) was acquired by Berkshire as part of the 1998
acquisition of General Re. General Re’s derivatives trading business has been conducted through
GRS. In January 2002, a decision was made to commence a long-term run-off of GRS. Prior to
run-off, GRS offered a full line of interest rate, currency, and equity swap and option products,
as well as structured finance products. Since January 2002, the number of open trades has declined
by about 97%.

Berkshire’s finance businesses also include Berkshire Hathaway Credit Corporation (commercial
real estate financing), Berkshire Hathaway Life Insurance (sales of annuity contracts), and Scott
Fetzer Financial Group, Inc. (consumer receivable financing primarily in connection with sales of
Kirby products).

Flight Services

— In 1996, Berkshire acquired FlightSafety International Inc. (“FSI”). FSI is
headquartered at LaGuardia Airport in Flushing, New York. FSI engages primarily in the business of
providing high technology training to operators of aircraft and ships. FSI’s training activities
include: advanced pilot training in the operation of aircraft and air traffic control procedures;
aircrew training for military and other government personnel; aircraft maintenance technician
training; ab-initio (primary) pilot training to qualify individuals for private and commercial
pilots’ licenses; and ship handling and related training services. FSI also develops classroom
instructional systems and materials for use in its training business and for sale to others.

A significant part of FSI’s training programs derives from the use of simulators, which
incorporate computer-based technology to replicate the operation of particular aircraft or
ocean-going vessels. Simulators reproduce, with a high degree of accuracy, certain sights,
movements, and aircraft or vessel control responses experienced by the operator of the aircraft or
ship. FSI utilizes 290 training devices, including 248 civil aviation simulators. FSI’s training
businesses are conducted primarily in the United States, with facilities located in 21 states. FSI
also operates training facilities in Australia, Brazil, Canada, France and the United Kingdom. FSI
also designs and manufactures full motion flight simulators, visual displays, and other training
equipment for use in its training business and for sale to others. Manufacturing facilities are
located in Oklahoma and Missouri.

Berkshire acquired NetJets Inc. (“NJ”) in 1998. NJ is the world’s leading provider of
fractional ownership programs for general aviation aircraft. At December 31, 2005, the NetJets

®

program operated 15 aircraft types. The fractional ownership of aircraft concept permits customers
to acquire a specific percentage of a certain aircraft type and allows them to utilize the aircraft
for a specified number of flight hours per annum. In addition, NJ provides management, ground
support and flight operation services to customers after the sale. NetJets as an owner and
operator of aircraft in the United States is subject to the rules and regulations of the Federal
Aviation Administration, which address aircraft registration and maintenance requirements, pilot
qualifications and airport operations, including flight planning and scheduling as well as security
issues. In 2001, NJ entered into an “exclusive alliance” with an independent company, Marquis Jet
Partners, Inc. (“Marquis”). Under this alliance, Marquis leases fractional interests and
management services from NetJets and resells them to its customers in the form of a prepaid Marquis
Jet Card, which entitles the customer to 25 hours of flight time. This segment of NJ’s business
continues to grow, and currently approximates 10% of total NJ revenues.

The fractional ownership concept is designed to meet the needs of customers who cannot justify
the purchase of an entire aircraft based upon expected usage. In addition, fractional ownership
programs are available for corporate flight departments seeking to outsource their general aviation
needs or looking for additional capacity for peak periods and for others that previously chartered
aircraft. NJ places great emphasis on safety and customer service. Its programs are designed to
offer customers guaranteed availability of aircraft, lower and predictable operating costs and
increased liquidity.

NJ is currently believed to be the world’s largest purchaser of general aviation aircraft.
The company maintained approximately 510 aircraft in its fleet as of December 31, 2005. NJ
management believes that the market for fractional ownership of aircraft programs is large and
growing and will contribute to NJ’s continued growth over the foreseeable future. NJ’s executive
offices are located in New Jersey, while most of its logistical and flight operations are based at
Port Columbus International Airport in Columbus, Ohio. NJ’s European operations are based in
Lisbon, Portugal.



Item 1. Business

Non-Insurance Businesses of Berkshire

(Continued)

McLane Company

— Berkshire acquired McLane Company, Inc. (“McLane”) in 2003 from Wal-Mart
Stores, Inc. (“Wal-Mart”). McLane provides wholesale distribution and logistics services in all 50
states and internationally in Brazil to customers that include discount retailers, convenience
stores, quick service restaurants, drug stores and movie theatre complexes. For about 13 years
prior to Berkshire’s acquisition, McLane had been an integral part of the Wal-Mart distribution
network, and under Berkshire’s ownership continues to provide wholesale distribution services to
Wal-Mart, which accounted for approximately 33% of McLane’s revenues during 2005. McLane’s business
model is based on a high volume of sales, low profit margins, rapid inventory turnover and tight expense control, with
operations divided into two business units: grocery distribution and foodservice operations.

McLane’s grocery distribution unit, based in Temple, Texas, enjoys the dominant market share
within the convenience store industry and serves most of the national convenience store chains and
major oil company retail outlets. Grocery operations provide products to more than 38,300 retail
locations nationwide, including Wal-Mart. McLane’s grocery distribution unit operates 21 facilities
in 18 states, which average approximately 380,000 square feet per facility. Also included in
McLane’s grocery operations are third party logistics services provided from four distribution
centers in Brazil that average approximately 325,000 square feet per facility.

McLane’s foodservice operations, based in Carrollton, Texas, focus on serving the quick
service restaurant industry with high quality, timely-delivered products. Operations are conducted
through 18 facilities in 16 states, which average approximately 170,000 square feet per facility.
The foodservice distribution unit is considered the second largest restaurant systems supplier in
the United States, servicing more than 17,500 chain restaurants nationwide.

Retail Businesses

— Berkshire’s retail businesses consist of several independently managed
home furnishings and jewelry operations. Information regarding each of these operations follows.

The home furnishings businesses are the Nebraska Furniture Mart (“NFM”), R.C. Willey Home
Furnishings (“R.C. Willey”), Star Furniture Company (“Star”), and Jordan’s Furniture, Inc.
(“Jordan’s”). NFM is 80% owned by Berkshire, whereas R.C. Willey, Star and Jordan’s are 100% owned
by Berkshire. Berkshire has owned its interest in NFM since 1983, acquired R.C. Willey in 1995,
Star in 1997 and Jordan’s in 1999.

NFM, R.C. Willey, Star and Jordan’s each offer a wide selection of furniture, bedding and
accessories. In addition, NFM and R.C. Willey sell a full line of major household appliances,
electronics, computers and other home furnishings. NFM, R.C. Willey, Star and Jordan’s also offer
customer financing to complement their retail operations. An important feature of each of these
businesses is their ability to control costs and to produce high business volume from offering
significant value to their customers.

NFM operates its business from a very large retail complex and sizable warehouse and
administrative facilities in Omaha, Nebraska, which includes over 500,000 square feet of retail
space. NFM’s customers are drawn from a radius around Omaha of approximately 300 miles and it is
the largest furniture retailer in the area. In 2000, NFM acquired Homemakers Furniture located in
Des Moines, Iowa. Homemakers has two facilities that include approximately 225,000 square feet of
retail space. In 2003, NFM opened a new store in Kansas City, Kansas. This store, which anchors a
retail and entertainment district, includes approximately 445,000 square feet of retail space.

R.C. Willey, based in Salt Lake City, is the dominant home furnishings retailer in the
Intermountain West region of the United States. R.C. Willey operates ten full retail stores, two
retail clearance facilities and two distribution centers. These facilities — which include
approximately 1.3 million square feet of retail space —include eight stores strategically located
throughout northern Utah, one store in Meridian, Idaho, and two stores in the Las Vegas, Nevada
region. R.C. Willey opened a new store in Reno, Nevada in November 2005. R.C. Willey plans to
open an additional retail store and a distribution center in Sacramento, California in 2006.

Star’s retail facilities include about 700,000 square feet of retail space in eleven
locations. All of Star’s retail facilities are located in Texas, with eight in Houston. Star is
believed to be the largest furniture retailer, as measured by sales, in each of its markets.
Jordan’s operates a furniture retail business from four locations with approximately 520,000 square
feet of retail space in Massachusetts and New Hampshire. Jordan’s is believed to be the largest
furniture retailer, as measured by sales, in the Massachusetts and New Hampshire areas. Jordan’s
is well known in its markets for its unique store arrangements and advertising campaigns.

Since 1989, Berkshire has owned an interest (currently 88%) in Borsheim Jewelry Company, Inc.
(“Borsheim’s”). From its single store located in Omaha, Nebraska, Borsheim’s is a high volume
retailer of fine jewelry, watches, crystal, china, stemware, flatware, gifts and collectibles. In
1995, Berkshire acquired Helzberg’s Diamond Shops, Inc. (“Helzberg’s”). Helzberg’s, based in North
Kansas City, Missouri, operates a chain of 272 retail jewelry stores in 38 states. Most of
Helzberg’s stores are located in malls or power strip centers, and all stores operate under the
name

Helzberg Diamonds

. In 2000, Berkshire acquired The Ben Bridge Corporation (“Ben



Item 1. Business

Non-Insurance Businesses of Berkshire

(Continued)

Retail Businesses

(Continued)

Bridge Jeweler”). Ben Bridge Jeweler, based in Seattle, Washington, operates a chain of 75 upscale
retail jewelry stores in 12 states, primarily in the Western United States. Ben Bridge Jeweler
stores are located primarily in major shopping malls. Berkshire’s retail jewelry operations are
subject to seasonality with approximately 40% of annual revenues being earned in the fourth
quarter.

Shaw Industries

— Berkshire acquired Shaw Industries Group, Inc. (“Shaw”) in 2001. Shaw,
headquartered in Dalton, Georgia, is the world’s largest carpet manufacturer based on both revenue
and volume of production. Shaw designs and manufactures over 3,000 styles of tufted and woven
carpet and laminate flooring for residential and commercial use under about 30 brand and trade
names and under certain private labels. Shaw’s manufacturing operations are fully integrated from
the processing of raw materials used to make fiber through the finishing of carpet. Shaw’s carpet
and laminate are sold in a broad range of prices, patterns, colors and textures.

Shaw sells its wholesale products to over 42,000 retailers, distributors and commercial users
throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico; through its own residential and commercial sales
personnel to various residential and commercial end-users in the United States and, to a lesser
degree, exports to additional overseas markets. Shaw also provides installation services and sells
ceramic tile and hardwood flooring. Shaw’s wholesale products are marketed domestically by over
1,700 salaried and commissioned sales personnel directly to retailers and distributors and to large
national accounts. Shaw’s eight full-service distribution facilities and 30 redistribution
centers, along with centralized management information systems, enable it to provide prompt
delivery of its products to both its retail customers and wholesale distributors.

Substantially all carpet manufactured by Shaw is tufted carpet made from nylon, polypropylene
and polyester. In the tufting process, yarn is inserted by multiple needles into a synthetic
backing, forming loops which may be cut or left uncut, depending on the desired texture or
construction. During 2005 Shaw processed approximately 97% of its requirements for carpet yarn in
its own yarn processing facilities.

The floor covering industry is highly competitive with more than 100 companies engaged in the
manufacture and sale of carpet in the United States and numerous manufacturers engaged in hard
surface floor covering production and sales. According to industry estimates, carpet accounts for
approximately 60% of the total United States production of all flooring types. The principal
competitive measures within the floor covering industry are quality, style, price and service.

Utilities
and Energy

— In 2000 and 2002, Berkshire acquired both voting and non-voting
interests in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company (“MidAmerican”), an international energy company
headquartered in Des Moines, Iowa, giving Berkshire a 9.7% voting interest and an 83.4% (80.5% on a
diluted basis) economic interest at December 31, 2005. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 included the
repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (“PUHCA” or the “Act”). The repeal of
PUHCA enabled Berkshire to convert its convertible non-voting preferred stock investment to common
stock on February 9, 2006, without triggering holding company registration under the Act. The
transaction was approved by the appropriate federal and state regulatory authorities. Accordingly,
Berkshire currently owns an 83.4% voting common stock interest in MidAmerican.

Each of MidAmerican’s businesses are managed as separate operating units. MidAmerican’s
domestic, regulated energy interests are comprised of a combined electric and natural gas utility
company serving approximately 1.4 million retail customers and two natural gas pipeline companies
with over 18,200 miles of pipeline in operation and design capacity of 6.4 billion cubic
feet of natural gas per day. Its United Kingdom (“UK”) electricity distribution subsidiaries serve
about 3.7 million electricity end users. In addition, MidAmerican’s interests include a
diversified portfolio of international and domestic independent power projects and the second
largest residential real estate brokerage firm in the United States.

MidAmerican Energy Company is a regulated electric and natural gas company serving retail
customers primarily in Iowa and also in portions of Illinois, South Dakota and Nebraska generally
under 25-year franchises, certificates, permits and licenses obtained from state and local
authorities. As a vertically integrated electric utility business, MidAmerican Energy Company owned or has
under contract total accredited net generating capacity of 5,098 net megawatts, at the time of its
2005 summer peak demand. In addition to retail sales and natural gas transportation, MidAmerican
Energy Company sells electric energy and natural gas to other utilities, marketers and
municipalities on a wholesale basis.



Item 1. Business

Non-Insurance Businesses of Berkshire

(Continued)

Utilities
and Energy

(Continued)

Northern Natural Gas Company is based in Omaha, Nebraska, and operates 16,500 miles of natural
gas pipeline with a design capacity of 4.6 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day making it one
of the largest interstate natural gas pipeline systems in the United States reaching from Texas to
Michigan’s Upper Peninsula. Northern Natural Gas Company has access to supplies from every major
mid-continent basin, as well as the Rocky Mountain and Western Canadian basins and provides
transportation to utilities and numerous other end-use customers. Northern Natural Gas Company also
operates three natural gas storage facilities.

Kern River Gas Transmission Company is based in Salt Lake City, Utah and operates
approximately 1,700 miles of natural gas pipeline with a design capacity of 1.8 billion cubic feet
of natural gas per day. Kern River Gas Transmission Company transports natural gas from the supply
areas in the Rocky Mountains to consuming markets in Utah, Nevada and California.

MidAmerican, through Northern Electric Distribution Limited and Yorkshire Electricity
Distribution plc, owns a substantial United Kingdom electricity distribution network that delivers
electricity to end users in the North and East of England covering almost 10,000 square miles. The
distribution companies primarily earn regulated tariffs from the use of their electrical
infrastructure charged to supply companies.

MidAmerican’s regulated operating businesses are subject to a number of federal, state and
international regulations, including the approval of rates. These rates are generally designed to
allow the regulated business to recover its costs of providing service to customers, including a
reasonable rate of return.

MidAmerican’s interest in independent power projects consists of a combined irrigation and
hydroelectric power project and three geothermal facilities in the Philippines with net generating
capacity of 640 aggregate net megawatts; ten geothermal power projects located in Southern
California; and four natural gas-fueled combined-cycle generation plants located in New York,
Illinois, Texas and Arizona, with net generating capacity of almost 1,400 aggregate net megawatts.

MidAmerican also owns HomeServices of America, Inc. (“HomeServices”), the second largest
residential real estate brokerage firm in the United States. HomeServices is a full-service,
independent residential real estate brokerage firm and settlement services provider offering
integrated real estate services, including mortgage origination, title and closing services,
property and casualty insurance, home warranties and other home-related services. It currently
operates under 18 residential real estate brand names with over 19,000 agents and more than 355
broker offices in 18 states. HomeServices participated in over $60 billion of sales volume in 2005.
HomeServices’ principal sources of revenue are dependent on the timing of residential real estate
sales, which are generally lower in the first and last quarters of each year.

In May 2005, MidAmerican reached a definitive agreement with Scottish Power plc to acquire its
indirect subsidiary, PacifiCorp, a regulated electric utility providing service to 1.6 million
customers in California, Idaho, Oregon, Utah, Washington and Wyoming. MidAmerican will purchase
all of the outstanding shares of PacifiCorp common stock for approximately $5.1 billion in cash.
It is currently expected that MidAmerican will issue $3.4 billion of additional capital stock to
Berkshire. The proceeds from the issuance of the capital stock by MidAmerican along with the
proceeds from the planned issuance by MidAmerican of $1.7 billion of long-term debt or other
securities will be used to fund the acquisition. The acquisition is subject to customary closing
conditions and is expected to be completed in March 2006.

Other Non-Insurance Businesses —

Berkshire’s other non-insurance businesses consist of a wide
array of businesses that engage in a variety of business activities. Additional information
related to these businesses is as follows.

Scott Fetzer Companies —

The Scott Fetzer Companies are a diversified group of 21 businesses
that manufacture and distribute a wide variety of products for residential, industrial and
institutional use. The two most significant of these businesses are Kirby home cleaning systems
and Campbell Hausfeld products.

The

Buffalo News

publishes three editions on Saturday and Sunday and eight editions each
weekday from its headquarters in Buffalo, New York.

See’s Candies

produces boxed chocolates and other confectionery products with an emphasis on
quality and distinctiveness in two large kitchens in California. See’s revenues are highly
seasonal with approximately 50% of total annual revenues being earned in the months of November and
December.

International Dairy Queen

services a system of approximately 5,900 stores operating under the
names

Dairy Queen, Orange Julius

and

Karmelkorn

that offer various dairy desserts, beverages,
prepared foods, blended fruit drinks, popcorn and other snack foods.



Item 1. Business

Non-Insurance Businesses of Berkshire

(Continued)

Other Non-Insurance Businesses

(Continued)

In 2002, Berkshire acquired

Albecca Inc.

(“Albecca”). Albecca is headquartered in Norcross,
Georgia, and primarily does business under the

Larson-Juhl

name. Albecca designs, manufactures and
distributes a complete line of high quality, branded custom framing products, including wood and
metal moulding, matboard, foamboard, glass, equipment and other framing supplies.

Berkshire acquired

CTB International Corp.

(“CTB”) in 2002. CTB, headquartered in Milford,
Indiana, is a leading designer, manufacturer and marketer of systems used in the grain industry and
in the production of poultry, hogs, and eggs. Products are produced in the United States and
Europe and are sold primarily through a global network of independent dealers and distributors,
with peak sales occurring in the second and third quarters.

In 2002 Berkshire acquired

The Pampered Chef, LTD

(“TPC”), the largest direct seller of high
quality kitchen tools in the United States. Products are researched, designed and tested by TPC,
and manufactured by third party suppliers. From its Addison, Illinois headquarters, TPC utilizes a
network of more than 61,000 independent sales representatives to sell its products through
home-based party demonstrations, principally in the United States.

Berkshire acquired

Forest River, Inc.

(“Forest River”) in August 2005. Forest River is a
manufacturer of recreational vehicles, utility cargo and office trailers, busses and
pontoon boats, and is headquartered in Elkhart, Indiana. Its products
are sold in the United States and
Canada through an independent dealer network. Forest River has manufacturing facilities in
Indiana, California, Georgia, Michigan, Oregon and Texas.

Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. and subsidiaries (including MidAmerican), employed approximately 192,000
persons at December 31, 2005.

Additional information with respect to Berkshire’s businesses

The amounts of revenue, earnings before taxes and identifiable assets attributable to the
aforementioned business segments are included in Note 20 to Registrant’s Consolidated Financial
Statements contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Additional
information regarding Registrant’s investments in fixed maturity and marketable equity securities
is included in Notes 5 and 6 to Registrant’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

Berkshire Hathaway Inc. maintains a website (

http://www.berkshirehathaway.com

)
where its annual reports, certain corporate governance documents, press releases, interim
shareholder reports and links to its subsidiaries’ websites can be found. Berkshire’s periodic
reports filed with the SEC, which include Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, Form 8-K and amendments thereto,
may be accessed by the public free of charge from the SEC and through Berkshire. Electronic copies
of these reports can be accessed at the SEC’s website (

http://www.sec.gov

) and indirectly
through Berkshire’s website (

http://www.berkshirehathaway.com

). Copies of these reports
may also be obtained, free of charge, upon written request to: Berkshire Hathaway Inc., 1440 Kiewit
Plaza, Omaha, NE 68131, Attn: Corporate Secretary. The public may read or obtain copies of these
reports from the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street N.W., Washington, D.C.
20549 (1-800-SEC-0330).

Item 1A. Risk Factors

Berkshire is subject to certain risks in its business operations which are described below.
Careful consideration of these risks should be made before making an investment decision. The
risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing Berkshire. Additional risks
and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our
business operations.

The Company’s tolerance for risk in its insurance businesses may result in a high degree of volatility in periodic reported earnings.

Berkshire has been and continues to be willing to assume more risk than any other insurer has
knowingly assumed. Berkshire estimates it could incur losses of $6 billion from a single loss
event and does so willingly if properly paid for the risk assumed. Berkshire has also written some
coverages for losses arising from acts of terrorism. In all cases, however, Berkshire attempts to
avoid writing groups of policies from which losses might seriously
aggregate, though it is possible that despite Berkshire’s
efforts, losses may aggregate in ways that were not anticipated. The tolerance for
huge losses may in certain future periods result in huge losses, which may result in a high degree
of volatility in periodic reported earnings.



Item 1A.
Risk Factors

(Continued)

The degree of estimation error inherent in the process of estimating property and casualty
insurance loss reserves may result in a high degree of volatility in periodic reported
earnings.

In the insurance business, premiums are charged today for promises to pay covered losses in
the future. The principal cost associated with premium revenue is claims. However, it will
literally take decades before all losses that have occurred as of the balance sheet date will be
reported and settled. Although Berkshire believes that loss reserve balances are adequate to cover
losses, Berkshire will not truly know whether the premiums charged
for the coverages provided were
sufficient until well after the balance sheet date. Except for certain product lines, Berkshire’s
objective is to generate underwriting profits over the long term. Estimating insurance claim costs
is inherently imprecise. Reserve estimates are large ($48 billion at
December 31, 2005) so adjustments to reserve estimates can have a material effect on periodic reported earnings.

Insurance subsidiaries’ investments are unusually concentrated.

Compared to other insurers, Berkshire’s insurance subsidiaries keep an unusually high
percentage of their assets in common stocks and diversify their portfolios far less than is
conventional. A significant decline in the general stock market or in the price of major
investments may produce a large decrease in Berkshire’s shareholders’ equity, and may precipitate
recognition of such losses in the statement of earnings. Decreases in values of equity investments
could have a material adverse effect on Berkshire’s book value per share.

Berkshire is dependent for its investment and capital allocation decisions on a few
key people.

Investment
decisions and all major capital allocation decisions are made for Berkshire’s
businesses by Warren E. Buffett, chairman of the board of directors and CEO, age 75, in
consultation with Charles T. Munger, vice chairman of the board of directors, age 82. If for any
reason the services of Berkshire’s key personnel, particularly Mr. Buffett, were to become
unavailable to Berkshire, there could be a material adverse effect on the Company. However,
Berkshire’s Board of Directors has identified three current Berkshire subsidiary managers who are
capable of being CEO. Berkshire’s Board has agreed on a replacement for Mr. Buffett should a
replacement be needed currently. The Board continually monitors this
matter and could alter its
current view in the future. Management believes that the Board’s succession plan,
together with the outstanding managers running Berkshire’s numerous and highly diversified
operating units helps to mitigate this risk.

The past growth rate in Berkshire stock is not an indication of future results.

In the years since Berkshire’s present management acquired control of Berkshire, its book
value per share has grown at a highly satisfactory rate. Because of the large size of Berkshire’s
capital base (shareholders’ equity of approximately $91.5 billion as of December 31, 2005),
Berkshire’s book value per share cannot increase in the future at a rate even close to its past
rate.

Competition

Each of Berkshire’s operating
businesses faces intense competitive pressures within its
respective markets. Such competition may come from domestic operators
and international operators.
While Berkshire’s businesses are managed with the objective of achieving sustainable growth over the
long-term through developing and strengthening competitive
advantages, many factors, including market and technology changes,
may erode competitive advantages or prevent their strengthening. Accordingly, future
operating results will depend to some degree on whether the operating units are successful in
protecting or enhancing their competitive advantages.

Berkshire’s class B common stock is not convertible and has a lower vote and stock price than
its class A common stock.

Each share of class A common stock is convertible into thirty shares of class B common stock,
but shares of class B common stock are not convertible into shares of class A common stock or any
other security. Although a share of class B common stock may sell below one-thirtieth of the
market price for a share of class A common stock, it is unlikely that a share of class B common
stock will sell significantly above one-thirtieth of the market price for a share of class A common
stock because higher prices than that would cause arbitrage activity to ensue. Also, holders of
class A common stock are entitled to one vote, but holders of class B common stock are entitled to
only one two-hundredth of a vote for each class B share on matters submitted to a vote of Berkshire
stockholders.

Governmental Investigations.

Certain
of Berkshire’s insurance subsidiaries, particularly General Re Corporation and some of its
subsidiaries, are subject to ongoing investigations by U.S. federal and state governmental
authorities, including the U.S. Department of Justice, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, the New York State Attorney General, the Office
of the Connecticut Attorney General and various state insurance departments, and by certain foreign
governmental authorities, relating to non-traditional products and in some cases to transactions
with other insurers. These investigations are described under
Item 3 – Legal Proceedings. Berkshire
cannot at this time predict the outcomes of these investigations, is unable to estimate a range
of possible loss, and cannot predict whether or not the outcomes will have a material adverse
effect on Berkshire’s business or results of operations for at least the quarterly period when
these matters are completed or otherwise resolved.



Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

Item 2. Description of Properties

The physical properties used by the Registrant and its significant business segments are
summarized below:

Approx.

Number of

Square

Business

Country

Location

Type of Property

properties

Owned/leased

Footage

Berkshire

U.S.

Omaha, NE

Corporate Offices


Leased

10,000

Insurance and

Reinsurance

GEICO

U.S.

Chevy Chase, MD and

Offices


Owned

3,152,000

locations in 6
other states

Various locations

Offices and drive-in


Leased

590,000

throughout the U.S.

claims facilities

General Re

U.S.

Stamford, CT

Offices


Owned

160,000

Stamford, CT, various

Offices


Leased

1,202,000

U.S. locations

Non-U.S.

Cologne, Germany

Offices


Owned

136,000

Various locations in 24

Offices


Leased

402,000

countries

Berkshire Hathaway

U.S.

Stamford, CT and 4

Offices


Leased

83,000

Reinsurance Group

other locations

Non-U.S.

United Kingdom

Offices


Leased

30,000

Berkshire Hathaway

U.S.

Omaha, NE and Fort

Offices


Owned

208,000

Primary Insurance

Group

Wayne, IN

U.S.

Various locations in

Offices


Leased

282,000

14 states

Apparel

Clothing

U.S.

Various locations in 7

Mfg plants


Owned

3,161,000

states

Various locations in 10

Offices/


Owned

2,975,000

states

Warehouses


Leased

548,000

Various locations in 8

Retail stores


Owned

41,000

states

Retail stores


Leased

128,000

Non-U.S.

Ireland, Northern

Mfg plants


Owned

994,000

Ireland and Morocco

El Salvador, Honduras

Mfg plants


Leased

2,590,000

and Morocco

Locations in 9

Mfg plants


Owned

703,000

countries

Mfg plants


Leased

274,000

Footwear

U.S.

Various locations in 7

Plants/Warehouses/


Owned

1,743,000

states

Offices


Leased

137,000

Various locations in 13

Retail stores


Owned

264,000

states

Retail stores


Leased

317,000

Non-U.S.

Canada

Offices


Leased

2,000



Item 2.
Description of Properties

(Continued)

Approx.

Number of

Square

Business

Country

Location

Type of Property

properties

Owned/leased

Footage

Building products

U.S.

Various locations

Mfg plants/Offices


Owned

14,347,000

throughout the U.S.

Mfg plants/Offices


Leased

1,464,000

Warehouses


Owned

1,753,000

Warehouses


Leased

1,392,000

Retail stores


Leased

467,000

Non-U.S.

Various locations in 17

Mfg plants/Offices


Owned

4,198,000

countries

Mfg plants/Offices


Leased

663,000

Various locations in 10

Warehouses


Owned

72,000

countries

Warehouses


Leased

395,000

Canada

Retail stores

Retail stores



Owned Leased

11,000

139,000

Finance and

Financial Products

Manufactured

U.S.

Knoxville, TN and

Mfg plants


Owned

4,707,000

housing

various other

Mfg plants


Leased

241,000

locations

Offices


Owned

266,000

throughout the U.S.

Offices


Leased

7,000

Housing communities


Owned

5,125 acres

Retail centers


Owned

1,260 acres

Retail centers


Leased

1,129 acres

Furniture leasing

U.S.

Various locations

Showrooms/


Owned

466,000

throughout the U.S.

Clearance centers/


Leased

3,146,000

Warehouses

Transportation

U.S.

Various locations

Offices


Owned

185,000

leasing and other

throughout the U.S.

Offices


Leased

222,000

Storage lots


Owned

222 acres

Storage lots


Leased

324 acres

Non-U.S.

Canada and Mexico

Offices


Owned

40,000

Offices


Leased

18,000

Storage lots


Owned

28 acres

Storage lots


Leased

21 acres

Flight services

U.S.

Various locations

Offices/Training


Owned

1,180,000

throughout the U.S.

facilities/Hangars


Leased

1,726,000

Oklahoma, Texas, and

Mfg plant


Owned

188,000

Missouri

Mfg plant


Leased

146,000

Non-U.S.

Canada and Europe

Offices/Training


Owned

38,000

facilities/Hangars


Leased

220,000

McLane Company

U.S.

Various locations

Grocery distribution


Owned

7,340,000

throughout the U.S.

centers/Offices


Leased

895,000

Foodservice


Owned

1,511,000

distribution


Leased

1,816,000

centers/Offices

Non-U.S.

Brazil

Grocery distribution


Owned

159,000

centers/Offices


Leased

1,150,000



Item 2.
Description of Properties

(Continued)

Approx.

Number of

Square

Business

Country

Location

Type of Property

properties

Owned/leased

Footage

Retail

Furniture

U.S.

Various locations in 9

Retail stores


Owned

3,002,000

states

Retail stores


Leased

713,000

Offices/Warehouses


Owned

3,367,000

Offices/Warehouses


Leased

1,412,000

Jewelry

U.S.

Various locations

Retail stores


Leased

762,000

throughout the U.S.

Offices


Owned

54,000

Offices/Warehouses


Leased

68,000

Shaw Industries

U.S.

Various locations

Mfg plants/Offices


Owned

22,355,000

throughout the U.S.

Mfg plants/Offices


Leased

1,662,000

Warehouses


Owned

6,514,000

Warehouses


Leased

4,210,000

Showroom/Retail


Owned

55,000

Showroom/Retail


Leased

104,000

Non-U.S.

London and Singapore

Showroom/offices


Leased

5,000

Other businesses

U.S.

Various locations in the

Mfg  plants


Owned

8,415,000

U.S.

Mfg  plants


Leased

608,000

Offices/Warehouses


Owned

1,493,000

Offices/Warehouses


Leased

2,242,000

Approximately 272

Stores/Restaurants


Owned

125,000

locations primarily

Stores/Restaurants


Leased

444,000

in the U.S.

Non-U.S.

Various locations in 19

Mfg  plants


Owned

488,000

countries

Mfg  plants


Leased

509,000

Offices/Warehouses


Owned

233,000

Offices/Warehouses


Leased

435,000

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

Berkshire and its subsidiaries are parties in a variety of legal actions arising out of the
normal course of business. In particular, such legal actions affect Berkshire’s insurance and
reinsurance businesses. Such litigation generally seeks to establish liability directly through
insurance contracts or indirectly through reinsurance contracts issued by Berkshire subsidiaries.
Plaintiffs occasionally seek punitive or exemplary damages. Berkshire does not believe that such
normal and routine litigation will have a material effect on its financial condition or results of
operations. Berkshire and certain of its subsidiaries are also involved in other kinds of legal
actions, some of which assert or may assert claims or seek to impose fines and penalties in
substantial amounts and are described below.

a)

Governmental Investigations

In October 2003, General Reinsurance Corporation (“General Reinsurance”), a wholly owned
subsidiary of General Re Corporation (“General Re”) and an indirectly wholly owned subsidiary of
Berkshire, and four of its current and former employees, including its former president, received
subpoenas for documents from the U.S.



Item 3. Legal Proceedings

(Continued)

Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, Richmond Division (the “EDVA U.S. Attorney”) in
connection with the EDVA U.S. Attorney’s investigation of Reciprocal of America (“ROA”). ROA was a
Virginia-based reciprocal insurer of physician, hospital and lawyer professional liability risks.

General Reinsurance is continuing to cooperate fully with the EDVA U.S. Attorney and the
Department of Justice in Washington (the “DOJ”) in their ongoing investigation regarding ROA and,
in part, its transactions with General Reinsurance. The EDVA U.S. Attorney and the DOJ have
continued to request additional information from General Reinsurance regarding ROA and its
affiliate, First Virginia Reinsurance, Ltd. (“FVR”) and General Reinsurance’s transactions with ROA
and FVR. The EDVA U.S. Attorney and the DOJ have also interviewed a number of current and former
officers and employees of General Re and General Reinsurance. In August 2005, the EDVA U.S.
Attorney issued an additional subpoena to General Reinsurance regarding General Reinsurance’s
transactions with ROA and FVR. One of the individuals originally subpoenaed in October 2003 has
been informed by the EDVA U.S. Attorney that this individual is a target of the EDVA U.S.
Attorney’s investigation. General Reinsurance has also been sued in a number of civil actions
related to ROA, as described below.

General Re, Berkshire, and certain of Berkshire’s other insurance subsidiaries, including
National Indemnity Company (“NICO”) have also been continuing to cooperate fully with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), the DOJ and the New York State Attorney General
(“NYAG”) in their ongoing investigations of non-traditional products. The EDVA U.S. Attorney and
the DOJ have also been working with the SEC and the NYAG in connection with these investigations.
General Re originally received subpoenas from the SEC and NYAG in January 2005. General Re,
Berkshire and NICO have been providing information to the government relating to transactions
between General Reinsurance or NICO (or their respective subsidiaries or affiliates) and other
insurers in response to the January 2005 subpoenas and related requests and, in the case of General
Reinsurance (or its subsidiaries or affiliates), in response to subpoenas from other U.S. Attorneys
conducting investigations relating to certain of these transactions. In particular, General Re and
Berkshire have been responding to requests from the government for information relating to certain
transactions that may have been accounted for incorrectly by counterparties of General Reinsurance
(or its subsidiaries or affiliates). The SEC, NYAG, DOJ and the EDVA U.S. Attorney have
interviewed a number of current and former officers and employees of General Re and General
Reinsurance as well as Berkshire’s Chairman and CEO, Warren E. Buffett, and have indicated they
plan to interview additional individuals.

The government is reviewing the role of General Re and its subsidiaries, as well as that of
their counterparties, in certain finite transactions, including whether General Re or its
subsidiaries conspired with others to misstate counterparty financial statements or aided and
abetted such misstatements by the counterparties. In one case, a transaction initially effected
with American International Group (“AIG”) in late 2000 (the “AIG Transaction”), AIG has corrected
its prior accounting for the transaction on the grounds, as stated in AIG’s 2004 10-K, that the
transaction was done to accomplish a desired accounting result and did not entail sufficient
qualifying risk transfer to support reinsurance accounting. General Reinsurance has been named in
related civil actions brought against AIG, as described below. As part of their ongoing
investigations, governmental authorities have also inquired about the accounting by certain of
Berkshire’s insurance subsidiaries for certain assumed and ceded finite transactions.

In May 2005, General Re terminated the consulting services of its former Chief Executive
Officer, Ronald Ferguson, after Mr. Ferguson invoked the Fifth Amendment in response to questions
from the SEC and DOJ relating to their investigations. In June 2005, John Houldsworth, the former
Chief Executive Officer of Cologne Reinsurance Company (Dublin) Limited (“CRD”), a subsidiary of
General Re, pleaded guilty to a federal criminal charge of conspiring with others to misstate
certain AIG financial statements and entered into a partial settlement agreement with the SEC with
respect to such matters. Mr. Houldsworth, who had been on administrative leave, was terminated
following this announcement. In June 2005, Richard Napier, a former Senior Vice President of
General Re who had served as an account representative for the AIG account, also pleaded guilty to
a federal criminal charge of conspiring with others to misstate certain AIG financial statements
and entered into a partial settlement agreement with the SEC with respect to such matters. General
Re terminated Mr. Napier following the announcement of these actions.

In September 2005, Ronald Ferguson, Joseph Brandon, the Chief Executive Officer of General Re,
Christopher Garand, a former Senior Vice President of General Reinsurance, and Robert Graham, a
former Senior Vice President and Assistant General Counsel of General Reinsurance, each received a
“Wells” notice from the SEC. In addition to Messrs. Houldsworth, Napier, Brandon, Ferguson, Garand
and Graham, Elizabeth Monrad, the former Chief Financial Officer of General Re, also received a
“Wells” notice from the SEC in May 2005 in connection with its investigation.

On February 2, 2006, the DOJ announced that a federal grand jury had indicted three former
executives of Gen Re on charges related to the AIG Transaction. The indictment charges Mr.
Ferguson, Ms. Monrad and Mr. Graham, along with one former officer of AIG, with one count of
conspiracy to commit securities fraud, four counts



Item 3. Legal Proceedings

(Continued)

of securities fraud, two counts of causing false statements to be made to the SEC, four counts
of wire fraud and two counts of mail fraud in connection with the AIG Transaction. The SEC also
announced on February 2, 2006 that it had filed an enforcement action against Mr. Ferguson, Ms.
Monrad, Mr. Graham, Mr. Garand and the same former AIG officer, for aiding and abetting AIG’s
violations of the antifraud provisions and other provisions of the federal securities laws in
connection with the AIG Transaction. The SEC complaint seeks permanent injunctive relief,
disgorgement of any ill-gotten gains, civil penalties and orders barring each defendant from acting
as an officer or director of a public company. Each of the individuals indicted by the federal
grand jury was arraigned on February 16, 2006 and each individual pleaded not guilty to all
charges. A trial date was set for May 22, 2006. On February 9, 2006, AIG announced that it had
reached a resolution of claims and matters under investigation with the DOJ, the SEC, the NYAG and
the New York State Department of Insurance in connection with the accounting, financial reporting
and insurance brokerage practices of AIG and its subsidiaries, including claims and matters under
investigation relating to the AIG Transaction, as well as claims relating to the underpayment of
certain workers’ compensation premium taxes and other assessments. AIG announced that it will make
payments totaling approximately $1.64 billion as a result of these settlements.

Various state insurance departments have issued subpoenas or otherwise requested that General
Reinsurance, NICO and their affiliates provide documents and information relating to
non-traditional products. The Office of the Connecticut Attorney General has also issued a subpoena
to General Reinsurance for information relating to non-traditional products. General Reinsurance,
NICO and their affiliates have been cooperating fully with these subpoenas and requests.

On April 14, 2005, the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (“APRA”) announced an
investigation involving financial or finite reinsurance transactions by General Reinsurance
Australia Limited (“GRA”), a subsidiary of General Reinsurance. An inspector appointed by APRA
under section 52 of the Insurance Act 1973 has been conducting an investigation including a request
for the production of documents of GRA’s financial or finite reinsurance business. GRA has been
cooperating fully with this investigation.

In December 2004, the Financial Services Authority (“FSA”) advised General Reinsurance’s
affiliate Faraday Group (“Faraday”) that it was investigating Milan Vukelic, the then Chief
Executive Officer of Faraday with respect to transactions entered into between GRA and companies
affiliated with FAI Insurance Limited in 1998. Mr. Vukelic previously served as the head of General
Re’s international finite business unit. In April 2005, the FSA advised General Reinsurance that it
was investigating Mr. Vukelic and a former officer of CRD with respect to certain finite risk
reinsurance transactions, including transactions between CRD and several other insurers. In
addition, the FSA has requested that General Reinsurance affiliates based in the United Kingdom
provide information relating to the transactions involved in their investigations, including
transactions with AIG. General Reinsurance and its affiliates are cooperating fully with the FSA in
these matters. In May 2005, Mr. Vukelic was placed on administrative leave and in July 2005 his
employment was terminated.

CRD is also providing information to and cooperating fully with the Irish Financial Services
Regulatory Authority in its inquiries regarding the activities of CRD. The Office of the Director
of Corporate Enforcement in Ireland is conducting a preliminary evaluation in relation to CRD
concerning, in particular, transactions between CRD and AIG. CRD is cooperating fully with this
preliminary evaluation.

General Reinsurance’s subsidiary, Kolnische Ruckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG (“Cologne Re”),
is also cooperating fully with requests for information from the German Federal Financial
Supervisory Authority regarding the activities of Cologne Re relating to “finite reinsurance” and
regarding transactions between Cologne Re or its subsidiaries, including CRD, and AIG. General
Reinsurance is also providing information to and cooperating fully with the Office of the
Superintendent of Financial Institutions Canada in its inquiries regarding the activities of
General Re and its affiliates relating to “finite reinsurance.”

Berkshire cannot at this time predict the outcome of these matters, is unable to estimate a
range of possible loss and cannot predict whether or not the outcomes will have a material adverse
effect on Berkshire’s business or results of operations for at least the quarterly period when
these matters are completed or otherwise resolved.

b)

Civil Litigation

Litigation Related to ROA

General Reinsurance and four of its current and former employees, along with numerous other
defendants, have been sued in a number of civil actions related to ROA. Plaintiffs assert various
claims in these civil actions, including breach of contract, unjust enrichment, fraud and
conspiracy, against General Reinsurance and others, arising from various reinsurance coverages
General Reinsurance provided to ROA and related entities.

Eight putative class actions were initiated by doctors, hospitals and lawyers that purchased
insurance through ROA or certain of its Tennessee-based risk retention groups. These complaints
seek compensatory, treble,



Item 3. Legal Proceedings

(Continued)

and punitive damages in an amount plaintiffs contend is just and reasonable. General
Reinsurance is also subject to actions brought by the Virginia Commissioner of Insurance, as Deputy
Receiver of ROA, the Tennessee Commissioner of Insurance, as Liquidator for three Tennessee risk
retention groups, a federal lawsuit filed by a Missouri-based hospital group and a state lawsuit
filed by an Alabama doctor that was removed to federal court. The first of these actions was filed
in March 2003 and additional actions were filed in April 2003 through December 2005. In the action
filed by the Virginia Commissioner of Insurance, the Commissioner asserts in several of its claims
that the alleged damages being sought exceed $200 million in the aggregate as against all
defendants. Eleven of these cases are collectively assigned to the U.S. District Court for the
Western District of Tennessee for pretrial proceedings. General Reinsurance has filed motions to
dismiss all of the claims against it in ten of these cases and the court has not yet ruled on these
motions. The other federal case has been filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of Mississippi and is currently awaiting issuance of a conditional transfer order to the
U.S. District Court for the Western District of Tennessee. No discovery has been initiated in any
of these cases.

General Reinsurance is also a defendant in two lawsuits filed in Alabama state courts. The
first suit was filed in the Circuit Court of Montgomery County by a group of Alabama hospitals that
are former members of the Alabama Hospital Association Trust (“AHAT”). This suit (the “AHA Action”)
alleged violations of the Alabama Securities Act, conspiracy, fraud, suppression, unjust enrichment
and breach of contract against General Reinsurance and virtually all of the defendants in the
federal suits based on an alleged business combination between AHAT and ROA in 2001 and subsequent
capital contributions to ROA in 2002 by the Alabama hospitals. The allegations of the AHA Action
are largely identical to those set forth in the complaint filed by the Virginia receiver for ROA.
General Reinsurance previously filed a motion to dismiss all of the claims in the AHA Action. The
motion was granted in part by an order in March 2005, which dismissed the Alabama Securities Act
claim against General Reinsurance and ordered plaintiffs to amend their allegations of fraud and
suppression. Plaintiffs in the AHA Action filed their Amended and Restated Complaint in April 2005,
alleging claims of conspiracy, fraud, suppression and aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty
against General Reinsurance. General Reinsurance filed a motion to dismiss all counts of the
Amended and Restated Complaint in May 2005. The Special Master appointed by the court heard
arguments on July 13, 2005 and recommended denial of the motion on July 22, 2005. On July 22, 2005,
the Court denied General Reinsurance’s motion to dismiss. General Reinsurance filed and served its
answer and affirmative defenses to the Amended and Restated Complaint on September 1, 2005.
Discovery has begun. The second suit, also filed in the Circuit Court of Montgomery County, was
initiated by Baptist Health Systems, Inc. (“BHS”), a former member of AHAT, and alleged claims
identical to those in the initial AHA Action, plus claims for breach of fiduciary duty and
wantonness. These cases have been consolidated for pretrial purposes. BHS filed its First Amended
Complaint in April 2005, alleging violations of the Alabama Securities Act, conspiracy, fraud,
suppression, breach of fiduciary duty, wantonness and unjust enrichment against General
Reinsurance. General Reinsurance filed a motion to dismiss all counts of the Amended and Restated
Complaint in May 2005. The Special Master heard arguments on July 13, 2005, and on July 22, 2005,
recommended dismissal of the claim under the Alabama Securities Act, but recommended denial of the
motion to dismiss the remaining claims. On July 22, 2005, the Court denied General Reinsurance’s
motion to dismiss. General Reinsurance filed and served its answer and affirmative defenses to the
Amended and Restated Complaint on September 1, 2005. Discovery has begun. The AHA Action and the
BHS complaint claim damages in excess of $60 million in the aggregate as against all defendants.

Actions related to AIG

General Reinsurance received a Summons and a Consolidated Amended Class Action Complaint on
April 29, 2005, in the matter captioned In re American International Group Securities Litigation,
Case No. 04-CV-8141-(LTS), United States District Court, Southern District of New York. This is a
putative class action asserted on behalf of investors who purchased publicly-traded securities of
AIG between October 1999 and March 2005. On June 7, 2005, General Reinsurance received a second
Summons and Class Action Complaint in a putative class action asserted on behalf of investors who
purchased AIG securities between October 1999 and March 2005, captioned San Francisco Employees’
Retirement System, et al. vs. American International Group, Inc., et al., Case No. 05-CV-4270,
United States District Court, Southern District of New York. At a July 2005 conference, the court
ruled that the plaintiffs in case no. 04-CV-8141 would be lead plaintiffs. On September 27, 2005,
the plaintiffs in case no. 04-CV-8141 filed a Consolidated Second Amended Complaint (the
“Complaint”). The Complaint asserts various claims against AIG, and various of its officers,
directors, investment banks and other parties. Included among the defendants are General
Reinsurance and Messrs. Ferguson, Napier and Houldsworth (whom the Complaint defines as the
“General Re Defendants”). The Complaint alleges that the General Re Defendants violated Section
10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 promulgated under that Act through their
activities in connection with the AIG transaction described in “Governmental Investigations,”
above. The Complaint seeks damages and other relief in unspecified amounts. The General Re
Defendants have moved to dismiss the Complaint on the grounds that it fails to state a claim on
which relief can be granted against these defendants. The motion is scheduled to be heard on April
17, 2006. No discovery has taken place.



Item 3. Legal Proceedings

(Continued)

On July 27, 2005, General Reinsurance received a Summons and a Verified and Amended
Shareholder Derivative Complaint in In re American International Group, Inc. Derivative Litigation,
Case No. 04-CV-08406, United States District Court, Southern District of New York, naming “Gen Re
Corporation” as a defendant. It is unclear whether the plaintiffs are asserting claims against
General Reinsurance or its parent, General Re. This case is assigned to the same judge as the class
actions described above. The complaint, brought by several alleged shareholders of AIG, seeks
damages, injunctive and declaratory relief against various officers and directors of AIG as well as
a variety of individuals and entities with whom AIG did business, relating to a wide variety of
allegedly wrongful practices by AIG. The allegations against “Gen Re Corporation” focus on the late
2000 transaction with AIG described above, and the complaint purports to assert causes of action
against “Gen Re Corporation” for aiding and abetting other defendants’ breaches of fiduciary duty
and for unjust enrichment. The complaint does not specify the amount of damages or the nature of
any other relief sought against “Gen Re Corporation.” In August 2005, General Reinsurance received
a Summons and First Amended Consolidated Shareholders’ Derivative Complaint in In re American
International Group, Inc. Consolidated Derivative Litigation, Case No. 769-N, Delaware Chancery
Court. The claims asserted in the Delaware complaint are substantially similar to those asserted
in the New York derivative complaint described earlier in this paragraph, except that the Delaware
complaint makes clear that the plaintiffs are asserting claims against both General Reinsurance and
General Re. Proceedings in both the New York derivative suit and the Delaware derivative suit are
stayed until May 1, 2006.

FAI/HIH Matter

In December 2003, the Liquidators of both FAI Insurance Limited (“FAI”) and HIH Insurance
Limited (“HIH”) advised GRA and Cologne Re that they intended to assert claims arising from
insurance transactions GRA entered into with FAI in May and June 1998. In August 2004, the
Liquidators filed claims in the Supreme Court of New South Wales in order to avoid the expiration
of a statute of limitations for certain plaintiffs, but neither GRA nor Cologne Re have been served
with legal process by the Liquidators. The focus of the Liquidators’ allegations against GRA and
Cologne Re are the 1998 transactions GRA entered into with FAI (which was acquired by HIH in 1999).
The Liquidators contend, among other things, that GRA and Cologne Re engaged in deceptive conduct
that assisted FAI in improperly accounting for such transactions as reinsurance, and that such
deception led to HIH’s acquisition of FAI and caused various losses to FAI and HIH.

Insurance Brokerage Antitrust Litigation

Berkshire, General Re and General Reinsurance are defendants in this multi-district
litigation, In Re: Insurance Brokerage Antitrust Litigation, MDL No. 1663 (D.N.J.). In February
2005, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation transferred several different cases to the
District of New Jersey for coordination and consolidation. Each consolidated case concerned
allegations of an industry-wide scheme on the part of commercial insurance brokers and insurance
companies to defraud a purported class of insurance purchasers through bid-rigging and contingent
commission arrangements. Berkshire, General Re and General Reinsurance were not parties to the
original, transferred cases. On August 1, 2005, the named plaintiffs—fourteen businesses, two
municipalities, and three individuals—filed their First Consolidated Amended Commercial Class
Action Complaint, and Berkshire, General Re and General Reinsurance (along with a large number of
insurance companies and insurance brokers) were named as defendants in the Amended Complaint. The
plaintiffs claim that all defendants engaged in a pattern of racketeering activity, in violation of
RICO, and that they conspired to restrain trade. They further allege that the broker defendants
breached fiduciary duties to the plaintiffs, that the insurer defendants aided and abetted that
breach, and that all defendants were unjustly enriched in the process. Plaintiffs seek treble
damages in an unspecified amount, together with interest and attorneys fees and expenses. They
also seek a declaratory judgment of wrongdoing as well as an injunction against future
anticompetitive practices. On November 29, 2005, General Re, General Reinsurance and Berkshire,
together with the other defendants, filed motions to dismiss the complaint. On February 1, 2006,
plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to file a Second Consolidated Amended Complaint. Among other
things, plaintiffs seek leave to add numerous new defendants, including several additional
Berkshire subsidiaries including, among others, NICO. Berkshire opposed the motion for leave to
amend, and the Court has denied the motion without prejudice to plaintiffs’ renewing it following a
ruling on defendants’ motion to dismiss the First Consolidated Amended Complaint.

Berkshire cannot at this time predict the outcome of these matters, is unable to estimate a
range of possible loss, if any, and cannot predict whether or not the outcomes will have a material
adverse effect on Berkshire’s business or results of operations for at least the quarterly period
when these matters are completed or otherwise resolved.



Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None

Executive Officers of the Registrant

Following is a list of the Registrant’s executive officers:

Name

Age

Position with Registrant

Since

Warren E. Buffett


Chairman of the Board


Marc D. Hamburg


Vice President


Charles T. Munger


Vice Chairman of the Board


Each executive officer serves, in accordance with the by-laws of the Registrant, until the
first meeting of the Board of Directors following the next annual meeting of shareholders and until
his respective successor is chosen and qualified or until he sooner dies, resigns, is removed or
becomes disqualified. Mr. Buffett and Mr. Munger also serve as directors of the Registrant.

Part II

Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Stock and Related Security Holder Matters

Market Information

Berkshire’s Class A and Class B Common Stock are listed for trading on the New York Stock
Exchange, trading symbol: BRK.A and BRK.B. The following table sets forth the high and low sales
prices per share, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite List during the periods
indicated:



Class A

Class B

Class A

Class B

High

Low

High

Low

High

Low

High

Low

First Quarter

$

92,000

$

84,500

$

3,067

$

2,805

$

95,700

$

84,000

$

3,195

$

2,795

Second Quarter

88,900

82,000

2,948

2,733

95,650

85,100

3,189

2,830

Third Quarter

85,450

78,800

2,848

2,612

90,750

83,400

3,026

2,782

Fourth Quarter

91,200

82,100

3,032

2,728

89,500

81,150

2,994

2,685

Shareholders

Berkshire had approximately 6,800 record holders of its Class A Common Stock and 16,200
record holders of its Class B Common Stock at March 1, 2006. Record owners included nominees
holding at least 500,000 shares of Class A Common Stock and 8,000,000 shares of Class B Common
Stock on behalf of beneficial-but-not-of-record owners.

Dividends

Berkshire has not declared a cash dividend since 1967.

Securities authorized for issuance under equity plans

In connection with certain business acquisitions, Berkshire has issued Class B common stock
options to replace outstanding options held by employees of the acquired entity. The terms of the
Berkshire stock options are essentially equivalent to the terms of the options of the acquired
entity, except that exercise prices were adjusted to give effect to the common stock exchange rate
applicable to each acquisition. No additional stock options have been granted. A summary of the
Registrant’s equity compensation plans under which equity securities are authorized for issuance as
of December 31, 2005 follows:

Number of Class B

Weighted-average

Number of Class B shares remaining

shares to be issued

exercise price of

available for issuance under equity

upon exercise of

outstanding options

compensation plans (excluding shares

Plan category

options (a)

(b)

reflected in column (a))

Plans not approved
by security holders

119,972

$

1,868

None



Item 6. Selected Financial Data

Selected Financial Data for the Past Five Years

(dollars in millions except per share data)






Revenues:

Insurance premiums earned

$

21,997

$

21,085

$

21,493

$

19,182

$

17,905

Sales and service revenues

46,138

43,222

32,098

16,958

14,507

Interest, dividend and other investment income

3,487

2,816

3,098

2,943

2,765

Interest and other revenues of finance and financial
products businesses

4,633

3,788

3,087

2,314

1,792

Investment and derivative gains/losses

(1)

5,408

3,471

4,083


1,624

Total revenues

$

81,663

$

74,382

$

63,859

$

42,235

$

38,593

Earnings:

Net earnings

(1) (2) (3)

$

8,528

$

7,308

$

8,151

$

4,286

$


Net earnings per share

(3)

$

5,538

$

4,753

$

5,309

$

2,795

$


Year-end data:

Total assets

$

198,325

$

188,874

$

180,559

$

169,544

$

162,752

Notes payable and other borrowings
of insurance and other non-finance businesses

3,583

3,450

4,182

4,775

3,455

Notes payable and other borrowings of
finance businesses

10,868

5,387

4,937

4,513

9,049

Shareholders’ equity

91,484

85,900

77,596

64,037

57,950

Class A equivalent common shares
outstanding, in thousands

1,541

1,539

1,537

1,535

1,528

Shareholders’ equity per outstanding
Class A equivalent common share

$

59,377

$

55,824

$

50,498

$

41,727

$

37,920

(1)

The amount of investment and derivative gains and losses for any given period has
no predictive value, and variations in amount from period to period have no practical
analytical value, particularly in view of the unrealized appreciation now existing in
Berkshire’s consolidated investment portfolio. After-tax investment and derivative gains
were $3,530 million in 2005, $2,259 million in 2004, $2,729 million in 2003, $566 million in
2002 and $923 million in 2001. Investment gains in 2005 include a non-cash pre-tax gain of
$5.0 billion ($3.25 billion after-tax) relating to the exchange of Gillette stock for
Procter & Gamble stock.

(2)

Net earnings for the year ending December 31, 2005 includes pre-tax underwriting
losses of $3.4 billion in connection with Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma that struck the
Gulf coast and Southeast regions of the United States. Such loss reduced net earnings by
approximately $2.2 billion and earnings per share by $1,446. Net earnings for the year
ending December 31, 2001 includes pre-tax underwriting losses of $2.4 billion in connection
with the September 11

th

terrorist attack. Such loss reduced net earnings by
approximately $1.5 billion and earnings per share by $982.

(3)

Effective January 1, 2002, Berkshire adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” SFAS No. 142 changed the
accounting for goodwill from a model that required amortization of goodwill, supplemented by
impairment tests, to an accounting model that is based solely upon impairment tests.

A reconciliation of Berkshire’s Consolidated Statements of Earnings for each of the five years
ending December 31, 2005 from amounts reported to amounts exclusive of goodwill amortization is
shown below. Goodwill amortization for the year ending December 31, 2001 includes $78 million
related to Berkshire’s equity method investment in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company.






Net earnings as reported

$

8,528

$

7,308

$

8,151

$

4,286

$


Goodwill amortization, after tax

—

—

—

—


Net earnings as adjusted

$

8,528

$

7,308

$

8,151

$

4,286

$

1,431

Earnings per Class A equivalent common share:

As reported

$

5,538

$

4,753

$

5,309

$

2,795

$


Goodwill amortization

—

—

—

—


Earnings per share as adjusted

$

5,538

$

4,753

$

5,309

$

2,795

$




Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Results of Operations

Net earnings for each of the past three years are disaggregated in the table that follows.
Amounts are after deducting income taxes and minority interests. Dollars are in millions.




Insurance
— underwriting

$


$

1,008

$

1,114

Insurance
— investment income

2,412

2,045

2,276

Non-insurance businesses

2,160

1,913

1,745

Equity in earnings of MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company




Interest expense, unallocated

(46

)

(59

)

(59

)

Other

(78

)

(95

)

(83

)

Investment and derivative gains/losses

3,530

2,259

2,729

Net earnings

$

8,528

$

7,308

$

8,151

Berkshire’s operating businesses are managed on an unusually decentralized basis. There are
essentially no centralized or integrated business functions (such as sales, marketing, purchasing,
legal or human resources) and there is minimal involvement by Berkshire’s corporate headquarters in
the day-to-day business activities of the operating businesses. Berkshire’s corporate office
management participates in and is ultimately responsible for significant capital allocation
decisions, investment activities and the selection of the Chief Executive to head each of the
operating businesses.

Accordingly, Berkshire’s reportable business segments are organized in a manner that reflects
how Berkshire’s top management views those business activities. Certain businesses have been
grouped based upon similar products or product lines, marketing, selling and distribution
characteristics even though those businesses are operated by separate local management. There are
over 40 separate reporting units. The business segment data (Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements) should be read in conjunction with this discussion.

Insurance — Underwriting

A summary follows of underwriting results from Berkshire’s insurance businesses for the past
three years. Dollars are in millions.




Underwriting gain (loss) attributable to:

GEICO

$

1,221

$


$


General Re

(334

)



Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group

(1,069

)


1,047

Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group




Pre-tax underwriting gain


1,551

1,718

Income taxes and minority interests




Net underwriting gain

$


$

1,008

$

1,114

During the third quarter of 2005, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita struck the Gulf Coast region of
the United States producing the largest catastrophe losses for any quarter in the history of the
property/casualty insurance industry. In the fourth quarter, Hurricane Wilma struck the Southeast
U.S. Estimates of Berkshire’s (including General Re, GEICO and other Berkshire subsidiaries
including BHRG) pre-tax losses from these events of $3.4 billion were recorded primarily in the
third quarter of 2005 and are subject to change as additional information concerning the nature and
amount of losses becomes known.

Berkshire engages in both primary insurance and reinsurance of property and casualty risks.
Through General Re, Berkshire also reinsures life and health risks. In primary insurance
activities, Berkshire subsidiaries assume defined portions of the risks of loss from persons or
organizations that are directly subject to the risks. In reinsurance activities, Berkshire
subsidiaries assume defined portions of similar or dissimilar risks that other insurers or
reinsurers have subjected themselves to in their own insuring activities. Berkshire’s principal
insurance businesses are: (1) GEICO, one of the four largest auto insurers in the U.S., (2)
General Re, (3) Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group (“BHRG”) and (4) Berkshire Hathaway Primary
Group. On June 30, 2005, Berkshire acquired Medical Protective Company (“Med Pro”), a provider of
professional liability insurance to physicians, dentists and other healthcare providers.
Underwriting results from this business are included in the Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group
beginning July 1, 2005.



Insurance

—

Underwriting

(Continued)

Berkshire’s
management views insurance businesses as possessing two distinct operations —
underwriting and investing. Underwriting decisions are the responsibility of the unit managers;
investing, with limited exceptions at GEICO and General Re’s international operations, is the
responsibility of Berkshire’s Chairman and CEO, Warren E. Buffett. Accordingly, Berkshire
evaluates performance of underwriting operations without any allocation of investment income.

Periodic underwriting results can be affected significantly by changes in estimates for unpaid
losses and loss adjustment expenses, including amounts established for occurrences in prior years.
See the Critical Accounting Policies section of this discussion for information concerning the loss
reserve estimation process. In addition, the timing and amount of catastrophe losses can produce
significant volatility in periodic underwriting results.

A key marketing strategy followed by all these businesses is the maintenance of extraordinary
capital strength. Statutory surplus of Berkshire’s insurance businesses totaled approximately $52
billion at December 31, 2005. This superior capital strength creates opportunities, especially
with respect to reinsurance activities, to negotiate and enter into insurance and reinsurance
contracts specially designed to meet unique needs of insurance and reinsurance buyers. Additional
information regarding Berkshire’s insurance and reinsurance operations follows.

GEICO

GEICO provides primarily private passenger automobile coverages to insureds in 49 states and
the District of Columbia. GEICO policies are marketed mainly by direct response methods in which
customers apply for coverage directly to the company via the Internet, over the telephone or
through the mail. This is a significant element in GEICO’s strategy to be a low cost insurer. In
addition, GEICO strives to provide excellent service to customers, with the goal of establishing
long-term customer relationships.

GEICO’s underwriting results for the past three years are summarized below. Dollars are in
millions.




Amount

%

Amount

%

Amount

%

Premiums written

$

10,285

$

9,212

$

8,081

Premiums earned

$

10,101

100.0

$

8,915

100.0

$

7,784

100.0

Losses and loss adjustment expenses

7,128

70.6

6,360

71.3

5,955

76.5

Underwriting expenses

1,752

17.3

1,585

17.8

1,377

17.7

Total losses and expenses

8,880

87.9

7,945

89.1

7,332

94.2

Pre-tax underwriting gain

$

1,221

*

$


$


*

Net of losses of $200 million from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma.

Premiums earned in 2005 and 2004 increased 13.3% and 14.5%, respectively, over the
corresponding prior year amounts. The growth in premiums earned in 2005 for voluntary auto was
13.3% and reflects a 12.4% increase in policies-in-force during the past year. During the third
quarter of 2004, GEICO began selling auto insurance in New Jersey which contributed to the
policies-in-force growth. Beginning in late 2004, rate decreases have been implemented in several
states and underwriting guidelines have been adjusted to better match prices with underlying risks
which has resulted in relatively lower premiums per policy.

During 2005, policies-in-force increased 12.9% in the preferred risk markets and 10.7% in the
standard and nonstandard markets. Voluntary auto new business sales in 2005 increased 14.0%
compared to 2004. Voluntary auto policies-in-force at December 31, 2005 were 745,000 higher than
at December 31, 2004.

Losses and loss adjustment expenses in 2005 totaled $7,128 million, an increase of 12.1% over
2004. The loss ratio declined to 70.6% in 2005 compared to 71.3% in 2004 and 76.5% in 2003
primarily due to decreasing claim frequencies across all markets and most coverage types. In 2005,
claims frequencies for physical damage coverages decreased in the two to five percent range from
2004 while frequencies for injury coverages decreased in the five to seven percent range. Injury
severity in 2005 increased in the three to five percent range over 2004 while physical damage
severity has increased in the five to eight percent range. Incurred losses from catastrophe events
totaled approximately $227 million in 2005 (primarily from the hurricanes in the third and fourth
quarters) compared to $71 million in 2004.

Underwriting expenses in 2005 totaled $1,752 million, an increase of 10.5% over 2004, which
increased 15.1% over 2003. Policy acquisition expenses in 2005 increased 20.1% over 2004,
reflecting increased advertising, underwriting and policy issuance costs associated with the new
business sales. Other underwriting expenses for 2005 decreased slightly from 2004.

General Re

General Re conducts a reinsurance business offering property and casualty and life and health
coverages to clients world-wide. In North America, property and casualty reinsurance is written on
a direct basis through General Reinsurance Corporation. Internationally, property and casualty
reinsurance is written on a direct basis through 91% owned Cologne Re (based in Germany) and other
wholly-owned subsidiaries as well as through brokers with respect to Faraday in London. Life and



Management’s Discussion

(Continued)

Insurance

—

Underwriting

(Continued)

General Re

(Continued)

health reinsurance is written for clients worldwide through Cologne Re. General Re’s pre-tax
underwriting results are summarized for the past three years in the following table. Amounts are
in millions.

Pre-tax underwriting

Premiums written

Premiums earned

gain (loss)










Property/casualty:

North American

$

1,988

$

2,747

$

3,440

$

2,201

$

3,012

$

3,551

$

(307

)

$


$


International

1,864

2,091

2,742

1,939

2,218

2,847

(138

)

(93

)


Life/health

2,303

2,022

1,839

2,295

2,015

1,847




$

6,155

$

6,860

$

8,021

$

6,435

$

7,245

$

8,245

$

(334

)*

$


$


*

Includes losses of $685 million related to Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma.

Property/casualty

North American property/casualty premiums written in 2005 declined 27.6% from 2004 and
premiums written in 2004 declined 20.1% from 2003 amounts. International property/casualty
premiums written in 2005 decreased 10.9% as compared to 2004 amounts, which decreased 23.7% from
the comparable 2003 amounts. The decline in both North American and International premiums written
in each of the past two years is attributable to maintaining underwriting discipline by continuing
to reject transactions where pricing is deemed inadequate with respect to the risk. Underwriting
performance is not evaluated based upon market share and underwriters are instructed to reject
inadequately priced risks.

The decline in North American premiums earned in 2005 was primarily due to cancellations and
non-renewals exceeding new contracts, with a minimal effect from rate changes. The decline in
premiums earned in 2004 from 2003 was attributable to cancellations and non-renewals over new
contracts (estimated at $697 million), partially offset by rate increases across all lines
(estimated at $158 million). The comparative decline in premiums earned in the International
business in each of the past two years reflects reductions in premium volume. In local currencies,
2005 International premiums earned declined 12.3% from 2004, which declined 29.1% compared with
2003.

The North American property/casualty business produced a pre-tax underwriting loss of $307
million in 2005 compared with underwriting gains of $11 million in 2004 and $67 million in 2003.
Underwriting losses in 2005 included approximately $480 million in current accident year losses
from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. Otherwise, underwriting results for 2005 consisted of $220
million in current accident year gains partially offset by $47 million in prior accident years’
losses. The 2005 current accident year results (excluding hurricane losses) generally benefited
from the favorable effects of re-pricing efforts and improved coverage terms and conditions put
into place over the last few years. The net underwriting gain of $11 million in 2004 consisted of
current accident year gains of $166 million partially offset by $155 million in prior accident year
losses. The 2004 current accident year results included a one-time reduction of $70 million in
underwriting expenses from the curtailment of certain pension benefits and approximately $120
million of catastrophe losses from the four hurricanes that struck the Southeast United States.
Underwriting results for 2003 included net underwriting gains for the current accident year of $200
million, which reflected re-pricing efforts and unusually small amounts of large individual and
catastrophe-related property losses. Offsetting these gains were $133 million in additional losses
for prior accident years’ occurrences.

As previously stated, 2005 North American underwriting results included $47 million in reserve
increases on prior years’ loss occurrences. The increase reflected net reserve increases on
workers’ compensation business ($228 million); discount accretion on workers’ compensation reserves
and deferred charge amortization on retroactive reinsurance coverages ($136 million); and reserve
increases on asbestos and environmental mass tort exposures ($102 million). The changing legal
environment concerning asbestos and environmental losses has made estimation of potential losses
very difficult. In the future if new exposures or claimants are identified, new claims are
reported or new theories of liability emerge, significant increases to these reserves may be
required. Offsetting the prior years’ loss reserve increases were $419 million in net reserve
decreases in other casualty lines and property lines, including World Trade Center reserves of $72
million. In 2004, the $155 million prior accident years’ losses consisted of $729 million of
reserve increases on casualty and workers’ compensation reserves, increased reserves of $110
million related to discount accretion and deferred charge amortization, offset by $307 million of
reserve reductions for prior year property losses (primarily in World Trade Center loss exposures)
and $377 million of gains from contract commutations and settlements. The increase in workers’
compensation reserves in 2004 and 2005 reflected escalating medical utilization and inflation.
Casualty reserve increases in 2004 related primarily to losses under financial institutions’ errors
and omissions and directors and officers’ lines of business. Underwriting results in 2003 included
$133 million in losses related to prior accident years, which included $99 million from discount
accretion and deferred charge amortization.



Insurance

—

Underwriting

(Continued)

General Re

Property/casualty

(Continued)

The International property/casualty businesses produced pre-tax underwriting losses of $138
million in 2005 and $93 million in 2004 compared with a gain of $20 million in 2003. Underwriting
results included catastrophe losses from U.S. hurricanes of $205 million in 2005 and $110 million
in 2004. Additionally, results in 2005 included $29 million in losses from Windstorm Erwin.
Losses from catastrophes and large individual property losses were minimal in 2003. Underwriting
results for each of the last three years benefited from favorable results of the aviation business
and relatively small non-catastrophe property losses. The International property and casualty
underwriting results included gains from prior years’ loss occurrences of $108 million in 2005,
compared with losses of $102 million in 2004 and $104 million in 2003. Prior years’ losses in 2004
and 2003 were primarily in motor excess, workers’ compensation and other casualty lines and also
reflect reserve increases for operations placed in run-off.

Although loss reserve levels are now believed to be adequate, there are no guarantees. A
relatively small change in the estimate of net reserves can produce large changes in annual
underwriting results. In addition, the timing and magnitude of catastrophe and large individual
property losses are expected to continue to contribute to volatile periodic underwriting results in
the future.

Life and health

Premiums earned in 2005 increased 13.9% over 2004, which increased 9.1% over 2003. Adjusting
for the effects of foreign currency exchange rates, premiums earned increased 14.2% in 2005 and
3.7% in 2004. The increase in 2005 premiums earned reflected increases in both North American and
European life business. In 2004, the increase was attributable, in part, to the strengthening of
foreign currencies and an increase in European life business.

Underwriting results for the global life/health operations produced pre-tax underwriting gains
of $111 million in 2005, $85 million in 2004 and $58 million in 2003. Both the U.S. and
International life/health operations were profitable in each of the past three years primarily due
to favorable mortality; however, most of the gains were earned in the International life business.
Additionally, included in the 2005 and 2004 results were $66 million and $46 million, respectively,
of net losses attributable to reserve increases on certain U.S. health business in run-off.

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group

The Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group (“BHRG”) underwrites excess-of-loss reinsurance and
quota-share coverages for insurers and reinsurers world-wide. BHRG’s business includes catastrophe
excess-of-loss reinsurance and excess direct and facultative reinsurance for large or otherwise
unusual discrete property risks referred to as individual risk. Retroactive reinsurance policies
provide indemnification of losses and loss adjustment expenses with respect to past loss events.
Other multi-line refers to other business written on both a quota-share and excess basis, and
includes participations in and contracts with Lloyd’s syndicates. In addition, during the past
twelve months BHRG has written increased amounts of aviation business and workers’ compensation
insurance. Amounts are in millions.

Premiums earned

Pre-tax underwriting gain (loss)







Catastrophe and individual risk

$

1,663

$

1,462

$

1,330

$

(1,178

)

$


$

1,108

Retroactive reinsurance




(214

)

(412

)

(387

)

Other multi-line

2,290

2,064

2,574




$

3,963

$

3,714

$

4,430

$

(1,069

)*

$


$

1,047

*

Includes losses of $2.5 billion from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma.

Catastrophe and individual risk contracts may provide exceptionally large limits of
indemnification, often several hundred million dollars and occasionally in excess of $1 billion,
and cover catastrophe risks (such as hurricanes, earthquakes or other natural disasters) or other
property risks (such as aviation and aerospace, commercial multi-peril or terrorism). Catastrophe
and individual risk premiums written totaled approximately $1.8 billion in 2005, $1.5 billion in
2004 and $1.2 billion in 2003. The level of business written in future periods will vary, perhaps
materially, based upon market conditions and management’s assessment of the adequacy of premium
rates, which is affected by industry capacity for catastrophe coverages.

Underwriting results from catastrophe and individual risk business in 2005 included estimated
losses of approximately $2.4 billion from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. In 2004,
underwriting results from catastrophe and individual risk business included estimated catastrophe
losses of $790 million from four hurricanes that struck the U.S. and Caribbean during the third
quarter. The catastrophe and individual risk business produced substantial underwriting gains in
2003 due to the lack of catastrophic or otherwise large loss events. The timing and magnitude of
losses may produce extraordinary volatility in periodic underwriting results of BHRG’s catastrophe
and individual risk business. Management accepts such volatility, however, provided that the
long-term prospect of achieving underwriting profits is reasonable. BHRG generally does not cede
catastrophe and individual risks to other reinsurers.



Management’s Discussion

(Continued)

Insurance

—

Underwriting

(Continued)

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group

(Continued)

Retroactive policies normally provide very large, but limited, indemnification of unpaid
losses and loss adjustment expenses with respect to past loss events, which are generally expected
to be paid over long periods of time. The underwriting losses from retroactive reinsurance are
primarily attributed to the amortization of deferred charges established on retroactive reinsurance
contracts written in previous years. The deferred charges, which represent the difference between
the policy premium and the estimated ultimate claim reserves, are amortized over the expected claim
payment period using the interest method. The amortization charges are recorded as losses incurred
and, therefore, produce underwriting losses. The level of amortization in a given period is based
upon estimates of the timing and amount of future loss payments. While contract terms vary, losses
under retroactive contracts are generally subject to a very large aggregate dollar limit
occasionally exceeding $1 billion under a single contract. The expected amount and timing of future loss payments is
reviewed periodically. To the extent there are changes in these estimates, deferred charge
balances are adjusted on a retrospective basis via a cumulative adjustment.

Underwriting losses in 2005 from retroactive contracts are net of a pre-tax gain of
approximately $46 million related to the final settlement of remaining unpaid losses under a
certain retroactive reinsurance agreement. In addition, estimates of unpaid losses were reviewed
during the fourth quarter of 2005 which resulted in a net reduction of $75 million in loss
reserves. Also, rates of deferred charge amortization on certain contracts were decreased due to
slower than expected loss payments. During 2004 the estimated timing of future loss payments with
respect to one large contract was accelerated which produced an incremental pre-tax amortization
charge of approximately $100 million.

Loss payments for all retroactive contracts, including the aforementioned settlement totaled
approximately $969 million in 2005 compared to $860 million in 2004. Unamortized deferred charges
at December 31, 2005 totaled approximately $2.13 billion compared to $2.45 billion at year-end
2004. Management believes that these charges are reasonable with respect to the large amounts of
float related to these policies, which totaled about $6.9 billion at December 31, 2005. Income
generated from the investment of float is reflected in net investment income and investment gains.

Premiums earned in 2005 from other multi-line reinsurance increased approximately $226 million
over 2004. In 2005, increased premiums were earned from new workers’ compensation and ongoing
aviation programs and were partially offset by declines in quota-share contracts. Premiums earned
in 2004 from traditional multi-line reinsurance decreased $510 million compared to 2003. The
comparative decrease was primarily due to declines in quota-share participations (including
Lloyd’s) and the termination of a major quota-share contract in mid-2003.

Pre-tax underwriting results from other multi-line reinsurance in 2005 included estimated
losses of approximately $100 million from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. Pre-tax underwriting
results in 2004 included losses of approximately $175 million arising from the third quarter
hurricanes affecting the U.S. and Caribbean. However, catastrophe losses in 2004 were more than
offset by increased underwriting gains in aviation coverages and approximately $160 million in
gains from the commutations of several reinsurance contracts. Underwriting gains in 2003 reflected
low amounts of property and aviation losses. There were no significant commutations in 2003.

The pre-tax maximum probable loss from a single event at December 31, 2005 is estimated to be
$6 billion resulting from potential risk of loss from a major earthquake in California.

Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group

Berkshire’s primary insurance group consists of a wide variety of smaller insurance businesses
that principally write liability coverages for commercial accounts. These businesses include:
National Indemnity Company’s primary group operation (“NICO Primary Group”), a writer of motor
vehicle and general liability coverages; U.S. Investment Corporation (“USIC”), whose subsidiaries
underwrite specialty insurance coverages; a group of companies referred to internally as
“Homestate” operations, providers of standard multi-line insurance; Central States Indemnity
Company (“CSI”), a provider of credit and disability insurance to individuals nationwide through
financial institutions; and Med Pro which was acquired as of June 30, 2005. See Note 3 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning this acquisition.

Collectively, Berkshire’s other primary insurance businesses produced earned premiums of
$1,498 million in 2005, $1,211 million in 2004, and $1,034 million in 2003. Premiums earned in
2005 by Med Pro accounted for most of the increase in total premiums earned by the group compared
with 2004. The increase in premiums earned in 2004 compared to 2003 was largely attributed to
increased volume of USIC and the NICO Primary Group. Net underwriting gains of Berkshire’s other
primary insurance businesses totaled $235 million in 2005, $161 million in 2004, and $74 million in
2003. The underwriting gain in 2005 reflected a decrease in loss reserve estimates for pre-2005
loss events in auto and general liability business, improved results of Homestate, USIC and CSI
operations, partially offset by losses incurred from increases in medical malpractice reserves.



Insurance — Investment Income

Following is a summary of the net investment income of Berkshire’s insurance operations for
the past three years. Dollars are in millions.




Investment income before taxes

$

3,480

$

2,824

$

3,223

Applicable income taxes and minority interests

1,068



Investment income after taxes and minority interests

$

2,412

$

2,045

$

2,276

Investment income consists of interest and dividends earned on cash equivalents and fixed
maturity and equity investments of Berkshire’s insurance businesses. Pre-tax investment income
earned in 2005 by Berkshire’s insurance businesses exceeded amounts earned in 2004 by $656 million
(23.2%). The increase in investment income in 2005 primarily reflects higher short-term interest
rates in the United States in 2005 as compared to 2004. Investment income in 2004 declined 12.4%
from 2003, reflecting relatively lower short-term interest rates and lower amounts of interest
earned from high yield corporate bonds.

A summary of investments held in Berkshire’s insurance businesses follows. Dollar amounts are
in millions.

Dec. 31,

Dec. 31,

Dec. 31,




Cash and cash equivalents

$

38,814

$

38,706

$

29,908

Equity securities

46,412

37,420

35,017

Fixed maturity securities

27,385

22,831

26,087

Other


2,059

2,656

$

113,529

$

101,016

$

93,668

Fixed maturity investments as of December 31, 2005 were as follows. Dollar amounts are in
millions.

Unrealized

Amortized cost

gains/losses

Fair value

U.S. Treasury, government corporations and agencies

$

7,633

$

(15

)

$

7,618

States, municipalities and political subdivisions

4,243


4,333

Foreign governments

6,884


6,961

Corporate bonds and redeemable preferred stocks, investment grade

3,235


3,422

Corporate bonds and redeemable preferred stocks, non-investment grade

2,257

1,290

3,547

Mortgage-backed securities

1,464


1,504

$

25,716

$

1,669

$

27,385

All U.S. government obligations are rated AAA by the major rating agencies and about 95% of
all state, municipal and political subdivisions, foreign government obligations and mortgage-backed
securities were rated AA or higher. Non-investment grade securities represent securities that are
rated below BBB- or Baa3. Fair value reflects quoted market prices where available or, if not
available, prices obtained from independent pricing services.

Invested assets derive from shareholder capital and reinvested earnings as well as net
liabilities assumed under insurance contracts or “float.” The major components of float are unpaid
losses, unearned premiums and other liabilities to policyholders less premiums and reinsurance
receivables, deferred charges assumed under retroactive reinsurance contracts and deferred policy
acquisition costs. Float totaled approximately $49.3 billion at December 31, 2005, $46.1 billion
at December 31, 2004 and $44.2 billion at December 31, 2003. The cost of float, as represented by
the ratio of pre-tax underwriting gain or loss to average float, was negative for the last three
years, as Berkshire’s insurance businesses generated pre-tax underwriting gains in each year.

Non-Insurance Businesses

A summary follows of results from Berkshire’s non-insurance businesses for the past three
years. Dollars are in millions.




Pre-tax earnings

$

3,445

$

3,065

$

2,776

Income taxes and minority interests

1,285

1,152

1,031

Net earnings

$

2,160

$

1,913

$

1,745



Management’s Discussion

(Continued)

Non-Insurance Businesses

(Continued)

A comparison of revenues and pre-tax earnings between 2005, 2004 and 2003 for the
non-insurance businesses follows. Dollars are in millions.

Revenues

Pre-tax earnings







Apparel

$

2,286

$

2,200

$

2,075

$


$


$


Building products

4,806

4,337

3,846




Finance and financial products

4,559

3,774

3,045




Flight services *

3,660

3,244

2,431




McLane Company

24,074

23,373

13,743




Retail

2,759

2,601

2,311




Shaw Industries

5,723

5,174

4,660




Other businesses

3,588

3,213

3,040




$

51,455

$

47,916

$

35,151

$

3,445

$

3,065

$

2,776

*

In 2004, Berkshfire adopted the provisions of EITF 00-21 (“Accounting for Revenue Arrangements
with Multiple Deliverables”). As a result, for consolidated reporting purposes, the method of
recognizing revenue related to NetJets’ fractional aircraft sales was changed. Management
continues to evaluate the results of NetJets under the prior revenue recognition criteria and
thus has shown revenues and pre-tax earnings for the flight services segment using the prior
revenue recognition method. Revenues shown in this table are greater than the amounts
reported in Berkshire’s consolidated financial statements by $704 million in 2005 and $902
million in 2004. Pre-tax earnings included in this table for 2005 and 2004 exceed the amounts
included in the consolidated financial statements by $63 million and $74 million,
respectively.

Apparel

Apparel revenues in 2005 increased $86 million (4%) over 2004 and revenues in 2004 increased
$125 million (6%) over 2003. Sales of clothing products (Fruit of the Loom (“FOL”), Garan and
Fechheimer) totaled $1,754 million in 2005 an increase of $60 million (3.5%) over 2004, which was
primarily attributed to a 3% increase in unit volume and changes in the sales mix of FOL products.
Footwear (HH Brown Shoe Group and Justin) sales in 2005 increased $26 million (5.3%) over 2004.
Increased sales were generated in Western boots and women’s casual shoes. Increased sales by FOL
accounted for essentially all of the increases in 2004 over 2003, as unit sales increased 14%,
partially offset by lower net selling prices. Sales to a few major retailers account for about 45%
of apparel revenues. Loss or curtailment of sales to a major customer could have a material
adverse impact on revenues and pre-tax earnings of the apparel segment.

Pre-tax earnings of apparel businesses totaled $348 million in 2005, an increase of 7% over
2004. Almost half of the increase in pre-tax earnings in 2005 was generated by FOL due to the
aforementioned sales increase, although higher advertising and plant closure costs had an adverse
effect on earnings. In addition, increased earnings were achieved in the footwear businesses.

Building products

Building products revenues in 2005 totaled $4,806 million, an increase of $469 million (11%)
over 2004. Increased sales volume was generated in all significant product lines in 2005,
including insulation and roofing products (Johns Manville-10%), paint and coatings (Benjamin
Moore-5%), brick and masonry (Acme-11%) and steel connector plates and truss machinery (MiTek-22%).
Berkshire’s building products businesses have benefited in recent periods by relatively strong
residential housing market conditions. The increases in revenues in 2005 were primarily driven by
higher average selling prices for most products, which in most instances were precipitated by
comparatively higher materials, production and delivery costs, particularly for steel,
petrochemicals and energy.

Pre-tax earnings of the building products group in 2005 exceeded earnings in 2004 by $108
million (17%), reflecting increased earnings from insulation and roofing products, connector
plate/truss machinery and bricks partially offset by lower earnings from paints and coatings. Over
the past year, Berkshire’s building products businesses have instituted price increases to
compensate for rising raw material and energy related production and transportation costs.
Nevertheless, certain costs essential to the production processes, including natural gas (brick and
insulation), steel (connector plates) and petrochemicals (paint and coatings) are increasingly
subject to rapid price changes and constraints in availability for a variety of reasons. In
addition, rapid rises in interest rates could adversely affect housing construction which could
result in declining sales for Berkshire’s building products businesses. The pre-tax results for
2003 included a loss of $21 million from a fire at a Johns Manville pipe insulation plant.



Non-Insurance Businesses

(Continued)

Finance and financial products

A summary of revenues and pre-tax earnings from Berkshire’s finance and financial products
businesses follows. Dollar amounts are in millions.

Revenues

Pre-tax earnings







Manufactured housing and finance

$

3,175

$

2,024

$


$


$


$


Furniture/transportation equipment leasing







Other



1,783




$

4,559

$

3,774

$

3,045

$


$


$


The increase in revenues in 2005 from manufactured housing and finance activities of Clayton
Homes (“Clayton”) was primarily attributed to increased sales of manufactured homes ($491 million)
and increased interest income ($583 million) from comparatively higher installment loan balances.
Installment loan balances have increased approximately $8.5 billion from the date of Berkshire’s
acquisition on August 7, 2003 to $9.6 billion as of December 31, 2005, reflecting the impact of
several loan portfolio acquisitions as well as loan originations. Clayton’s results are included
in Berkshire’s consolidated financial statements beginning as of the acquisition date.

Pre-tax earnings from Clayton’s manufactured housing and finance activities totaled $416
million in 2005, an increase of $224 million (117%) over 2004. The significant increase in pre-tax
earnings is primarily due to higher interest income from the increase in acquired loan portfolios
during 2004 and 2005, partially offset by higher interest expense derived from Berkshire Hathaway
Finance Corporation, an affiliate that has issued approximately $8.8 billion par of medium term
notes to finance the aforementioned increase in installment loans. In addition, improved
comparative results in the manufacturing and retail segments of Clayton’s business contributed to
the overall earnings growth.

Furniture and transportation equipment leasing revenues in 2005 primarily reflect increased
rental income. Pre-tax earnings from furniture and transportation equipment leasing activities in
2005 increased $81 million over 2004, reflecting higher rental income and lower administrative and
interest expenses.

Other finance revenues in 2005 and 2004 are primarily derived from interest income from other
loans and fixed income investments and the operations of General Re Securities (“GRS”) which is
being run-off. In 2003, other finance revenues included life insurance annuity premiums of $700
million arising from a few sizable transactions. Annuity premiums generated in 2005 and 2004 were
nominal. Other finance revenues in 2004 also included $282 million from the consolidation of Value
Capital L.P. (“VC”) during the first six months. As a result of a significant decline in the
percentage of Berkshire’s economic interest in VC, Berkshire ceased consolidation of VC effective
July 1, 2004 and thereafter accounted for its investment in VC pursuant to the equity method.

Pre-tax earnings from other finance activities in 2005 were $233 million, a decrease of $67
million from 2004. Berkshire’s investment in VC produced a pre-tax loss in 2005 of $33 million
compared to a pre-tax gain of $30 million in 2004. GRS generated pre-tax losses of $104 million in
2005 and $44 million in 2004. The increase in GRS losses was due to higher losses from unwinding
derivative positions. In 2005, pre-tax earnings attributed to the life insurance/annuity business
exceeded 2004 by $68 million as a result of higher short-term interest rates and the absence of
adverse effects from changes to mortality estimates pertaining to annuity contracts.

Pre-tax earnings from other finance activities in 2004 declined approximately $251 million
from 2003 primarily as a result of comparatively lower amounts of invested assets. In addition,
pre-tax earnings for 2004 were negatively impacted by higher allocations of investments in
low-yielding cash and cash equivalents, a significant reduction in the early redemptions of
fixed-income securities purchased at a discount and adverse effects from changes in mortality
assumptions.

Flight services

Flight service revenues in 2005 increased $416 million (13%) over 2004, which, in turn,
increased $813 million (33%) over 2003. In 2005, revenues of the training business (FlightSafety)
and the fractional ownership business (NetJets) each increased 13% over revenues in 2004. In 2005,
the increase in training revenue was primarily due to increased simulator usage and increased
demand, primarily in the corporate aviation and regional airline markets. The fractional ownership
program revenue increase in 2005 over 2004 reflected an 18% increase in flight operations and
management service fees. The increase in flight operations revenue primarily resulted from a 7%
increase in occupied flight hours, rate increases and a higher mix of larger cabin aircraft usage,
which generate higher revenues. Over 90% of the revenue increase in 2004 over 2003 resulted from
the NetJets business where flight operations revenue increased just under $400 million and revenues
from aircraft sales increased about $360 million. NetJets and FlightSafety continue to be leaders
in the aircraft fractional ownership and training markets.

Pre-tax earnings of the flight services businesses totaled $120 million in 2005, a decrease of
$71 million as compared to 2004. In 2005, pre-tax earnings from the FlightSafety training
business, increased approximately 10% over 2004 to approximately $200 million, due primarily to the
impact of increased training revenues and simulator sales. NetJets incurred a pre-tax loss of
about $80 million in 2005 compared to pre-tax income of about $10 million in 2004. Several factors
contributed to the loss in 2005. Throughout 2005, NetJets experienced unusually high shortages of
available aircraft due to increases in



Management’s Discussion

(Continued)

Flight services

(Continued)

owner demand outpacing increases in capacity. Consequently, NetJets subcontracted additional
aircraft capacity through charter services. The costs associated with subcontracted flights were
not fully recoverable from clients and caused an incremental pre-tax cost of approximately $85
million in 2005. NetJets has added aircraft to the core fleet and is developing strategies to
address capacity issues and restore profitability. NetJets recorded a special charge of $20
million in the fourth quarter of 2005 for prior periods’ compensation related to a new labor
contract with its pilots and flight attendants. Additionally, interest expense in 2005 increased
approximately $23 million due to higher interest rates.

McLane Company

On May 23, 2003, Berkshire acquired McLane Company, Inc., (“McLane”) a distributor of grocery
and food products to retailers, convenience stores and restaurants. Results of McLane’s business
operations are included in Berkshire’s consolidated results beginning on that date. McLane’s
revenues in 2005 totaled $24.1 billion compared to $23.4 billion in 2004 and approximately $22.0
billion for the full year of 2003. Sales of grocery products increased about 5% in 2005 and were
partially offset by lower sales to foodservice customers. McLane’s business is marked by high
sales volume and very low profit margins.

Pre-tax earnings in 2005 of $217 million declined $11 million versus 2004. The gross margin
percentage was relatively unchanged between years. However, the resulting increased gross profit
was more than offset by higher payroll, fuel and insurance expenses. Approximately 33% of McLane’s
annual revenues currently derive from sales to Wal-Mart. Loss or curtailment of purchasing by
Wal-Mart could have a material adverse impact on revenues and pre-tax earnings of McLane.

Retail

Berkshire’s retail operations consist of several home furnishings and jewelry retailers.
Aggregate revenues in 2005 increased $158 million (6%) over 2004. Revenues of the home furnishings
businesses were $1,958 million in 2005 and $1,843 million in 2004 and jewelry revenues were $801
million in 2005 as compared to $758 million in 2004. Aggregate same store sales in 2005 increased
approximately 2.5% compared to 2004. In addition, the revenue increase was as a result of new
store sales at R.C. Willey and Jordan’s. Pre-tax earnings in 2005 of the retail group totaled $201
million, an increase of $38 million (23%) over 2004. Approximately 90% of the comparative increase
in pre-tax earnings was produced by the home furnishings businesses.

Total revenues attributed to retail operations were $2,601 million in 2004, an increase of
$290 million (13%) over 2003. Same store sales in 2004 increased 2.4% from 2003. Pre-tax earnings
of the retail group totaled $163 million in 2004 compared to $165 million in 2003. The increase in
sales was substantially offset by higher costs associated with new home furnishings stores,
including increased salaries and benefits, depreciation and distribution costs.

Shaw Industries

Revenues of Shaw Industries of $5,723 million in 2005 increased $549 million (11%) over 2004.
The increase in 2005 reflected increases in average net selling prices for carpet and a very small
increase in yards of carpet sold. During 2005, sales of rugs also increased over 2004. Pre-tax
earnings in 2005 increased $19 million (4%) over 2004. Despite the increases in selling prices,
operating margins in 2005 were adversely affected by repeated increases in petroleum-based raw
material costs. Consequently, increases in production costs have, generally, outpaced increases in
average net selling prices over the past two years. In addition, product sample costs pertaining
to the introduction of new products increased approximately $29 million in 2005 as compared to
2004.

Revenues generated by Shaw Industries in 2004 increased $514 million (11%) over 2003 due to a
9% increase in square yards of carpet sold, higher net selling prices and increased hard surface
and rug sales. In addition, sales in 2004 include two businesses acquired by Shaw in 2003 (Georgia
Tufters and the North Georgia operations of the Dixie Group). These acquisitions contributed sales
of $240 million in 2004 and $50 million in 2003. Pre-tax earnings in 2004 totaled $466 million, an
increase of $30 million (7%) over 2003. Sales price increases lagged raw material supplier price
increases resulting in a decline in gross margins during 2004 as compared to 2003.

Equity in Earnings of MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company

Earnings from MidAmerican represent Berkshire’s share of MidAmerican’s net earnings as
determined under the equity method. In 2005, Berkshire’s share of MidAmerican’s net earnings was
$523 million versus $237 million in 2004. MidAmerican’s 2004 results include an after-tax charge of
$340 million (of which Berkshire’s share was about $255 million) to write down certain assets of an
operation that was shut down in the third quarter and a gain of $44 million (Berkshire’s share was
about $33 million) from the realization of certain Enron-related bankruptcy claims. In 2005,
MidAmerican benefited from favorable comparative results at most of its domestic businesses and
from gains on sales of certain non-strategic assets and investments. These improvements were
partially offset by lower earnings from the U.K. electricity business. Ignoring the effect of the
aforementioned two non-recurring events, Berkshire’s share of MidAmerican’s 2004 net earnings was
$459 million, which, when compared with 2003 results, reflects improved results at most of
MidAmerican’s major operating units. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information regarding MidAmerican.



Investment and Derivative Gains/Losses

A summary of investment and derivative gains and losses follows. Dollar amounts are in
millions.




Investment gains/losses from -

Sales and other disposals of investments -

Insurance and other

$

5,831

$

1,527

$

2,873

Finance and financial products




Other-than-temporary impairments

(114

)

(19

)

(289

)

Life settlement contracts

(82

)

(207

)

—

Other




6,196

1,629

3,296

Derivative gains/losses from -

Foreign currency forward contracts

(955

)

1,839


Other



—

(702

)

1,860


Gains/losses before income taxes and minority interests

5,494

3,489

4,121

Income taxes and minority interests

1,964

1,230

1,392

Net gains/losses

$

3,530

$

2,259

$

2,729

Investment gains or losses are recognized upon the sales of investments or as otherwise
required under GAAP. The timing of realized gains or losses from sales can have a material effect
on periodic earnings. However, such gains or losses usually have little, if any, impact on total
shareholders’ equity because most equity and fixed maturity investments are carried at fair value,
with the unrealized gain or loss included as a component of other comprehensive income.

For many years, Berkshire held an investment in common stock of The Gillette Company
(“Gillette”). The Procter & Gamble Company (“PG”) completed its acquisition of Gillette on October
1, 2005. On that date, PG issued 0.975 shares of common stock for each outstanding share of
Gillette common stock. Berkshire recognized a non-cash pre-tax investment gain of approximately $5
billion upon the conversion of the Gillette shares for PG shares. Berkshire’s management does not
regard the gain that was recorded, as required by GAAP, as meaningful. Berkshire intends to hold
the shares of PG just as it has held the Gillette shares. The gain recognized for financial
reporting purposes is deferred for income tax purposes. The transaction essentially had no effect
on Berkshire’s consolidated shareholders’ equity because the gain included in earnings in the
fourth quarter was accompanied by a corresponding reduction of unrealized investment gains included
in accumulated other comprehensive income as of September 30, 2005.

The other-than-temporary impairment losses reflected in the table above represent the
adjustment of cost to fair value when, as required by GAAP, management concludes that the
investment’s decline in value below cost is other than temporary. The impairment loss represents a
non-cash charge to earnings. See Note 1(d) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary
of the factors considered in the judgment process. Gains and losses from the ultimate sale of
securities in which other-than-temporary impairments were previously recorded are included in sales
of investments.

Prior to January 1, 2004, Berkshire accounted for investments in life settlement contracts on
the cost basis, which included the initial purchase price plus subsequent periodic maintenance
costs. Beginning in 2004, as a result of obtaining information that suggested the SEC believed a
different accounting method should be used, life settlement investments are accounted for under
FASB Technical Bulletin (“FTB”) 85-4 “Accounting for Purchases of Life Insurance.” Under FTB 85-4,
the life settlement contracts are carried at the cash surrender value of the contract. The excess
of the cash paid to purchase these contracts over the cash surrender value at the date of purchase
is recognized as a loss immediately and periodic maintenance costs, such as premiums necessary to
keep the underlying policies in force, are charged to earnings immediately. The pre-tax loss in
2004 included $73 million with respect to life settlement contracts held at December 31, 2003.
Despite the accounting loss recorded for these contracts, management believes the current value of
the contracts is no less than the cost basis and believes these contracts will produce satisfactory
earnings.

Derivative gains and losses from foreign currency forward contracts arise as the value of the
U.S. dollar changes against certain foreign currencies. Small changes in certain foreign currency
exchange rates produce material changes in the fair value of these contracts and consequently can
produce exceptional volatility in reported earnings. The potential for such volatility declined in
2005 as the notional value of open contracts declined approximately $7.6 billion to $13.8 billion
as of December 31, 2005. During 2005, the value of most foreign currencies decreased relative to
the U.S. dollar. Thus, forward contracts produced pre-tax losses. Conversely, the value of many
foreign currencies rose relative to the U.S. dollar in 2004 and 2003, and Berkshire’s contract
positions produced significant pre-tax gains.

During 2004 and 2005, Berkshire has also entered into other derivative contracts pertaining to
credit default risks of other entities as well as equity price risk associated with major equity
indexes. Such contracts are carried at estimated fair value and the change in estimated fair value
is included in earnings in the period of the change. These contracts are not traded on an exchange
and independent market prices are not consistently available. Accordingly, considerable judgment
is required in estimating fair value.



Management’s Discussion

(Continued)

Financial Condition

Berkshire’s balance sheet continues to reflect significant liquidity and a strong capital
base. Consolidated shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2005 totaled $91.5 billion. Consolidated
cash and invested assets, excluding assets of finance and financial products businesses, totaled
approximately $115.6 billion at December 31, 2005 (including cash and cash equivalents of $40.5
billion) and $102.9 billion at December 31, 2004 (including $40.0 billion in cash and cash
equivalents). Berkshire’s invested assets are held predominantly in its insurance businesses.

On June 30, 2005, Berkshire acquired Med Pro from an affiliate of General Electric Company.
Med Pro is a primary medical malpractice insurer. On August 31, 2005, Berkshire acquired Forest
River, Inc., a manufacturer of recreational vehicles sold in the United States and Canada. In
addition, a few other smaller add on acquisitions were completed by Berkshire subsidiaries during
2005. Aggregate consideration paid for all acquisitions in 2005 was approximately $2.4 billion.

Berkshire’s consolidated notes payable and other borrowings, excluding borrowings of finance
businesses, totaled $3.6 billion at December 31, 2005 and $3.5 billion at December 31, 2004.
During 2005, commercial paper and short-term borrowings of subsidiaries increased $242 million, due
primarily to borrowings of NetJets to acquire additional aircraft. Additionally, borrowings under
investment contracts increased $250 million during 2005 due to a new contract which matures in
2007.

In May 2002, Berkshire issued the SQUARZ securities, which consist of $400 million par amount
of senior notes due in November 2007 together with warrants to purchase 4,464 Class A equivalent
shares of Berkshire common stock, which expire in May 2007. A warrant premium is payable to
Berkshire at an annual rate of 3.75% and interest is payable to note holders at a rate of 3.00%.
Each warrant provides the holder the right to purchase either 0.1116 shares of Class A or 3.348
shares of Class B stock for $10,000. In addition, holders of the senior notes have the option to
require Berkshire to repurchase the senior notes at par on May 15, 2006, provided that the holders
also surrender a corresponding amount of warrants for cancellation. To date, no warrants have been
exercised and $64 million par of notes have been redeemed.

On February 9, 2006, Berkshire obtained control of MidAmerican for financial reporting
purposes. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information concerning
MidAmerican. In addition, MidAmerican expects to complete its acquisition of PacifiCorp in March
2006 for approximately $5.1 billion, at which time Berkshire will acquire additional shares of
MidAmerican for $3.4 billion thereby increasing its ownership interest to 88.6% (86.5% diluted).
MidAmerican intends to issue additional debt or other securities for the remainder of the purchase
price. Berkshire has not provided and does not intend to guaranty debt issued by MidAmerican or
its subsidiaries. However, Berkshire has made a commitment that allows MidAmerican to request up
to $3.5 billion of capital until February 28, 2011 to pay its debt obligations or to provide
funding to its regulated subsidiaries.

Total assets of the finance and financial products businesses totaled $24.5 billion as of
December 31, 2005, and $31.0 billion at December 31, 2004. Liabilities totaled $20.3 billion as of
December 31, 2005, and $20.4 billion at December 31, 2004. During 2005, significant declines in
investments in fixed maturity securities ($5.0 billion) resulted from sales and disposals and were
offset by a decline ($4.6 billion) in securities sold under repurchase agreements. A $3.4 billion
decline in derivative contract assets was the result of a large reduction in derivative contracts
outstanding, including the ongoing run-off of the remaining positions of GRS. The asset reductions
were partially offset by declines in liabilities to counterparties for funds held as collateral.
Derivative contract liabilities increased slightly in 2005 as declines in liabilities due to the
run-off of GRS were offset by increases in liabilities established with respect to other derivative
positions of another Berkshire subsidiary.

Cash and cash equivalents of finance and financial products businesses totaled $4.2 billion as
of December 31, 2005 and $3.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. During 2004, manufactured housing
loans of Clayton increased approximately $5.0 billion to $7.5 billion as of December 31, 2004 and
as of December 31, 2005 further increased to $9.6 billion. The increases were primarily attributed
to loan portfolio acquisitions during 2004 and 2005. Prior to its acquisition by Berkshire in
August 2003, Clayton securitized and sold a significant portion of its installment loans through
special purpose entities. In early 2003, Clayton discontinued its loan securitizations and sales.

Notes payable and other borrowings of Berkshire’s finance and financial products businesses
totaled $10.9 billion at December 31, 2005 and $5.4 billion at December 31, 2004. During 2005,
Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation (“BHFC”) issued a total of $5.25 billion par amount of
medium term notes. The proceeds of these issues were used to finance originated and acquired loans
of Clayton. Medium term notes issued by BHFC ($8.85 billion in the aggregate) are guaranteed by
Berkshire.

Berkshire believes that it currently maintains sufficient liquidity to cover its existing
contractual obligations and provide for contingent liquidity.

Contractual Obligations

Berkshire and its subsidiaries are parties to contracts associated with ongoing business and
financing activities, which will result in cash payments to counterparties in future periods.
Notes payable and securities sold under agreements to repurchase are reflected in the Consolidated
Financial Statements along with accrued but unpaid interest as of the balance sheet date. In
addition, Berkshire will be obligated to pay interest under debt obligations for periods subsequent
to the balance sheet date. Although certain principal balances may be prepaid in advance of the
maturity date, thus reducing future interest



Contractual Obligations

(Continued)

obligations, it is assumed that no principal prepayments will occur for purposes of this
disclosure. Further, while short-term borrowings and repurchase agreements are currently expected
to be renewed as they mature, such amounts are not assumed to renew for purposes of this
disclosure.

Berkshire and subsidiaries are also parties to long-term contracts to acquire goods or
services in the future, which are not currently reflected in the financial statements. Such
obligations, including future minimum rentals under operating leases, will be reflected in future
periods as the goods are delivered or services provided. Amounts due as of the balance sheet date
for purchases where the goods and services have been received and a liability incurred are not
included to the extent that such amounts are due within one year of the balance sheet date.

Contractual obligations for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses arising under property
and casualty insurance contracts are estimates. The timing and amount of such payments are
contingent upon the ultimate outcome of claim settlements that will occur over many years. The
amounts presented in the following table have been estimated based upon past claim settlement
activities. The timing and amount of such payments are subject to significant estimation error.
The factors affecting the ultimate amount of claims are discussed in the following section
regarding Berkshire’s critical accounting policies. Accordingly, the actual timing and amount of
payments may differ materially from the amounts shown in the table.

A summary of long-term contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 follows. Amounts
represent estimates of gross undiscounted amounts payable over time. In addition, certain losses
and loss adjustment expenses for property and casualty loss reserves are ceded to others under
reinsurance contracts and therefore are recoverable. Such potential recoverables are not reflected
in the table. Amounts are in millions.

Estimated payments due by period

Total


2007-2008

2009-2010

After 2010

Notes payable and other borrowings

(1)

$

18,700

$

2,441

$

5,666

$

3,155

$

7,438

Securities sold under agreements to
repurchase

(1)

1,162

1,162

—

—

—

Operating leases

1,632





Purchase obligations

(2)

12,651

3,897

3,370

2,369

3,015

Unpaid losses and loss expenses

50,832

12,192

13,713

7,119

17,808

Other long-term policyholder liabilities

3,937




3,795

Other

(3)

12,473



2,129

8,759

Total

$

101,387

$

20,962

$

24,054

$

15,136

$

41,235

(1)

Includes interest

(2)

Principally relates to NetJets’ aircraft purchases

(3)

Principally annuity reserves, employee benefits
and derivative contract liabilities

Critical Accounting Policies

Certain accounting policies require management to make estimates and judgments concerning
transactions that will be settled several years in the future. Amounts recognized in the financial
statements from such estimates are necessarily based on numerous assumptions involving varying and
potentially significant degrees of judgment and uncertainty. Accordingly, the amounts currently
reflected in the financial statements will likely increase or decrease in the future as additional
information becomes available.

Property and casualty losses

A summary of Berkshire’s consolidated liabilities for unpaid property and casualty losses is
presented in the table below. Except for certain workers’ compensation reserves, liabilities for
unpaid property and casualty losses (referred to in this section as “gross unpaid losses”) are
reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets without discounting for time value, regardless of the
length of the claim-tail. Dollars are in millions.

Gross unpaid losses

Net unpaid losses*

Dec. 31, 2005

Dec. 31, 2004

Dec. 31, 2005

Dec. 31, 2004

GEICO

$

5,578

$

5,112

$

5,285

$

4,867

General Re

21,524

22,258

20,429

20,056

BHRG

17,202

16,235

14,577

13,132

Berkshire Hathaway Primary

3,730

1,614

3,271

1,542

Total

$

48,034

$

45,219

$

43,562

$

39,597

*

Net of reinsurance recoverable and deferred charges reinsurance assumed and before foreign
currency translation effects.



Management’s Discussion

(Continued)

Property and casualty losses

(Continued)

Berkshire records liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses under property
and casualty insurance and reinsurance contracts based upon estimates of the ultimate amounts
payable under the contracts with respect to losses occurring on or before the balance sheet date.
Depending on the type of loss being estimated, the timing and amount of property and casualty loss
payments are subject to a great degree of variability and are contingent, among other things, upon
the timing of the claim reporting from insureds and cedants and the determination and payment of
the ultimate loss amount through the loss adjustment process. A variety of techniques are used to
establish and review the liabilities for unpaid losses recorded as of the balance sheet date.
While techniques may vary, significant judgments and assumptions are necessary in projecting the
ultimate amount payable in the future with respect to loss events that have occurred.

As of any balance sheet date, claims that have occurred have not all been reported, and if
reported may not have been settled. The time period between the occurrence date and payment date
of a loss is referred to as the “claim-tail.” Property claims usually have fairly short
claim-tails and, absent litigation, are reported and settled within no more than a few years after
occurrence. Casualty losses usually have very long claim-tails, occasionally extending for
decades. Casualty claims are more susceptible to litigation and can be significantly affected by
changing contract interpretations and the legal environment which contributes to extended
claim-tails. Claim-tails for reinsurers may be further extended due to delayed reporting by ceding
insurers or reinsurers due to contractual provisions or reporting practices. Loss and loss
adjustment expense reserves include provisions for those claims that have been reported (referred
to as “case reserves”) and for those claims that have not been reported, referred to as incurred
but not yet reported (“IBNR”) reserves.

Receivables recorded with respect to insurance losses ceded to other reinsurers under
reinsurance contracts are estimated in a manner similar to liabilities for insurance losses and,
therefore, are also subject to estimation error. In addition to the factors cited above,
reinsurance recoverables may ultimately prove to be uncollectible if the reinsurer is unable to
perform under the contract. Reinsurance contracts do not relieve the ceding company of its
obligations to indemnify its own policyholders.

Each of Berkshire’s insurance businesses utilize techniques for establishing reserves that are
believed to best fit the business. Additional information regarding reserves established by each
of the significant businesses (GEICO, General Re and BHRG) follows.

GEICO

GEICO’s gross unpaid losses and loss adjustment expense reserves as of December 31, 2005
totaled $5,578 million and net of reinsurance recoverables were $5,285 million. As of December 31,
2005, gross reserves included $3,910 million of case reserves and $1,668 million of IBNR reserves.

GEICO predominantly writes private passenger auto insurance which has a relatively short
claim-tail. Accordingly, the risk of estimation error is thought to be much less at GEICO than for
either General Re or BHRG. The key assumptions affecting GEICO’s reserves include projections of
ultimate claim counts and average loss per claim (“severity”), which includes loss adjustment
expenses. GEICO’s reserving methodologies produce reserve estimates based upon the individual
claims (or a “ground-up” approach), which in the aggregate yields a point estimate of the ultimate
losses and loss adjustment expenses. Ranges of loss estimates are not calculated in the aggregate.
A detailed discussion of the process and significant factors considered in establishing reserves
follows.

Actuaries establish and evaluate unpaid loss reserves using recognized standard statistical
loss development methods and techniques. The significant reserve components (and percentage of
gross reserves) are: (1) average reserves (20%), (2) case and case development reserves (50%), and
(3) IBNR reserves (30%). Each component of loss reserves is affected by the expected frequency and
average severity of claims. Such amounts are analyzed using statistical techniques on historical
claims data and adjusted when appropriate to reflect perceived changes in loss patterns. Data is
analyzed by policy coverage, jurisdiction of loss, reporting date and occurrence date, among other
factors. A brief discussion of each component follows.

Average reserve amounts are established for auto damage claims and new liability claims prior
to the development of an individual case reserve. Average reserve amounts are driven by the
estimated average severity per claim and the number of new claims opened. The average severity per
claim amount is developed by projecting the ultimate severity for each accident quarter and
weighting with both reported claims and unreported claims.

Claim adjusters generally establish individual liability claim case loss and loss adjustment
expense reserve estimates as soon as the specific facts and merits of each claim can be evaluated.
Case reserves represent the amounts that in the judgment of the adjusters are reasonably expected
to be paid in the future to completely settle the claim, including expenses. Individual case
reserves are revised as more information becomes known.

For most liability coverages, case reserves alone are an insufficient measure of the ultimate
cost due in part to the longer claim-tail, the greater chance of protracted litigation and the
incompleteness of facts available at the time the case reserve is established. Therefore,
additional case development reserve estimates are established, usually as a percentage of the case
reserve. In general, case development factors are selected by a retrospective analysis of the
overall adequacy of historical case reserves. Case development factors are reviewed and revised
periodically.



Property and casualty losses

(Continued)

GEICO

(Continued)

For unreported claims, IBNR reserve estimates are calculated by first projecting the ultimate
number of claims expected (reported and unreported) for each significant coverage by using
historical quarterly and monthly claim counts, to develop age-to-age projections of the ultimate
counts by accident quarter. Reported claims are subtracted from the ultimate claim projections to
produce an estimate of the number of unreported claims. The number of unreported claims is
multiplied by an estimate of the average cost per unreported claim to produce the IBNR reserve
amount. Actuarial techniques are difficult to apply reliably in certain situations, such as to new
legal precedents, class action suits or recent catastrophes. Consequently, supplemental IBNR
reserves for these types of events may be established.

For each of its major coverages, GEICO tests the adequacy of the total loss reserves using one
or more actuarial projections based on claim closure models, paid loss triangles and incurred loss
triangles. Each type of projection analyzes loss occurrence data for claims occurring in a given
period and projects the ultimate cost.

GEICO’s exposure to highly uncertain losses is believed to be limited to certain commercial
excess umbrella policies written during a period from 1981 to 1984. Remaining reserves associated
with such exposure is currently a relatively insignificant component of GEICO’s total reserves (3%)
and there is little, if any, apparent asbestos or environmental liability exposure. Related claim
activity over the past year was insignificant.

General Re

General Re’s unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses as of December 31, 2005 are summarized
below. Amounts are in millions.

Workers’

Property

Compensation

Casualty

Total

Reported case reserves

$

1,968

$

2,199

$

7,768

$

11,935

IBNR reserves

1,479

1,019

7,091

9,589

Gross reserves

$

3,447

$

3,218

$

14,859

21,524

Ceded reserves and deferred charges

(1,095

)

Net reserves

$

20,429

General Re’s process of establishing loss reserve estimates is based upon a ground-up
approach, beginning with case estimates and supplemented by additional case reserves (“ACR’s”) and
IBNR reserves. Critical judgments in the establishment of these loss reserves involve the
establishment of ACR’s by claim examiners, the expectation of ultimate loss ratios which drive IBNR
reserve amounts and the case reserve reporting trends compared to the expected loss reporting
patterns. The company does not routinely calculate loss reserve ranges because it believes that
the techniques necessary have not sufficiently developed and the myriad of assumptions required
render such resulting ranges to be unreliable. In addition, counts of claims or average amount per
claim are not utilized because clients do not consistently provide reliable data in sufficient
detail.

General Re claim examiners establish case reserve estimates based on the facts and
circumstances of the claims and the terms and provisions of the insurance and reinsurance
contracts. For reinsurance claims, claim examiners receive notices from client companies in a
manner that reflects the terms of the reinsurance contracts. Contract terms governing claim
reporting are generally based on the client’s view of the case loss (e.g., claims with reserves
greater than one-half the retention) or injury type (e.g., any claim arising from a fatality).
Some reinsurance contracts, such as quota-share contracts, permit claims to be reported on a bulk
basis.

Upon notification of a reinsurance claim from a ceding company, claim examiners make
independent evaluations of loss amounts. In some cases, examiners’ estimates differ from amounts
reported by ceding companies. If the examiners’ estimates are significantly greater than the
ceding company’s estimates, the claims are further investigated. If deemed appropriate, ACR’s are
established above the amount reported by the ceding company. Examiners also conduct claim reviews
at client companies periodically and case reserves are often increased as a result. In 2005, claim
examiners conducted in excess of 400 claim reviews.

Actuaries classify all loss and premium data into segments (reserve cells) primarily based on
product (e.g., treaty, facultative, and program) and line of business (e.g., auto liability,
property, etc.). For each reserve cell, losses are aggregated by accident year and analyzed over
time. Depending on client reporting practices, some losses and premiums are aggregated by policy
year. These loss aggregations are called loss triangles, which are the primary basis for IBNR
reserve calculations. North American operations presently review over 300 reserve cells and the
International operations presently review about 900 reserve cells.



Management’s Discussion

(Continued)

Property and casualty losses

(Continued)

General Re

(Continued)

Loss triangles are used to determine the expected case loss emergence patterns and, in
conjunction with expected loss ratios by accident year, are further used to determine IBNR
reserves. Additional calculations form the basis for estimating the expected loss emergence
pattern. The determination of the expected loss emergence pattern is not strictly a mechanical
process. In instances where the historical loss data is insufficient, estimation formulas are used
along with reliance on other loss triangles and judgment. Factors affecting loss development
triangles include but are not limited to the following: changing client claims practices, changes
in claim examiners use of ACR’s or the frequency of client company claim reviews, changes in policy
terms and coverage (such as client loss retention levels and occurrence and aggregate policy
limits), changes in loss trends and changes in legal trends that result in unanticipated losses, as
well as other sources of statistical variability. These items influence the selection of the
expected loss emergence patterns.

Expected loss ratios are selected by reserve cell, by accident year, based upon reviewing
indicated ultimate loss ratios predicted from aggregated pricing statistics. Indicated ultimate
loss ratios are calculated using the selected loss emergence pattern, reported losses and earned
premium. If the selected emergence pattern is not accurate, then the indicated ultimate loss
ratios will not be correct and this can influence the selected loss ratios and hence the IBNR
reserve. As with selected loss emergence patterns, selecting expected loss ratios is not a
strictly mechanical process and judgment is used in the analysis of indicated ultimate loss ratios
and department pricing loss ratios.

IBNR reserves are estimated by reserve cell, by accident year, using the expected loss
emergence pattern and the expected loss ratios. The expected loss emergence patterns and expected
loss ratios are the critical IBNR reserving assumptions and are generally updated every year-end.
Once the year-end IBNR reserves are determined, actuaries calculate expected case loss emergence
for the upcoming calendar year. This calculation does not involve new assumptions and uses the
prior year-end expected loss emergence patterns and expected loss ratios. The expected losses are
then allocated into interim estimates that are compared to actual reported losses in the subsequent
year. This comparison provides a test of the adequacy of prior year-end IBNR reserves and forms
the basis for possibly changing IBNR reserve assumptions during the course of the year.

In certain reserve cells (such as excess directors and officers and errors and omissions) IBNR
reserves are based on estimated ultimate losses, without consideration of expected emergence
patterns. These cells typically involve a spike in loss activity arising from recent industry
developments making it difficult to select an expected loss emergence pattern as has been
experienced from the recent wave of corporate scandals that have caused an increase in reported
losses. Overall industry-wide loss experience data and informed judgment are used when internal
loss data is of limited reliability, such as in setting the estimates for asbestos and hazardous
waste claims. Unpaid environmental, asbestos and mass tort reserves at December 31, 2005 were
approximately $1.8 billion gross and $1.3 billion net of reinsurance. Such reserves were
approximately $1.6 billion gross and $1.3 billion net of reinsurance as of December 31, 2004.
Claims paid attributable to such losses were about $93 million in 2005.

BHRG

BHRG’s unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses as of December 31, 2005 are summarized as
follows. Amounts are in millions.

Property

Casualty

Total

Reported case reserves

$

3,860

$

1,476

$

5,336

IBNR reserves


1,900

2,897

Retroactive

—

8,969

8,969

Gross reserves

$

4,857

$

12,345

17,202

Ceded reserves and deferred charges

(2,625

)

Net reserves

$

14,577

As of December 31, 2005, BHRG’s gross loss reserves related to retroactive reinsurance
policies were attributed to casualty losses. Retroactive policies include excess-of-loss
contracts, in which losses (relating to past loss events) above a contractual retention are
indemnified or contracts that indemnify all losses paid by the counterparty after the policy
effective date. Retroactive losses paid in 2005 totaled $969 million. The classification “reported
case reserves” has no practical analytical value with respect to retroactive policies since the
amount is derived from reports in bulk from ceding companies, who may have inconsistent definitions
of “case reserves.” Reserves are reviewed and established in the aggregate including provisions
for IBNR reserves.

In establishing retroactive reinsurance reserves, historical aggregate loss payment patterns
are analyzed and projected into the future under various scenarios. The claim-tail is expected to
be very long for many policies and may last several decades. Management attributes judgmental
probability factors to these aggregate loss payment scenarios and an expectancy outcome is
determined. Due to contractual limits of indemnification, the maximum losses payable under
retroactive policies are approximately $11.5 billion as of December 31, 2005.



Property and casualty losses

(Continued)

BHRG

(Continued)

BHRG’s liabilities for environmental, asbestos, and latent injury losses and loss adjustment
expenses are presently believed to be concentrated within retroactive reinsurance contracts.
Reserves for such losses were approximately $4.0 billion at December 31, 2005 and $4.2 billion at
December 31, 2004. Claims paid in 2005 attributable to such losses were approximately $273
million. BHRG, as a reinsurer, does not regularly receive reliable information regarding numbers
of asbestos, environmental and latent injury claims from ceding companies on a consistent basis,
particularly with respect to multi-line treaty or aggregate excess of loss policies.

BHRG’s other property and casualty loss reserves derive from catastrophe, individual risk and
multi-line reinsurance policies. Reserve amounts are based upon loss estimates reported by ceding
companies and IBNR reserves, which are primarily a function of reported losses from ceding
companies and anticipated loss ratios established on an individual contract basis supplemented by
management’s judgment of the impact on each contract of major catastrophe events as they become
known. Anticipated loss ratios are based upon management’s judgment considering the type of
business covered, analysis of each ceding company’s loss history and evaluation of that portion of
the underlying contracts underwritten by each ceding company, which are in turn ceded to BHRG. A
range of reserve amounts as a result of changes in underlying assumptions is not prepared.

Other Critical Accounting Policies

Berkshire records as assets deferred charges with respect to liabilities assumed under
retroactive reinsurance contracts. At the inception of these contracts, the deferred charges
represent the difference between the consideration received and the estimated ultimate liability
for unpaid losses. Deferred charges are amortized using the interest method over an estimate of
the ultimate claim payment period and are reflected in earnings as a component of losses and loss
expenses. The deferred charge balances are adjusted periodically to reflect new projections of the
amount and timing of loss payments. Adjustments to these assumptions are applied retrospectively
from the inception of the contract. Unamortized deferred charges totaled $2.4 billion at December
31, 2005. Significant changes in the amount and payment timing of estimated unpaid losses may have
a significant effect on unamortized deferred charges and the amount of periodic amortization.

Berkshire’s Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2005 includes goodwill of acquired
businesses of approximately $23.6 billion. A significant amount of judgment is required in
performing goodwill impairment tests. Such tests include periodically determining or reviewing the
estimated fair value of Berkshire’s reporting units. There are several methods of estimating a
reporting unit’s fair value, including market quotations, asset and liability fair values and other
valuation techniques, such as discounted projected future net earnings and multiples of earnings.
If the carrying amount of a reporting unit, including goodwill, exceeds the estimated fair value,
then individual assets, including identifiable intangible assets, and liabilities of the reporting
unit are estimated at fair value. The excess of the estimated fair value of the reporting unit
over the estimated fair value of net assets would establish the implied value of goodwill. The
excess of the recorded amount of goodwill over the implied value is then charged to earnings as an
impairment loss.

Berkshire’s consolidated financial position reflects very significant amounts of invested
assets. A substantial portion of these assets are carried at fair values based upon current market
quotations and, when not available, based upon fair value pricing models. Certain of Berkshire’s
fixed maturity securities are not actively traded in the financial markets. Further, Berkshire’s
finance businesses maintain significant balances of finance receivables, which are carried at
amortized cost. Considerable judgment is required in determining the assumptions used in certain
pricing models, including interest rate, loan prepayment speed, credit risk and liquidity risk
assumptions. Significant changes in these assumptions can have a significant effect on carrying
values.

Information concerning recently issued accounting pronouncements which are not yet effective
is included in Note 1(r) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As indicated in Note 1(r) to
the Consolidated Financial Statements, Berkshire does not expect any of the recently issued
accounting pronouncements to have a material effect on its financial statements.

Market Risk Disclosures

Berkshire’s Consolidated Balance Sheets include a substantial amount of assets and liabilities
whose fair values are subject to market risks. Berkshire’s significant market risks are primarily
associated with interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. The following
sections address the significant market risks associated with Berkshire’s business activities.

Interest Rate Risk

Berkshire’s management prefers to invest in equity securities or to acquire entire businesses
based upon the principles discussed in the following section on equity price risk. When unable to
do so, management may alternatively invest in bonds, loans or other interest rate sensitive
instruments. Berkshire’s strategy is to acquire securities that are attractively priced in
relation to the perceived credit risk. Management recognizes and accepts that losses may occur.
Berkshire has historically utilized a modest level of corporate borrowings and debt. Further,
Berkshire strives to maintain the highest credit ratings so that the cost of debt is minimized.
Berkshire utilizes derivative products, such as interest rate swaps, to manage interest rate risks
on a limited basis.



Management’s Discussion

(Continued)

Interest Rate Risk

(Continued)

The fair values of Berkshire’s fixed maturity investments and notes payable and other
borrowings will fluctuate in response to changes in market interest rates. Increases and decreases
in prevailing interest rates generally translate into decreases and increases in fair values of
those instruments. Additionally, fair values of interest rate sensitive instruments may be
affected by the creditworthiness of the issuer, prepayment options, relative values of alternative
investments, the liquidity of the instrument and other general market conditions. Fixed interest
rate investments may be more sensitive to interest rate changes than variable rate investments.

The following table summarizes the estimated effects of hypothetical increases and decreases
in interest rates on assets and liabilities that are subject to interest rate risk. It is assumed
that the changes occur immediately and uniformly to each category of instrument containing interest
rate risk. The hypothetical changes in market interest rates do not reflect what could be deemed
best or worst case scenarios. Variations in market interest rates could produce significant
changes in the timing of repayments due to prepayment options available. For these reasons, actual
results might differ from those reflected in the table. Dollars are in millions.

Estimated Fair Value after

Hypothetical Change in Interest Rates

(bp=basis points)

100 bp

100 bp

200 bp

300 bp

Insurance
and other businesses

Fair Value

decrease

increase

increase

increase

December 31, 2005

Investments in securities with fixed maturities

$

27,420

$

28,199

$

26,655

$

25,942

$

25,327

Notes payable and other borrowings

3,653

3,693

3,616

3,584

3,553

December 31, 2004

Investments in securities with fixed maturities

$

22,846

$

23,547

$

22,135

$

21,450

$

20,843

Notes payable and other borrowings

3,558

3,605

3,514

3,476

3,439

Finance and financial products businesses *

December 31, 2005

Investments in securities with fixed maturities
and loans and finance receivables

$

14,817

$

15,508

$

14,068

$

13,358

$

12,699

Notes payable and other borrowings **

11,476

11,902

11,004

10,607

10,239

December 31, 2004

Investments in securities with fixed maturities
and loans and finance receivables

$

17,909

$

18,712

$

17,067

$

16,267

$

15,507

Notes payable and other borrowings **

10,627

10,882

10,350

10,120

9,910

*

Excludes General Re Securities

**

Includes securities sold under agreements to repurchase and effects of interest rate swaps.

Equity Price Risk

Strategically, Berkshire strives to invest in businesses that possess excellent economics,
with able and honest management and at sensible prices. Berkshire’s management prefers to invest a
meaningful amount in each investee. Accordingly, Berkshire’s equity investments are concentrated in
relatively few investees. At December 31, 2005, 59% of the total fair value of equity investments
was concentrated in four investees.

Berkshire’s preferred strategy is to hold equity investments for very long periods of time.
Thus, Berkshire’s management is not troubled by short term equity price volatility with respect to
its investments provided that the underlying business, economic and management characteristics of
the investees remain favorable. Berkshire strives to maintain above average levels of shareholder
capital to provide a margin of safety against short-term equity price volatility.

The carrying values of investments subject to equity price risk are, in almost all instances,
based on quoted market prices as of the balance sheet dates. Market prices are subject to
fluctuation and, consequently, the amount realized in the subsequent sale of an investment may
significantly differ from the reported market value. Fluctuation in the market price of a security
may result from perceived changes in the underlying economic characteristics of the investee, the
relative price of alternative investments and general market conditions. Furthermore, amounts
realized in the sale of a particular security may be affected by the relative quantity of the
security being sold.

The table which follows summarizes Berkshire’s equity price risk as of December 31, 2005 and
2004 and shows the effects of a hypothetical 30% increase and a 30% decrease in market prices as of
those dates. The selected hypothetical change does not reflect what could be considered the best
or worst case scenarios. Indeed, results could be far worse due both to the nature of equity
markets and the aforementioned concentrations existing in Berkshire’s equity investment portfolio.
Dollars are in millions.



Equity Price Risk

(Continued)

Estimated

Hypothetical

Fair Value after

Percentage

Hypothetical

Hypothetical

Increase (Decrease) in

Fair Value

Price Change

Change in Prices

Shareholders’ Equity

As of December 31, 2005

$

46,721

30% increase

$

60,737

9.9

30% decrease

32,705

(9.9)

As of December 31, 2004

$

37,717

30% increase

$

49,032

8.5

30% decrease

26,402

(8.5)

Berkshire is also subject to equity price risk with respect to certain long duration equity
index put contracts. Berkshire’s maximum exposure with respect to such contracts is approximately
$14 billion at December 31, 2005. These contracts generally expire 15 to 20 years from inception.
Outstanding contracts at December 31, 2005, have been written on four major equity indexes
including three foreign. Berkshire’s potential exposure with respect to these contracts is
directly correlated to the movement of the underlying stock index between contract inception date
and expiration. Thus, if the overall value at December 31, 2005 of the underlying indices decline
30%, Berkshire would incur a pre-tax loss of approximately $900 million.

Foreign Currency Risk

Berkshire’s market risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates are
concentrated primarily in a portfolio of short duration foreign currency forward contracts.
Generally, these contracts provide that Berkshire receive certain foreign currencies and pay U.S.
dollars at specified exchange rates at specified future dates. Management entered into these
contracts as a partial economic hedge of the adverse effect from a decline in the value of the U.S.
dollar on its net U.S. dollar-based assets. The value of these contracts changes daily due
primarily to changes in the spot exchange rates and to a lesser degree, interest rates and time
value. The average duration of the contracts is approximately one and a half months. The
aggregate notional value of such contracts, in nine currencies at December 31, 2005, was
approximately $13.8 billion compared to about $21.4 billion as of December 31, 2004. Berkshire
monitors the currency positions daily.

The following table summarizes the outstanding foreign currency forward contracts as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004 and shows the estimated changes in values of the contracts assuming
changes in the underlying exchange rates applied immediately and uniformly across all currencies.
The changes in value do not necessarily reflect the best or worst case results and actual results
may differ. Dollars are in millions.

Estimated Fair Value Assuming a Hypothetical

Percentage Increase (Decrease) in the Value of

Foreign Currencies Versus the U.S. Dollar

Fair Value

(20%)

(10%)

(1%)

1%

10%

20%

December 31, 2005

$

(231

)

$

(2,684

)

$

(1,515

)

$

(366

)

$

(95

)

$

1,206

$

2,855

December 31, 2004

1,761

(2,614

)

(475

)

1,533

1,991

4,127

6,669

Forward-Looking Statements

Investors are cautioned that certain statements contained in this document, as well as some
statements by the Company in periodic press releases and some oral statements of Company officials
during presentations about the Company, are “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Act”). Forward-looking statements include
statements which are predictive in nature, which depend upon or refer to future events or
conditions, which include words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,”
“estimates,” or similar expressions. In addition, any statements concerning future financial
performance (including future revenues, earnings or growth rates), ongoing business strategies or
prospects, and possible future Company actions, which may be provided by management are also
forward-looking statements as defined by the Act. Forward-looking statements are based on current
expectations and projections about future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and
assumptions about the Company, economic and market factors and the industries in which the Company
does business, among other things. These statements are not guaranties of future performance and
the Company has no specific intention to update these statements.

Actual events and results may differ materially from those expressed or forecasted in
forward-looking statements due to a number of factors. The principal important risk factors that
could cause the Company’s actual performance and future events and actions to differ materially
from such forward-looking statements, include, but are not limited to, changes in market prices of
Berkshire’s significant equity investees, the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events, such
as an earthquake, hurricane or an act of terrorism that causes losses insured by Berkshire’s
insurance subsidiaries, changes in insurance laws or regulations, changes in Federal income tax
laws, and changes in general economic and market factors that affect the prices of securities or
the industries in which Berkshire and its affiliates do business, especially those affecting the
property and casualty insurance industry.

Item 7A. Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

See
“Market Risk Disclosures” contained in Item 7
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations.”



Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Management of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 Rule 13a-15(f). Under the supervision and with the participation of our management,
including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an
evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2005 as required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rule 13a-15(c). In making
this assessment, we used the criteria set forth in the framework in

Internal Control — Integrated
Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on
our evaluation under the framework in

Internal Control — Integrated Framework

, our management
concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2005.

Our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of
our internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2005 has been audited by Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public
accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears below.

Berkshire Hathaway Inc.

March 1, 2006

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of

Berkshire Hathaway Inc.

We have audited management’s assessment, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, that Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and subsidiaries (the
“Company”) maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005,
based on criteria established in

Internal Control — Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company’s management is responsible for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on management’s assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for our opinions.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the
supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons
performing similar functions, and effected by the company’s board of directors, management, and
other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes
those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the
possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to
error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any
evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods
are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management’s assessment that the Company maintained effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on
the criteria established in

Internal Control — Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained,
in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2005, based on the criteria established in

Internal Control — Integrated Framework

issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December
31, 2005 of the Company and our report dated March 2, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on
those financial statements.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Omaha, Nebraska

March 2, 2006



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of

Berkshire Hathaway Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and
subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated
statements of earnings, cash flows and changes in shareholders’ equity and comprehensive income for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects,
the financial position of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and
2004, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2005, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2005, based on the criteria established in

Internal Control — Integrated
Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our
report dated March 2, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on management’s assessment of the
effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting and an unqualified opinion
on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Omaha, Nebraska

March 2, 2006



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(dollars in millions)

Pro Forma *

December 31,




(unaudited)

(audited)

ASSETS

Insurance and Other:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

40,471

$

40,471

$

40,020

Investments:

Fixed maturity securities

27,420

27,420

22,846

Equity securities

46,721

46,721

37,717

Other

1,003

1,003

2,346

Receivables

12,372

12,397

11,291

Inventories

4,143

4,143

3,842

Property, plant and equipment

7,500

7,500

6,516

Goodwill

22,693

22,693

22,101

Deferred charges reinsurance assumed

2,388

2,388

2,727

Other

4,937

4,937

4,508

169,648

169,673

153,914

Utilities and Energy:

Cash and cash equivalents


—

—

Property, plant and equipment

11,915

—

—

Receivables


—

—

Goodwill

4,156

—

—

Other

2,961

—

—

Investments in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company

—

4,125

3,967

20,193

4,125

3,967

Finance and Financial Products:

Cash and cash equivalents

4,189

4,189

3,407

Investments in fixed maturity securities

3,435

3,435

8,459

Loans and finance receivables

11,087

11,087

9,175

Derivative contract assets



4,234

Funds provided as collateral



1,649

Goodwill




Other

3,577

3,577

3,158

24,527

24,527

30,993

$

214,368

$

198,325

$

188,874

*

The Pro Forma Balance Sheet gives effect to the conversion on February 9, 2006 of
MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company (“MidAmerican”) non-voting cumulative convertible
preferred stock into MidAmerican voting common stock as if such conversion had occurred on
December 31, 2005. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information.

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(dollars in millions)

Pro Forma *

December 31,




(unaudited)

(audited)

LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Insurance and Other:

Losses and loss adjustment expenses

$

48,034

$

48,034

$

45,219

Unearned premiums

6,206

6,206

6,283

Life and health insurance benefits

3,202

3,202

3,154

Other policyholder liabilities

3,769

3,769

3,955

Accounts payable, accruals and other liabilities

8,699

8,699

7,500

Income taxes, principally deferred

13,649

12,252

12,247

Notes payable and other borrowings

3,583

3,583

3,450

87,142

85,745

81,808

Utilities and Energy:

Accounts payable, accruals and other current liabilities

1,411

—

—

Notes payable, subsidiary and project

7,170

—

—

Other notes payable and borrowings

3,126

—

—

Other non-current liabilities

2,369

—

—

14,076

—

—

Finance and Financial Products:

Securities sold under agreements to repurchase

1,160

1,160

5,773

Derivative contract liabilities

5,061

5,061

4,794

Funds held as collateral



1,619

Notes payable and other borrowings

10,868

10,868

5,387

Other

2,812

2,812

2,835

20,280

20,280

20,408

Total liabilities

121,498

106,025

102,216

Minority shareholders’ interests

1,386



Shareholders’ equity:

Common stock:

Class A
outstanding shares —

2005 -
1,260,920; 2004 - 1,268,783




Class B
outstanding shares —

2005 -
8,394,083; 2004 - 8,099,175




Capital in excess of par value

26,399

26,399

26,268

Accumulated other comprehensive income

17,360

17,360

20,435

Retained earnings

47,717

47,717

39,189

Total shareholders’ equity

91,484

91,484

85,900

$

214,368

$

198,325

$

188,874

*

The Pro Forma Balance Sheet gives effect to the conversion on February 9, 2006 of
MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company (“MidAmerican”) non-voting cumulative convertible
preferred stock into MidAmerican voting common stock as if such conversion had occurred on
December 31, 2005. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information.

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS

(dollars in millions except per share amounts)

Year Ended December 31,




Revenues:

Insurance and Other:

Insurance premiums earned

$

21,997

$

21,085

$

21,493

Sales and service revenues

46,138

43,222

32,098

Interest, dividend and other investment income

3,487

2,816

3,098

Investment gains/losses

5,728

1,746

2,914

77,350

68,869

59,603

Finance and Financial Products:

Interest income

1,554

1,202

1,093

Investment gains/losses


(110

)


Derivative gains/losses

(788

)

1,835


Other

3,079

2,586

1,994

4,313

5,513

4,256

81,663

74,382

63,859

Costs and expenses:

Insurance and Other:

Insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses

17,116

14,823

14,927

Insurance underwriting expenses

4,828

4,711

4,848

Cost of sales and services

38,288

35,882

25,737

Selling, general and administrative expenses

5,328

4,989

4,228

Interest expense




65,704

60,542

49,893

Finance and Financial Products:

Interest expense




Other

3,112

2,557

2,056

3,691

3,141

2,375

69,395

63,683

52,268

Earnings before income taxes and equity in earnings of
MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company

12,268

10,699

11,591

Equity in earnings of MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company




Earnings before income taxes and minority interests

12,791

10,936

12,020

Income taxes

4,159

3,569

3,805

Minority shareholders’ interests




Net earnings

$

8,528

$

7,308

$

8,151

Average common shares outstanding *

1,539,775

1,537,716

1,535,405

Net earnings per common share *

$

5,538

$

4,753

$

5,309

*

Average shares outstanding include average Class A common shares and average
Class B common shares determined on an equivalent Class A common stock basis. Net
earnings per common share shown above represents net earnings per equivalent Class A
common share. Net earnings per Class B common share is equal to one-thirtieth (1/30)
of such amount or $185 per share for 2005, $158 per share for 2004 and $177 per
share for 2003.

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(dollars in millions)

Year Ended December 31,




Cash flows from operating activities:

Net earnings

$

8,528

$

7,308

$

8,151

Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to operating cash flows:

Investment gains

(6,196

)

(1,636

)

(3,304

)

Depreciation




Changes in operating assets and liabilities before business acquisitions:

Losses and loss adjustment expenses

2,086

(383

)


Deferred charges reinsurance assumed




Unearned premiums

(239

)

(52

)

(585

)

Receivables and originated loans

(1,849

)


1,714

Derivative contract assets and liabilities

3,620

(367

)


Collateral held and provided

(80

)

(86

)

(273

)

Annuity liabilities

(24

)



Income taxes

1,602



Other assets and liabilities



(665

)

Net cash flows from operating activities

9,446

7,311

8,341

Cash flows from investing activities:

Purchases of securities with fixed maturities

(13,937

)

(5,924

)

(9,924

)

Purchases of equity securities

(8,021

)

(2,032

)

(1,842

)

Sales of securities with fixed maturities

3,243

4,560

17,165

Redemptions and maturities of securities with fixed maturities

7,142

5,637

9,847

Sales of equity securities

1,629

2,610

3,159

Purchases of loans and finance receivables

(1,987

)

(6,314

)

(2,641

)

Principal collections on loans and finance receivables


2,736

4,140

Acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired

(2,387

)

(414

)

(3,213

)

Purchases of property, plant and equipment

(2,195

)

(1,278

)

(1,066

)

Other

1,761



Net cash flows from investing activities

(13,841

)


16,029

Cash flows from financing activities:

Proceeds from borrowings of finance businesses

5,628

1,668

2,479

Proceeds from other borrowings




Repayments of borrowings of finance businesses

(319

)

(1,267

)

(2,260

)

Repayments of other borrowings

(628

)

(674

)

(783

)

Changes in short term borrowings of finance businesses



(63

)

Changes in other short term borrowings


(401

)

(642

)

Other



(714

)

Net cash flows from financing activities

5,628

(156

)

(1,161

)

Increase in cash and cash equivalents

1,233

7,470

23,209

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

43,427

35,957

12,748

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year *

$

44,660

$

43,427

$

35,957

* Cash and cash equivalents at end of year are comprised of the following:

Insurance and Other

$

40,471

$

40,020

$

31,262

Finance and Financial Products

4,189

3,407

4,695

$

44,660

$

43,427

$

35,957

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(dollars in millions)

Year Ended December 31,




Class A & B Common Stock

Balance at beginning and end of year

$


$


$


Capital in Excess of Par Value

Balance at beginning of year

$

26,268

$

26,151

$

26,028

Exercise of stock options issued in connection with business
acquisitions and SQUARZ warrant premiums




Balance at end of year

$

26,399

$

26,268

$

26,151

Retained Earnings

Balance at beginning of year

$

39,189

$

31,881

$

23,730

Net earnings

8,528

7,308

8,151

Balance at end of year

$

47,717

$

39,189

$

31,881

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income

Unrealized appreciation of investments

$

2,081

$

2,599

$

10,842

Applicable income taxes

(728

)

(905

)

(3,802

)

Reclassification adjustment for appreciation
included in net earnings

(6,261

)

(1,569

)

(2,922

)

Applicable income taxes

2,191


1,023

Foreign currency translation adjustments

(359

)



Applicable income taxes

(26

)


(127

)

Minimum pension liability adjustment

(62

)

(38

)


Applicable income taxes



(3

)

Other, including minority interests


(34

)


Other comprehensive income

(3,075

)


5,285

Accumulated other comprehensive income at beginning of year

20,435

19,556

14,271

Accumulated other comprehensive income at end of year

$

17,360

$

20,435

$

19,556

Comprehensive Income

Net earnings

$

8,528

$

7,308

$

8,151

Other comprehensive income

(3,075

)


5,285

Total comprehensive income

$

5,453

$

8,187

$

13,436

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

and Subsidiaries

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2005

(1)

Significant accounting policies and practices

(a)

Nature of operations and basis of consolidation

Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (“Berkshire” or “Company”) is a holding company owning
subsidiaries engaged in a number of diverse business activities. The most important
of these are property and casualty insurance businesses conducted on both a primary
and reinsurance basis. Further information regarding these businesses and
Berkshire’s other reportable business segments is contained in Note 20. Berkshire
consummated a number of business acquisitions over the past three years which are
discussed in Note 3.

The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of
Berkshire consolidated with the accounts of all of its subsidiaries and affiliates
in which Berkshire holds a controlling financial interest as of the financial
statement date. Normally a controlling financial interest reflects ownership of a
majority of the voting interests. Other factors considered in determining whether a
controlling financial interest is held include whether Berkshire possesses the
authority to purchase or sell assets or make other operating decisions that
significantly affect the entity’s results of operations and whether Berkshire bears
a majority of the financial risks of the entity.

Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Certain amounts in 2004 and
2003 have been reclassified to conform with the current year presentation.

(b)

Use of estimates in preparation of financial statements

The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities
at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and
expenses during the period. In particular, estimates of unpaid losses and loss
adjustment expenses and related recoverables under reinsurance for property and
casualty insurance are subject to considerable estimation error due to the inherent
uncertainty in projecting ultimate claim amounts that can be reported and settled
over a period of many years. In addition, estimates and assumptions associated with
the amortization of deferred charges reinsurance assumed, the determination of fair
value of certain invested assets and related impairments, and the determination of
goodwill impairments require considerable judgment by management. Actual results
may differ from the estimates used in preparing the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

(c)

Cash equivalents

Cash equivalents consist of funds invested in U.S. Treasury Bills, money
market accounts, and in other investments with a maturity of three months or less
when purchased. Cash and cash equivalents exclude amounts where availability is
restricted by loan agreements or other contractual provisions. Restricted amounts
are included in other assets.

(d)

Investments

Berkshire’s management determines the appropriate classifications of investments in fixed
maturity securities and equity securities at the acquisition date and re-evaluates
the classifications at each balance sheet date. Berkshire’s investments in fixed
maturity and equity securities are primarily classified as available-for-sale,
except for certain securities held by finance businesses which are classified as
held-to-maturity.

Held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortized cost, reflecting Berkshire’s intent
and ability to hold the securities to maturity. Available-for-sale securities are
stated at fair value with net unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of
accumulated other comprehensive income.

Investment gains and losses arise when investments are sold (as determined on a specific
identification basis) or are other-than-temporarily impaired. If in management’s
judgment a decline in the value of an investment below cost is other than temporary,
the cost of the investment is written down to fair value with a corresponding charge
to earnings. Factors considered in judging whether an impairment is other than
temporary include: the financial condition, business prospects and creditworthiness
of the issuer, the length of time that fair value has been less than cost, the
relative amount of the decline, and Berkshire’s ability and intent to hold the
investment until the fair value recovers.

Berkshire utilizes the equity method of accounting with respect to investments where it
exercises significant influence, but not control, over the operating and financial
policies of the investee. A voting interest of at least 20% and no greater than 50%
is normally a prerequisite for utilizing the equity method. However, Berkshire may
apply the equity method with less than 20% voting interests based upon the facts and
circumstances including representation on the investee’s Board of Directors,
contractual veto or approval rights, participation in policy making processes and
the existence or absence of other significant owners. Berkshire applies the equity
method to investments in common stock and other investments when such other
investments possess substantially identical subordinated interests to common stock.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(1)

Significant accounting policies and practices

(Continued)

(d)

Investments

(

Continued)

In applying the equity method, investments are recorded at cost and
subsequently increased or decreased by Berkshire’s proportionate share of the net
earnings or losses of the investee. Berkshire also records its proportionate share
of other comprehensive income items of the investee as a component of its
comprehensive income. Dividends or other equity distributions are recorded as a
reduction of the investment. In the event that net losses of the investee have
reduced the equity method investment to zero, additional net losses may be recorded
if other investments in the investee are at-risk, even if Berkshire has not
committed to provide financial support to the investee. Berkshire bases such
additional equity method loss amounts, if any, on the change in its claim on the
investee’s book value.

(e)

Loans and finance receivables

Loans and finance receivables consist of commercial and consumer loans
originated or purchased by Berkshire’s finance and financial products businesses.
Loans and finance receivables are stated at amortized cost less allowances for
uncollectible accounts based on Berkshire’s ability and intent to hold such loans
and receivables to maturity. Amortized cost represents acquisition cost, plus or
minus origination and commitment costs paid or fees received, which together with
acquisition premiums or discounts are deferred and amortized as yield adjustments
over the life of the loan.

Allowances for estimated losses from uncollectible loans are recorded when it is probable
that the counterparty will be unable to pay all amounts due according to the terms
of the loan. Allowances are provided on aggregations of consumer loans with similar
characteristics and terms based upon historical loss and recovery experience,
delinquency rates, and current economic conditions. Provisions for loan losses are
included in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings.

(f)

Derivatives

Derivative instruments include interest rate, currency, equity and credit swaps and
options, interest rate caps and floors and futures and forward contracts.

Berkshire carries derivative contracts at estimated fair value. Derivatives are
classified as derivative contract assets or liabilities in the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets and reflect reductions permitted under master netting
agreements with counterparties. The fair values of these instruments represent the
present value of estimated future cash flows under the contracts, which are a
function of underlying interest rates, currency rates, security values, related
volatility, counterparty creditworthiness and duration of the contracts. Changes in
these factors or a combination thereof may affect the fair value of these
instruments.

The preponderance of derivative contracts outstanding at December 31, 2005
and 2004 are not designated as hedging instruments for financial reporting purposes.
Accordingly, changes in the fair value of such contracts are included in the
Consolidated Statements of Earnings as derivative gains/losses.

Derivative contracts may provide for Berkshire or the counterparty to post collateral as
security against the fair value of open or unsettled contracts. Cash collateral
received from or paid to counterparties to secure derivative contract assets or
liabilities is included in liabilities or assets of finance and financial products
businesses in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Securities received from
counterparties as collateral are not recorded as assets and securities delivered to
counterparties as collateral continue to be reflected as assets in the Consolidated
Balance Sheets.

(g)

Securities sold under agreements to repurchase

Securities sold under agreements to repurchase are accounted for as collateralized
borrowings and are recorded at the contractual repurchase amounts.

(h)

Inventories

Inventories consist of manufactured goods and purchased goods acquired for resale.
Manufactured inventory costs include raw materials, direct and indirect labor and
factory overhead. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. As of
December 31, 2005, approximately 59% of the total inventory cost was determined
using the last-in-first-out (“LIFO”) method, 36% using the first-in-first-out
(“FIFO”) method, with the remainder using the specific identification method. With
respect to inventories carried at LIFO cost, the aggregate difference in value
between LIFO cost and cost determined under FIFO methods was $237 million and $115
million as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

(i)

Property, plant and equipment

Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost. The cost of major additions and
betterments are capitalized, while replacements, maintenance, and repairs that do
not improve or extend the useful lives of the related assets are expensed as
incurred.

Depreciation is provided principally on the straight-line method over estimated useful
lives. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the life of the lease or the life
of the improvement, whichever is shorter. Interest is capitalized as an integral
component of cost during the construction period of simulators and facilities and is
amortized over the life of the related assets.



(1)

Significant accounting policies and practices

(Continued)

(i)

Property, plant and equipment (Continued)

Property, plant and equipment is evaluated for impairment when events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable.
Upon the occurrence of a triggering event, the asset is reviewed to assess whether
the estimated undiscounted cash flows expected from the use of the asset plus
residual value from the ultimate disposal exceeds the carrying value of the asset.
If the carrying value exceeds the estimated recoverable amounts, the asset is
written down to the estimated discounted present value of the expected future cash
flows from using the asset. The resulting impairment loss is reflected in the
Consolidated Statement of Earnings.

(j)

Goodwill

Goodwill represents the difference between purchase cost and the fair value of net assets
acquired in business acquisitions. Goodwill is tested for impairment using a
variety of methods at least annually and impairments, if any, are charged to
earnings. Key assumptions used in the testing include, but are not limited to, the
use of an appropriate discount rate and estimated future cash flows. In estimating
cash flows, the Company incorporates current market information as well as
historical factors. During 2005 and 2004, the Company did not record any goodwill
impairments.

(k)

Revenue recognition

Insurance premiums for prospective property/casualty insurance and reinsurance and health
reinsurance policies are earned in proportion to the level of insurance protection
provided. In most cases, premiums are recognized as revenues ratably over the term
of the contract with unearned premiums computed on a monthly or daily pro rata
basis. Premiums for retroactive reinsurance property/casualty policies are earned
at the inception of the contracts. Premiums for life reinsurance contracts are
earned when due.

Premiums earned are stated net of amounts ceded to reinsurers. Premiums are estimated
with respect to certain reinsurance contracts written during the period where
reports from ceding companies for the period are not contractually due until after
the balance sheet date. For policies containing experience rating provisions,
premiums are based upon estimated loss experience under the contract.

Sales revenues derive from the sales of manufactured products and goods
acquired for resale. Revenues from sales are recognized upon passage of title to
the customer, which generally coincides with customer pickup, product delivery or
acceptance, depending on terms of the sales arrangement.

Service revenues derive primarily from pilot training and flight operations and flight
management activities. Service revenues are recognized as the services are
performed. Services provided pursuant to a contract are either recognized over the
contract period, or upon completion of the elements specified in the contract,
depending on the terms of the contract.

Interest income from investments in bonds and loans is earned under the constant yield
method and includes accrual of interest due under terms of the investment security
or loan agreement as well as amortization of acquisition premiums and accruable
discounts. In determining the constant yield for mortgage-backed securities,
anticipated counterparty prepayments are estimated and evaluated periodically.
Dividends from equity securities are accrued and earned on the ex-dividend date.

(l)

Losses and loss adjustment expenses

Liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses represent estimated claim and
claim settlement costs of property/casualty insurance and reinsurance contracts with
respect to losses that have occurred as of the balance sheet date. The liabilities
for losses and loss adjustment expenses are recorded at the estimated ultimate
payment amounts, except that amounts arising from certain workers’ compensation
reinsurance business are discounted as discussed below. Estimated ultimate payment
amounts are based upon (1) individual case estimates, (2) reports of losses from
policyholders and (3) estimates of incurred but not reported (“IBNR”) losses.

The estimated liabilities of workers’ compensation claims assumed under
certain reinsurance contracts are carried in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at
discounted amounts. Discounted amounts are based upon an annual discount rate of
4.5% for claims arising prior to 2003 and 1% for claims arising after 2002,
consistent with discount rates used under statutory accounting principles. The
periodic discount accretion is included in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings
as a component of losses and loss adjustment expenses.

(m)

Deferred charges reinsurance assumed

The excess of estimated liabilities for claims and claim costs over the
consideration received with respect to retroactive property and casualty reinsurance
contracts that provide for indemnification of insurance risk is established as a
deferred charge at inception of such contracts. The deferred charges are
subsequently amortized using the interest method over the expected claim settlement
periods. The periodic amortization charges are reflected in the accompanying
Consolidated Statements of Earnings as losses and loss adjustment expenses.

Changes to the expected timing and estimated amount of loss payments produce changes in
the unamortized deferred charge balance. Such changes in estimates are accounted
for retrospectively with the net effect included in amortization expense in the
period of the change.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(1)

Significant accounting policies and practices

(Continued)

(n)

Reinsurance

Provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses are reported in the accompanying
Consolidated Statements of Earnings after deducting amounts recovered and estimates
of amounts recoverable under reinsurance contracts. Reinsurance contracts do not
relieve the ceding company of its obligations to indemnify policyholders with
respect to the underlying insurance and reinsurance contracts.

(o)

Insurance premium acquisition costs

Costs that vary and are related to the issuance of insurance policies are
deferred, subject to ultimate recoverability, and charged to underwriting expenses
as the related premiums are earned. Acquisition costs consist of commissions,
premium taxes, advertising and other underwriting costs. The recoverability of
premium acquisition costs, generally, reflects anticipation of investment income.
The unamortized balances of deferred premium acquisition costs are included in other
assets and were $1,287 million and $1,371 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.

(p)

Foreign currency

The accounts of foreign-based subsidiaries are measured in most instances
using the local currency as the functional currency. Revenues and expenses of these
businesses are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rate for the
period. Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate as of the end of
the reporting period. Gains or losses from translating the financial statements of
foreign-based operations are included in shareholders’ equity as a component of
accumulated other comprehensive income. Unrealized gains or losses associated with
available-for-sale securities are included as a component of other comprehensive
income. Gains and losses arising from other transactions denominated in a foreign
currency are included in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings.

(q)

Deferred income taxes

Deferred income taxes are calculated under the liability method. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are based on differences between the financial statement and tax bases
of assets and liabilities at the enacted tax rates. Changes in deferred income tax
assets and liabilities that are associated with components of other comprehensive
income (primarily unrealized investment gains and losses) are charged or credited
directly to other comprehensive income. Otherwise, changes in deferred income tax
assets and liabilities are included as a component of income tax expense. Valuation
allowances have been established for certain deferred tax assets where management
has judged that realization is not likely.

(r)

Accounting pronouncements to be adopted in 2006

In May 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 154, “Accounting Changes
and Error Corrections.” SFAS No. 154 changes the requirements for the accounting
for and reporting of a change in accounting principle. Previously, voluntary changes
in accounting principle were required to be recognized by including in net income of
the period of change the cumulative effect of changing to the new accounting
principle. SFAS No. 154 requires retrospective application to prior periods’
financial statements of changes in accounting principle, unless it is impractical to
determine either the period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change.
When it is impractical to determine the cumulative effect of applying a change in
accounting principle to all prior periods, this Statement requires that the new
accounting principle be applied as if it were adopted prospectively from the
earliest date practicable. The provisions of this Statement are effective for
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005, with early adoption permitted. The
adoption of SFAS 154 is not expected to have a material effect on Berkshire’s
Consolidated Financial Statements.

In November 2005, FASB Staff Position Nos. FAS 115-1 and FAS 124-1, “The
Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain
Investments” was issued. The provisions of this pronouncement address when an
investment is considered impaired, whether the impairment is considered other than
temporary and the measurement of an impairment loss. In addition, this
pronouncement requires certain disclosures regarding unrealized losses that have not
been recognized as losses in net earnings. The guidance in the pronouncement amends
SFAS No. 115 “Accounting for Certain Debt and Equity Securities” and is effective
for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2005. Berkshire does not
anticipate that the adoption of this FSP will have a material effect on the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

(2)

Investments in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company

Berkshire’s investment in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company (“MidAmerican”) as of December
31, 2005 and 2004, which was accounted for pursuant to the equity method, is summarized below.
Dollar amounts are in millions.

Carrying value

Shares

Cost



Common stock

900,942

$


$


$


Cumulative convertible preferred stock

41,263,395

1,613

2,778

2,439

$

1,645

2,836

2,489

Redeemable 11% trust preferred securities
(debt) at cost and par

1,289

1,478

$

4,125

$

3,967



(2) Investments in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company

(Continued)

MidAmerican owns a combined electric and natural gas utility company in the United States, two
interstate natural gas pipeline companies in the United States, two electricity distribution
companies in the United Kingdom, a diversified portfolio of domestic and international electric
power projects and the second largest residential real estate brokerage firm in the United States.

Through its investments in MidAmerican common and convertible preferred stock, at December 31,
2005, Berkshire possessed 9.7% of the voting rights and 83.4% (80.5% diluted) of the economic
rights in MidAmerican. Each share of convertible preferred stock was convertible into a share of
common stock only upon the occurrence of specified events, including the elimination of the Public
Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (“PUHCA”). Walter Scott, Jr., a member of Berkshire’s Board of
Directors, controlled approximately 86% of the voting interest in MidAmerican at December 31, 2005.

During the three year period ending December 31, 2005, Berkshire possessed the ability to
exercise significant influence on the operations of MidAmerican through its investments in common
and convertible preferred stock of MidAmerican. The convertible preferred stock, although
generally non-voting, was substantially an identical subordinate interest to a share of common
stock and economically equivalent to common stock. Therefore, during this period, Berkshire
accounted for its investments in MidAmerican pursuant to the equity method.

The Energy Policy Act of 2005 was enacted on August 8, 2005 and included the repeal of PUHCA,
which became effective on February 8, 2006. On February 9, 2006, Berkshire Hathaway converted its
preferred stock to common stock and upon conversion, owned approximately 83.4% (80.5% diluted) of
the voting common stock interests. As of that date, Berkshire is deemed to control MidAmerican for
financial reporting purposes. The accounts of MidAmerican will be consolidated in Berkshire’s
Consolidated Financial Statements beginning February 2006. However, there will be no changes in
MidAmerican’s operations, management or capital structure as a result of the consolidation of
MidAmerican. Specifically, MidAmerican’s debt is currently not guaranteed by Berkshire. However,
Berkshire has made a commitment until February 28, 2011 that would allow MidAmerican to request up
to $3.5 billion of capital to pay its debt obligations or to provide funding to its regulated
subsidiaries.

Beginning in 2006, Berkshire’s Consolidated Financial Statements will consolidate the accounts
of MidAmerican. Although the consolidation of MidAmerican will have a significant impact on
consolidated revenues and expenses, the only difference in consolidated net earnings or
shareholders’ equity from the equity method amounts will pertain to deferred income taxes.
Berkshire will cease accruing deferred income taxes with respect to its investments in MidAmerican
in accordance with SFAS No. 109. Due to the significance of this change in accounting on future
Consolidated Financial Statement presentations, an unaudited pro forma balance sheet has been
included on the face of Berkshire’s Consolidated Balance Sheets which reflects the consolidation of
MidAmerican as of December 31, 2005. Berkshire management believes that such unaudited pro forma
information is meaningful and relevant to investors, creditors and other financial statement users.

Condensed consolidated balance sheets and statements of earnings of MidAmerican are as follows
(in millions).

December 31,

December 31,

Balance Sheets



Assets:

Properties, plants, and equipment, net

$

11,915

$

11,607

Goodwill

4,156

4,307

Other assets

4,122

3,990

$

20,193

$

19,904

Liabilities and shareholders’ equity:

Debt, except debt owed to Berkshire

$

10,296

$

10,528

Debt owed to Berkshire

1,289

1,478

Other liabilities and minority interests

5,223

4,927

16,808

16,933

Shareholders’ equity

3,385

2,971

$

20,193

$

19,904

Statements of Earnings




Operating revenue and other income

$

7,279

$

6,727

$

6,143

Costs and expenses:

Cost of sales and operating expenses

4,978

4,390

3,913

Depreciation and amortization




Interest expense – debt held by Berkshire




Other interest expense




6,460

5,911

5,416

Earnings before taxes




Income taxes and minority interests




Earnings from continuing operations




Gain (loss) on discontinued operations


(368

)

(27

)

Net earnings

$


$


$




Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(2) Investments in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company

(Continued)

On September 10, 2004, MidAmerican’s management decided to cease operations of mineral
extraction facilities installed near certain geothermal energy generation sites (“the Project”), at
which proprietary processes were used to extract zinc from geothermal brine and fluids.
MidAmerican’s management concluded that the Project could not become commercially viable.
Consequently, a non-cash impairment charge of approximately $340 million, after tax, was required
to write-down assets of the Project, rights to quantities of extractable minerals, and allocated
goodwill to estimated net realizable value.

(3) Significant business acquisitions

Berkshire’s long-held acquisition strategy is to purchase businesses with consistent earning
power, good returns on equity, able and honest management and at sensible prices. During the last
three years, Berkshire acquired several businesses which are described in the following paragraphs.

On May 23, 2003, Berkshire acquired McLane Company, Inc. (“McLane”), from Wal-Mart Stores,
Inc. for cash consideration of approximately $1.5 billion. McLane is one of the nation’s largest
wholesale distributors of groceries and nonfood items to convenience stores, wholesale clubs, mass
merchandisers, quick service restaurants, theaters and others. On August 7, 2003, Berkshire
acquired all the outstanding common stock of Clayton Homes, Inc. (“Clayton”) for cash consideration
of approximately $1.7 billion in the aggregate. Clayton is a vertically integrated manufactured
housing company which at the time of the acquisition had 20 manufacturing plants, 306 company owned
stores, 535 independent retailers, 89 manufactured housing communities and financial services
operations that provide mortgage services and insurance protection.

On June 30, 2005, Berkshire acquired Medical Protective Company (“Med Pro”) from GE Insurance
Solutions. Med Pro is one of the nation’s premier professional liability insurers for physicians,
dentists and other primary health care providers. On August 31, 2005, Berkshire acquired Forest
River, Inc., (“Forest River”) a leading manufacturer of leisure vehicles in the U.S. Forest River
manufactures a complete line of motorized and towable recreational vehicles, utility trailers,
buses, boats and manufactured houses. Operating results of Med Pro and Forest River are
consolidated with Berkshire’s results beginning as of July 1, 2005 and September 1, 2005,
respectively. Inclusion of Med Pro’s and Forest River’s results as of the beginning of 2004 would
not have materially impacted Berkshire’s consolidated results of operations as reported. Aggregate
consideration paid for all business acquisitions completed during 2005, including smaller
acquisitions directed by certain Berkshire subsidiaries was $2.4 billion.

In May 2005, MidAmerican (See Note 2) reached a definitive agreement with Scottish Power plc
to acquire its subsidiary, PacifiCorp, a regulated electric utility providing service to customers
in six Western states for approximately $5.1 billion in cash. It is currently expected that
MidAmerican will issue $3.4 billion of additional capital stock to Berkshire (the additional
MidAmerican capital stock to be acquired for purposes of funding the PacifiCorp acquisition is in
addition to Berkshire’s equity commitment described in Note 2) which will increase Berkshire’s
ownership percentage of MidAmerican to approximately 88.6% (86.5% diluted). The proceeds from the
issuance of the capital stock along with proceeds from the planned issuance by MidAmerican of $1.7
billion of long-term debt or other securities will be used to fund the purchase. The acquisition
is subject to customary closing conditions and is expected to close in March 2006.

Subsequent to December 31, 2005, Berkshire agreed to acquire Business Wire, a leading global
distributor of corporate news, multimedia and regulatory filings and to acquire an 81% interest in
Applied Underwriters, an industry leader in integrated workers’ compensation solutions. The
Business Wire acquisition closed on February 28, 2006 and the acquisition of Applied Underwriters
is expected to close prior to May 1, 2006.

(4) Loans and receivables

Receivables of insurance and other businesses are comprised of the following (in millions).

December 31,

December 31,



Insurance premiums receivable

$

4,406

$

3,968

Reinsurance recoverables

2,990

2,556

Trade and other receivables

5,340

5,225

Allowances for uncollectible accounts

(339

)

(458

)

$

12,397

$

11,291

Loans and finance receivables of finance and financial products businesses are comprised of
the following (in millions).

December 31,

December 31,



Consumer installment loans and finance receivables

$

9,792

$

7,740

Commercial loans and finance receivables

1,481

1,496

Allowances for uncollectible loans

(186

)

(61

)

$

11,087

$

9,175

Allowances for uncollectible loans primarily relate to consumer installment loans. Provisions
for consumer loan losses totaled $232 million in 2005 and $116 million in 2004. Loan charge-offs
totaled $110 million in 2005 and $99 million in 2004. Consumer loan amounts are net of acquisition
discounts totaling $579 million at December 31, 2005 and $461 million as of December 31, 2004.



(5) Investments in fixed maturity securities

Investments in securities with fixed maturities as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 are shown
below (in millions).

Amortized

Unrealized

Unrealized

Fair

Cost

Gains

Losses *

Value

December 31, 2005

Insurance and other:

Obligations of U.S. Treasury, U.S. government
corporations and agencies

$

7,660

$


$

(28

)

$

7,645

Obligations of states, municipalities
and political subdivisions

4,243


(14

)

4,333

Obligations of foreign governments

6,884


(28

)

6,961

Corporate bonds and redeemable preferred stock

5,492

1,492

(15

)

6,969

Mortgage-backed securities

1,472


(5

)

1,512

$

25,751

$

1,759

$

(90

)

$

27,420

Finance and financial products:

Obligations of U.S. Treasury, U.S. government
corporations and agencies

$


$

—

$

—

$


Obligations of foreign governments


—

—


Corporate bonds



—


Mortgage-backed securities

1,425


(2

)

1,467

$

1,887

$


$

(2

)

$

1,991

Mortgage-backed securities, held-to-maturity

$

1,444

$


$

(1

)

$

1,624

December 31, 2004

Insurance and other:

Obligations of U.S. Treasury, U.S. government
corporations and agencies

$

1,576

$


$

(11

)

$

1,590

Obligations of states, municipalities
and political subdivisions

3,569


—

3,725

Obligations of foreign governments

6,996


(10

)

7,087

Corporate bonds and redeemable preferred stocks

6,541

1,898

(6

)

8,433

Mortgage-backed securities

1,918


(2

)

2,011

$

20,600

$

2,275

$

(29

)

$

22,846

Finance and financial products:

Obligations of U.S. Treasury, U.S. government
corporations and agencies

$

3,702

$


$

—

$

4,220

Corporate bonds



(1

)


Mortgage-backed securities

2,200


—

2,303

$

6,335

$


$

(1

)

$

7,035

Mortgage-backed securities, held-to-maturity

$

1,424

$


$

—

$

1,614

*

Primarily relates to securities whose amortized cost has exceeded fair value for less than
twelve months.

The amortized cost and estimated fair values of securities with fixed maturities at December
31, 2005, are summarized below by contractual maturity dates. Actual maturities will differ from
contractual maturities because issuers of certain of the securities retain early call or prepayment
rights. Amounts are in millions.

Amortized

Fair

Cost

Value

Due in 2006

$

8,303

$

8,463

Due 2007
— 2010

10,482

10,950

Due 2011
— 2015

3,907

4,210

Due after 2015

2,050

2,809

24,742

26,432

Mortgage-backed securities

4,341

4,603

$

29,083

$

31,035



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(6)

Investments in equity securities

Data with respect to investments in equity securities are shown below. Amounts are in
millions.

Unrealized

Fair

Cost

Gains/losses

Value

December 31, 2005

Common stock of:

American Express Company

$

1,287

$

6,515

$

7,802

The Coca-Cola Company

1,299

6,763

8,062

The Procter & Gamble Company

5,963

(175

)

5,788

Wells Fargo & Company

2,754

3,221

5,975

Other

10,036

9,058

19,094

$

21,339

$

25,382

$

46,721

December 31, 2004

Common stock of:

American Express Company

$

1,470

$

7,076

$

8,546

The Coca-Cola Company

1,299

7,029

8,328

The Gillette Company


3,699

4,299

Wells Fargo & Company


3,045

3,508

Other

5,505

7,531

13,036

$

9,337

$

28,380

$

37,717

Common shares of American Express Company (“AXP”) owned by Berkshire and its subsidiaries
possessed approximately 12% of the voting rights of all AXP shares outstanding at December 31,
2005. The shares are held subject to various agreements which, generally, prohibit Berkshire from
(i) unilaterally seeking representation on the Board of Directors of AXP, (ii) possessing 17% or
more of the aggregate voting securities of AXP and (iii) subject to certain exceptions, selling AXP
common shares to any person who owns 5% or more of AXP voting securities or seeks to control AXP,
without the consent of AXP. In addition, so long as Kenneth Chenault is chief executive officer of
AXP, Berkshire will vote its shares in accordance with the recommendations of AXP’s Board of
Directors.

The investment in AXP as of December 31, 2005 excludes the values associated with Ameriprise
Financial, Inc. (“AMP”), which was spun-off by AXP on September 30, 2005. At December 31, 2005,
the fair value of AMP common stock ($1,243 million) is included in other equity securities.

Effective October 1, 2005, The Procter & Gamble Company (“PG”) acquired 100% of The Gillette
Company (“Gillette”) by issuing 0.975 shares of its common stock for each outstanding share of
Gillette common stock. Berkshire recognized a non-cash pre-tax investment gain of approximately
$5.0 billion upon the exchange of Gillette shares for PG shares. The cost of PG shares in the
table above includes the fair value of Gillette shares exchanged for PG shares.

Total unrealized losses of equity securities at December 31, 2005 were $510 million, all of
which related to securities in an unrealized loss position for less than twelve months. There were
no unrealized losses at December 31, 2004.

(7) Investment gains (losses)

Investment gains (losses) are summarized below (in millions).




Fixed maturity securities —

Gross gains from sales and other disposals

$


$


$

2,559

Gross losses from sales and other disposals

(23

)

(63

)

(31

)

Equity securities —

Gross gains from sales and other disposals

5,612



Gross losses from sales

(6

)

(1

)

(167

)

Losses from other-than-temporary impairments

(114

)

(19

)

(289

)

Life settlement contracts

(82

)

(207

)

—

Other investments




$

6,196

$

1,636

$

3,304

Net gains are reflected in the Consolidated
Statements of Earnings as follows

Insurance and other

$

5,728

$

1,746

$

2,914

Finance and financial products


(110

)


$

6,196

$

1,636

$

3,304

Gross gains from sales and other disposals of equity securities during 2005 includes the $5.0
billion gain on the exchange of Gillette shares for PG shares described in Note 6.



(8)

Goodwill

A reconciliation of the change in the carrying value of goodwill for 2005 and 2004 is as
follows (in millions).



Balance at beginning of year

$

23,012

$

22,948

Acquisitions of businesses and other



Balance at end of year

$

23,644

$

23,012

(9)

Inventories

Inventories are comprised of the following (in millions):

December 31,

December 31,



Raw materials

$


$


Work in progress and other



Finished manufactured goods

1,217

1,201

Purchased goods

1,998

1,858

$

4,143

$

3,842

(10)

Property, plant and equipment

Property, plant and equipment is comprised of the following (in millions):

Ranges of

December 31,

December 31,

estimated useful life



Land

—

$


$


Buildings and improvements

10 — 40 years

2,623

2,525

Machinery and equipment

3 — 20 years

6,774

5,763

Furniture, fixtures and other

3 — 20 years

1,649

1,332

11,407

9,932

Accumulated depreciation

(3,907

)

(3,416

)

$

7,500

$

6,516

(11)

Derivatives

A summary of the fair value and gross notional value of open derivative contracts follows.
Amounts are in millions.

December 31, 2005

December 31, 2004

Notional

Notional

Assets

Liabilities

Value

Assets

Liabilities

Value

Foreign currency forwards

$


$


$

13,760

$

1,767

$


$

21,445

Interest rate, credit and foreign
currency swaps


3,142

43,941

6,043

7,651

153,185

Equity options


1,592

14,488



4,626

Foreign currency options



2,072



6,083

Interest rate options



12,033



28,961

1,305

5,565

8,722

9,282

Adjustment for counterparty netting

(504

)

(504

)

(4,488

)

(4,488

)

Derivative contract assets and liabilities

$


$

5,061

$

4,234

$

4,794

Berkshire utilizes derivatives in order to manage certain economic risks of its businesses as
well as to assume specified amounts of market and credit risk from others. The contracts
summarized in the preceding table, with limited exceptions, are not designated as hedges for
financial reporting purposes. Changes in the fair values of derivative assets and derivative
liabilities that do not qualify as hedges are reported in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings
as derivative gains/losses. In 2002, Berkshire began to enter into foreign currency forward
contracts with the objective of partially managing corporate-wide adverse risk from the decline in
the value of the U.S. Dollar. Berkshire has also written equity index options and credit default
swap contracts during the last two years.

Since January 2002, the operations of General Re Securities (“GRS”) have been in run-off. As
of December 31, 2005, approximately 95% of GRS’s derivative risks (as measured by the gross
notional value) that existed as of the commencement of the run-off have been liquidated. The
run-off is expected to continue over several more years, however, management believes that the
remaining exposures are not material.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(11) Derivatives

(Continued)

Master netting agreements are utilized to manage counterparty credit risk, where gains and
losses are netted across other contracts with that counterparty. In addition, Berkshire may
receive cash or securities from counterparties as collateral. Likewise, Berkshire may be required
to post cash or securities as collateral with counterparties under similar circumstances. At
December 31, 2005, Berkshire held collateral with a fair value of $422 million, including cash of
$379 million to secure open contract assets. At December 31, 2005, Berkshire posted collateral
with a fair value of approximately $853 million (which includes $487 million in cash) with
counterparties as security on contract liabilities. Berkshire may be required to post collateral to
cover derivative liabilities in the event of a downgrade of its credit rating below specified
levels. Assuming non-performance by all counterparties on all contracts potentially subject to a
credit loss, the maximum potential receivable loss, net of collateral held, at December 31, 2005
approximated $379 million.

(12) Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses

The balances of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses are based upon estimates of the
ultimate claim costs associated with property and casualty claim occurrences as of the balance
sheet dates including estimates for incurred but not reported (“IBNR”) claims. Considerable
judgment is required to evaluate claims and establish estimated claim liabilities, particularly
with respect to certain casualty or liability claims, which are typically reported over long
periods of time and subject to changing legal and litigation trends. This delay in claim reporting
is exacerbated in reinsurance of liability or casualty claims as claim reporting by ceding
companies is further delayed by contract terms.

Supplemental data with respect to unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses of
property/casualty insurance subsidiaries is as follows (in millions).




Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses:

Gross liabilities at beginning of year

$

45,219

$

45,393

$

43,771

Ceded losses and deferred charges at beginning of year

(5,132

)

(5,684

)

(6,002

)

Net balance at beginning of year

40,087

39,709

37,769

Incurred losses recorded during the year:

Current accident year

15,839

13,043

13,135

All prior accident years

(357

)



Total incurred losses

15,482

13,462

13,615

Payments during the year with respect to:

Current accident year

(5,514

)

(4,746

)

(4,493

)

All prior accident years

(7,793

)

(8,828

)

(8,092

)

Total payments

(13,307

)

(13,574

)

(12,585

)

Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses:

Net balance at end of year

42,262

39,597

38,799

Ceded losses and deferred charges at end of year

5,200

5,132

5,684

Foreign currency translation adjustment

(728

)



Acquisitions

1,300

—

—

Gross liabilities at end of year

$

48,034

$

45,219

$

45,393

Prior accident years losses incurred in 2005 include amortization of deferred charges related
to retroactive reinsurance contracts incepting prior to January 1, 2005. Amortization charges
included in prior accident years losses were $294 million in 2005, $451 million in 2004 and $432
million in 2003.

Certain workers’ compensation reserves are discounted. Net discounted liabilities at December
31, 2005 and 2004 were $2,434 million and $2,280 million, respectively, and are net of discounts
totaling $2,798 million and $2,611 million. Periodic accretions of these discounts are also a
component of prior years losses incurred. The accretion of discounted liabilities was
approximately $92 million in 2005, $87 million in 2004 and $85 million in 2003.

Incurred losses “all prior accident years” also reflects the amount of estimation error
charged or credited to earnings in each year with respect to the liabilities established as of the
beginning of that year. In both 2005 and 2004, Berkshire reduced the beginning of the year net
loss and loss adjustment expense liability by $743 million and $119 million respectively. In 2003,
Berkshire recorded a loss of $37 million related to prior years loss occurrences.

Berkshire’s insurance subsidiaries are exposed to environmental, asbestos and other latent
injury claims arising from insurance and reinsurance contracts. Loss reserve estimates for
environmental and asbestos exposures include case basis reserves, which also reflect reserves for
legal and other loss adjustment expenses and IBNR reserves. IBNR reserves are determined based
upon Berkshire’s historic general liability exposure base and policy language, previous
environmental loss experience and the assessment of current trends of environmental law,
environmental cleanup costs, asbestos liability law and judgmental settlements of asbestos
liabilities.



(12) Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses

(Continued)

The liabilities for environmental, asbestos, and latent injury claims and claims expenses net
of reinsurance recoverables were approximately $5.4 billion at December 31, 2005 and $5.6 billion
at December 31, 2004. These liabilities include $4.0 billion at December 31, 2005 and $4.2 billion
at December 31, 2004, of liabilities assumed under retroactive reinsurance contracts written by the
Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group. Liabilities arising from retroactive contracts with exposure
to claims of this nature are generally subject to aggregate policy limits. Thus, Berkshire’s
exposure to environmental and latent injury claims under these contracts is, likewise, limited.

Berkshire monitors evolving case law and its effect on environmental and latent injury claims.
Changing government regulations, newly identified toxins, newly reported claims, new theories of
liability, new contract interpretations and other factors could result in significant increases in
these liabilities. Such development could be material to Berkshire’s results of operations. It is
not possible to reliably estimate the amount of additional net loss, or the range of net loss, that
is reasonably possible.

(13) Notes payable and other borrowings

Notes payable and other borrowings of Berkshire and its subsidiaries are summarized below.
Amounts are in millions.

December 31,

December 31,



Insurance and other:

Issued by Berkshire:

SQUARZ notes due 2007

$


$


Investment Agreements due 2007-2033



Issued by subsidiaries and guaranteed by Berkshire:

Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings

1,381

1,139

Other debt due 2006-2035



Issued by subsidiaries and not guaranteed by Berkshire due 2006-2041


1,190

$

3,583

$

3,450

Finance and financial products:

Issued by Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation and guaranteed by Berkshire:

3.4% notes due 2007

$


$


3.375% and floating rate notes due 2008

3,095

1,049

4.20% and 4.125% notes due 2010

1,992


4.75% notes due 2012


—

4.625% notes due 2013



5.1% notes due 2014



4.85% notes due 2015


—

Issued by other subsidiaries and guaranteed by Berkshire due 2006-2027



Issued by subsidiaries and not guaranteed by Berkshire due 2006-2030

1,626

1,449

$

10,868

$

5,387

Investment agreements represent numerous individual borrowing arrangements under which
Berkshire is required to periodically pay interest over the contract terms. The weighted average
interest rate on amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2005 was 3.3%. Under certain conditions,
principal amounts may be redeemed without premium prior to the contractual maturity date at the
option of the counterparties.

Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings are utilized by certain non-insurance and
finance businesses as part of normal operations. Weighted average interest rates as of December
31, 2005 and 2004 were 4.4% and 2.4% respectively. Berkshire affiliates have approximately $2.6
billion of available unused lines of credit and commercial paper capacity to support their
short-term borrowing programs and, otherwise, provide additional liquidity.

In May 2002, Berkshire issued 40,000 SQUARZ securities for net proceeds of $398 million. Each
SQUARZ security consists of a $10,000 par amount senior note due in November 2007 together with a
warrant, which expires in May 2007. Interest is payable at a rate of 3.00% per annum. In May
2005, $64 million par amount of senior notes were tendered at the option of the holders for
redemption at par, and a corresponding amount of warrants were cancelled. In addition, holders of
the senior notes have the option to require Berkshire to repurchase the senior notes at par on May
15, 2006, provided that the holders also surrender a corresponding amount of warrants for
cancellation. Also, the warrants may be exercised to purchase either 0.1116 shares of Class A
common stock (effectively at $89,606 per share) or 3.3480 shares (effectively at $2,987 per share)
of Class B common stock for $10,000. A warrant premium is payable to Berkshire at an annual rate
of 3.75%.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(13) Notes payable and other borrowings

(Continued)

Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation (“BHFC”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Berkshire,
issued senior notes at various times during 2003, 2004 and 2005. Par amounts of such issuances
aggregated $5.25 billion in 2005, $1.6 billion in 2004 and $2.0 billion in 2003. The proceeds were
used in the financing of manufactured housing loan originations and portfolio acquisitions of
Clayton Homes.

Generally, Berkshire’s guarantee of a subsidiary’s debt obligation is an absolute,
unconditional and irrevocable guarantee for the full and prompt payment when due of all present and
future payment obligations of the issuer.

Payments of principal amounts expected during the next five years are as follows (in
millions).






Insurance and other

$

1,502

$


$


$


$


Finance and financial products



3,495


2,214

$

1,928

$

1,496

$

3,509

$


$

2,221

(14) Income taxes

The liability for income taxes as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 as reflected in the
accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets is as follows (in millions).



Payable currently

$


$

1,073

Deferred

11,994

11,174

$

12,252

$

12,247

The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of deferred
tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at December 31, 2005 and 2004 are shown below (in
millions).



Deferred tax liabilities:

Investments — unrealized appreciation; basis differences

$

11,882

$

11,517

Deferred charges reinsurance assumed



Property, plant and equipment

1,202

1,201

Other

1,165


15,077

14,350

Deferred tax assets:

Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses

(867

)

(1,129

)

Unearned premiums

(403

)

(388

)

Accrued liabilities

(815

)

(830

)

Other

(998

)

(829

)

(3,083

)

(3,176

)

Net deferred tax liability

$

11,994

$

11,174

Deferred income taxes have not been established with respect to undistributed earnings of
certain foreign subsidiaries. Such earnings are expected to remain reinvested indefinitely and
totaled approximately $512 million as of December 31, 2005. Upon distribution as dividends or
otherwise, such amounts would be subject to taxation in the United States as well as foreign
countries. However, U.S. tax liabilities could be offset, in whole or in part, by tax credits
allowable from taxes paid to foreign jurisdictions. Determination of the potential net tax due is
impracticable due to the complexities of hypothetical calculations involving uncertain timing and
amounts of taxable income and the effects of multiple taxing jurisdictions.

The Consolidated Statements of Earnings reflect charges for income taxes as shown below (in
millions).




Federal

$

3,736

$

3,313

$

3,490

State




Foreign




$

4,159

$

3,569

$

3,805

Current

$

2,057

$

3,746

$

3,346

Deferred

2,102

(177

)


$

4,159

$

3,569

$

3,805



(14) Income taxes

(Continued)

Berkshire and its subsidiaries’ income tax returns are continuously under audit by U.S.
Federal and various local and international taxing authorities. Berkshire’s consolidated U.S.
Federal income tax return liabilities have been settled with the Internal Revenue Service through
1998. Berkshire is also involved in income tax litigation in the U.S. with respect to certain
issues in Federal income tax returns dating back to 1988, in which a favorable ruling from the U.S.
District Court was received in the fourth quarter of 2005. On February 16, 2006, the U.S.
Government appealed this ruling to the United States Court of Appeals. Although the ultimate
resolution of these matters remains uncertain, Berkshire does not currently believe that the impact
of potential audit adjustments will have a material effect on its Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Charges for income taxes are reconciled to hypothetical amounts computed at the U.S. Federal
statutory rate in the table shown below (in millions).




Earnings before income taxes

$

12,791

$

10,936

$

12,020

Hypothetical amounts applicable to above
computed at the Federal statutory rate

$

4,477

$

3,828

$

4,207

Tax effects resulting from:

Tax-exempt interest income

(65

)

(59

)

(88

)

Dividends received deduction

(133

)

(116

)

(100

)

Net earnings of MidAmerican

(183

)

(83

)

(150

)

State income taxes, less Federal income tax benefit




Foreign rate differences


(41

)

(104

)

Other differences, net

(77

)

(30

)

(13

)

Total income taxes

$

4,159

$

3,569

$

3,805

(15) Dividend restrictions — Insurance subsidiaries

Payments of dividends by insurance subsidiaries are restricted by insurance statutes and
regulations. Without prior regulatory approval, insurance subsidiaries may pay up to approximately
$6.7 billion as ordinary dividends during 2006.

Combined shareholders’ equity of U.S. based property/casualty insurance subsidiaries
determined pursuant to statutory accounting rules (Statutory Surplus as Regards Policyholders) was
approximately $52 billion at December 31, 2005 and $48 billion at December 31, 2004.

Statutory surplus differs from the corresponding amount determined on the basis of GAAP. The
major differences between statutory basis accounting and GAAP are that deferred charges reinsurance
assumed, deferred policy acquisition costs, unrealized gains and losses on investments in
securities with fixed maturities and related deferred income taxes are recognized under GAAP but
not for statutory reporting purposes. In addition, statutory accounting for goodwill of acquired
businesses requires amortization of goodwill over 10 years, whereas under GAAP, goodwill is subject
to periodic tests for impairment.

(16) Fair values of financial instruments

The estimated fair values of Berkshire’s financial instruments as of December 31, 2005 and
2004, are as follows (in millions).

Carrying Value

Fair Value





Insurance and other:

Investments in fixed maturity securities

$

27,420

$

22,846

$

27,420

$

22,846

Investments in equity securities

46,721

37,717

46,721

37,717

Notes payable and other borrowings

3,583

3,450

3,653

3,558

Finance and financial products:

Investments in fixed maturity securities

3,435

8,459

3,615

8,648

Derivative contract assets


4,234


4,234

Loans and finance receivables

11,087

9,175

11,370

9,382

Notes payable and other borrowings

10,868

5,387

10,865

5,499

Derivative contract liabilities

5,061

4,794

5,061

4,794

In determining fair value of financial instruments, Berkshire used quoted market prices when
available. For instruments where quoted market prices were not available, independent pricing
services or appraisals by Berkshire’s management were used. Those services and appraisals
reflected the estimated present values utilizing current risk adjusted market rates of similar
instruments. The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and payable,
other accruals, securities sold under agreements to repurchase and other liabilities are deemed to
be reasonable estimates of their fair values.

Considerable judgment is necessarily required in interpreting market data used to develop the
estimates of fair value. Accordingly, the estimates presented herein are not necessarily
indicative of the amounts that could be realized in a current market exchange. The use of
different market assumptions and/or estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the
estimated fair value.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(17) Common stock

Changes in issued and outstanding Berkshire common stock during the three years ended December
31, 2005 are shown in the table below.

Class A Common, $5 Par Value

Class B Common, $0.1667 Par Value

(1,650,000 shares authorized)

(55,000,000 shares authorized)

Shares Issued and

Shares Issued and

Outstanding

Outstanding

Balance December 31, 2002

1,311,186

6,704,117

Conversions of Class A common stock
to Class B common stock and other

(28,207

)

905,426

Balance December 31, 2003

1,282,979

7,609,543

Conversions of Class A common stock
to Class B common stock and other

(14,196

)

489,632

Balance December 31, 2004

1,268,783

8,099,175

Conversions of Class A common stock
to Class B common stock and other

(7,863

)

294,908

Balance December 31, 2005

1,260,920

8,394,083

Each share of Class B common stock has dividend and distribution rights equal to one-thirtieth
(1/30) of such rights of a Class A share. Accordingly, on an equivalent Class A common stock basis
there are 1,540,723 shares outstanding as of December 31, 2005 and 1,538,756 shares as of December
31, 2004.

Each share of Class A common stock is convertible, at the option of the holder, into thirty
shares of Class B common stock. Class B common stock is not convertible into Class A common stock.
Each share of Class B common stock possesses voting rights equivalent to one-two-hundredth (1/200)
of the voting rights of a share of Class A common stock. Class A and Class B common shares vote
together as a single class.

(18) Pension plans

Several Berkshire subsidiaries individually sponsor defined benefit pension plans covering
certain employees. Benefits under the plans are generally based on years of service and
compensation, although benefits under certain plans are based on years of service and fixed benefit
rates. The companies generally contribute to the plans amounts required to meet regulatory
requirements plus additional amounts determined by management based on actuarial valuations. The
measurement date for the pension plans is predominantly December 31.

The components of net periodic pension expense for each of the three years ending December 31,
2005 are as follows (in millions).




Service cost

$


$


$


Interest cost




Expected return on plan assets

(186

)

(171

)

(159

)

Curtailment gain

—

(70

)

—

Net amortization, deferral and other




Net pension expense

$


$


$


During the third quarter of 2004 a Berkshire subsidiary amended its defined benefit plan to
freeze benefits as of the end of 2005. Such an event is considered a curtailment and the
curtailment gain included in the table above represents the elimination of projected plan benefits
beyond the end of 2005 and the recognition of unamortized prior service costs and actuarial losses
as of the amendment date.

The increase (decrease) in minimum liabilities included in other comprehensive income was $63
million in 2005, $41 million in 2004, and $(3) million in 2003. Such amounts include Berkshire’s
share of changes in minimum liabilities of MidAmerican.

The accumulated benefit obligation is the actuarial present value of benefits earned based on
service and compensation prior to the valuation date. The projected benefit obligation is the
actuarial present value of benefits earned based upon service and compensation prior to the
valuation date and includes assumptions regarding future compensation levels when benefits are
based on those amounts. Information regarding accumulated and projected benefit obligations is
shown in the table that follows (in millions).



Projected benefit obligation, beginning of year

$

3,293

$

3,192

Service cost



Interest cost



Benefits paid

(171

)

(165

)

Actuarial loss and other


(32

)

Projected benefit obligation, end of year

$

3,602

$

3,293

Accumulated benefit obligation, end of year

$

3,228

$

2,908



(18) Pension plans

(Continued)

Benefit obligations under qualified U.S. defined benefit plans are funded through assets held
in trusts and are not included as assets in Berkshire’s Consolidated Financial Statements. Pension
obligations under certain non-U.S. plans and non-qualified U.S. plans are unfunded. As of December
31, 2005, projected benefit obligations of non-qualified U.S. plans and non-U.S. plans which are
not funded through assets held in trusts totaled $327 million. Information concerning plan assets
as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 is presented in the table that follows (in millions).



Plan assets at fair value, beginning of year

$

3,039

$

2,819

Employer contributions



Benefits paid

(171

)

(165

)

Actual return on plan assets



Other and expenses



Plan assets at fair value, end of year

$

3,101

$

3,039



Cash and equivalents

$


$


U.S. Government obligations

1,103


Mortgage-backed securities



Corporate obligations



Equity securities



Other



$

3,101

$

3,039

Pension plan assets are generally invested with the long-term objective of earning sufficient
amounts to cover expected benefit obligations, while assuming a prudent level of risk. There are no
target investment allocation percentages with respect to individual or categories of investments.
Allocations may change rapidly as a result of changing market conditions and investment
opportunities. The expected rates of return on plan assets reflect Berkshire’s subjective
assessment of expected invested asset returns over a period of several years. Berkshire does not
give significant consideration to past investment returns when establishing assumptions for
expected long-term rates of returns on plan assets. Actual experience will differ from the assumed
rates, in particular over quarterly or annual periods as a result of market volatility and changes
in the mix of assets.

The funded status of the plans as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 is as follows (in millions).



Excess of projected benefit obligations over plan assets

$


$


Unrecognized net actuarial gains and other



Accrued benefit cost liability

$


$


The total net deficit status for plans (including unfunded plans) with accumulated benefit
obligations in excess of plan assets was $589 million and $425 million as of December 31, 2005 and
2004, respectively. Expected contributions to defined benefit pension plans during 2006 are
estimated to be $86 million.

Benefit payments over the next ten years, which reflect expected future service as
appropriate, are expected to be paid as follows (in millions): 2006 — $155; 2007 — $161; 2008 -
$170; 2009 — $178; 2010 — $183; and 2011 to 2015 — $1,068.

Weighted average assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations were as
follows. These rates are substantially the same as the weighted average rates used in determining
the net periodic pension expense.



Discount rate

5.7

5.9

Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets

6.4

6.5

Rate of compensation increase

4.4

4.4

Many Berkshire subsidiaries sponsor defined contribution retirement plans, such as 401(k) or
profit sharing plans. Employee contributions to the plans are subject to regulatory limitations and
the specific plan provisions. Berkshire subsidiaries may match these contributions up to levels
specified in the plans, and may make additional discretionary contributions as determined by
management. The total expenses related to employer contributions for these plans were $395
million, $338 million and $242 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(19) Supplemental cash flow information

A summary of supplemental cash flow information for each of the three years ending December
31, 2005 is presented in the following table (in millions).




Cash paid during the year for:

Income taxes

$

2,695

$

2,674

$

3,309

Interest of finance and financial products businesses




Interest of insurance and other businesses




Non-cash investing and financing activities:

Liabilities assumed in connection with acquisitions of businesses

2,046


2,167

Fixed maturity securities sold offset by decrease in directly related repurchase
agreements

4,693

2,075

5,936

Value of equity securities and warrants exchanged for equity securities

5,877


—

(20) Business segment data

Berkshire’s reportable business segments are organized in a manner that reflects how
management views those business activities. Certain businesses have been grouped together for
segment reporting based upon similar products or product lines, marketing, selling and distribution
characteristics, even though those business units are operated under separate local management.
There are over 40 separate business units.

The tabular information that follows shows data of reportable segments reconciled to amounts
reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Intersegment transactions are not eliminated
in instances where management considers those transactions in assessing the results of the
respective segments. In 2004, Berkshire adopted the provisions of EITF 00-21 (“Accounting for
Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables”). As a result, for consolidated reporting
purposes, the method of recognizing revenue related to fractional aircraft sales was changed.
Management continues to evaluate the results of NetJets under the prior revenue recognition
criteria and thus has shown the revenues and earnings before taxes for the Flight Services segment
using the former revenue recognition method. Furthermore, Berkshire management does not consider
investment and derivative gains/losses or amortization of purchase accounting adjustments in
assessing the performance of reporting units. Collectively, these items are included in
reconciliations of segment amounts to consolidated amounts.

Business Identity

Business Activity

GEICO

Underwriting private passenger automobile insurance
mainly by direct response methods

General Re

Underwriting excess-of-loss, quota-share and
facultative reinsurance worldwide

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group

Underwriting excess-of-loss and quota-share
reinsurance for property and casualty insurers and
reinsurers

Berkshire
Hathaway Primary Group

Underwriting multiple lines of property and casualty
insurance policies for primarily commercial accounts

Fruit of the Loom, Garan, Fechheimer
Brothers, H.H. Brown Shoe Group and Justin
Brands (“Apparel”)

Manufacturing and distribution of a variety of
footwear and clothing products, including underwear,
activewear, children’s clothes and uniforms

Acme Building Brands, Benjamin Moore, Johns
Manville and MiTek (“Building products”)

Manufacturing and distribution of a variety of
building materials and related products and services

BH Finance, Clayton Homes, XTRA, CORT,
Berkshire Hathaway Life and General Re
Securities (“Finance and financial
products”)

Proprietary investing, manufactured housing and
related consumer financing, transportation equipment
leasing, furniture leasing, life annuities and risk
management products

FlightSafety and NetJets (“Flight services”)

Training to operators of aircraft and ships and
providing fractional ownership programs for general
aviation aircraft

McLane Company

Wholesale distributing of groceries and non-food items

Nebraska Furniture Mart, R.C. Willey Home
Furnishings, Star Furniture Company,
Jordan’s Furniture, Borsheim’s, Helzberg
Diamond Shops and Ben Bridge Jeweler
(“Retail”)

Retail sales of home furnishings, appliances,
electronics, fine jewelry and gifts

Shaw Industries

Manufacturing and distribution of carpet and floor
coverings under a variety of brand names

Other businesses not specifically identified consist of: Scott Fetzer, a diversified
manufacturer and distributor of commercial and industrial products; Buffalo News, a newspaper
publisher in Western New York; International Dairy Queen, which licenses and services a system of
about 6,000 Dairy Queen stores; See’s Candies, a manufacturer and distributor of boxed chocolates
and other confectionery products; Larson-Juhl, which designs, manufactures, and distributes custom
picture framing products; CTB International, a manufacturer of equipment and systems for the
poultry, hog, egg production and grain industries; The Pampered Chef, a direct seller of kitchen
tools and Forest River, a leading manufacturer of leisure vehicles.



(20) Business segment data

(Continued)

A disaggregation of Berkshire’s consolidated data for each of the three most recent years is
presented in the tables which follow on this and the following page. Amounts are in millions.

Operating Businesses:

Revenues

Insurance group:




Premiums earned:

GEICO

$

10,101

$

8,915

$

7,784

General Re

6,435

7,245

8,245

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group

3,963

3,714

4,430

Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group

1,498

1,211

1,034

Investment income

3,501

2,842

3,238

Total insurance group

25,498

23,927

24,731

Apparel

2,286

2,200

2,075

Building products

4,806

4,337

3,846

Finance and financial products *

4,559

3,774

3,045

Flight services

3,660

3,244

2,431

McLane Company

24,074

23,373

13,743

Retail

2,759

2,601

2,311

Shaw Industries

5,723

5,174

4,660

Other businesses

3,588

3,213

3,040

76,953

71,843

59,882

Reconciliation of segments to consolidated amount:

Investment and derivative gains/losses *

5,494

3,496

4,129

Other revenues




Eliminations and other

(826

)

(1,010

)

(191

)

$

81,663

$

74,382

$

63,859

Earnings (loss) before taxes

Operating Businesses:

and minority interests

Insurance group:




Underwriting gain (loss):

GEICO

$

1,221

$


$


General Re

(334

)



Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group

(1,069

)


1,047

Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group




Net investment income

3,480

2,824

3,223

Total insurance group

3,533

4,375

4,941

Apparel




Building products




Finance and financial products *




Flight services




McLane Company




Retail




Shaw Industries




Other businesses




6,978

7,440

7,717

Reconciliation of segments to consolidated amount:

Investment and derivative gains/losses *

5,494

3,489

4,121

Equity in earnings of MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company




Interest expense, excluding interest allocated to business segments

(72

)

(92

)

(94

)

Eliminations and other

(132

)

(138

)

(153

)

$

12,791

$

10,936

$

12,020

*

Investment and derivative gains/losses exclude derivative losses of GRS (see Note 11)
of $86 million, $25 million and $46 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The
GRS derivative losses have been included in the results of the finance and financial
products segment.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(20) Business segment data

(Continued)

Depreciation

Capital expenditures *

of tangible assets

Operating Businesses:







Insurance group

$


$


$


$


$


$


Apparel







Building products







Finance and financial products







Flight services

1,023






McLane Company







Retail







Shaw Industries







Other businesses







$

2,195

$

1,278

$

1,066

$


$


$


*

Excludes capital expenditures which were part of business acquisitions.

Goodwill

Identifiable assets

at year-end

at year-end

Operating Businesses:





Insurance group:

GEICO

$

1,370

$

1,370

$

18,262

$

15,968

General Re

13,476

13,518

30,564

37,734

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance and Primary Groups



78,770

61,057

Total insurance group

15,136

15,031

127,596

114,759

Apparel



1,668

1,582

Building products

2,154

2,159

2,755

2,803

Finance and financial products



23,573

30,086

Flight services

1,369

1,369

3,171

2,823

McLane Company



2,555

2,349

Retail



1,765

1,669

Shaw Industries

2,228

1,979

2,711

2,153

Other businesses

1,160


2,579

1,875

$

23,644

$

23,012

168,373

160,099

Reconciliation of segments to consolidated amount:

Corporate and other

2,183

1,796

Investments in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company

4,125

3,967

Goodwill

23,644

23,012

$

198,325

$

188,874

Insurance premiums written by geographic region (based upon the domicile of the insured or
reinsured) are summarized below. Dollars are in millions.

Property/Casualty

Life/Health







United States

$

16,228

$

14,886

$

14,701

$

1,147

$

1,040

$

1,031

Western Europe

2,643

3,533

3,880




All other







$

19,631

$

19,006

$

19,378

$

2,303

$

2,022

$

1,838



(20) Business segment data

(Continued)

Consolidated sales and service revenues in 2005, 2004 and 2003 totaled $46.1 billion, $43.2
billion and $32.1 billion, respectively. Over 90% of such amounts in each year were in the United
States with the remainder primarily in Canada and Europe. In 2005, consolidated sales and service
revenues included $8.7 billion of sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. which were primarily related to
McLane’s wholesale distribution business that Berkshire acquired in May 2003.

Premiums written and earned by Berkshire’s property/casualty and life/health insurance
businesses are summarized below. Dollars are in millions.

Property/Casualty

Life/Health







Premiums Written:

Direct

$

13,582

$

11,483

$

10,710

Assumed

6,788

8,039

9,227

$

2,400

$

2,775

$

2,517

Ceded

(739

)

(516

)

(559

)

(97

)

(753

)

(679

)

$

19,631

$

19,006

$

19,378

$

2,303

$

2,022

$

1,838

Premiums Earned:

Direct

$

13,287

$

11,301

$

10,342

Assumed

7,114

8,278

9,992

$

2,387

$

2,769

$

2,520

Ceded

(699

)

(509

)

(688

)

(92

)

(754

)

(673

)

$

19,702

$

19,070

$

19,646

$

2,295

$

2,015

$

1,847

(21) Quarterly data

A summary of revenues and earnings by quarter for each of the last two years is presented in
the following table. This information is unaudited. Dollars are in millions, except per share
amounts.


st


nd


rd


th

Quarter

Quarter

Quarter

Quarter


Revenues

$

17,634

$

18,128

$

20,533

$

25,368

Net earnings *

1,363

1,449


5,130

Net earnings per equivalent Class A common share




3,330


Revenues

$

17,184

$

17,996

$

19,172

$

20,030

Net earnings *

1,550

1,282

1,137

3,339

Net earnings per equivalent Class A common share

1,008



2,171

*

Includes investment and derivative gains/losses, which, for any given period have no
predictive value, and variations in amount from period to period have no practical analytical
value, particularly in view of the unrealized appreciation now existing in Berkshire’s
consolidated investment portfolio. Net earnings in the third quarter of 2005 include a
pre-tax underwriting loss of $3.0 billion ($1.95 billion after-tax) related to Hurricanes
Katrina and Rita which struck the Gulf coast region of the United States. Net earnings in
the fourth quarter of 2005 include a non-cash pre-tax gain of $5.0 billion ($3.25 billion
after-tax) which arose from the exchange of Gillette common stock for Procter & Gamble common
stock (see Note 6). After-tax investment and derivative gains/losses for the periods
presented above are as follows (in millions):


st


nd


rd


th

Quarter

Quarter

Quarter

Quarter

Investment and derivative gains/losses – 2005

$

(77

)

$

(160

)

$


$

3,287

Investment and derivative gains/losses – 2004


(172

)


1,498

(22) Contingencies and Commitments

Berkshire and its subsidiaries are parties in a variety of legal actions arising out of the
normal course of business. In particular, such legal actions affect Berkshire’s insurance and
reinsurance businesses. Such litigation generally seeks to establish liability directly through
insurance contracts or indirectly through reinsurance contracts issued by Berkshire subsidiaries.
Plaintiffs occasionally seek punitive or exemplary damages. Berkshire does not believe that such
normal and routine litigation will have a material effect on its financial condition or results of
operations. Berkshire and certain of its subsidiaries are also involved in other kinds of legal
actions, some of which assert or may assert claims or seek to impose fines and penalties in
substantial amounts and are described below.

a)

Governmental Investigations

In October 2003, General Reinsurance Corporation (“General Reinsurance”), a wholly owned
subsidiary of General Re Corporation (“General Re”) and an indirectly wholly owned subsidiary of
Berkshire, and four of its current and former employees, including its former president, received
subpoenas for documents from the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, Richmond
Division (the “EDVA U.S. Attorney”) in connection with the EDVA U.S. Attorney’s investigation of
Reciprocal of America (“ROA”). ROA was a Virginia-based reciprocal insurer of physician, hospital
and lawyer professional liability risks.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(22)

Contingencies and Commitments

(Continued)

General Reinsurance is continuing to cooperate fully with the EDVA U.S. Attorney and the
Department of Justice in Washington (the “DOJ”) in their ongoing investigation regarding ROA and,
in part, its transactions with General Reinsurance. The EDVA U.S. Attorney and the DOJ have
continued to request additional information from General Reinsurance regarding ROA and its
affiliate, First Virginia Reinsurance, Ltd. (“FVR”) and General Reinsurance’s transactions with ROA
and FVR. The EDVA U.S. Attorney and the DOJ have also interviewed a number of current and former
officers and employees of General Re and General Reinsurance. In August 2005, the EDVA U.S.
Attorney issued an additional subpoena to General Reinsurance regarding General Reinsurance’s
transactions with ROA and FVR. One of the individuals originally subpoenaed in October 2003 has
been informed by the EDVA U.S. Attorney that this individual is a target of the EDVA U.S.
Attorney’s investigation. General Reinsurance has also been sued in a number of civil actions
related to ROA, as described below.

General Re, Berkshire, and certain of Berkshire’s other insurance subsidiaries, including
National Indemnity Company (“NICO”) have also been continuing to cooperate fully with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), the DOJ and the New York State Attorney General
(“NYAG”) in their ongoing investigations of non-traditional products. The EDVA U.S. Attorney and
the DOJ have also been working with the SEC and the NYAG in connection with these investigations.
General Re originally received subpoenas from the SEC and NYAG in January 2005. General Re,
Berkshire and NICO have been providing information to the government relating to transactions
between General Reinsurance or NICO (or their respective subsidiaries or affiliates) and other
insurers in response to the January 2005 subpoenas and related requests and, in the case of General
Reinsurance (or its subsidiaries or affiliates), in response to subpoenas from other U.S. Attorneys
conducting investigations relating to certain of these transactions. In particular, General Re and
Berkshire have been responding to requests from the government for information relating to certain
transactions that may have been accounted for incorrectly by counterparties of General Reinsurance
(or its subsidiaries or affiliates). The SEC, NYAG, DOJ and the EDVA U.S. Attorney have
interviewed a number of current and former officers and employees of General Re and General
Reinsurance as well as Berkshire’s Chairman and CEO, Warren E. Buffett, and have indicated they
plan to interview additional individuals.

The government is reviewing the role of General Re and its subsidiaries, as well as that of
their counterparties, in certain finite transactions, including whether General Re or its
subsidiaries conspired with others to misstate counterparty financial statements or aided and
abetted such misstatements by the counterparties. In one case, a transaction initially effected
with American International Group (“AIG”) in late 2000 (the “AIG Transaction”), AIG has corrected
its prior accounting for the transaction on the grounds, as stated in AIG’s 2004 10-K, that the
transaction was done to accomplish a desired accounting result and did not entail sufficient
qualifying risk transfer to support reinsurance accounting. General Reinsurance has been named in
related civil actions brought against AIG, as described below. As part of their ongoing
investigations, governmental authorities have also inquired about the accounting by certain of
Berkshire’s insurance subsidiaries for certain assumed and ceded finite transactions.

In May 2005, General Re terminated the consulting services of its former Chief Executive
Officer, Ronald Ferguson, after Mr. Ferguson invoked the Fifth Amendment in response to questions
from the SEC and DOJ relating to their investigations. In June 2005, John Houldsworth, the former
Chief Executive Officer of Cologne Reinsurance Company (Dublin) Limited (“CRD”), a subsidiary of
General Re, pleaded guilty to a federal criminal charge of conspiring with others to misstate
certain AIG financial statements and entered into a partial settlement agreement with the SEC with
respect to such matters. Mr. Houldsworth, who had been on administrative leave, was terminated
following this announcement. In June 2005, Richard Napier, a former Senior Vice President of
General Re who had served as an account representative for the AIG account, also pleaded guilty to
a federal criminal charge of conspiring with others to misstate certain AIG financial statements
and entered into a partial settlement agreement with the SEC with respect to such matters. General
Re terminated Mr. Napier following the announcement of these actions.

In September 2005, Ronald Ferguson, Joseph Brandon, the Chief Executive Officer of General Re,
Christopher Garand, a former Senior Vice President of General Reinsurance, and Robert Graham, a
former Senior Vice President and Assistant General Counsel of General Reinsurance, each received a
“Wells” notice from the SEC. In addition to Messrs. Houldsworth, Napier, Brandon, Ferguson, Garand
and Graham, Elizabeth Monrad, the former Chief Financial Officer of General Re, also received a
“Wells” notice from the SEC in May 2005 in connection with its investigation.

On February 2, 2006, the DOJ announced that a federal grand jury had indicted three former
executives of Gen Re on charges related to the AIG Transaction. The indictment charges Mr.
Ferguson, Ms. Monrad and Mr. Graham, along with one former officer of AIG, with one count of
conspiracy to commit securities fraud, four counts of securities fraud, two counts of causing false
statements to be made to the SEC, four counts of wire fraud and two counts of mail fraud in
connection with the AIG Transaction. The SEC also announced on February 2, 2006 that it had filed
an enforcement action against Mr. Ferguson, Ms. Monrad, Mr. Graham, Mr. Garand and the same former
AIG officer, for aiding and abetting AIG’s violations of the antifraud provisions and other
provisions of the federal securities laws in connection with the AIG Transaction. The SEC
complaint seeks permanent injunctive relief, disgorgement of any ill-gotten gains, civil penalties
and orders barring each defendant from acting as an officer or director of a public company. Each
of the individuals indicted by the federal grand jury was arraigned on February 16, 2006 and each
individual pleaded not guilty to all charges. A trial date was set for May 22, 2006. On February
9, 2006, AIG announced that it had reached a resolution of claims and matters under investigation
with the DOJ, the SEC, the NYAG and the New York State Department of Insurance in connection with
the accounting, financial reporting and insurance brokerage practices of AIG and its subsidiaries,
including claims and matters under investigation relating to the AIG Transaction, as well as claims
relating to the underpayment of certain workers’ compensation premium taxes and other assessments.
AIG announced that it will make payments totaling approximately $1.64 billion as a result of these
settlements.



(22)

Contingencies and Commitments

(Continued)

Various state insurance departments have issued subpoenas or otherwise requested that General
Reinsurance, NICO and their affiliates provide documents and information relating to
non-traditional products. The Office of the Connecticut Attorney General has also issued a subpoena
to General Reinsurance for information relating to non-traditional products. General Reinsurance,
NICO and their affiliates have been cooperating fully with these subpoenas and requests.

On April 14, 2005, the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (“APRA”) announced an
investigation involving financial or finite reinsurance transactions by General Reinsurance
Australia Limited (“GRA”), a subsidiary of General Reinsurance. An inspector appointed by APRA
under section 52 of the Insurance Act 1973 has been conducting an investigation including a request
for the production of documents of GRA’s financial or finite reinsurance business. GRA has been
cooperating fully with this investigation.

In December 2004, the Financial Services Authority (“FSA”) advised General Reinsurance’s
affiliate Faraday Group (“Faraday”) that it was investigating Milan Vukelic, the then Chief
Executive Officer of Faraday with respect to transactions entered into between GRA and companies
affiliated with FAI Insurance Limited in 1998. Mr. Vukelic previously served as the head of General
Re’s international finite business unit. In April 2005, the FSA advised General Reinsurance that it
was investigating Mr. Vukelic and a former officer of CRD with respect to certain finite risk
reinsurance transactions, including transactions between CRD and several other insurers. In
addition, the FSA has requested that General Reinsurance affiliates based in the United Kingdom
provide information relating to the transactions involved in their investigations, including
transactions with AIG. General Reinsurance and its affiliates are cooperating fully with the FSA in
these matters. In May 2005, Mr. Vukelic was placed on administrative leave and in July 2005 his
employment was terminated.

CRD is also providing information to and cooperating fully with the Irish Financial Services
Regulatory Authority in its inquiries regarding the activities of CRD. The Office of the Director
of Corporate Enforcement in Ireland is conducting a preliminary evaluation in relation to CRD
concerning, in particular, transactions between CRD and AIG. CRD is cooperating fully with this
preliminary evaluation.

General Reinsurance’s subsidiary, Kolnische Ruckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG (“Cologne Re”),
is also cooperating fully with requests for information from the German Federal Financial
Supervisory Authority regarding the activities of Cologne Re relating to “finite reinsurance” and
regarding transactions between Cologne Re or its subsidiaries, including CRD, and AIG. General
Reinsurance is also providing information to and cooperating fully with the Office of the
Superintendent of Financial Institutions Canada in its inquiries regarding the activities of
General Re and its affiliates relating to “finite reinsurance.”

Berkshire cannot at this time predict the outcome of these matters, is unable to estimate a
range of possible loss and cannot predict whether or not the outcomes will have a material adverse
effect on Berkshire’s business or results of operations for at least the quarterly period when
these matters are completed or otherwise resolved.

b)

Civil Litigation

Litigation Related to ROA

General Reinsurance and four of its current and former employees, along with numerous other
defendants, have been sued in a number of civil actions related to ROA. Plaintiffs assert various
claims in these civil actions, including breach of contract, unjust enrichment, fraud and
conspiracy, against General Reinsurance and others, arising from various reinsurance coverages
General Reinsurance provided to ROA and related entities.

Eight putative class actions were initiated by doctors, hospitals and lawyers that purchased
insurance through ROA or certain of its Tennessee-based risk retention groups. These complaints
seek compensatory, treble, and punitive damages in an amount plaintiffs contend is just and
reasonable. General Reinsurance is also subject to actions brought by the Virginia Commissioner of
Insurance, as Deputy Receiver of ROA, the Tennessee Commissioner of Insurance, as Liquidator for
three Tennessee risk retention groups, a federal lawsuit filed by a Missouri-based hospital group
and a state lawsuit filed by an Alabama doctor that was removed to federal court. The first of
these actions was filed in March 2003 and additional actions were filed in April 2003 through
December 2005. In the action filed by the Virginia Commissioner of Insurance, the Commissioner
asserts in several of its claims that the alleged damages being sought exceed $200 million in the
aggregate as against all defendants. Eleven of these cases are collectively assigned to the U.S.
District Court for the Western District of Tennessee for pretrial proceedings. General Reinsurance
has filed motions to dismiss all of the claims against it in ten of these cases and the court has
not yet ruled on these motions. The other federal case has been filed in the U.S. District Court
for the Northern District of Mississippi and is currently awaiting issuance of a conditional
transfer order to the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Tennessee. No discovery has
been initiated in any of these cases.

General Reinsurance is also a defendant in two lawsuits filed in Alabama state courts. The
first suit was filed in the Circuit Court of Montgomery County by a group of Alabama hospitals that
are former members of the Alabama Hospital Association Trust (“AHAT”). This suit (the “AHA Action”)
alleged violations of the Alabama Securities Act, conspiracy, fraud, suppression, unjust enrichment
and breach of contract against General Reinsurance and virtually all of the defendants in the
federal suits based on an alleged business combination between AHAT and ROA in 2001 and subsequent
capital contributions to ROA in 2002 by the Alabama hospitals. The allegations of the AHA Action
are largely identical to those set forth in the complaint filed by the Virginia receiver for ROA.
General Reinsurance previously filed a motion to dismiss all of the claims in the AHA Action. The
motion was granted in part by an order in March 2005, which dismissed the Alabama Securities Act
claim against General Reinsurance and ordered plaintiffs to amend their allegations of fraud and
suppression. Plaintiffs in the AHA Action filed their Amended and Restated Complaint in April 2005,
alleging claims of conspiracy, fraud, suppression and aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty
against General Reinsurance. General Reinsurance filed a motion to dismiss all counts of the
Amended and Restated Complaint in May



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(22)

Contingencies and Commitments

(Continued)

2005. The Special Master appointed by the court heard arguments on July 13, 2005 and recommended
denial of the motion on July 22, 2005. On July 22, 2005, the Court denied General Reinsurance’s
motion to dismiss. General Reinsurance filed and served its answer and affirmative defenses to the
Amended and Restated Complaint on September 1, 2005. Discovery has begun. The second suit, also
filed in the Circuit Court of Montgomery County, was initiated by Baptist Health Systems, Inc.
(“BHS”), a former member of AHAT, and alleged claims identical to those in the initial AHA Action,
plus claims for breach of fiduciary duty and wantonness. These cases have been consolidated for
pretrial purposes. BHS filed its First Amended Complaint in April 2005, alleging violations of the
Alabama Securities Act, conspiracy, fraud, suppression, breach of fiduciary duty, wantonness and
unjust enrichment against General Reinsurance. General Reinsurance filed a motion to dismiss all
counts of the Amended and Restated Complaint in May 2005. The Special Master heard arguments on
July 13, 2005, and on July 22, 2005, recommended dismissal of the claim under the Alabama
Securities Act, but recommended denial of the motion to dismiss the remaining claims. On July 22,
2005, the Court denied General Reinsurance’s motion to dismiss. General Reinsurance filed and
served its answer and affirmative defenses to the Amended and Restated Complaint on September 1,
2005. Discovery has begun. The AHA Action and the BHS complaint claim damages in excess of $60
million in the aggregate as against all defendants.

Actions related to AIG

General Reinsurance received a Summons and a Consolidated Amended Class Action Complaint on
April 29, 2005, in the matter captioned In re American International Group Securities Litigation,
Case No. 04-CV-8141-(LTS), United States District Court, Southern District of New York. This is a
putative class action asserted on behalf of investors who purchased publicly-traded securities of
AIG between October 1999 and March 2005. On June 7, 2005, General Reinsurance received a second
Summons and Class Action Complaint in a putative class action asserted on behalf of investors who
purchased AIG securities between October 1999 and March 2005, captioned San Francisco Employees’
Retirement System, et al. vs. American International Group, Inc., et al., Case No. 05-CV-4270,
United States District Court, Southern District of New York. At a July 2005 conference, the court
ruled that the plaintiffs in case no. 04-CV-8141 would be lead plaintiffs. On September 27, 2005,
the plaintiffs in case no. 04-CV-8141 filed a Consolidated Second Amended Complaint (the
“Complaint”). The Complaint asserts various claims against AIG, and various of its officers,
directors, investment banks and other parties. Included among the defendants are General
Reinsurance and Messrs. Ferguson, Napier and Houldsworth (whom the Complaint defines as the
“General Re Defendants”). The Complaint alleges that the General Re Defendants violated Section
10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 promulgated under that Act through their
activities in connection with the AIG transaction described in “Governmental Investigations,”
above. The Complaint seeks damages and other relief in unspecified amounts. The General Re
Defendants have moved to dismiss the Complaint on the grounds that it fails to state a claim on
which relief can be granted against these defendants. The motion is scheduled to be heard on April
17, 2006. No discovery has taken place.

On July 27, 2005, General Reinsurance received a Summons and a Verified and Amended
Shareholder Derivative Complaint in In re American International Group, Inc. Derivative Litigation,
Case No. 04-CV-08406, United States District Court, Southern District of New York, naming “Gen Re
Corporation” as a defendant. It is unclear whether the plaintiffs are asserting claims against
General Reinsurance or its parent, General Re. This case is assigned to the same judge as the class
actions described above. The complaint, brought by several alleged shareholders of AIG, seeks
damages, injunctive and declaratory relief against various officers and directors of AIG as well as
a variety of individuals and entities with whom AIG did business, relating to a wide variety of
allegedly wrongful practices by AIG. The allegations against “Gen Re Corporation” focus on the late
2000 transaction with AIG described above, and the complaint purports to assert causes of action
against “Gen Re Corporation” for aiding and abetting other defendants’ breaches of fiduciary duty
and for unjust enrichment. The complaint does not specify the amount of damages or the nature of
any other relief sought against “Gen Re Corporation.” In August 2005, General Reinsurance received
a Summons and First Amended Consolidated Shareholders’ Derivative Complaint in In re American
International Group, Inc. Consolidated Derivative Litigation, Case No. 769-N, Delaware Chancery
Court. The claims asserted in the Delaware complaint are substantially similar to those asserted
in the New York derivative complaint described earlier in this paragraph, except that the Delaware
complaint makes clear that the plaintiffs are asserting claims against both General Reinsurance and
General Re. Proceedings in both the New York derivative suit and the Delaware derivative suit are
stayed until May 1, 2006.

FAI/HIH Matter

In December 2003, the Liquidators of both FAI Insurance Limited (“FAI”) and HIH Insurance
Limited (“HIH”) advised GRA and Cologne Re that they intended to assert claims arising from
insurance transactions GRA entered into with FAI in May and June 1998. In August 2004, the
Liquidators filed claims in the Supreme Court of New South Wales in order to avoid the expiration
of a statute of limitations for certain plaintiffs, but neither GRA nor Cologne Re have been served
with legal process by the Liquidators. The focus of the Liquidators’ allegations against GRA and
Cologne Re are the 1998 transactions GRA entered into with FAI (which was acquired by HIH in 1999).
The Liquidators contend, among other things, that GRA and Cologne Re engaged in deceptive conduct
that assisted FAI in improperly accounting for such transactions as reinsurance, and that such
deception led to HIH’s acquisition of FAI and caused various losses to FAI and HIH.

Insurance Brokerage Antitrust Litigation

Berkshire, General Re and General Reinsurance are defendants in this multi-district
litigation, In Re: Insurance Brokerage Antitrust Litigation, MDL No. 1663 (D.N.J.). In February
2005, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation transferred several different cases to the
District of New Jersey for coordination and consolidation. Each consolidated case concerned
allegations of an industry-wide scheme on the part of commercial insurance brokers and insurance
companies to defraud a purported class of insurance



(22)

Contingencies and Commitments

(Continued)

purchasers through bid-rigging and contingent commission arrangements. Berkshire, General Re and
General Reinsurance were not parties to the original, transferred cases. On August 1, 2005, the
named plaintiffs—fourteen businesses, two municipalities, and three individuals—filed their First
Consolidated Amended Commercial Class Action Complaint, and Berkshire, General Re and General
Reinsurance (along with a large number of insurance companies and insurance brokers) were named as
defendants in the Amended Complaint. The plaintiffs claim that all defendants engaged in a pattern
of racketeering activity, in violation of RICO, and that they conspired to restrain trade. They
further allege that the broker defendants breached fiduciary duties to the plaintiffs, that the
insurer defendants aided and abetted that breach, and that all defendants were unjustly enriched in
the process. Plaintiffs seek treble damages in an unspecified amount, together with interest and
attorneys fees and expenses. They also seek a declaratory judgment of wrongdoing as well as an
injunction against future anticompetitive practices. On November 29, 2005, General Re, General
Reinsurance and Berkshire, together with the other defendants, filed motions to dismiss the
complaint. On February 1, 2006, plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to file a Second Consolidated
Amended Complaint. Among other things, plaintiffs seek leave to add numerous new defendants,
including several additional Berkshire subsidiaries including, among others, NICO. Berkshire
opposed the motion for leave to amend, and the Court has denied the motion without prejudice to
plaintiffs’ renewing it following a ruling on defendants’ motion to dismiss the First Consolidated
Amended Complaint.

Berkshire cannot at this time predict the outcome of these matters, is unable to estimate a
range of possible loss, if any, and cannot predict whether or not the outcomes will have a material
adverse effect on Berkshire’s business or results of operations for at least the quarterly period
when these matters are completed or otherwise resolved.

c)

Commitments

Berkshire subsidiaries lease certain manufacturing, warehouse, retail and office facilities as
well as certain equipment. Total rent expense for all leases was $432 million, $422 million and
$384 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Minimum rental payments for operating leases
having initial or remaining non-cancelable terms in excess of one year are as follows. Amounts are
in millions.

After







Total

$357

$296

$236

$187

$136

$420

$1,632

Several of Berkshire’s subsidiaries have made long-term commitments to purchase goods and
services used in their businesses. The most significant of these relate to NetJets’ commitments to
purchase up to 404 aircraft through 2015. Commitments under all such subsidiary arrangements are
approximately $3.9 billion in 2006, $1.8 billion in 2007, $1.6 billion in 2008, $1.3 billion in
2009, $1.1 billion in 2010 and $3.0 billion after 2010.



Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None

Item 9 A. Controls and Procedures

At the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Corporation carried
out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Corporation’s
management, including the Chairman (Chief Executive Officer) and the Vice President-Treasurer
(Chief Financial Officer), of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Corporation’s
disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15. Based upon that
evaluation, the Chairman (Chief Executive Officer) and the Vice President-Treasurer (Chief
Financial Officer) concluded that the Corporation’s disclosure controls and procedures are
effective in timely alerting them to material information relating to the Corporation (including
its consolidated subsidiaries) required to be included in the Corporation’s periodic SEC filings.
The report called for by Item 308(a) of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference to
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting, included on page 44 of this
report. The attestation report called for by Item 308(b) of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein
by reference to Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on internal control over
financial reporting, included on page 44 of this report. There has been no change in the
Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2005
that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Corporation’s
internal control over financial reporting.

Part III

Except for the information set forth under the caption “Executive Officers of the Registrant”
in Part I hereof, information required by this Part (Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14) is incorporated
by reference from the Registrant’s definitive proxy statement, filed pursuant to Regulation 14A,
for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Registrant to be held on May 6, 2006, which meeting
will involve the election of directors.

Part IV

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

(a) 1.

Financial Statements

The following Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as the Report of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, are included in Part II Item 8 of
this report:

PAGE

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2005 and 2004


Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the years ended
2005, 2004 and 2003


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
2005, 2004 and 2003


Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity and
Comprehensive Income for the years ended 2005, 2004 and 2003


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

51-73

2.

Financial Statement Schedule

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


Schedule I — Parent Company

Condensed Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 and Condensed Statements of Earnings and
Cash Flows for the years ended 2005, 2004 and 2003

77-78

Other schedules are omitted because they are not required,
information therein is not applicable, or is reflected in
the Consolidated Financial Statements or notes thereto.

(b)

Exhibits

See
the “Exhibit Index” at page 79.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto
duly authorized.

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

Date:
March 10, 2006

/s/ Marc D. Hamburg

Marc D. Hamburg

Vice President and

Principal Financial Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.

/s/ Warren E. Buffett

Chairman of the Board

March 10, 2006

Warren E. Buffett

of Directors — Chief
Executive Officer

Date

/s/ Howard G. Buffett

Director

March 10, 2006

Howard G. Buffett

Date

/s/ William H. Gates III

Director

March 10, 2006

William H. Gates III

Date

/s/ Malcolm G. Chace

Director

March 10, 2006

Malcolm G. Chace

Date

/s/ David S. Gottesman

Director

March 10, 2006

David S. Gottesman

Date

/s/ Charlotte Guyman

Director

March 10, 2006

Charlotte Guyman

Date

/s/ Donald R. Keough

Director

March 10, 2006

Donald R. Keough

Date

/s/ Charles T. Munger

Vice Chairman of the

March 10, 2006

Charles T. Munger

Board of Directors

Date

/s/ Thomas S. Murphy

Director

March 10, 2006

Thomas S. Murphy

Date

/s/ Walter Scott, Jr.

Director

March 10, 2006

Walter Scott, Jr.

Date

/s/ Ronald L. Olson

Director

March 10, 2006

Ronald L. Olson

Date

/s/ Marc D. Hamburg

Vice President -

March 10, 2006

Marc D. Hamburg

Principal Financial

Officer

Date

/s/ Daniel J. Jaksich

Controller

March 10, 2006

Daniel J. Jaksich

Date



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of

Berkshire Hathaway Inc.

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and
subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2005, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, and the effectiveness of the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, and have issued our
reports thereon dated March 2, 2006; such consolidated financial
statements and reports are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our
audits also included the financial statement schedule of the Company listed in Item 15. This
financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility
is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such financial statement schedule,
when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Omaha, Nebraska

March 2, 2006



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

(Parent Company)

Condensed Financial Information

(Dollars in millions)

Schedule I

Balance Sheets

December 31,



Assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$


$


Investments in consolidated subsidiaries

88,762

83,260

Investments in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company

3,397

3,140

Other assets



$

92,742

$

86,702

Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity:

Accounts payable and accrued expenses

$


$


Income taxes


(13

)

SQUARZ notes
due 2007



Other borrowings



1,258


Shareholders’ equity

91,484

85,900

$

92,742

$

86,702

Statements of Earnings

Year ended December 31,




Income items:

From consolidated subsidiaries:

Dividends

$


$


$


Undistributed earnings

7,348

6,369

7,112

8,122

7,195

7,866

Other income




8,135

7,215

7,876

Cost and expense items:

General and administrative




Interest to affiliates




Other interest




Income tax

(33

)

(27

)

(35

)




Equity in earnings of MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company




Net earnings

$

8,528

$

7,308

$

8,151

See Note to Condensed Financial Information



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

(Parent Company)

Condensed Financial Information

(Dollars in millions)

Schedule I (continued)

Statements of Cash Flows

Year ended December 31,




Cash flows from operating activities:

Net earnings

$

8,528

$

7,308

$

8,151

Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to cash flows
from operating activities:

Undistributed earnings of subsidiaries and MidAmerican Energy
Holdings Company

(7,823

)

(6,513

)

(7,459

)

Income taxes payable




Other

—



Net cash flows from operating activities




Cash flows from investing activities:

Investments in and advances to subsidiaries

(1,103

)

(534

)

(1,157

)

Redemptions
by MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company




Proceeds from sales of investments

—

—

—

Net cash flows from investing activities

(1,013

)

(481

)

(1,078

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Proceeds from borrowings




Repayments of borrowings

(116

)

(267

)

(28

)

Other




Net cash flows from financing activities


(124

)


Increase in cash and cash equivalents




Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year




Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$


$


$


Other cash flow information:

Income taxes paid

$

2,365

$

2,392

$

3,129

Interest paid




Note to Condensed Financial Information

During 2002, Berkshire issued 40,000 SQUARZ securities, consisting of $400 million par amount
of notes and 40,000 warrants that permit holders to acquire Berkshire’s Class A or Class B stock.
See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for additional information. In
addition, Berkshire’s other borrowings at December 31, 2005
and 2004 included $656 million and $406
million, respectively, from investment agreements. Principal is
payable under certain conditions at par prior to maturity. Principal
is otherwise repayable as follows: 2007 — $281 million;
after 2011 — $375 million.

Berkshire Hathaway Inc. has guaranteed certain debt obligations of its subsidiaries. As of
December 31, 2005, the unpaid balance of subsidiary debt guaranteed by Berkshire totaled
approximately $10.9 billion. Berkshire also guarantees the short
term obligations of a member of its finance and financial products
group with respect to securities sold under agreements to repurchase,
totaling $1.1 billion at December 31, 2005.
Berkshire’s guarantee of subsidiary debt is an absolute,
unconditional, and irrevocable guarantee for the full and prompt
payment when due of all present and future payment obligations.

Berkshire’s investment in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company is accounted for under the
equity method. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Finance Statements included in Item 8 for additional
information. Effective February 9, 2006, MidAmerican became a consolidated subsidiary of
Berkshire.



EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.


Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of June 19, 1998 between Registrant and
General Re Corporation.

Incorporated by reference to Annex I to Registration Statement No. 333-61129 filed on Form S-4.

3 (i)

Restated Certificate of Incorporation as Amended

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to Form 10Q for the period ended June 30, 2005.

3 (ii)

By-Laws

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Registration Statement No.
333-61129 filed on Form S-4.

4.1

Form of Indenture dated as of May 28, 2002 between Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and The
Bank of New York, note trustee with respect to 3% Notes due November 15, 2007 which were
issued in connection with the SQUARZ securities.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Registration Statement No.
333-98145 filed on Form S-3.

4.2

Form of Indenture dated as of October 6, 2003, between Berkshire Hathaway Finance
Corporation, Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and JP Morgan Trust Company (as successor trustee to Bank One
Trust Company, N.A.)

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Form 8-K of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. filed on October 8, 2003.

Other instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of
Registrant and its subsidiaries are not being filed since the total amount of
securities authorized by all other such instruments does not exceed 10% of
the total assets of the Registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated
basis as of December 31, 2005. The Registrant hereby agrees to furnish to
the Commission upon request a copy of any such debt instrument to which it is
a party.


Statement of computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges


Code of Ethics

Berkshire’s Code of Business
Conduct and Ethics is posted on its Internet website at

www.berkshirehathaway.com


Subsidiaries of the Registrant


Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


Rule 13a – 14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications


Section 1350 Certifications

79