10-K


a97198e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K PERIOD ENDED 12-31-2003

Berkshire Hathaway, Inc. Form 10-K


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15

(d)

OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended

December 31, 2003

Commission file number

001-14905

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

47-0813844

State or other jurisdiction of

(I.R.S. Employer

incorporation or organization

Identification number)

1440 Kiewit Plaza, Omaha, Nebraska


(Address of principal executive office)

(Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code (402) 346-1400

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title
of each class

Name
of each exchange on which registered

Class A Common Stock, $5.00 Par Value

New York Stock Exchange

Class B Common Stock, $0.1667 Par Value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to the filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [  ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [  ]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).

Yes [X] No [  ]

State the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the Registrant as of June 30, 2003 $73,104,669,210*

Indicate number of shares outstanding of each of the Registrant’s classes of common stock:

March 3, 2004 — Class A Common Stock, $5 par value

1,278,436 shares

March 3, 2004 — Class B Common Stock, $0.1667 par value

7,766,293 shares

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Document

Incorporated In

Proxy Statement for Registrant’s

Annual Meeting to be held May 1, 2004

Part III

*

This aggregate value is computed at the last sale price of the common stock
on June 30, 2003. It does not include the value of Class A Common Stock
(528,293 shares) and Class B Common Stock (467 shares) held by Directors and
Executive Officers of the Registrant and members of their immediate families,
some of whom may not constitute “affiliates” for purpose of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934.



Part I

Item 1. Business

Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (“Berkshire,” “Company” or “Registrant”) is a
holding company owning subsidiaries engaged in a number of diverse business
activities. The most important of these are insurance businesses conducted on
both a primary basis and a reinsurance basis. Berkshire also owns and operates
a number of other businesses engaged in a variety of activities, as identified
herein. Berkshire’s corporate
headquarters are located in Omaha, Nebraska.

Operating decisions for the various Berkshire businesses are made by
managers of the business units. Investment decisions with limited exception,
and all major capital allocation decisions are made by Warren E. Buffett, in
consultation with Charles T. Munger. Mr. Buffett is Chairman and Mr. Munger is
Vice Chairman of Berkshire’s Board of Directors.

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

Berkshire’s insurance and reinsurance business activities are conducted
through more than 50 domestic and foreign-based insurance companies.
Berkshire’s insurance businesses provide insurance and reinsurance of property
and casualty risks primarily in the United States. In addition, as a result of
the General Re acquisition in December 1998, Berkshire’s insurance businesses
also include worldwide life, accident and health reinsurers, as well as
internationally-based property and casualty reinsurers.

In primary (or direct) insurance activities, the insurer assumes the risk
of loss from persons or organizations that are directly subject to the risks.
Such risks may relate to property, casualty (or liability), life, accident,
health, financial or other perils that may arise from an insurable event. In
reinsurance activities, the reinsurer assumes defined portions of risks that
other primary insurers or reinsurers have assumed in their own insuring
activities.

Reinsurance contracts are normally classified as treaty or facultative
contracts. Treaty reinsurance refers to automatic reinsurance coverage for all
or a portion of a specified class of risks ceded by the primary insurer, while
facultative reinsurance involves coverage of specific individual risks.
Coverage of risks assumed under reinsurance contracts may be classified as
quota-share or excess. Under quota-share (proportional or pro-rata)
reinsurance, the reinsurer shares proportionally in the original premiums,
losses, and expenses of the primary insurer or reinsurer. Excess (or
non-proportional) reinsurance provides for the indemnification of the primary
insurer or reinsurer for all or a portion of the loss in excess of an agreed
upon amount or “retention.” Both quota-share and excess reinsurance may
provide for aggregate limits of indemnification.

Except for regulatory considerations, there are virtually no barriers to
entry into the insurance and reinsurance industry. Competitors may be domestic
or foreign, as well as licensed or unlicensed. The number of competitors
within the industry is not known. Insurers and reinsurers compete on the basis
of reliability, financial strength and stability, ratings, underwriting
consistency, service, business ethics, price, performance, capacity, policy
terms and coverage conditions.

Insurers and reinsurers based in the United States are subject to
regulation by their states of domicile and by those states in which they are
licensed. The primary focus of regulation is to assure that insurers are
financially solvent and that policyholder interests are otherwise protected.
States establish minimum capital levels for insurance companies and establish
guidelines for permissible business and investment activities. States have the
authority to suspend or revoke a company’s authority to do business, as
conditions warrant. States regulate the payment of dividends by insurance
companies to their shareholders. Dividends of extraordinary amounts are
subject to prior regulatory approval.

Insurers may market, sell and service insurance policies in the states
that they are licensed. These insurers are referred to as admitted insurers.
Admitted insurers are, among other things, generally required to obtain
regulatory approval of policy forms issued and premium rates charged.
Non-admitted insurance markets have developed to provide insurance that is
otherwise unavailable from the admitted insurance markets for a state.
Non-admitted insurance, often referred to as “excess and surplus” lines, is
procured by state-licensed surplus lines brokers who place risks with insurers
not licensed in that state. Non-admitted insurance is subject to considerably
less regulation with respect to policy rates and forms. Reinsurers are normally
not required to obtain approval of premium rates and policy forms.

The insurance regulators of every state participate in the National
Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”). The NAIC adopts forms,
instructions and accounting procedures for use by U.S. insurers and reinsurers
in preparing and filing annual statutory financial statements. However, an
insurer’s state of domicile has ultimate authority over these matters.



Item 1. Business

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

(Continued)

Effective January 1, 2001, several new Statutory Accounting Principles
(“SAP”) were adopted in connection with the NAIC codification project, which
was intended to bring greater uniformity in accounting practices throughout the
United States. The amount of Berkshire’s aggregate reported regulatory
capital, also known as statutory surplus, declined due to the new requirement
under SAP to record deferred income taxes, including tax liabilities on
unrealized appreciation of common stock investments. Previously, such
liabilities were not recognized under SAP. As a result of the adoption of the
new statutory accounting principles, the aggregate statutory surplus declined
by about $8.0 billion.

Berkshire’s insurance companies maintain capital strength at exceptionally
high levels. This strength differentiates Berkshire’s insurance companies from
their competitors. Collectively, the aggregate statutory surplus of Berkshire’s
U.S. based insurers was approximately $40.7 billion at December 31, 2003. All
of Berkshire’s major insurance subsidiaries are rated AAA by Standard & Poor’s
Corporation, the highest Financial Strength Rating assigned by Standard &
Poor’s, and are rated A++ (superior) by A.M. Best with respect to their
financial condition and operating performance.

In addition to its activities relating to the annual statement and SAP,
the NAIC develops or adopts model laws, regulations and programs for use by its
members. Such matters deal with regulatory oversight of solvency, compliance
with financial regulation standards, and risk-based capital reporting
requirements.

The insurance industry experienced severe
losses from the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack. On November 26, 2002,
President Bush signed into law the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002
(commonly referred to as “TRIA”), which established within the Department of
the Treasury a Terrorism Insurance Program (“Program”) for commercial property
and casualty insurers by providing Federal reinsurance of insured terrorism
losses. Under TRIA, the Department of the Treasury is charged with certifying
“acts of terrorism” as having been a terrorist act undertaken on behalf of a
foreign person or interest which resulted in an insured loss in excess of $5
million. To be eligible for Federal reinsurance, insurers must make available
insurance coverage for acts of terrorism, by providing policyholders with clear
and conspicuous notice of the amount of premium that will be charged for this
coverage and of the Federal share of any insured losses resulting from any act
of terrorism. Assumed reinsurance is specifically excluded from TRIA
participation. Thus, terrorism exclusions that were contained within
reinsurance contracts remained in effect. Reinsurers are not required to offer
terrorism coverage and are not eligible for Federal reinsurance of terrorism
losses.

In the event of a certified act of terrorism, the Federal government will
reimburse insurers (conditioned on their satisfaction of policyholder
notification requirements) for 90% of their insured losses in excess of a
company deductible. The company’s deductible is calculated based on the direct
earned premium for relevant commercial lines written by the insurer’s entire
insurance group. For 2003, the company deductible was 7% of the insurance
group earned premium, which rises to 10% in 2004 and then to 15% in 2005,
assuming the Program is extended to a third year by the Treasury Secretary.
Berkshire’s deductible for 2004 is expected to approximate $200 million. There
is also an annual cap on the Federal share in the amount of $100 billion for
each Program year, and insurers are free to exclude their liability for
terrorism losses in excess of this amount.

For many years, the insurance industry has been subject to claims arising
from the manufacture of asbestos in products. The magnitude of such losses has
caused many manufacturers to file for protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy
Code. In recent years, increasing numbers of claims have been filed against
users of such products, including claims based upon exposure to asbestos, even
though no related illness has been identified. Consequently, the U.S. Congress
has introduced legislation to assure that resources are available to indemnify
claimants suffering from asbestos-related illnesses and to manage the overall
cost of those claims. To date, no legislation has passed. It is highly
uncertain as to whether or not any Federal legislation will be enacted and, if
enacted, how the provisions of such laws will affect Berkshire.

In general, regulation of the insurance industry outside of the United
States is subject to the differing laws and regulations of each country in
which the reinsurer has operations or writes premiums. Some jurisdictions,
such as the United Kingdom, impose complex regulatory requirements on
insurance businesses, while other jurisdictions, such as Germany, impose
fewer requirements. Local reinsurance business conducted by General Re’s
subsidiaries in some countries requires licenses issued by governmental
authorities. These licenses may be subject to modification, suspension or
revocation dependent on such factors as amount and types of reserves and
minimum capital and solvency tests. The violation of regulatory requirements
may result in fines, censures and/or criminal sanctions in various
jurisdictions. Berkshire subsidiaries also provide insuring capacity to
several syndicates at Lloyd’s of London. Such capacity entitles Berkshire a
share of the risks and rewards of the activities of the syndicate in proportion
to the amount of capacity provided. This business is referred to as
London-market business



Item 1. Business

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

(Continued)

or Lloyd’s business. Lloyd’s markets are subject to regulation by the UK
Financial Services Authority, which maintains comprehensive rules and
regulations covering the legal, financial and operating activities of managing
agents and syndicates (capital providers).

Insurance underwriting operations are comprised of the following
sub-groups: (1) GEICO and its subsidiaries, (2) General Re and its
subsidiaries, (3) Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group, and (4) Berkshire
Hathaway Primary Group. Except for certain reinsurance products that generate
a significant amount of up-front premiums along with claims to be paid over
very long periods of time, each of Berkshire’s underwriting units strive to
achieve a net underwriting profit over time and to reject inadequately priced
risks. Additional information related to each of these four underwriting units
follows.

GEICO

— Berkshire acquired GEICO in January 1996. GEICO is headquartered
in Chevy Chase, Maryland and its principal insurance subsidiaries include:
Government Employees Insurance Company, GEICO General Insurance Company, GEICO
Indemnity Company, and GEICO Casualty Company. Over the past five years, these
companies have offered primarily private passenger automobile insurance to
individuals in 48 states and the District of Columbia. The subsidiaries market
their policies primarily through direct response methods, in which applications
for insurance are submitted directly to the companies by telephone, through the
mail, or via the Internet.

GEICO competes for private passenger auto insurance customers with other
companies that sell directly to the customer, as well as with companies that
use a traditional agency sales force. Private passenger automobile insurance
business is highly competitive in the areas of price and service. Some
insurance companies exacerbate price competition by selling their products for
a period of time at less than adequate rates, because they underestimate
ultimate claim costs and/or overestimate the amount of investment income
expected to be earned from the cash flow generated as a result of premiums
being received before claims are paid. GEICO will not knowingly follow that
strategy.

For several years through 2000, premium volume grew as a result of
significantly higher advertising expenditures and competitive premium rates.
In response to underwriting losses in 2000, GEICO increased premium rates and
tightened underwriting standards. In addition, GEICO reduced advertising
expenditures in 2001 as such expenditures were not effectively producing
in-force policy growth. Consequently, new business sales declined
significantly and policies-in-force declined slightly in 2001. In 2002, aided
by rate increases taken by competitors, new business sales and
policies-in-force increased over the prior year. Advertising expenditures, new
business sales and voluntary policies-in-force increased further in 2003.
Voluntary policies-in-force have increased a total of about 50% over the past
five years. GEICO is currently the fifth largest auto insurer, in terms of
premium volume, in the United States.

Seasonal variations in GEICO’s insurance business are not significant.
However, extraordinary weather conditions or other factors may have a
significant effect upon the frequency or severity of automobile claims.

Private passenger auto insurance is stringently regulated by state
insurance departments. As a result, it is difficult for insurance companies to
differentiate their products to consumers. Competition for preferred-risk
private passenger automobile insurance, which is substantial, tends to focus on
price and level of customer service provided, whereas price tends to be the
primary focus for other risks. GEICO places great emphasis on customer
satisfaction. GEICO’s cost efficient direct response marketing methods and
emphasis on customer satisfaction enable it to offer competitive rates and
value to customers.

Management believes that the name and reputation of GEICO is a material
asset and protects its name and other service marks through appropriate
registrations.

General Re

— Berkshire acquired General Re on December 21, 1998. General
Re was established in 1980 to serve as the holding company of General
Reinsurance Corporation (“GRC”) and its affiliates. General Re affiliates
include Kölnische Rückversicherungs – Gesellschaft AG (“Cologne Re”), a major
international reinsurer based in Germany. General Re held an 89% direct
interest in Cologne Re as of December 31, 2003. General Re subsidiaries
currently conduct global reinsurance business in approximately 72 cities and
provide reinsurance coverage worldwide. General Re operates four principal
reinsurance businesses: North American property/casualty, international
property/casualty, which principally consists of reinsurance business written
through Cologne Re, the London-market Faraday operations, and global
life/health. General Re’s reinsurance operations are primarily based in
Stamford, Connecticut and Cologne, Germany. General Re is one of the largest
reinsurers in the world based on net premiums written and capital.

North American Property/Casualty Reinsurance

General Re’s North American property/casualty business is primarily treaty
and facultative reinsurance that is marketed directly to clients located
throughout the United States and Canada without involving a broker or
intermediary. The North American property/casualty businesses underwrite
predominantly excess coverages. The



Item 1. Business

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

(Continued)

General Re

(Continued)

North American Property/Casualty Reinsurance

(continued)

operations are headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut, and are also conducted
through 18 branch offices. The businesses are domiciled in Delaware and
licensed in the District of Columbia and all states but Hawaii, where they are
accredited reinsurers.

Casualty reinsurance represented approximately 54% of North American
property/casualty net premiums written in 2003 and property reinsurance
represented approximately 33%. North American property/casualty business also
includes a few smaller specialty insurers. These businesses, domiciled in
Connecticut, North Dakota and Ohio, underwrite primarily liability and workers’
compensation coverages on an excess and surplus basis. Also, they underwrite
excess insurance for self-insured programs. These businesses together
represented approximately 13% of General Re’s North American property/casualty
net premiums written in 2003.

International Property/Casualty Reinsurance

General Re’s
international property/casualty reinsurance business operations are
conducted through Cologne Re as well as several other
General Re subsidiaries in 27 countries and provide
multiple-lines of property and casualty reinsurance coverage
worldwide. Principal markets are in Europe and the United Kingdom.
Coverages are written on both a quota-share and excess basis. In
2003, the international property/casualty operations principally
wrote direct reinsurance in the form of treaties with lesser amounts
written on a facultative basis.

Faraday (London market)

At
the end of 1998, General Re acquired Faraday Holdings Limited
(“Faraday”, formerly D.P. Mann Holdings Limited). International
London-market business is primarily written through Faraday, which
owns the managing agent of Syndicate 435 at Lloyd’s of London and
provides capacity and participates in the results of
Syndicate 435. Through Faraday, General Re participated in
100% of the results of Syndicate 435 in 2003. Faraday writes
property, casualty and aviation business on risks worldwide.

Global Life/Health Reinsurance

This business includes the North American and international life/health
operations of Cologne Re. In 2003, approximately 56% of life/health net
premiums were written in the United States, 16% were written in Western Europe,
and the remaining 28% were written throughout the rest of the world. The
life/health operations provide individual life, group life, group health,
long-term care, individual health and finite risk reinsurance. Most of the
life reinsurance is written on a proportional treaty basis, with smaller
amounts written on a facultative basis, while health business is predominantly
written on an excess treaty basis. The life/health business is marketed
primarily on a direct basis with the exception of group health, which is
marketed primarily through brokers.

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group

— The Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance
Group (“BHRG”) operates from offices located in Stamford, Connecticut. BHRG
provides principally excess and quota-share reinsurance to other property and
casualty insurers and reinsurers. The level of BHRG’s underwriting activities
often fluctuates significantly from year to year depending on the perceived
level of price adequacy in specific insurance and reinsurance markets. Also,
BHRG’s mix of business tends to change rapidly as a result of quickly entering
or exiting markets when pricing is deemed adequate or inadequate.

For many years BHRG has written a considerable number of catastrophe
excess reinsurance contracts. In 2002 and 2003 BHRG also wrote individual
policies for primarily excess property risks on both a primary and facultative
reinsurance basis, referred to as “individual risk.” A catastrophe excess
policy provides protection to the counterparty from the accumulation of
primarily property losses arising from a single loss event or series of events.
Catastrophe and individual risk policies may provide significant amounts of
indemnification per contract and a single loss event may produce losses under a
number of contracts.

BHRG does not generally cede any of the risks assumed under catastrophe
excess reinsurance contracts or individual risk contracts, due to perceived
uncertainties in recovering amounts from other reinsurers that are financially
weaker. As a result, the catastrophe excess reinsurance business can produce
extreme volatility in periodic underwriting results. Accounting consequences,
however, do not influence decisions of Berkshire’s management with respect to
this or any other business. This factor along with the extraordinary financial
strength of BHRG, are believed to be the primary reasons why BHRG has become a
major provider of such coverages.

For several years prior to the second half of 2001, the amount of capital
(i.e. capacity) devoted to the catastrophe excess reinsurance business by the
industry had increased as a result of additional capital raised by



Item 1. Business

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

(Continued)

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group

(Continued)

newly-formed entities and the introduction in the financial markets of new
types of catastrophe risk management products. The effect of such increased
insuring capacity had been a reduction in opportunities to write this business
at acceptable prices. In the latter part of 2001, the prices for property
coverages increased. In addition, many primary insurers within the industry
reduced coverage for losses caused by terrorist activity. As a result, BHRG
has since written a significant amount of excess catastrophe reinsurance, and
primary insurance and facultative reinsurance of large individual property
risks, including numerous policies covering terrorism and aviation risks.

As overall pricing in the insurance and reinsurance markets improved
during 2002 and 2003 and industry insuring capacity in certain markets became
scarce, BHRG wrote a number of quota-share contracts covering property and
casualty risks of U.S. insurers as well as several quota-share arrangements for
Lloyd’s syndicates. Despite the increased level of new business written in
2002, the level of future rate adequacy and industry capacity subsequent to
December 31, 2003 in certain markets is uncertain, thus the level of business
written in the future is uncertain.

BHRG has entered into several retroactive reinsurance contracts over the
past five years. Coverage under such contracts is usually provided on an
excess basis and amounts of indemnification are subject to a large aggregate
limit of indemnification. Retroactive reinsurance contracts afford protection
to ceding companies against the adverse development of claims arising under
policies issued in prior years. Significant amounts of environmental and
latent injury claims may arise under the contracts.

In BHRG’s retroactive reinsurance business, the concept of
time-value-of-money is often an important element in establishing prices and
contract terms, since the payment of losses under the insurance contracts are
often expected to occur over lengthy periods of time. Losses payable under the
contracts are normally expected to exceed premiums and therefore, produce
underwriting losses. This business is accepted, in part, because of the large
amounts of policyholder funds (“float”) generated for investment, the economic
benefit of which will be reflected through investment income in future periods.

Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group

— The Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group is
a collection of primary insurance operations that provide a wide variety of
insurance coverages to insureds located principally in the United States.
National Indemnity Company and certain affiliates underwrite motor vehicle and
general liability insurance to commercial enterprises. This business is
written nationwide primarily through insurance agents and brokers and is based
in Omaha, Nebraska.

In 2000, Berkshire acquired U.S. Investment Corporation (“USIC”). USIC,
through its three subsidiaries, is a specialty insurer that underwrites
commercial, professional and personal lines of insurance on an admitted and
excess and surplus basis. Policies are marketed in all 50 states and the
District of Columbia through wholesale insurance agents. USIC companies
currently underwrite and market over 50 distinct specialty property and
casualty insurance products.

Other insurance operations include several companies referred to as the
“Homestate Companies,” based in Colorado and Nebraska and with branch offices
in several other states, which market various commercial coverages for standard
risks to insureds in their state of domicile and an increasing number of other
states. Also included is Central States Indemnity Company of Omaha located in
Omaha, Nebraska, which provides credit and income protection insurance marketed
primarily through credit card issuers and utility providers nationwide. Kansas
Bankers Surety (“KBS”) Company is an insurer of primarily crime, fidelity,
errors and omissions, officers’ and directors’ liability and related insurance
coverages directed toward small and medium-sized banks throughout the Midwest
United States.

Property and casualty loss reserves

Berkshire’s property and casualty insurance companies establish reserves
for the estimated unpaid losses and loss expenses with respect to claims
occurring on or before the balance sheet date. Such estimates include
provisions for reported claims, or case estimates, provisions for
incurred-but-not-reported (“IBNR”) claims and legal and administrative costs to
settle claims.

The estimates of unpaid losses and amounts recoverable under reinsurance
are established and continually reviewed by each Berkshire
insurance/reinsurance business using a variety of statistical and analytical
techniques.

Reserve estimates reflect past claims experience, currently known factors
and trends and estimates of future claim trends. Implicit in the factors
considered in establishing ultimate claim amounts are the effects of including
social, legal and economic inflation. Irrespective of the techniques used,
estimation error is inherent in the process



Item 1. Business

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

(Continued)

Property and casualty loss reserves

(Continued)

of establishing unpaid loss reserves as of any given date. Uncertainties in
projecting ultimate claim amounts are enhanced by the time lag between when a
claim actually occurs and when it becomes reported and settled. This time lag
is referred to as the “claim-tail.”

The claim-tail for most property coverages is normally short. The
claim-tail for liability coverages, such as product liability and workers’
compensation, can be especially long as claims are often reported many years
after the occurrence. The claim-tail for reinsurers is further extended
because claims are first reported through one or more intermediary primary
insurers or reinsurers. Liabilities assumed under retroactive reinsurance
contracts are often expected to have an especially long-tail, as a significant
portion of the claims are expected to derive from asbestos, environmental and
other latent injury perils. These policies contain aggregate limits of
indemnification, so the risks of additional claims under the contracts are
limited.

Berkshire attempts to be reasonably conservative in establishing claim
reserves. However, for the reasons previously discussed, the amounts of the
reserves established as of a given balance sheet date and the subsequent actual
losses and loss expenses paid will likely differ, perhaps by a material amount.
There is no guaranty that the recorded reserves will prove to be adequate.
Changes in unpaid loss estimates arising from the review process are charged or
credited, as applicable, to earnings in the period of the change.

Through 1998, Berkshire’s insurers ceded relatively minor amounts of risk
to other reinsurers. As a result of Berkshire’s acquisition of General Re at
the end of 1998, larger amounts of risk were ceded to other reinsurers.
Reinsurance does not relieve the ceding company of its obligation to indemnify
policyholders for claims arising under its policies. In more recent years,
General Re has diminished the amount reinsurance ceded to others.

Certain North American workers’ compensation loss reserves of General Re
are being discounted for both statutory and GAAP reporting purposes at an
interest rate of 4.5 percent per annum for claims occurring before 2003 and at
1 percent per annum for claims occurring after 2002. Such discount rates have
been approved by the insurance department of General Re’s domiciliary state.
The amortization of the discount is included as a component of insurance losses
and loss adjustment expenses in periodic operating results.

In addition, incurred losses from property and casualty reinsurance
include amortization of deferred charges established on retroactive reinsurance
contracts. At inception of these contracts, unpaid losses are recorded at the
estimated ultimate payment amount. However, a deferred charge asset is also
recorded at the inception of the contract. The liabilities, net of deferred
charges established, are recorded as losses incurred. The deferred charges are
subsequently amortized over the expected claim payment period, with such
charges recorded as a component of insurance losses and loss adjustment
expenses.

The following table presents the development of Berkshire’s consolidated
net unpaid losses for property/casualty contracts from 1993 through 2003. Data
in the table related to acquired businesses is included from the acquisition
date forward. Most significantly, GEICO (acquired January 2, 1996) is included
as of December 31, 1995 and General Re (acquired December 21, 1998) is included
as of December 31, 1998.

The first section of the table reconciles the estimated liability for
unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses recorded at the balance sheet date
for each of the indicated years. The net liability represents the estimated
amount of claims and claim expenses, including IBNR, outstanding as of the
balance sheet date, reduced by estimates of amounts recoverable under ceded
reinsurance, deferred charges on retroactive reinsurance contracts, and reserve
discounts.

The next section of the table shows the re-estimated amount of the
previously recorded net liability based on experience as of the end of each
succeeding year. The estimate is increased or decreased as losses are paid and
more information becomes known about the frequency and severity of unpaid
claims. The line labeled “cumulative deficiency (redundancy)” represents the
aggregate change in the initial estimates from the original balance sheet date
through December 31, 2003. These amounts have been reported in earnings over
time as a component of losses and loss adjustment expenses. The redundancies
or deficiencies shown in each column should be viewed independently of the
other columns, because such adjustments made in earlier years may also be
included as a component of the adjustments in the more recent years. To avoid
misstating the cumulative redundancies or deficiencies, liabilities assumed
under retroactive reinsurance contracts are treated as occurrences in the year
the transaction was entered into, as opposed to when the underlying losses
actually occurred, which is, by definition, generally prior to the contract
date. Due to the significance of the deferred charges and reserve discounts,
the cumulative changes in such balances, which are included in the cumulative
deficiency/redundancy amounts, are also provided.



Item 1. Business

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

(Continued)

Property and casualty loss reserves

(Continued)

The bottom part of the table shows the cumulative amount of net losses and
loss adjustment expenses paid with respect to recorded net liabilities as of
the end of each succeeding year. While the information in the table provides a
historical perspective on the adequacy of unpaid losses and loss adjustment
expenses established in previous years, readers are cautioned against
extrapolating redundancies or deficiencies of the past on current unpaid loss
balances. Berkshire management believes that the reserves established as of
the end of 2003 are adequate. However, due to the inherent uncertainties in the
reserving process, it cannot be assured that such balances will ultimately
prove to be adequate. Dollar amounts are in millions.












Unpaid losses per Consolidated
Balance Sheet

$

2,902

$

3,199

$

5,690

$

6,059

$

6,637

$

22,804

$

26,600

$

32,868

$

40,562

$

43,771

$

45,393

Reserve discounts

—

—

—

—

—

1,666

1,663

1,675

2,022

2,405

2,435

Unpaid losses before discounts

2,902

3,199

5,690

6,059

6,637

24,470

28,263

34,543

42,584

46,176

47,828

Ceded reserves

(132

)

(133

)

(255

)

(248

)

(274

)

(2,167

)

(2,331

)

(2,997

)

(2,957

)

(2,623

)

(2,597

)

Net unpaid losses

2,770

3,066

5,435

5,811

6,363

22,303

25,932

31,546

39,627

43,553

45,231

Reserve discounts

—

—

—

—

—

(1,666

)

(1,663

)

(1,675

)

(2,022

)

(2,405

)

(2,435

)

Deferred charges

(466

)

(441

)

(390

)

(338

)

(480

)

(560

)

(1,518

)

(2,593

)

(3,232

)

(3,379

)

(3,087

)

Net unpaid losses, net of
discounts/
deferred charges

$

2,304

$

2,625

$

5,045

$

5,473

$

5,883

$

20,077

$

22,751

$

27,278

$

34,373

$

37,769

$

39,709

Liability re-estimated:

1 year later

2,344

2,662

4,936

5,324

5,673

19,663

22,239

28,569

36,289

39,206

2 years later

2,365

2,707

4,901

5,220

5,540

18,132

22,829

30,667

38,069

3 years later

2,391

2,690

4,859

5,093

5,386

18,464

24,079

32,156

4 years later

2,393

2,696

4,795

4,973

5,293

19,750

25,158

5 years later

2,401

2,658

4,707

4,906

5,304

20,581

6 years later

2,349

2,622

4,647

4,920

5,246

7 years later

2,336

2,600

4,673

4,891

8 years later

2,314

2,617

4,660

9 years later

2,337

2,611

10 years later

2,327

Cumulative deficiency
(redundancy)


(14

)

(385

)

(582

)

(637

)


2,407

4,878

3,696

1,437

Cumulative foreign exchange
effect*

—

—

—

—

—

(182

)

(395

)

(1,424

)

(1,406

)

(957

)

Net deficiency (redundancy)

$


$

(14

)

$

(385

)

$

(582

)

$

(637

)

$


$

2,012

$

3,454

$

2,290

$


Cumulative payments:

1 year later

$


$


$

1,166

$

1,385

$

1,811

$

4,509

$

5,825

$

5,352

$

6,653

$

8,092

2 years later



1,912

2,379

2,463

7,596

8,289

8,744

11,396

3 years later



2,732

2,891

3,330

9,384

9,889

11,625

4 years later


1,309

3,129

3,372

3,507

9,636

11,513

5 years later

1,085

1,460

3,310

3,465

3,598

11,421

6 years later

1,187

1,591

3,357

3,518

3,694

7 years later

1,309

1,624

3,388

3,586

8 years later

1,337

1,639

3,449

9 years later

1,353

1,686

10 years later

1,383

Net deficiency (redundancy)
above

$


$

(14

)

$

(385

)

$

(582

)

$

(637

)

$


$

2,012

$

3,454

$

2,290

$


Deficiency from deferred charge
changes and reserve discounts











(Redundancy) deficiency before
deferred
charges and reserve discounts

$

(366

)

$

(378

)

$

(698

)

$

(843

)

$

(1,008

)

$


$

1,648

$

2,760

$

1,805

$

(137

)

*Beginning in 1998, unpaid losses include amounts related to the
international property and casualty business of General Re. The
amount of re-estimated liabilities in the table above related to these
operations reflect the exchange rates as of the end of the re-estimation
period. The cumulative foreign exchange effect represents the cumulative
effect of changes in foreign exchange rates from the original balance sheet
date to the end of the re-estimation period.



Item 1. Business

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

(Continued)

Investments

— Investments associated with insurance activities derive from
shareholder capital, including amounts acquired in business acquisitions, as
well as funds provided from policyholders through insurance and reinsurance
business (“float”). The levels of reinsurance assumed business in recent
years, plus the acquisitions of GEICO and General Re, have produced an
exceptional increase in the amount of “float” held by Berkshire’s insurance
businesses. Float is an approximation of the amount of net policyholder funds
available for investment. That term denotes the sum of unpaid losses and loss
adjustment expenses, unearned premiums and other policyholder liabilities, less
the aggregate amount of premium balances receivable, losses recoverable from
reinsurance ceded, deferred policy acquisition costs, deferred charges on
reinsurance contracts, and related deferred income taxes. The amount of float
has grown from about $3.8 billion at the end of 1995 to about $44.2 billion at
the end of 2003, through internal growth as well as the acquisition of General
Re in 1998. Equally important as the size of the float balance is its cost
which is represented by the periodic net underwriting gain or loss of the
business. The increases in the amounts of float plus the substantial amounts
of shareholder capital devoted to insurance and reinsurance activities have
generated meaningful increases in the levels of investments and investment
income over the past five years.

Investment portfolios of insurance subsidiaries include equity ownership
percentages of other publicly traded companies, which are primarily
concentrated in relatively few companies. Investment portfolios of Berkshire’s
insurance businesses also include large amounts of fixed income securities,
which consist of obligations of the U.S. Government, U.S. states and
municipalities, mortgage-backed securities issued primarily by the three major
U.S. Government and Government-sponsored agencies, as well as obligations of
foreign governments and corporate obligations. Investment portfolios are
primarily managed by Berkshire’s corporate office. Generally, there are no
targeted investment allocation rates established by management with respect to
investment activities. Rather, management will increase or decrease investments
in response to perceived changes in opportunities of income or capital growth
relative to risks associated with the issuers of the securities.

Non-Insurance Businesses of Berkshire

The Registrant’s numerous and diverse non-insurance businesses are
described below.

Apparel —

Berkshire’s apparel businesses include manufacturers and
distributors of a variety of clothing and footwear. Businesses engaged in the
manufacture and distribution of clothing include Fruit of the Loom (“FOL”),
Garan and Fechheimer Brothers. Berkshire’s footwear businesses include H.H.
Brown Shoe Group and Justin Brands.

In April of 2002 Berkshire acquired FOL’s basic apparel businesses, which
prior to the acquisition date operated as debtors-in-possession pursuant to its
Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing. Berkshire did not acquire FOL’s ultimate parent
as well as certain other entities in the FOL group or assume any liabilities of
the entities not acquired. FOL, headquartered in Bowling Green, Kentucky, is a
vertically integrated manufacturer and distributor of basic apparel products
sold principally under the

Fruit of the Loom

® and

BVD

® labels. FOL is a market
leader in the mass merchandise segment of the men’s and boys’ underwear market,
and is one of the branded market leaders in the women’s and girls’ underwear
market. In addition FOL produces and sells undecorated T-shirts and fleecewear
under its own labels in a variety of colors and styles. Products are
distributed from FOL’s distribution centers to retailers and wholesalers in
both North America and Europe.

As a vertically integrated manufacturer, FOL performs most of its own
spinning, knitting, cloth finishing, cutting, sewing and packaging. For the
North American market, which comprised more than 80% of FOL’s 2003 consolidated
net sales, the majority of capital-intensive spinning and cloth manufacturing
operations are located in highly automated facilities in the United States with
a portion of cloth manufacturing performed offshore. Labor-intensive sewing
and finishing operations are located in lower labor cost facilities in Central
America and the Caribbean. For the European market, capital-intensive
manufacturing operations are performed in Ireland and Northern Ireland and
sewing is performed in Morocco.

Berkshire acquired Garan in September of 2002. Garan, based in New York
City, designs, manufactures, and sells apparel primarily for children and to a
lesser degree for men and women. Products are sold under private labels of its
customers as well as its own trademarks, including

Garanimals

®

.

During 2003,
Garan completed the transition of all production activities from facilities in
the United States to facilities primarily located in Central America.
Substantially all of Garan’s products are sold through its distribution centers
in the U.S. to major national chain stores, department stores, and specialty
stores. In 2003, over 90% of Garan’s sales were to Wal-Mart.

FOL’s and Garan’s markets are highly competitive, consisting of many
domestic and foreign manufacturers and distributors. Competition is generally
based upon price, product style, quality and customer service.

Fechheimer Brothers manufactures, distributes, and sells uniforms,
principally for the public service and safety markets, including police, fire,
postal and military markets. Fechheimer was acquired by Berkshire in 1986 and
is based in Cincinnati, Ohio.



Item 1. Business

Non-Insurance Businesses of Berkshire

(Continued)

Apparel

(Continued)

Justin Brands was acquired in August 2000 and H.H. Brown Shoe Group has
been owned by Berkshire for more than the past five years. Collectively,
Berkshire’s footwear businesses purchase or manufacture and distribute work,
rugged outdoor and casual shoes (H.H. Brown Shoe Group) and western-style
footwear (Justin Brands) under a number of brand names. A significant portion
of the shoes produced by Berkshire’s shoe businesses is manufactured or
purchased from sources outside the United States. Over the past three years, a
number of manufacturing facilities in the United States and Canada have been
closed. Products are principally sold in the United States through a variety
of channels including major retailers and department stores, footwear chains,
specialty stores, catalogs and the Internet, as well as through company-owned
retail stores.

Building Products

— In August 2000, Berkshire entered the building
products business with the acquisition of Acme Brick Company (“Acme”). Acme,
headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas, manufactures and distributes clay bricks
(

Acme Brick

), concrete block (

Featherlite

) and cut limestone (

Texas Quarries

).
In addition, Acme distributes a number of other building products of other
manufacturers, including glass block, brick, floor and wall tile and other
masonry products. Acme also sells ceramic floor and wall tile, as well as
marble, granite and other stones through its subsidiary, American Tile.
Products are sold primarily in the Southwest United States through
company-operated sales offices. Acme distributes products primarily to
homebuilders and masonry and general contractors.

Acme operates 24 clay brick manufacturing facilities located in seven
states, seven concrete block facilities in Texas, and one stone quarry
fabrication facility in Texas. The demand for Acme’s products is seasonal,
with higher sales in the warmer weather months, and is subject to the level of
construction, which can be cyclical. Acme also owns and leases properties and
mineral rights that supply raw materials used in many of its manufactured
products.

Berkshire acquired Benjamin Moore & Co. (“Benjamin Moore”) in December of
2000. Benjamin Moore, headquartered in Montvale, New Jersey, is a leading
formulator, manufacturer and retailer of a broad range of primarily
architectural coatings, available principally in the United States and Canada.
Products include water-thinnable and solvent-thinnable general purpose coatings
(paints, stains and clear finishes) for use by the general public, contractors
and industrial and commercial users. Products are marketed under various
registered brand names, including

Regal

®,

Superspec

®,

Superhide

® and

Moorgard

®.

Benjamin Moore relies primarily on an independent dealer network for the
distribution of its products. The network consists of over 3,200 retailers
with over 4,200 storefronts in the United States and Canada. Benjamin Moore
also owns and manages several multiple-outlet dealerships and stand-alone
stores in various parts of the United States and Canada serving primarily
contractors and general consumers. Included in the 4,200 storefronts at
December 31, 2003 were 168 Benjamin Moore majority-owned stores positioned in
the market as independent retailers that offer a broad array of products
including Benjamin Moore® brands and other competitor coatings, wallcoverings,
window treatments and sundries.

The architectural coatings industry is highly competitive and has
historically been subject to intense price competition. It is estimated that
there are approximately 500 coatings manufacturers in the United States, many
of which are small companies, that compete regionally and locally. The top
three companies in the industry, including Benjamin Moore positioned third,
comprise about 50% of the total market.

Berkshire acquired Johns Manville (“JM”) in February of 2001. JM has been
serving the building products industry for over 150 years and is a leading
manufacturer of fiber glass wool insulation products for walls, attics and
floors in homes and commercial buildings, as well as pipe, duct and equipment
insulation products. JM is also the leading full-line supplier of roofing
systems and components for low-slope commercial and industrial roofs in North
America. In addition, JM manufactures nonwoven mats, fabrics and fibers used
as reinforcements in building and industrial applications, and high efficiency
air filtration media. Fiber glass is the basic material in a majority of JM’s
products, although JM also manufactures a significant portion of its products
with other materials to satisfy the broader needs of its customers. JM is
headquartered in Denver, Colorado, and operates 46 manufacturing facilities in
North America, Europe and China.

JM sells its products through a wide variety of channels including
contractors, distributors, retailers, manufacturers and fabricators. JM’s
results of operations are affected by the levels of new and repair/remodel
commercial and residential construction and are moderately seasonal due to
increases in construction activity that typically occur in the second and third
quarters of the calendar year.



Item 1. Business

Non-Insurance Businesses of Berkshire

(Continued)

Building Products

(Continued)

JM has leading market positions in each of its businesses and typically
competes with a few large national competitors and several smaller, regional
competitors. JM’s products compete primarily on the basis of value, product
differentiation and customization and breadth of product line.

Berkshire acquired a 90% equity interest in MiTek Inc. (“MiTek”) in July
of 2001. MiTek is headquartered in Chesterfield, Missouri and is a leading provider of engineered connector products, engineering software
and services, and manufacturing machinery to the truss fabrication segment of
the building components industry. Primary customers are truss fabricators who
manufacture pre-fabricated roof and floor trusses and wall panels for the
residential building market as well as the light commercial and institutional
construction industry. MiTek also participates in the light-guage steel framing
market under the

Ultra-Span

® name.

MiTek operates 16 manufacturing facilities located in 10 countries and 29
sales/engineering offices located in 19 countries. Products are sold to
customers in approximately 80 countries, and MiTek’s business is subject to
seasonal and cyclical changes in the overall housing industry.

Finance and Financial Products

— Berkshire’s finance and financial
products businesses engage in a variety of finance related activities. BH
Finance invests in fixed-income financial instruments, often on a leveraged
basis, pursuant to proprietary strategies with the objective of earning above
average returns. Management recognizes and accepts that losses may occur due to
the nature of the investments acquired as well as the markets in general. In
addition the level of investments held will vary over time depending on the
magnitude and number of strategies employed. This business is conducted from
Berkshire’s corporate headquarters.

On August 7, 2003, Berkshire acquired Clayton Homes, Inc. (“Clayton”).
Clayton, headquartered near Knoxville, Tennessee, is a vertically integrated
manufactured housing company with 20 manufacturing plants in 6 states.
Clayton’s homes are marketed in 32 states through a network of
841 retailers,
306 of which are company-owned sales centers. Installment financing is offered
to purchasers of Clayton’s manufactured homes as well as those purchasing homes
from selected independent retailers. Such financing is provided through its
wholly owned finance subsidiary, Vanderbilt Mortgage and Finance,
Inc. (“VMF” or “Vanderbilt”).
Clayton also develops, owns, and manages 89 manufactured housing communities
located in 13 states.

Clayton competes at the manufacturing, retail, and finance levels on the
basis of price, service, delivery capabilities and product performance, and
considers the ability to make financing available to retail purchasers a major
factor affecting the market acceptance of its product. Retail sales are
facilitated by Clayton’s offering of various finance and insurance
programs. Finance programs include VMF’s origination of installment contract
receivables at both company owned sales centers and at select independent
retailers, and also include the bulk purchase of manufactured housing contracts
from banks and other lenders. VMF also performs, on behalf of other
institutions, servicing of manufactured housing contracts that were not
purchased or originated by VMF. These purchases and servicing arrangements may
relate to the portfolios of other lenders or finance companies, governmental
agencies, or other entities that purchase and hold manufactured housing
contracts. Clayton also acts as agent on physical damage insurance policies,
family protection insurance policies, home buyer protection plan policies, and
other programs. Insurance programs offered by Clayton are reinsured through
various wholly owned and majority owned subsidiaries of Clayton.

Prior to Berkshire’s acquisition, most of Vanderbilt’s primary source of
permanent funding for its lending activities was in the form of asset-backed
securities issued through a special purpose entity. Berkshire intends to
provide permanent funding to Vanderbilt with loans from its wholly owned
subsidiary Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation (“BHFC”).

BHFC
was formed during 2003 and through December 31, 2003 issued $2 billion of medium
term notes with maturities of between 5 and 10 years. The proceeds from these
borrowings were lent to Vanderbilt to support Vanderbilt’s current lending
activities.

Berkshire acquired XTRA in September 2001. XTRA, operationally based in
St. Louis, Missouri and headquartered in Westport, Connecticut, is a leading
transportation equipment lessor. XTRA manages a diverse
fleet of approximately 220,000 units, constituting a net investment of
approximately $1.2 billion. The fleet includes over-the-road trailers,
intermodal chassis and piggyback trailers, and domestic and marine shipping
containers. Management estimates that XTRA is one of the two largest lessors
(in terms of units available) of over-the-road trailers in North America.



Item 1. Business

Non-Insurance Businesses of Berkshire

(Continued)

Finance and Financial Products

(Continued)

Transportation equipment customers lease equipment to cover cyclical,
seasonal and geographic needs and as a substitute for purchasing. In addition,
capital and capacity constrained transportation providers often use leasing to
maximize their asset utilization and reduce capital expenditures. By
maintaining a large and diversified fleet, XTRA is able to provide customers
with a broad selection of equipment and quick response times.

CORT Business Services Corporation was acquired in 2000 by an 80.1% owned
subsidiary of Berkshire and is the leading national provider of rental
furniture, accessories and related services in the “rent-to-rent” segment of
the furniture rental industry.

General Re Securities and affiliates (“GRS”) was acquired by Berkshire as part
of the 1998 acquisition of General Re. GRS has been a dealer in derivative
products for over the past five years, offering a full line of interest rate,
currency, and equity swap and option products, as well as structured finance
products. In January 2002, a decision was made to commence a long-term run-off
of GRS. The run-off is expected to occur over a period of several years,
during which GRS will limit its new business to certain risk management
transactions and will unwind its existing asset and liability positions in an
orderly manner.

Berkshire’s other finance businesses include Berkshire Hathaway Credit
Corporation (commercial real estate financing), Berkshire Hathaway Life
Insurance (sales of annuity contracts), Scott Fetzer Financial Group, Inc.
(consumer receivable financing primarily in connection with sales of Kirby
products).

Flight Services

— In 1996, Berkshire acquired FlightSafety International
Inc. (“FSI”). FSI’s corporate headquarters is located at LaGuardia Airport in
Flushing, New York. FSI engages primarily in the business of providing high
technology training to operators of aircraft and ships. FSI’s training
activities include: advanced pilot training in the operation of aircraft and
air traffic control procedures; aircrew training for military and other
government personnel; aircraft maintenance technician training; ab-initio
(primary) pilot training to qualify individuals for private and commercial
pilots’ licenses; and ship handling and related training services. FSI also
develops classroom instructional systems and materials for use in its training
business and for sale to others.

A significant part of FSI’s training programs derives from the use of
simulators, which incorporate computer-based technology to replicate the
operation of particular aircraft or ocean-going vessels. Simulators reproduce,
with a high degree of accuracy, certain sights, movements, and aircraft or
vessel control responses experienced by the operator of the aircraft or ship.
FSI utilizes approximately 275 training devices, including 231 civil aviation
simulators. FSI’s training businesses are conducted primarily in the United
States, with facilities located in 21 states. FSI also operates training
facilities in Australia, Brazil, Canada, France and the United Kingdom. During
1997, FSI and The Boeing Company, a leading airplane manufacturer, established
a joint venture to provide pilot and aircrew training for airline customers
around the world. In October 2002, FSI’s ownership interest in the joint
venture was redeemed by the joint venture.

FSI also designs and manufactures full motion flight simulators, visual
displays, and other training equipment for use in its training business and for
sale to others. Manufacturing facilities are located in Oklahoma and Missouri.

Berkshire acquired NetJets Inc. (“NJ”), in 1998. NJ is the world’s
leading provider of fractional ownership programs for general aviation
aircraft. In 1986, NJ created the fractional ownership of aircraft concept and
introduced its NetJets® program in the United States with one aircraft type.
In 2003 the NetJets® program operated 13 aircraft types, including the Boeing
Business Jet. In late 1996, NJ expanded its fractional ownership programs to
Europe via a joint venture arrangement which is now 100% owned by NJ. The
fractional ownership of aircraft concept permits customers to acquire a
specific percentage of a certain aircraft type and allows them to utilize the
aircraft for a specified number of flight hours per annum. In addition, NJ
provides management, ground support and flight operation services to customers
after the sale. NJ’s revenues derive from both the sale of fractional
interests as well as management and usage fees charged to clients in connection
with flight operations.

The fractional ownership concept is designed to meet the needs of
customers who cannot justify the purchase of an entire aircraft based upon
expected usage. In addition, fractional ownership programs are available for
corporate flight departments seeking to outsource their general aviation needs
or looking for additional capacity for peak periods and for others that
previously chartered aircraft. NJ places great emphasis on safety and customer
service. Its programs are designed to offer customers guaranteed availability
of aircraft, lower and predictable operating costs and increased liquidity.



Item 1. Business

Non-Insurance Businesses of Berkshire

(Continued)

Flight Services

(Continued)

NJ is currently believed to be the world’s largest purchaser of general
aviation aircraft. The company maintained over 400 aircraft in its fleet as of
December 31, 2003. NJ management believes that the market for fractional
ownership of aircraft programs is large and growing and will contribute to NJ’s
continued growth over the foreseeable future. NJ’s executive offices are
located in New Jersey, while most of its logistical and flight operations are
based at Port Columbus International Airport in Columbus, Ohio. NJ’s European
operations are based in Lisbon, Portugal.

McLane Company –

Berkshire acquired McLane Company, Inc. (“McLane”) in May
2003 from Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (“Wal-Mart”). McLane provides wholesale
distribution and logistics services in all 50 states and internationally in
Brazil to customers that include discount retailers, convenience stores, quick
service restaurants, drug stores and movie theatre complexes. Since 1990
McLane was an integral part of the Wal-Mart distribution network, and under
Berkshire ownership continues to provide wholesale distribution services to
Wal-Mart, which accounted for approximately 35% of McLane’s revenues during the
period from May until December 2003. McLane’s business model is based on a
high volume of sales, rapid inventory turnover and tight expense control, with
operations divided into two units: grocery distribution and foodservice
operations.

McLane’s grocery distribution unit, based in Temple, Texas, enjoys the
dominant market share within the convenience store industry and serves most of
the national convenience store chains and major oil company retail outlets.
Grocery operations provide products to more than 38,300 retail locations
nationwide. McLane’s grocery distribution unit operates 18
facilities in 16
states, which average approximately 350,000 square feet per facility.

McLane’s foodservice operations, based in Carrollton, Texas, focus on
serving the quick service restaurant industry with high quality,
timely-delivered products. Operations are conducted through 18 distribution
centers in 16 states, which average approximately 160,000 square feet per
facility. The foodservice distribution unit is considered the second largest
restaurant systems supplier in the United States, servicing more than 17,400
chain restaurants nationwide. Also included in McLane’s foodservice operations
are third party logistics services provided from four distribution centers in
Brazil that average approximately 375,000 square feet per facility.

Retail Businesses –

Berkshire’s retail businesses consist of several
independently managed home furnishings and jewelry retail operations.
Information regarding each of these operations follows.

The retail furniture businesses are the Nebraska Furniture Mart (“NFM”),
R.C. Willey Home Furnishings (“R.C. Willey”), Star Furniture Company (“Star”),
and Jordan’s Furniture, Inc. (“Jordan’s”). NFM is 80% owned by Berkshire,
whereas R.C. Willey, Star and Jordan’s are 100% owned by Berkshire. Berkshire
has owned its interest in NFM since 1983, acquired R.C. Willey in 1995, Star in
1997 and Jordan’s was acquired in 1999.

NFM, R.C. Willey, Star and Jordan’s each offer a wide selection of
furniture, bedding and accessories. In addition, NFM and R.C. Willey sell a
full line of major household appliances, electronics, computers and other home
furnishings. NFM, R.C. Willey, Star and Jordan’s also offer customer financing
to complement their retail operations. An important feature of each of these
businesses is their ability to control costs and to produce high business
volume from offering significant value to their customers.

NFM operates its business from a very large retail complex and sizable
warehouse and administrative facilities in Omaha, Nebraska, which includes
approximately 535,000 square feet of retail space. NFM’s customers are drawn
from a radius around Omaha of approximately 300 miles and it is the largest
furniture retailer in the area. In 2000, NFM acquired Homemakers Furniture
located in Des Moines, Iowa. Homemakers has two facilities that include
approximately 225,000 square feet of retail space. In August 2003, NFM opened
a new store in Kansas City, Kansas. This store, which anchors
a new retail and entertainment district, includes approximately 445,000 square
feet of retail space.

R.C. Willey, based in Salt Lake City, is the dominant home furnishings
retailer in the Intermountain West region of the United States. R.C. Willey
operates nine full retail stores, three retail clearance facilities and two
distribution centers. These facilities — which include approximately one
million square feet of retail space —include nine stores strategically located
throughout northern Utah, one store in Meridian, Idaho, and two stores in the
Las Vegas, Nevada region.

Star’s retail facilities include about 694,000 square feet of retail space
in ten locations. All of Star’s retail facilities are located in Texas, with
seven in Houston. Star is believed to be the largest furniture retailer, as
measured by sales, in each of its markets. Jordan’s operates a furniture
retail business from four locations with approximately 325,000 square feet of
retail space in Massachusetts and New Hampshire. Jordan’s is believed to be
the largest furniture retailer, as measured by sales, in the Massachusetts and
New Hampshire areas. Jordan’s is well known in its markets for its unique store
arrangements and advertising campaigns.



Item 1. Business

Non-Insurance Businesses of Berkshire

(Continued)

Retail Businesses

(Continued)

Since 1989, Berkshire has owned an interest (currently 88%) in Borsheim
Jewelry Company, Inc. (“Borsheim’s”). From its single store located in Omaha,
Nebraska, Borsheim’s is a high volume retailer of fine jewelry, watches,
crystal, china, stemware, flatware, gifts and collectibles. In 1995, Berkshire
acquired Helzberg’s Diamond Shops, Inc. (“Helzberg’s”). Helzberg’s, based in
North Kansas City, Missouri, operates a chain of 251 retail jewelry stores in
35 states. Most of Helzberg’s stores are located in malls or power strip
centers, and all stores operate under the name

Helzberg Diamonds

. In July
2000, Berkshire acquired The Ben Bridge Corporation (“Ben Bridge Jeweler”).
Ben Bridge Jeweler, based in Seattle, Washington, operates a chain of 72
upscale retail jewelry stores in 11 states, primarily in the Western United
States. Ben Bridge Jeweler stores are located primarily in major shopping
malls. Berkshire’s retail jewelry operations are subject to seasonality with
approximately 40% of annual revenues being earned in the fourth quarter.

Shaw Industries

— Berkshire acquired Shaw Industries, Inc. (“Shaw”) in
January 2001. Shaw, headquartered in Dalton, Georgia, is the world’s largest
carpet manufacturer based on both revenue and volume of production. Shaw
designs and manufactures over 2,000 styles of tufted and woven carpet and
laminate flooring for residential and commercial use under about 30 brand and
trade names and under certain private labels. Shaw’s manufacturing operations
are fully integrated from the processing of fiber through the finishing of
carpet. Shaw’s carpet and laminate are sold in a broad range of prices,
patterns, colors and textures.

Shaw sells its wholesale products to over 50,000 retailers, distributors
and commercial users throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico; through
its own residential and commercial contract distribution channels to various
residential and commercial end-users in the United States; and to a lesser
degree, exports to additional overseas markets. Shaw also provides
installation services and sells ceramic tile and hardwood flooring.

Substantially all carpet manufactured by Shaw is tufted carpet made from
nylon, polypropylene, polyester and wool. In the tufting process, yarn is
inserted by multiple needles into a synthetic backing, forming loops which may
be cut or left uncut, depending on the desired texture or construction. During
2003 Shaw processed approximately 97% of its requirements for carpet yarn in
its own yarn processing facilities.

Shaw’s wholesale products are marketed domestically by over 1,700 salaried
and commissioned sales personnel directly to retailers and distributors and to
large national accounts. Shaw’s eight full-service distribution facilities and
20 redistribution centers, along with centralized management information
systems, enable it to provide prompt delivery of its products to both its
retail customers and wholesale distributors.

The floor covering industry is highly competitive with more than 200
companies engaged in the manufacture and sale of carpet in the United States
and numerous manufacturers engaged in hard surface floor covering production
and sales. According to industry estimates, carpet accounts for approximately
60% of the total United States production of all flooring types. The principal
competitive measures within the floor covering industry are quality, style,
price and service.

Other Non-Insurance Businesses —

Berkshire’s other non-insurance
businesses consist of a wide array of businesses that engage in a variety of
business activities. Additional information related to these businesses is as
follows.

Scott Fetzer Companies —

The Scott Fetzer Companies are a diversified
group of 21 businesses that manufacture and distribute a wide variety of
products for residential, industrial and institutional use. The two most
significant of these businesses are Kirby home cleaning systems and Campbell
Hausfeld products.

The

Buffalo News

publishes a Sunday edition and eight editions each
weekday from its headquarters in Buffalo, New York.

See’s Candies

produces boxed chocolates and other confectionery products
with an emphasis on quality and distinctiveness in two large kitchens in
California. See’s revenues are highly seasonal with approximately 50% of total
annual revenues being earned in the months of November and December.

International Dairy Queen

services a system of over 6,000 stores operating
under the names

Dairy Queen, Orange Julius

and

Karmelkorn

that offer various
dairy desserts, beverages, prepared foods, blended fruit drinks, popcorn and
other snack foods.

In February 2002, Berkshire acquired

Albecca Inc.

(“Albecca”). Albecca is
headquartered in Norcross, Georgia, and primarily does business under the

Larson-Juhl

name. Albecca designs, manufactures and distributes a complete
line of high quality, branded custom framing products, including wood and metal
moulding, matboard, foamboard, glass, equipment and other framing supplies.



Item 1. Business

Non-Insurance Businesses of Berkshire

(Continued)

Berkshire acquired

CTB International Corp.

(“CTB”) in October 2002. CTB,
headquartered in Milford, Indiana, is a leading designer, manufacturer and
marketer of systems used in the grain industry and in the production of
poultry, hogs, and eggs. Products are produced in the United States and Europe
and are sold primarily through a global network of independent dealers and
distributors, with peak sales occurring in the second and third quarters.

In October 2002 Berkshire acquired

The Pampered Chef, LTD

(“TPC”), the
largest direct seller of high quality kitchen tools in the United States.
Products are researched, designed and tested by TPC, and manufactured by third
party suppliers. From its Addison, Illinois headquarters, TPC utilizes a
network of more than 69,000 independent sales representatives to sell its
products through home-based demonstrations, principally in the United States.

Berkshire currently holds securities possessing 9.9% of the voting
interest and an 83.7% (80.5% on a fully-diluted basis) economic interest in

MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company

(“MidAmerican”). Berkshire’s investments
in MidAmerican are accounted for pursuant to the equity method. Additional
information concerning Berkshire’s investments in MidAmerican is provided in
Note 3 to the Registrant’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

MidAmerican is a U.S. based global energy company that generates,
distributes and supplies energy to utilities, government entities, retail
customers and other customers located throughout the world. MidAmerican’s
businesses include MidAmerican Energy Company (“MidAmerican Energy”), a
regulated public utility principally engaged in the business of generating,
transmitting, distributing and selling electric energy and distributing,
selling and transporting natural gas at the retail level in Iowa, Illinois,
South Dakota and Nebraska. In addition to retail sales, MidAmerican Energy
delivers electric energy to other utilities, marketers and municipalities, who
distribute it to end-use customers.

Through its various subsidiaries, MidAmerican also distributes electricity
and engages in other auxiliary businesses in the United Kingdom, operates
geothermal power plants in the Philippine Islands, and has interests in other
power generating facilities in the United States. MidAmerican owns and
operates two interstate natural gas pipeline systems which transport natural
gas to customers in the Southwest and Upper Midwest regions of the United
States. The systems include about 18,200 miles of pipeline in operation and
capacity to deliver about 6.2 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day.
MidAmerican also owns HomeServices, which is the second largest full service
residential real estate brokerage firm in the United States.

Berkshire Hathaway Inc., its subsidiaries and affiliates, employed
approximately 172,700 persons at December 31, 2003.

Additional information with respect to Berkshire’s businesses

The
amounts of revenue, earnings before taxes and identifiable assets
attributable to the aforementioned business segments are included in Note 20 to
Registrant’s Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8, Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data. Additional information regarding
Registrant’s investments in fixed maturity and marketable equity securities is
included in Notes 4 and 5 to Registrant’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

Berkshire’s periodic reports filed with the SEC, which include Form 10-K,
Form 10-Q, Form 8-K and amendments thereto, may be accessed by the public free
of charge from the SEC and through Berkshire. Electronic copies of these
reports can be accessed at the SEC’s website (http://www.sec.gov) and
indirectly through Berkshire’s website (http://www.berkshirehathaway.com).
Copies of these reports may also be obtained, free of charge, upon written
request to: Berkshire Hathaway Inc., 1440 Kiewit Plaza, Omaha, NE 68131, Attn.
Corporate Secretary. The public may read or obtain copies of these reports
from the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street N.W.,
Washington, D.C. 20549 (1-800-SEC-0330).



Item 2. Description of Properties

The physical properties used by the Registrant and its significant
business segments are summarized below:



Item 2. Description of Properties (continued)



Item 3. Legal Proceedings

GEICO is a defendant in a number of class action lawsuits related to the
use of replacement repair parts not produced by the original auto manufacturer,
the calculation of “total loss” value and whether to pay diminished value as
part of the settlement of certain claims. Management intends to vigorously
defend GEICO’s position on these claim settlement procedures. However, these
lawsuits are in various stages of development and the ultimate outcome cannot
be reasonably determined.

Berkshire and its subsidiaries are parties in a variety of legal actions
arising out of the normal course of business. In particular, such legal actions
affect Berkshire’s insurance and reinsurance businesses. Such litigation
generally seeks to establish liability directly through insurance contracts or
indirectly through reinsurance contracts issued by Berkshire subsidiaries.
Plaintiffs occasionally seek punitive or exemplary damages. Berkshire does not
believe that such normal and routine litigation will have a material effect on
its financial condition or results of operations.

Otherwise, litigation pending against the Company and its subsidiaries is
not considered material or is ordinary routine litigation incidental to the
business.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None

Executive Officers of the Registrant

Following is a list of the Registrant’s executive officers:

Name

Age

Position with Registrant

Since

Warren E. Buffett


Chairman of the Board


Marc D. Hamburg


Vice President


Charles T. Munger


Vice Chairman of the Board


Each executive officer serves, in accordance with the by-laws of the
Registrant, until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the
next annual meeting of shareholders and until his respective successor is
chosen and qualified or until he sooner dies, resigns, is removed or becomes
disqualified. Mr. Buffett and Mr. Munger also serve as directors of the
Registrant.

Part II

Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Stock and Related Security Holder Matters

Market Information

Berkshire’s Class A and Class B Common Stock are listed for trading on the
New York Stock Exchange, trading symbol: BRK.A and BRK.B. The following table
sets forth the high and low sales prices per share, as reported on the New York
Stock Exchange Composite List during the periods indicated:



Class A

Class B

Class A

Class B

High

Low

High

Low

High

Low

High

Low

First Quarter

$

73,005

$

60,600

$

2,437

$

2,015

$

74,900

$

69,000

$

2,499

$

2,285

Second Quarter

75,500

64,305

2,514

2,141

78,500

66,500

2,620

2,215

Third Quarter

76,400

70,900

2,549

2,367

75,900

59,600

2,530

1,925

Fourth Quarter

84,700

75,150

2,824

2,496

75,000

67,800

2,500

2,244

Shareholders

Berkshire had approximately 7,200 record holders of its Class A Common
Stock and 14,500 record holders of its Class B Common Stock at March 3, 2004.
Record owners included nominees holding at least 450,000 shares of Class A
Common Stock and 7,500,000 shares of Class B Common Stock on behalf of
beneficial-but-not-of-record owners.

Dividends

Berkshire has not declared a cash dividend since 1967.



Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Stock and Related Security Holder
Matters

Securities authorized for issuance under equity plans

In connection with certain business acquisitions, Berkshire has issued
Class B common stock options to replace outstanding options held by employees
of the acquired entity. The terms of the Berkshire stock options are
essentially equivalent to the terms of the options of the acquired entity,
except that exercise prices were adjusted to give effect to the common stock
exchange rate applicable to each acquisition. No additional stock options have
been granted. A summary of the Registrant’s equity compensation plans under
which equity securities are authorized for issuance as of December 31, 2003
follows:

Number of Class B

shares remaining

available for

issuance under

Number of Class B

Weighted-average

equity compensation

shares to be issued

exercise price of

plans (excluding

upon exercise of

outstanding options

shares reflected in

Plan category

options (a)

(b)

column (a))

Plans not approved
by security holders

246,567

$

1,689

None



Item 6. Selected Financial Data

Selected Financial Data for the Past Five Years

(dollars in millions except per share data)






Revenues:

Insurance premiums earned

$

21,493

$

19,182

$

17,905

$

19,343

$

14,306

Sales and service revenues

32,098

16,958

14,507

7,000

5,918

Interest, dividend and other investment income

3,098

2,943

2,765

2,685

2,314

Interest and other revenues of finance and financial
products businesses

3,041

2,234

1,928

1,322

1,105

Realized investment gains

(1)

4,129


1,488

4,499

1,247

Total revenues

$

63,859

$

42,235

$

38,593

$

34,849

$

24,890

Earnings:

Net earnings

(1) (2) (3)

$

8,151

$

4,286

$


$

3,328

$

1,557

Net earnings per share

(3)

$

5,309

$

2,795

$


$

2,185

$

1,025

Year-end data:

Total assets

$

180,559

$

169,544

$

162,752

$

135,792

$

131,416

Notes payable and other borrowings
of insurance and other non-finance businesses

4,182

4,775

3,455

2,611

2,465

Notes payable and other borrowings of
finance businesses

4,937

4,513

9,049

2,168

1,998

Shareholders’ equity

77,596

64,037

57,950

61,724

57,761

Class A equivalent common shares
outstanding, in thousands

1,537

1,535

1,528

1,526

1,521

Shareholders’ equity per outstanding
Class A equivalent common share

$

50,498

$

41,727

$

37,920

$

40,442

$

37,987

(1)

The amount of realized investment gains and losses for any given
period has no predictive value, and variations in amount from period to
period have no practical analytical value, particularly in view of the
unrealized appreciation now existing in Berkshire’s consolidated
investment portfolio. After-tax realized investment gains were $2,729
million in 2003, $566 million in 2002, $923 million in 2001, $2,746
million in 2000 and $809 million in 1999.

(2)

Net earnings for the year ending December 31, 2001 includes pre-tax
underwriting losses of $2.4 billion in connection with the September 11th
terrorist attack. Such loss reduced net earnings by approximately $1.5
billion and earnings per share by $982.

(3)

Effective January 1, 2002, Berkshire adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142 “Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets.” SFAS No. 142 changed the accounting for goodwill from a model
that required amortization of goodwill, supplemented by impairment tests,
to an accounting model that is based solely upon impairment tests.

A reconciliation of Berkshire’s Consolidated Statements of Earnings for each
of the five years ending December 31, 2003 from amounts reported to amounts
exclusive of goodwill amortization is shown below. Goodwill amortization for
the years ending December 31, 2001 and 2000 includes $78 million and $65
million, respectively, related to Berkshire’s equity method investment in
MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company.






Net earnings as reported

$

8,151

$

4,286

$


$

3,328

$

1,557

Goodwill amortization, after tax

—

—




Net earnings as adjusted

$

8,151

$

4,286

$

1,431

$

3,876

$

2,033

Earnings per Class A equivalent common share:

As reported

$

5,309

$

2,795

$


$

2,185

$

1,025

Goodwill amortization

—

—




Earnings per share as adjusted

$

5,309

$

2,795

$


$

2,545

$

1,338


Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Results of Operations

Net earnings for each of the past three years are disaggregated in the
table that follows. Amounts are after deducting income taxes and minority
interest. Dollars are in millions.




Insurance – underwriting

$

1,114

$

(284

)

$

(2,654

)

Insurance – investment income

2,276

2,096

1,968

Non-insurance businesses

1,745

1,668

1,082

Equity in earnings of MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company




Interest expense

(59

)

(55

)

(60

)

Purchase-accounting adjustments

(104

)

(65

)

(603

)

Other




Earnings before realized investment gains

5,422

3,720

(128

)

Realized investment gains

2,729



Net earnings

$

8,151

$

4,286

$


The business segment data (Note 20 to Consolidated Financial Statements)
should be read in conjunction with this discussion.

Insurance — Underwriting

A summary follows of underwriting results from Berkshire’s insurance
businesses for the past three years. Dollars are in millions.




Underwriting gain (loss) attributable to:

GEICO

$


$


$


General Re


(1,393

)

(3,671

)

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group

1,047


(634

)

Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group




Underwriting gain (loss) — pre-tax

1,718

(398

)

(4,054

)

Income taxes and minority interest


(114

)

(1,400

)

Net underwriting gain (loss)

$

1,114

$

(284

)

$

(2,654

)

Berkshire engages in both primary insurance and reinsurance of property
and casualty risks. Through General Re, Berkshire also reinsures life and
health risks. In primary insurance activities, Berkshire subsidiaries assume
defined portions of the risks of loss from persons or organizations that are
directly subject to the risks. In reinsurance activities, Berkshire
subsidiaries assume defined portions of similar or dissimilar risks that other
insurers or reinsurers have subjected themselves to in their own insuring
activities. Berkshire’s principal insurance businesses are: (1) GEICO, the
fifth largest auto insurer in the U.S., (2) General Re, one of the four largest
reinsurers in the world, (3) Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group (“BHRG”) and
(4) Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group. Berkshire’s management views insurance
businesses as possessing two distinct operations – underwriting and investing.
Accordingly, Berkshire evaluates performance of underwriting operations without
any allocation of investment income.

A significant marketing strategy followed by all these businesses is the
maintenance of extraordinary capital strength. Statutory surplus of
Berkshire’s insurance businesses totaled approximately $40.7 billion at
December 31, 2003. This superior capital strength creates opportunities,
especially with respect to reinsurance activities, to negotiate and enter into
insurance and reinsurance contracts specially designed to meet unique needs of
sophisticated insurance and reinsurance buyers. Additional information
regarding Berkshire’s insurance and reinsurance operations follows.

GEICO

GEICO provides primarily private passenger automobile coverages to
insureds in 48 states and the District of Columbia. GEICO policies are
marketed mainly by direct response methods in which customers apply for
coverage directly to the company over the telephone, through the mail or via
the Internet. This is a significant



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Insurance

—

Underwriting

(Continued)

GEICO (Continued)

element in GEICO’s strategy to be a low cost insurer. In addition, GEICO
strives to provide excellent service to customers, with the goal of
establishing long-term customer relationships.

GEICO’s underwriting results for the past three years are summarized
below. Dollars are in millions.




Amount

%

Amount

%

Amount

%

Premiums written

$

8,081

$

6,963

$

6,176

Premiums earned

$

7,784

100.0

$

6,670

100.0

$

6,060

100.0

Losses and loss adjustment expenses

5,955

76.5

5,137

77.0

4,842

79.9

Underwriting expenses

1,377

17.7

1,117

16.8


16.5

Total losses and expenses

7,332

94.2

6,254

93.8

5,839

96.4

Pre-tax underwriting gain

$


$


$


Premiums earned in 2003 were $7,784 million, an increase of 16.7% over
2002, following an increase of 10.1% in 2002 over 2001. The growth in premiums
earned in 2003 reflects a 10.9% increase in voluntary auto policies-in-force
during the past year and average premium rate increases of about two percent.
During 2003, policies-in-force increased 8.2% in the preferred risk auto line
and 21.4% in the standard and nonstandard auto lines. Voluntary auto new
business sales in 2003 increased 20.3% compared to 2002. Voluntary auto
policies-in-force at December 31, 2003 were 531,000 higher than at December 31,
2002 and reflect strong growth in the standard and nonstandard lines during the
last twelve months.

Losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred increased 15.9% to $5,955
million in 2003, following an increase of 6.1% in 2002 over 2001. The loss
ratio for property and casualty insurance, which measures the portion of
premiums earned that is paid or reserved for losses and related claims handling
expenses, was 76.5% in 2003 compared to 77.0% in 2002 and 79.9% in 2001.
Claims frequencies in 2003 for physical damage and bodily injury coverages have
decreased in the two to five percent range from 2002 despite more weather
related losses in 2003 resulting from winter snowstorms, spring hailstorms and
Hurricane Isabel. Bodily injury severity has increased in the six to eight
percent range over 2002 while physical damage severity has increased in the two
to three percent range. Incurred losses from catastrophe events for 2003
totaled approximately $57 million compared to $20 million in 2002 and $47
million in 2001.

Underwriting expenses increased 23.3% to $1,377 million in 2003 over 2002,
which follows an increase of 12.0% in 2002 over 2001. Policy acquisition
expenses increased 18.7% in 2003 to $731 million reflecting increased
advertising and increased staffing to handle the growth in policies-in-force.
Other operating expenses were $646 million in 2003, up from $501 million in
2002 and reflect higher salary, profit sharing and other employee benefit
expenses.

General Re

General Re conducts a reinsurance business, which offers reinsurance
coverage of essentially all types of property, casualty, life and health risks
in the United States and worldwide. General Re’s principal reinsurance
operations are internally comprised of: (1) North American property/casualty,
(2) international property/casualty, which principally consists of business
written through 89% owned Cologne Re, (3) London-market property/casualty
through the Faraday operations, and (4) global life/health.

General Re’s pre-tax underwriting results for the past three years are
summarized below. Dollars are in millions.

Premiums earned

Pre-tax underwriting gain (loss)







North American property/casualty

$

3,551

$

3,967

$

3,968

$


$

(1,019

)

$

(2,843

)

International property/casualty.

1,897

1,792

1,822


(315

)

(568

)

Faraday (London-market)




(18

)

(4

)

(178

)

Global life/health

1,847

1,886

1,988


(55

)

(82

)

$

8,245

$

8,500

$

8,353

$


$

(1,393

)

$

(3,671

)



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

Insurance

—

Underwriting

(Continued)

General Re (Continued)

General Re’s consolidated underwriting results in 2003 reflect significant
improvements over the past two years and are attributed to rate increases,
better coverage terms and the absence of large property losses, partially
offset by increases in prior accident years’ loss estimates. Underwriting
results in both 2002 and 2001 included significant charges from increases in
loss reserve estimates established for claims occurring in prior years.
Additionally, underwriting results for 2001 were severely impacted by losses
from the September 11th terrorist attack. General Re strives to generate
long-term pre-tax underwriting gains in essentially all of its product lines.
Underwriting performance is not evaluated based upon market share and
underwriters are instructed to reject inadequately priced risks. Over the past
three years, General Re has taken significant underwriting actions to better
align premium rates with coverage terms. Information with respect to each of
General Re’s underwriting units is presented below.

North American property/casualty

General Re’s North American property/casualty operations underwrite
predominantly excess reinsurance across essentially all lines of property and
casualty business. Excess reinsurance provides indemnification of losses above
a stated retention on either an individual claim basis or in the aggregate
across all claims in a portfolio. Reinsurance contracts are written on both a
treaty (group of risks) and facultative (individual risk) basis.

Premiums earned in 2003 declined from 2002 premium levels by $416 million
(10.5%). The decline in premiums earned reflects a net reduction from
cancellations/non-renewals in excess of new contracts (estimated at $761
million), partially offset by rate increases across all lines of business
(estimated at $345 million). Premiums earned in 2002 were essentially
unchanged compared to 2001 as rate increases (approximately $800 million)
across most lines of business were offset by reductions from cancellations in
excess of new business. Premiums earned in 2001 included $400 million from one
retroactive reinsurance contract and a large quota share agreement. No such
contracts were written in 2002 or 2003.

The North American property/casualty business produced a pre-tax
underwriting gain of $67 million in 2003, compared with losses of $1,019
million and $2,843 million in 2002 and 2001, respectively. The 2003
underwriting gain consisted of $200 million in current accident year gains,
partially offset by $133 million in prior accident year losses. The favorable
effects of re-pricing efforts and improved contract terms and conditions
implemented over the past three years contributed to the net gain. In
addition, underwriting results for 2003 were favorably impacted by the absence
of major catastrophes and other large individual property losses ($20 million
or greater), a condition that is unusual and should not be expected to occur
regularly in the future.

The prior accident years’ losses of $133 million recorded in 2003 included
$99 million related to discount accretion on workers’ compensation reserves and
deferred charge amortization on retroactive reinsurance contracts, reserve
increases of $153 million for casualty claims, (primarily in the workers’
compensation, directors and officers, and errors and omissions lines), and
reserve decreases of $119 million for property claims.

For statutory and GAAP reporting purposes workers’ compensation loss
reserves are discounted at 1.0% per annum for claims occurring after 2002 and
at 4.5% for claims occurring before 2003. The lower discount rate for 2003
claims was approved by General Re’s state insurance regulators and reflects the
lower interest rate environment that now exists. The lower discount rate
effectively reduced 2003 underwriting gains by approximately $74 million.

Underwriting results for 2002 included $1,085 million in prior year loss
reserve adjustments, offset by net gains of $66 million with respect to the
2002 accident year. Results for 2002 included $990 million in increased loss
estimates related to casualty lines of business (general liability, workers’
compensation, medical malpractice, auto liability and professional liability
coverages), principally related to the 1997 through 2000 accident years. The
2002 prior years’ loss reserve adjustment was net of a $115 million reduction
in reserves established in connection with the September 11th terrorist attack,
primarily due to decreased loss estimates for certain claims. The underwriting
loss in 2001 included $923 million in prior years’ loss reserve adjustments,
approximately $1.54 billion of net losses from the September 11th terrorist
attack, as well as $87 million of losses from other catastrophes (principally
Tropical Storm Allison) and other large individual property losses.



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

Insurance

—

Underwriting

(Continued)

General Re (Continued)

Management believes the revised estimates in 2003 on prior years’ casualty
loss reserves were primarily due to escalating medical inflation and
utilization that adversely affect workers’ compensation and other casualty
lines; and an increased frequency in corporate bankruptcies, scandals and
accounting restatements which increased losses under errors and omissions and
directors and officers coverages. Otherwise, reported casualty losses for
prior years were generally consistent with management estimates. In addition
to the above listed factors, revised estimates in 2002 and 2001 for prior
years’ loss reserves were due to (1) an increase in claim severity, which has a
leveraged effect on excess of loss coverages provided by General Re by
producing a disproportionate increase in claims exceeding General Re’s
attachment point; (2) broadened coverage terms under General Re’s reinsurance
contracts during 1997 through 2000; (3) increased ceding companies’ reserve
inadequacies, likely arising from broadened terms and conditions, as well as
previously unrecognized premium inadequacies; and (4) increased primary company
insolvencies, which changed historical claim reporting patterns. See the
discussion regarding “Critical Accounting Policies” for information about the
processes used in estimating loss reserves.

In addition, General Re continuously estimates its liabilities and related
reinsurance recoverables for environmental and asbestos claims and claim
expenses. Most liabilities for such claims arise from exposures in North
America. Environmental and asbestos exposures do not lend themselves to
traditional methods of loss development determination and therefore reserves
related to these exposures may be considered less reliable than reserves for
standard lines of business (e.g., automobile). The estimate for environmental
and asbestos losses is composed of four parts: known claims, development on
known claims, incurred but not reported (“IBNR”) losses and direct excess
coverage litigation expenses. At December 31, 2003, environmental and asbestos
loss reserves for North America were $1,050 million ($890 million net of
reinsurance). As of December 31, 2002 such amounts totaled $1,161 million
($1,008 million net of reinsurance). The changing legal environment concerning
asbestos and environmental claims has made quantification of potential
exposures very difficult. Future changes to the legal environment may
precipitate significant changes in reserves.

Due to the long-tail nature of casualty business, a very high degree of
estimation is involved in establishing loss reserves for current accident year
casualty occurrences. Thus, the ultimate level of underwriting gain or loss
with respect to the 2003 accident year will not be fully known for many years.
North American property/casualty loss reserves were $15.5 billion ($14.3
billion net of reinsurance) at December 31, 2003 and $16.2 billion ($14.9
billion net of reinsurance) at December 31, 2002. About 52% of this amount at
December 31, 2003 represents estimates of IBNR losses.

Although loss reserve levels are now believed to be adequate, there can be
no guarantees. A relatively small change in the estimate of net reserves can
produce large changes in annual underwriting results. For instance, a one
percentage point change in net loss reserves at year end 2003 would produce a
pre-tax underwriting gain or loss of $143 million, or roughly 4% of premiums
earned in 2003. In addition, the timing and magnitude of catastrophe and large
individual property losses are expected to continue to contribute to volatile
periodic underwriting results in the future.

International property/casualty

The international property/casualty operations write quota-share and
excess reinsurance on risks around the world, with its largest markets in
Continental Europe and the United Kingdom. International property/casualty
business is written on a direct reinsurance basis primarily through Cologne Re.

Premiums earned in 2003 increased $105 million (5.9%) from 2002 amounts,
reflecting the increase in values of most foreign currencies relative to the
U.S. dollar. In local currencies, premiums earned declined 8.1% in 2003 versus
2002. The decrease in premiums earned was primarily due to the non-renewal of
unprofitable business in Continental Europe, the United Kingdom, Latin America
and Australia. In local currencies, premiums earned in 2002 declined 2.1% from
2001, primarily due to a substantial decline in premiums in Argentina, the
non-renewal of under-performing business in Continental Europe and parts of
Asia, partially offset by increases in the United Kingdom and Australia.

The international property/casualty operations produced a pre-tax
underwriting gain of $38 million during 2003, compared with pre-tax
underwriting losses of $315 million and $568 million for 2002 and 2001,
respectively. The net underwriting gain for 2003 included $69 million of gains
in the current underwriting year, which reflected rate increases and the
absence of large property losses, and losses of $31 million from increases to
reserves for prior years’ loss occurrences. Results for 2002 included $240
million of net increases to prior years’ loss reserves, and approximately $107
million in catastrophe and other large individual property losses, principally
European flood



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations

Insurance

—

Underwriting

(Continued)

General Re (Continued)

losses in August and European storm Jeanette in October. The underwriting loss
of $568 million in 2001 included $247 million of net losses related to the
September 11th terrorist attack and $143 million resulting from other large
individual property losses.

At December 31, 2003, the international property/casualty operations had
gross loss reserves of $6.4 billion, ($6.0 billion net of reinsurance) compared
to $5.4 billion in gross loss reserves at December 31, 2002 ($5.1 billion net
of reinsurance). The increase in reserves during 2003 was primarily due to
changes in foreign currency rates. The overall economic effect of foreign
currency changes were mitigated because foreign denominated liabilities are
largely offset by assets denominated in those currencies.

Faraday (London-market)

London-market business is written through Faraday Holdings Limited
(“Faraday”). Faraday owns the managing agent of Syndicate 435 at Lloyd’s of
London and provides capacity and participates in the results of Syndicate 435.
Through Faraday, General Re’s participation in Syndicate 435 was 100% in 2003.
Also included in the London-market segment are Cologne Re’s UK and Continental
Europe broker-market subsidiaries.

Premiums earned in the London-market operations increased $95 million
(11.1%) in 2003 as compared to 2002. Premiums earned in 2002 increased $280
million (48.7%) over 2001 amounts. In local currencies, premiums earned in
2003 were unchanged from 2002 and increased 41.9% in 2002 over 2001. In 2003,
premiums earned from Cologne Re’s Continental Europe broker-market subsidiary,
which was placed in run-off, declined but were offset by increases in earned
premiums in Faraday Syndicate 435. Premiums earned in 2002 increased primarily
due to the increased participation in Faraday Syndicate 435 from 60.6% in 2001
to 96.7% in 2002.

London-market operations produced a pre-tax underwriting loss of $18
million in 2003, compared with pre-tax underwriting losses of $4 million and
$178 million in 2002 and 2001, respectively. The underwriting loss in 2003
included $73 million of reserve increases related to prior years’ loss events.
These losses occurred primarily in casualty lines. In 2003, underwriting gains
were earned in property and aviation lines, reflecting more selective
underwriting and a lack of catastrophes and other large losses. Underwriting
results in 2002 were adversely impacted by $80 million of increases in prior
years’ casualty loss reserve estimates and $17 million of European flood
losses. Offsetting these amounts were gains in property business. The
London-market underwriting loss in 2001 included $66 million of losses from the
September 11th terrorist attack as well as relatively high property losses.

At December 31, 2003, the Faraday operations had gross loss reserves of
$1.9 billion, ($1.7 billion net of reinsurance) compared to $1.7 billion in
gross reserves at December 31, 2002 ($1.3 billion net of reinsurance). The
increase in reserves during 2003 was primarily due to changes in foreign
currency rates.

Global life/health

General Re’s global life/health affiliates reinsure such risks worldwide.
Premiums earned in 2003 decreased by $39 million (2.1%) compared with 2002.
Premiums earned in 2002 for the global life/health operations declined $102
million (5.1%) from 2001. Adjusting for the effects of foreign currency
exchange, premiums earned declined 9.6% in 2003, and 6.7% in 2002. The decline
in 2003 was primarily due to decreases in the group and individual health
businesses in the U.S. life/health operations.

Underwriting results for the global life/health operations produced a
pre-tax underwriting gain of $58 million in 2003, compared with underwriting
losses of $55 million and $82 million in 2002 and 2001, respectively. While
both the U.S. and international life/health segments were profitable in 2003,
most of the gains were earned in the international life segment. The
underwriting losses for 2002 and 2001 were principally due to increased
reserves on run-off business in the U.S. life/health operations. Underwriting
results for 2001 also include $19 million of net losses related to the
September 11th terrorist attack.



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Insurance

—

Underwriting

(Continued)

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group

The Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group (“BHRG”) underwrites
excess-of-loss and quota-share reinsurance coverages for insurers and
reinsurers around the world. BHRG is believed to be one of the leaders in
providing catastrophe excess-of-loss reinsurance and writing coverages for
large or otherwise unusual discrete commercial property risks on a direct and
facultative reinsurance basis, referred to as individual risk business. BHRG’s
underwriting results are summarized in the table below.

Premiums earned

Pre-tax underwriting gain (loss)







Catastrophe and individual risk

$

1,330

$

1,283

$


$

1,108

$

1,006

$

(150

)

Retroactive reinsurance



1,993

(387

)

(433

)

(358

)

Traditional multi-line

2,574

1,610



(26

)

(126

)

Total

$

4,430

$

3,300

$

2,991

$

1,047

$


$

(634

)

During the second half of 2001, opportunities for BHRG to write
catastrophe and individual risk business increased significantly, particularly
subsequent to September 11

th

. Contracts written may provide exceptionally
large limits of indemnification, often several hundred million dollars and
occasionally in excess of $1 billion, and may cover catastrophe risks (such as
hurricanes, earthquakes or other natural disasters) or other property risks
(such as aviation and aerospace, commercial multi-peril or terrorism).
Catastrophe and individual business written totaled about $1.2 billion in 2003
and $1.5 billion in 2002. The level of business written in future periods will
vary, perhaps materially, based upon market conditions and management’s
assessment of the adequacy of premium rates.

The catastrophe and individual risk business produced substantial
underwriting gains in 2003 and 2002 due to the lack of catastrophic or
otherwise large loss events. The net underwriting loss in 2001 included about
$410 million from the September 11

th

terrorist attack. Losses related to the
September 11th terrorist attack were reduced by about $85 million in 2002, as
payments to settle claims under certain policies were below original estimates.
Although very large underwriting gains were achieved in 2003 and 2002, a single
loss event could have easily eliminated those gains. The pre-tax maximum
probable loss from a single event at December 31, 2003 is estimated to be
approximately $6.7 billion resulting from potential risk of loss from a major
earthquake in California.

BHRG, as a matter of general practice, does not cede catastrophe and
individual risks to other reinsurers due to the uncertainty of collecting
recoverable losses ceded to financially weaker companies if a natural or
financial mega-catastrophe should occur. Underwriting results of this business
will remain subject to extreme volatility. Nevertheless, Berkshire’s
management remains willing to accept such volatility provided there is a
reasonable prospect of long-term underwriting profitability.

Retroactive reinsurance contracts indemnify ceding companies for losses
arising under insurance or reinsurance contracts written in the past, usually
many years ago. While contract terms vary, losses under the contracts are
subject to a very large aggregate dollar limit, occasionally exceeding $1
billion under a single contract. Generally, it is also anticipated, although
not assured, that claims under retroactive contracts will be paid over long
time periods. These contracts do not produce an immediate underwriting loss
for financial reporting purposes. The excess of the estimated ultimate claims
payable over the premiums received is established as a deferred charge which is
subsequently amortized over the expected claim settlement periods. Such
amortization is included as a component of losses incurred and essentially
represents the net underwriting losses from this business in each of the past
three years. In addition, underwriting results in 2003 included a net gain of
$41 million from the commutation of contracts written in prior years in
exchange for commutation payments of $710 million.

Retroactive reinsurance contracts are expected to generate significant
underwriting losses over time due to the amortization of deferred charges.
This business is accepted due to the exceptionally large amounts of float
generated, which totaled about $7.7 billion at December 31, 2003. Unamortized
deferred charges under BHRG retroactive reinsurance contracts were $2.8 billion
at December 31, 2003 and $3.2 billion as of December 31, 2002.

During the last two years, BHRG wrote a significant amount of business
under traditional multi-line contracts. Such contracts included several
quota-share participations in, and contracts with, Lloyd’s syndicates and a
quota-share contract written in 2002 with a major U.S. based insurer, which was
cancelled in 2003. These contracts and participations generated written
premiums of about $1.6 billion in 2003 and $2.0 billion in 2002. In a quota-



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations

Insurance

—

Underwriting

(Continued)

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group (Continued)

share arrangement, BHRG essentially participates proportionately in the
premiums and claims of the business written by the ceding company. BHRG was
willing to enter into these new contracts because it believed the level of rate
adequacy in certain property/casualty markets was much improved in relation to
past years. BHRG’s participation in the Lloyd’s business declined in 2003 as
the availability of other sources of capacity for Lloyd’s syndicates increased.

Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group

Berkshire’s primary insurance group consists of a wide variety of smaller
insurance businesses that principally write liability coverages for commercial
accounts. These businesses include: National Indemnity Company’s primary
group operation (“NICO Primary Group”), a writer of motor vehicle and general
liability coverages; U.S. Investment Corporation (“USIC”), whose subsidiaries
underwrite specialty insurance coverages; a group of companies referred to
internally as “Homestate” operations, providers of standard multi-line
insurance; and Central States Indemnity Company, a provider of credit and
disability insurance to individuals nationwide through financial institutions.

Collectively, Berkshire’s other primary insurance businesses produced
earned premiums of $1,034 million in 2003, $712 million in 2002, and $501
million in 2001. The increases in premiums earned during the past two years
were largely attributed to increased volume at USIC and the NICO Primary Group.
Net underwriting gains of Berkshire’s other primary insurance businesses
totaled $74 million in 2003, $32 million in 2002, and $30 million in 2001. The
improvement in year-to-year comparative underwriting results was due to the
aforementioned increases in premiums and reasonably good claim experience.

Insurance — Investment Income

Following is a summary of the net investment income of Berkshire’s
insurance operations for the past three years. Dollars are in millions.




Investment income before taxes

$

3,223

$

3,050

$

2,824

Applicable income taxes and minority interest




Investment income after taxes and minority interest

$

2,276

$

2,096

$

1,968

Investment income from insurance operations in 2003 of $3,223 million
increased 5.7% over 2002, which exceeded 2001 by 8.0%. The increase in 2003
investment income was due primarily to higher amounts of interest earned from
high-yield corporate obligations, partially offset by the effects of lower
interest rates for other fixed maturity obligations. Berkshire’s investments
in high-yield corporate bonds were approximately $8 billion (at original cost)
as of December 31, 2002. As of December 31, 2003 the cost of such investments
declined about $1.5 billion, as a result of sales and prepayments by issuers.

The high-yield investments were primarily acquired at distressed prices.
The credit risk associated with such investments is much greater than with
other fixed maturity investments typically acquired by Berkshire, which are
generally U.S. Government, municipal and mortgage-backed securities and
short-term cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2003, approximately 65% of
Berkshire’s high-yield investments were issued by companies in the energy
industry. While the market prices of such investments increased significantly
for all major positions during 2003, Berkshire management does not believe that
the credit risks associated with the issuers of these instruments has
correspondingly declined. Credit losses may eventually occur with respect to
some of these investments. However, management also believes that over time
these investments will produce reasonable returns in relation to credit risk.

Invested assets of insurance businesses increased during 2003 by $14.5
billion to $93.5 billion at December 31, 2003 following an increase of $7
billion during 2002. The increase in invested assets during 2003 was primarily
the result of the market price appreciation of Berkshire’s major equity
investments and high-yield fixed maturity investments, as well as strong
operating cash flow.

Float represents an estimate of the amount of funds ultimately payable to
policyholders that is available for investment. Total float at December 31,
2003 was approximately $44.2 billion compared to $41.2 billion at December 31,
2002 and about $35.5 billion at December 31, 2001. The cost of float,
represented by the ratio of the pre-tax underwriting gain or loss over average
float, was negative for 2003 due to $1.7 billion of pre-tax net underwriting
gains. The cost of float in 2002 was about 1.1% as compared to 12.8% for 2001.



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

Non-Insurance Businesses

Since December 31, 2000, Berkshire’s numerous non-insurance business
activities have increased significantly through several business acquisitions.
Additional information regarding these acquisitions is contained in Note 2 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.

A summary follows of results from Berkshire’s non-insurance businesses for
the past three years. Dollars are in millions.




Pre-tax earnings

$

2,776

$

2,667

$

1,803

Income taxes and minority interest

1,031



Net earnings

$

1,745

$

1,668

$

1,082

A comparison of revenues and pre-tax earnings between 2003, 2002 and 2001
for the non-insurance businesses follows. Dollars are in millions.

Revenues

Pre-tax earnings (loss)







Apparel

$

2,075

$

1,619

$


$


$


$

(33

)

Building products

3,846

3,702

3,269




Finance and financial products

3,073

2,234

1,928




Flight services

2,431

2,837

2,563




McLane

13,743

—

—


—

—

Retail

2,311

2,103

1,998




Shaw Industries

4,660

4,334

4,012




Other businesses

3,040

2,375

1,957




$

35,179

$

19,204

$

16,453

$

2,776

$

2,667

$

1,803

Apparel

Berkshire’s apparel manufacturing and distribution businesses have grown
significantly during the last two years as a result of the acquisitions of
Fruit of the Loom on April 30, 2002 and Garan on September 4, 2002. During
2003 these two businesses generated combined revenues of $1,459 million and
pre-tax earnings of $260 million. From their respective acquisition dates,
these two businesses generated combined revenues of $957 million and pre-tax
earnings of $190 million in 2002. On a comparative full year basis, total
apparel group revenues in 2003 declined 5% from 2002 and pre-tax earnings in
2003 declined 11% as compared to 2002. Pre-tax losses in 2001 from the apparel
businesses included operating losses and a restructuring charge at Dexter.

Building products

Each of Berkshire’s building products businesses manufactures and
distributes products and services for the residential and commercial
construction and home improvement markets. Revenues of the building products
group totaled $3,846 million in 2003 compared to $3,702 million in 2002. Each
of the building products businesses generated higher revenues in 2003 as
compared to 2002 and benefited from the strong housing market and relatively
low interest rates. Pre-tax earnings of the building products businesses in
2003 were $559 million compared to $516 million in 2002.

Finance and financial products

A variety of finance and financial products businesses are included in
this segment. These businesses invest in various types of fixed-income
securities (BH Finance), make commercial loans (Berkshire Hathaway Credit
Corporation and Berkadia LLC), issue and service installment loan contracts
with respect to manufactured housing (Clayton Homes, through its subsidiary
Vanderbilt Mortgage, acquired August 7, 2003), lease trailers and shipping
containers used in product transportation and lease furniture (XTRA and CORT)
and offer for sale annuities and similar type products (Berkshire Hathaway
Life). This group also includes General Re Securities (“GRS”), a dealer in
derivative contracts. These businesses generally issue debt or interest
bearing obligations to finance asset acquisitions.



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Non-Insurance Businesses

(Continued)

Finance and financial products (Continued)

Revenues of the finance group consist of interest, rentals, and sales of
manufactured homes, transportation equipment and furniture. Revenues in 2003
totaled $3,073 million, an increase of 37.6% over 2002. The increase in 2003
was primarily due to the inclusion of Clayton (approximately $500 million),
revenues from the issuance of annuity products of approximately $700 million
versus none in 2002 and was partially offset by lower interest income.

Pre-tax earnings of the finance group in 2003, which exclude realized
investment gains, declined $107 million (14.7%) from 2002. Much of the

comparative decline in pre-tax earnings was due to lower net interest earned by
BH Finance. BH Finance’s fixed maturity investment portfolio declined about $6
billion during 2003 as a result of sales and prepayments and was offset by
corresponding declines in repurchase agreement obligations.

During 2003, pre-tax earnings included about $101 million from Berkadia as
compared to $115 million in 2002. Earnings of Berkadia are directly correlated
with the outstanding amount of a term loan to FINOVA, which totaled $525
million at December 31, 2003 compared to $2.175 billion at December 31, 2002
and $4.9 billion at December 31, 2001. Most of Berkadia’s pre-tax earnings in
2003 were represented by the accelerated recognition in earnings of fees
received in 2001 from FINOVA in connection with origination of the loan as a
result of loan repayments being at a much faster rate than originally
anticipated. In February 2004, the FINOVA loan was repaid in full. Thus,
earnings from Berkadia in 2004 will be nominal.

GRS had a pre-tax loss in 2003 of $99 million versus a loss of $173
million in 2002. GRS’s operation has been in run-off since January 2002.
During the run-off period, GRS has limited new business to certain risk
management transactions and is unwinding existing asset and liability positions
in an orderly manner. Since the run-off commenced, approximately two-thirds of
GRS’s open trades have been terminated. It is expected that the run-off will
take at least several more years to complete. The pre-tax losses in the last
two years reflect related run-off costs as well as net transaction and position
losses. Additional losses will almost certainly be incurred over time in
connection with the run-off. The timing and amounts of such losses is
uncertain.

Flight services

This segment includes FlightSafety, a leading provider of high technology
training to operators of aircraft and ships and NetJets, the world’s leading
provider of fractional ownership programs for general aviation aircraft.
FlightSafety’s worldwide clients include corporations, regional airlines, the
military and government agencies. The decline in revenues was split between
FlightSafety (about $96 million) and NetJets (about $310 million). A decline
in FlightSafety training revenues accounted for most of that businesses revenue
decline. The decline in training revenues was due to a decline in regional
airline training somewhat offset by increased U.S. Government training
revenues. The decline in revenues at NetJets was due to a reduction of
revenues from sales of aircraft of $514 million partially offset by increased
flight services and other revenues of about $204 million. Pre-tax earnings
from these businesses was $72 million in 2003 as compared to $225 million in
2002. The results for 2002 include a gain of $60 million from the sale of a
partnership interest to Boeing and the results for 2003 include the recognition
of pre-tax charges of $69 million related to write downs of certain simulators
and aircraft inventory. Excluding the aforementioned gain and write downs,
“normal earnings” from these businesses were $141 million in 2003 versus $165
million in 2002. The reduction in combined “normal” pre-tax earnings from
these businesses is due to reduced “normal” pre-tax earnings at FlightSafety of
$34 million somewhat offset by improved results at NetJets where its pre-tax
loss before write downs was $9 million in 2003 versus about $19 million in
2002. The corporate aviation business has slowed significantly in the past few
years which has hurt FlightSafety’s results. NetJets continues to be the leader
in the fractional ownership field.

McLane

On May 23, 2003, Berkshire acquired McLane Company, Inc. from Wal-Mart
Stores, Inc. Results of McLane’s business operations are included in
Berkshire’s consolidated results beginning on that date. McLane’s revenues
were $13,743 million and pre-tax earnings totaled $150 million for the period
from May 23 to December 31. Approximately 35% of McLane’s revenues derived
from sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. McLane’s business is marked by high sales
volume and low profit margins. For its most recently completed fiscal year
prior to the acquisition, McLane’s sales and pre-tax earnings totaled
approximately $21.9 billion and $220 million, respectively. See Note 2 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the acquisition and
McLane’s business.



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

Non-Insurance Businesses

(Continued)

Retail

Berkshire’s retailing businesses consist of four independently managed
retailers of home furnishings (Nebraska Furniture Mart and its subsidiaries
(“NFM”), R.C. Willey Home Furnishings (“R.C. Willey”), Star Furniture (“Star”)
and Jordan’s Furniture) and three independently managed retailers of fine
jewelry (Borsheim’s Jewelry, Helzberg’s Diamond Shops (“Helzberg”), and Ben
Bridge Jeweler). Revenues of the retail businesses in 2003 increased $208
million (9.9%) as compared to 2002, and 2002 revenues increased 5.3% over 2001.
The increase in revenues in 2003 was primarily attributed to Nebraska
Furniture Mart’s new store in Kansas City, Kansas, which opened in August 2003
and R.C. Willey’s second Nevada location, which opened in May 2003. Comparative
pre-tax earnings of the retail group in 2003 were relatively unchanged from
2002. Higher earnings associated with the new R.C. Willey store were offset by
start-up and depreciation costs incurred in connection with NFM’s new store.

Shaw Industries

Shaw is a leading manufacturer and distributor of carpet and rugs for
residential and commercial use. Shaw also provides installation services and
offers hardwood floor and other floor coverings. Berkshire acquired 87.3% of
the common stock of Shaw in January 2001 and the remainder of the outstanding
stock in January 2002. Shaw’s revenues in 2003 of $4,660 million increased by
$326 million (7.5%) over 2002, and 2002 revenues increased 8.0% over 2001. The
increase in 2003 revenues reflects a 6.1% increase in carpet sales revenues as
well as increased sales of hard floor surfaces. Shaw’s revenues in 2003 also
include the results from Dixie Group, a carpet and rug manufacturer acquired in
November. In 2003, Shaw’s pre-tax earnings totaled $436 million, an increase
of $12 million (2.8%) over 2002. Shaw’s operating results in 2003 benefited
from increased sales and lower borrowing costs.

Other businesses

Revenues in 2003 from Berkshire’s other businesses as compared to 2002
increased $665 million to $3,040 million and pre-tax earnings increased $105
million to $486 million. Berkshire’s other non-insurance businesses consist of
the results of numerous smaller businesses. The increase in revenues and
pre-tax earnings of other businesses in 2003 was primarily due to the inclusion
of the results of businesses acquired in 2002 from their respective acquisition
dates (Larson-Juhl—February 8, 2002, The Pampered Chef and CTB
International—both October 31, 2002).

Equity in earnings of MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company

Earnings from MidAmerican represent Berkshire’s share of MidAmerican’s net
earnings, as determined under the equity method. Earnings from MidAmerican
totaled $429 million in 2003, $359 million in 2002 and $134 million in 2001.
MidAmerican’s earnings increased in 2003 due to improved results in its utility
businesses, the effects of the acquisition during 2002 and the subsequent
expansion during 2003 of two natural gas pipelines and increased earnings from
its real estate brokerage business due to acquisitions and increased
transaction volume. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information regarding Berkshire’s investments in MidAmerican.

Purchase-Accounting Adjustments

Purchase-accounting adjustments reflect the after-tax effect on net
earnings with respect to the amortization of fair value adjustments to certain
assets and liabilities recorded at various business acquisition dates. Prior
to 2002, this amount also included goodwill amortization. Effective January 1,
2002, Berkshire ceased amortizing goodwill of previously acquired businesses in
accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142.

Realized Investment Gains

Realized investment gains and losses have been a recurring element in
Berkshire’s net earnings for many years. Such amounts are recorded when
investments are: (1) sold or disposed; (2) impaired; or (3) marked-to-market
with a corresponding gain or loss included in earnings. Such amounts also
include realized and unrealized gains or losses associated with certain
derivatives contracts. Realized investment gains may fluctuate significantly
from period to period, resulting in a meaningful effect on reported net
earnings. However, the amount of realized gains in a given period has no
practical analytical value, given the magnitude of unrealized gains existing in
Berkshire’s consolidated investment portfolio.



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

Realized Investment Gains

(Continued)

The Consolidated Statements of Earnings include after-tax realized
investment gains of $2,729 million in 2003, $566 million in 2002 and $923
million in 2001. These gains were net of after-tax losses of $188 million in
2003, $373 million in 2002 and $161 million in 2001 related to
“other-than-temporary” impairments. Management evaluates investments for
impairment as of each balance sheet date. Factors considered in determining
whether an impairment charge is warranted include the length of time the
unrealized loss has existed, the financial condition of the investee, future
business prospects and creditworthiness of the investee, and Berkshire’s
ability and intent to hold the investment until the value recovers. When an
impairment charge is recorded, the cost of the investment is written down to
fair value through a charge to earnings. Consequently, impairment charges from
essentially all of Berkshire’s “other-than-temporarily” impaired investments
produced little effect on total shareholders’ equity because these investments
were already carried at fair value with the difference between fair value and
cost included in shareholders’ equity as a component of accumulated other
comprehensive income.

After-tax realized gains also included $536 million in 2003 and $193
million in 2002 of realized and unrealized gains on foreign currency forward
contracts entered into during the last two years. After-tax unrealized gains
included in earnings with respect to open contracts totaled $414 million as of
December 31, 2003 and $193 million at December 31, 2002. The gains in each
year were due primarily to the decline in the value of the U.S. dollar against
certain foreign currencies.

Financial Condition

Berkshire’s balance sheet continues to reflect significant liquidity and a
strong capital base. Consolidated shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2003
totaled $77.6 billion. Consolidated cash and invested assets, excluding assets
of finance and financial products businesses, totaled approximately $95.6
billion at December 31, 2003, (including $31.3 billion in cash and cash
equivalents) and totaled $80.5 billion at December 31, 2002. During 2003, the
market prices of Berkshire’s holdings in equity and fixed maturity securities
increased significantly and cash flow generated from operations was about $8.2
billion. During 2003, Berkshire deployed about $3.2 billion in internally
generated cash for business acquisitions and during the preceding two years,
cash of $7.3 billion was utilized in business acquisitions, and $1.7 billion
was utilized for additional investments in MidAmerican.

Berkshire’s consolidated notes payable and other borrowings, excluding
borrowings of finance businesses, totaled $4.2 billion at December 31, 2003 and
$4.8 billion at December 31, 2002. During 2003, commercial paper and
short-term borrowings of subsidiaries declined $642 million from prepayments
arising from strong operating cash flow at Shaw and utilization of excess cash
by General Re. Other borrowings consist primarily of debt of subsidiaries and
investment contracts issued by Berkshire.

In May 2002, Berkshire issued the SQUARZ securities, which consist of $400
million par amount of senior notes due in November 2007 together with warrants
to purchase 4,464 Class A equivalent shares of Berkshire common stock, which
expire in May 2007. A warrant premium is payable to Berkshire at an annual
rate of 3.75% and interest is payable to note holders at a rate of 3.00%. Each
warrant provides the holder the right to purchase either 0.1116 shares of Class
A or 3.348 shares of Class B stock for $10,000. In addition, holders of the
senior notes have the option to require Berkshire to repurchase the senior
notes at par annually each May 15 from 2004 through 2006, provided that the
holders also surrender a corresponding amount of warrants for cancellation.
All warrants and senior notes were outstanding as of December 31, 2003.

Assets of the finance and financial products businesses totaled $28.3
billion at December 31, 2003 and $34.1 billion at December 31, 2002. The
overall decline reflects a $6 billion decline in assets of BH Finance as a
result of the liquidation of certain fixed income investments, FINOVA loan
prepayments totaling $1.65 billion and a decline in assets of GRS, which is in
run-off. The outstanding loan to FINOVA as of December 31, 2003 and
corresponding borrowing from Fleet (each $525 million) were fully repaid in
February 2004.

As of December 31, 2003, finance assets included approximately $3.8
billion in assets of Clayton, which was acquired by Berkshire in August 2003.
Clayton is a leading builder of manufactured housing, provides financing and
services loans to customers, and acquires other installment loan portfolios.
Prior to its acquisition, Clayton securitized and sold a significant portion of
its installment loans through special purpose entities. In early 2003, Clayton
discontinued loan securitizations and sales. Since being acquired by
Berkshire, Clayton retained loan portfolios have increased by about $1.3
billion. Loan portfolios are expected to continue to grow over time.

Notes payable and other borrowings of Berkshire’s finance and financial
products businesses totaled $4.9 billion at December 31, 2003 and $4.5 billion
at December 31, 2002. During the last four months of 2003, Berkshire Hathaway
Finance Corporation issued a total of $2.0 billion par amount of medium term
notes due from



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

Financial Condition

(Continued)

2008 through 2013. The proceeds of these issues were used to finance new and
existing loans of Clayton. The medium term notes are guaranteed by Berkshire.
Additional borrowings are expected in the future as retained loan portfolios
continue to increase.

Berkshire believes that it currently maintains sufficient liquidity to
cover its existing requirements and provide for contingent liquidity.

Contractual Obligations

Berkshire and its subsidiaries have contractual obligations associated
with ongoing business and financing activities, which will result in cash
payments in future periods. Certain of those obligations, such as notes
payable and other borrowings and related interest payments, are reflected in
the Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, Berkshire and subsidiaries
have entered into long-term contracts to acquire goods or services in the
future, which are not currently reflected in the financial statements and will
be reflected in future periods as the goods are delivered or services provided.
A summary of contractual obligations follows. Amounts are in millions.

Payments due by period

Contractual obligations

Total


2005-2006

2007-2008

2009 and after

Notes payable and other borrowings

(1)

$

12,107

$

3,225

$

1,015

$

2,104

$

5,763

Securities sold under agreements to
repurchase

(1)

7,958

7,958

—

—

—

Operating leases

1,508





Purchase obligations

(2)

6,842

2,561

1,808

1,418

1,055

Other

(3)






Total

$

29,339

$

14,268

$

3,501

$

3,981

$

7,589

(1)

Includes interest

(2)

Principally relates to NetJets aircraft purchases

(3)

Principally employee benefits and deferred compensation

Critical Accounting Policies

In applying certain accounting policies, Berkshire’s management is
required to make estimates and judgments regarding transactions that have
occurred and ultimately will be settled several years in the future. Amounts
recognized in the financial statements from such estimates are necessarily
based on assumptions about numerous factors involving varying, and possibly
significant, degrees of judgment and uncertainty. Accordingly, the amounts
currently recorded in the financial statements may prove, with the benefit of
hindsight, to be inaccurate. The balance sheet items most significantly
affected by these estimates are property and casualty insurance and reinsurance
related liabilities.

Berkshire records liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment
expenses under property and casualty insurance and reinsurance contracts based
upon estimates of the ultimate amounts payable under the contracts related to
losses occurring on or before the balance sheet date. Berkshire uses a variety
of techniques to establish and review the liabilities for unpaid losses
recorded as of the balance sheet date. While techniques may vary, significant
judgments and assumptions are necessary in projecting the ultimate amount
payable in the future with respect to loss events that have occurred as of the
balance sheet date.

Reserves for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses are established by
policy type (or line) or individual coverage within the policy type. Reserves
may consist of individual case estimates, supplemental case estimates,
development estimates and incurred-but-not-reported (“IBNR”) claim estimates.
Once reported, certain casualty claims may take years to settle, especially if
legal action is involved. Liabilities may also reflect implicit or explicit
assumptions regarding the potential effects of future economic and social
inflation, judicial decisions, law changes, and recent trends in such factors.

Berkshire uses a variety of techniques as tools in establishing and
evaluating aggregate reserve amounts. Techniques used vary within each business
depending upon the availability of reliable information. Statistical
techniques may include detailed analysis of historical amounts of losses
incurred or paid, claim frequency and severity data, average paid or incurred
loss data, closed claim data, paid or incurred loss ratios or other
measurements. Statistical techniques are more reliable when a sufficient
volume of historical loss information exists. Significant changes to policy
terms or coverages or in volumes of business written (and, therefore, loss
exposures), or changes in the insurance laws or legal environment can cause
historical statistical data to be less reliable in projecting the ultimate
amount of losses as of the balance sheet date. Statistical analysis may be
based



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations

Critical Accounting Policies

(Continued)

upon internally developed loss experience, the experience of individual clients
or groups of clients, or overall industry-wide experience. Reserving
techniques are based more upon informed judgment when statistical data is
insufficient or unavailable. Management must make judgments regardless of the
techniques used.

As of any balance sheet date, all claims that have occurred have not yet
been reported to Berkshire, and if reported may not have been settled. The time
period between the occurrence of a loss and the time it is settled by the
insurer or reinsurer is referred to as the “claim-tail.” Property claims
usually have a fairly short claim-tail and, absent claim litigation, are
reported and settled within no more than a few years of the balance sheet date.
Casualty losses, on the other hand, can have a very long claim-tail,
occasionally extending for decades. In addition, casualty claims are more
susceptible to litigation and can be significantly affected by changing
contract interpretations and to the legal environment, which contributes to the
extended claim-tail. The claim-tail for reinsurers is further extended due to
delayed reporting by ceding insurers or reinsurers due to contractual
provisions or reporting practices.

The process of establishing reserves for losses assumed under reinsurance
contracts requires additional estimation and judgments by management. Loss
reserve estimates are based primarily on claims reported by ceding companies
(such amounts generally exclude IBNR claim estimates), analysis of historical
claim reporting patterns of ceding companies, and estimates of expected overall
loss amounts. Techniques for estimating facultative (or individual)
reinsurance losses can be similar to those techniques used by primary insurers
and subject to the same caveats. In estimating losses assumed under treaty
reinsurance (groups of losses), claim frequency or count analyses may not be
used because such data is either not provided by ceding companies or otherwise
not timely or reliable. Loss reserves established by line of business and type
of coverage are regularly re-evaluated with appropriate adjustments being made
to bring reserves in line with the revised estimates.

IBNR reserves are largely comprised of casualty exposures, which include
workers’ compensation losses. These claims tend to be reported by and settled
with ceding companies over long time periods. Therefore, such claims are
subject to a higher degree of estimation error as a result of changes in the
legal environment, jury awards, medical cost trends and general cost inflation.
Based upon statistical analysis of past reporting trends, Berkshire estimates
how much IBNR is required to cover claims that will be reported by ceding
companies in future years. Subsequently, as claims are reported, amounts are
measured against previous expectations, with variances (positive or negative)
recognized in earnings as a component of losses and loss adjustment expenses.
Significant variances between expected claims and reported claims are analyzed
and considered when revising estimates for remaining IBNR reserve levels.

Due to the inherent uncertainties in the processes and judgments used in
establishing reserves, and because expected losses are an input in establishing
premium rates for new policies, Berkshire’s management believes it is
appropriate to establish reserve levels using a reasonable level of caution,
especially with respect to casualty claims.

Receivables recorded with respect to insurance losses ceded to other
reinsurers under reinsurance contracts are estimated in a manner similar to
liabilities for insurance losses and, therefore, are also subject to estimation
error. In addition to the factors cited above, reinsurance recoverables may
ultimately prove to be uncollectible if the reinsurer is unable to perform
under the contract. Reinsurance contracts do not relieve the ceding company of
its obligations to indemnify its own policyholders.

A summary of Berkshire’s consolidated liabilities for unpaid property and
casualty losses are in the table below. The amount of losses recorded in each
of the past two years relating to prior years’ loss occurrences is expressed as
a percentage of total net premiums earned as well as a percentage of the net
reserve balance established as of the beginning of the year. Dollars are in
millions.

Unpaid losses

Net unpaid losses*

Dec.31, 2003

Dec.31, 2002

Dec.31, 2003

Dec.31, 2002

General Re

$

23,820

$

23,326

$

20,787

$

20,784

BHRG

15,769

15,516

12,513

11,990

GEICO

4,492

4,010

4,282

3,816

Berkshire Hathaway Primary

1,312


1,217


Total

$

45,393

$

43,771

$

38,799

$

37,424

Losses incurred related to prior years

$


**

$

1,540

**

Losses as a % of net reserves beginning of the year

1.3

%

4.5

%

Losses as a % of net premiums earned current year

2.4

%

8.9

%

*

Net of reinsurance recoverable and deferred charges reinsurance assumed.

**

Includes amortization of deferred charges and includes accretion of
discounts on General Re workers’ compensation reserves (See Note 11 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements).



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

Critical Accounting Policies

(Continued)

In each year, General Re’s casualty reserve estimates for prior years’
losses have increased. In addition, the net reserves of BHRG’s retroactive
reinsurance policies have increased each year, primarily as a consequence of
amortization of deferred charges. As shown in the table, a relatively small
percentage change in estimates of this magnitude will result in a material
effect on reported earnings. A hypothetical 5% increase in estimated net
unpaid losses at December 31, 2003, would produce a $1.9 billion charge to
pre-tax earnings. Future effects from changes in these estimates will be
recorded as a component of losses incurred in the period of the change.

Berkshire records deferred charges as assets on its balance sheet with
respect to liabilities assumed under retroactive reinsurance contracts. At the
inception of these contracts the deferred charges represent the difference
between the consideration received and the estimated ultimate liability for
unpaid losses. The deferred charges are amortized as a component of losses
incurred using the interest method over an estimate of the ultimate claim
payment period. The deferred charge balance may be adjusted periodically to
reflect new projections of the amount and timing of loss payments. Adjustments
to these assumptions are applied retrospectively from the inception of the
contract. Unamortized deferred charges totaled $3.1 billion at December 31,
2003. Significant changes in either the timing or ultimate amount of loss
payments may have a significant effect on unamortized deferred charges and the
amount of periodic amortization.

Berkshire’s Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2003 includes
goodwill of acquired businesses of approximately $22.9 billion. These amounts
have been recorded as a result of Berkshire’s numerous prior business
acquisitions accounted for under the purchase method. Prior to 2002, goodwill
from each acquisition was generally amortized as a charge to earnings over
periods not exceeding 40 years. Under SFAS No. 142, which was adopted by
Berkshire as of January 1, 2002, periodic amortization ceased, in favor of an
impairment-only accounting model.

A significant amount of judgment is required in performing goodwill
impairment tests. Such tests include periodically determining or reviewing the
estimated fair value of Berkshire’s reporting units. Under SFAS No. 142, fair
value refers to the amount for which the entire reporting unit may be bought or
sold. There are several methods of estimating reporting unit values, including
market quotations, asset and liability fair values and other valuation
techniques, such as discounted cash flows and multiples of earnings or
revenues. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit, including goodwill,
exceeds the estimated fair value, then individual assets, including
identifiable intangible assets and liabilities of the reporting unit are
estimated at fair value. The excess of the estimated fair value of the
reporting unit over the estimated fair value of net assets would establish the
implied value of goodwill. The excess of the recorded amount of goodwill over
the implied value is then charged to earnings as an impairment loss.

Berkshire’s consolidated financial position reflects large amounts of
invested assets, including assets of its finance and financial products
businesses. A substantial portion of these assets are carried at fair values
based upon current market quotations and, when not available, based upon fair
value pricing models. Certain fixed maturity securities Berkshire owns are not
actively traded in the markets. Further, Berkshire’s finance businesses
maintain significant balances of finance receivables, which are carried at
amortized cost. Considerable judgment is required in determining the
assumptions used in certain pricing models, including interest rate, loan
prepayment speed, credit risk and liquidity risk assumptions. Significant
changes in these assumptions can have a significant effect on carrying values.

Market Risk Disclosures

Berkshire’s Consolidated Balance Sheet includes a substantial amount of
assets and liabilities whose fair values are subject to market risks.
Berkshire’s significant market risks are primarily associated with interest
rates and equity prices and to a lesser degree derivatives. The following
sections address the significant market risks associated with Berkshire’s
business activities.



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

Market Risk Disclosures

(Continued)

Interest Rate Risk

Berkshire’s management prefers to invest in equity securities or to
acquire entire businesses based upon the principles discussed in the following
section on equity price risk. When unable to do so, management may
alternatively invest in bonds, loans or other interest rate sensitive
instruments. Berkshire’s strategy is to acquire securities that are
attractively priced in relation to the perceived credit risk. Management
recognizes and accepts that losses may occur. Berkshire has historically
utilized a modest level of corporate borrowings and debt. Further, Berkshire
strives to maintain the highest credit ratings so that the cost of debt is
minimized. Berkshire utilizes derivative products to manage interest rate
risks to a very limited degree.

The fair values of Berkshire’s fixed maturity investments and notes
payable and other borrowings will fluctuate in response to changes in market
interest rates. Increases and decreases in prevailing interest rates generally
translate into decreases and increases in fair values of those instruments.
Additionally, fair values of interest rate sensitive instruments may be
affected by the creditworthiness of the issuer, prepayment options, relative
values of alternative investments, the liquidity of the instrument and other
general market conditions. Fixed interest rate investments may be more
sensitive to interest rate changes than variable rate investments.

The following table summarizes the estimated effects of hypothetical
increases and decreases in interest rates on assets and liabilities that are
subject to interest rate risk. It is assumed that the changes occur
immediately and uniformly to each category of instrument containing interest
rate risks. The hypothetical changes in market interest rates do not reflect
what could be deemed best or worst case scenarios. Variations in market
interest rates could produce significant changes in the timing of repayments
due to prepayment options available. For these reasons, actual results might
differ from those reflected in the table. Dollars are in millions.

*

Excludes General Re Securities – See Financial Products Risk section for
discussion of risks associated with this business.

**

Includes securities sold under agreements to repurchase.

Equity Price Risk

Strategically, Berkshire strives to invest in businesses that possess
excellent economics, with able and honest management and at sensible prices.
Berkshire’s management prefers to invest a meaningful amount in each
investee. Accordingly, Berkshire’s equity investments are concentrated in
relatively few investees. At December 31, 2003, 68.9% of the total fair value
of equity investments was concentrated in four investees.



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

Market Risk Disclosures

(Continued)

Equity Price Risk

(Continued)

Berkshire’s preferred strategy is to hold equity investments for very long
periods of time. Thus, Berkshire management is not necessarily troubled by
short term equity price volatility with respect to its investments provided
that the underlying business, economic and management characteristics of the
investees remain favorable. Berkshire strives to maintain above average levels
of shareholder capital to provide a margin of safety against short term equity
price volatility.

The carrying values of investments subject to equity price risks are based
on quoted market prices or management’s estimates of fair value as of the
balance sheet dates. Market prices are subject to fluctuation and,
consequently, the amount realized in the subsequent sale of an investment may
significantly differ from the reported market value. Fluctuation in the market
price of a security may result from perceived changes in the underlying
economic characteristics of the investee, the relative price of alternative
investments and general market conditions. Furthermore, amounts realized in the
sale of a particular security may be affected by the relative quantity of the
security being sold.

The table below summarizes Berkshire’s equity price risks as of December
31, 2003 and 2002 and shows the effects of a hypothetical 30% increase and a
30% decrease in market prices as of those dates. The selected hypothetical
change does not reflect what could be considered the best or worst case
scenarios. Indeed, results could be far worse due both to the nature of equity
markets and the aforementioned concentrations existing in Berkshire’s equity
investment portfolio. Dollars are in millions.

Estimated

Hypothetical

Fair Value after

Percentage

Hypothetical

Hypothetical

Increase (Decrease) in

Fair Value

Price Change

Change in Prices

Shareholders’ Equity

As of December 31, 2003

$

35,287

30% increase

$

45,873

8.9

30% decrease

24,701

(8.9

)

As of December 31, 2002

$

28,363

30% increase

$

36,872

8.6

30% decrease

19,854

(8.6

)

Derivatives Risk

Berkshire’s derivatives risks are concentrated in the operations of
General Re Securities (“GRS”), a dealer in various types of derivative
instruments in conjunction with offering risk management products to its
clients. Effective January 2002, GRS commenced the run-off of its business. It
is expected that the run-off will take several years to complete. Since January
2002, approximately two-thirds of GRS’s contracts have been terminated. GRS
manages its market risk from derivatives by estimating the effect on operating
results of potential changes in market variables over time, based on historical
market volatility, correlation data and informed judgment. GRS’s weekly maximum
aggregate market risk target was $15 million in 2003 and weekly losses exceeded
that amount on two occasions. In addition to these daily and weekly assessments
of risk, GRS prepares periodic stress tests to assess its exposure to extreme
movements in various market risk factors. The estimated average expected weekly
market risk, as calculated using the methodology described over one week
intervals was $5 million in 2003 and $4 million in 2002.

GRS evaluates and records a fair-value adjustment to recognize
counterparty credit exposure and future costs associated with administering
each contract. The expected credit exposure for each trade is initially
established on the trade date and is estimated through the use of a proprietary
credit exposure model that is based on historical default probabilities, market
volatilities and, if applicable, the legal right of setoff. These exposures
are continually monitored and adjusted due to changes in the credit quality of
the counterparty, changes in interest and currency rates or changes in other
factors affecting credit exposure.

During 2003 and 2002, Berkshire entered into a significant number and amount of
foreign currency forward contracts. Generally, these contracts provide that
Berkshire receive certain foreign currencies and pay U.S. dollars at specified
exchange rates and at specified future dates. Management entered into these
contracts as an overall economic hedge of Berkshire’s net assets and business
activities. The value of these contracts is subject to change due primarily to
changes in the spot exchange rates and to a lesser degree, interest rates and
time value. The



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

Market Risk Disclosures

(Continued)

Derivatives Risk

(Continued)

duration of the contracts is generally less than twelve months. The aggregate
notional value of such contracts at December 31, 2003 was approximately $11
billion. Unrealized gains from these contracts totaled approximately $630
million at December 31, 2003.

Berkshire monitors the currency positions daily for each currency. The
following table summarizes the outstanding foreign currency forward contracts
as of December 31, 2003 and shows the estimated changes in values of the
contracts assuming changes in the underlying exchange rates applied immediately
and uniformly across all currencies. The changes in value do not necessarily
reflect the best or worst case results and therefore, actual results may
differ. Dollars are in millions.

Estimated Fair Value Assuming a Hypothetical

Percentage Increase (Decrease) in the Value of

Foreign Currencies Versus the U.S. Dollar

Fair Value

(20%)

(10%)

(1%)

1%

10%

20%

As of December 31, 2003

$


$

(1,583

)

$

(512

)

$


$


$

1,865

$

3,230

Forward-Looking Statements

Investors are cautioned that certain statements contained in this
document, as well as some statements by the Company in periodic press releases
and some oral statements of Company officials during presentations about the
Company, are “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Act”). Forward-looking
statements include statements which are predictive in nature, which depend upon
or refer to future events or conditions, which include words such as “expects,”
“anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” or similar
expressions. In addition, any statements concerning future financial
performance (including future revenues, earnings or growth rates), ongoing
business strategies or prospects, and possible future Company actions, which
may be provided by management are also forward-looking statements as defined by
the Act. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and
projections about future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and
assumptions about the Company, economic and market factors and the industries
in which the Company does business, among other things. These statements are
not guaranties of future performance and the Company has no specific intention
to update these statements.

Actual events and results may differ materially from those expressed or
forecasted in forward-looking statements due to a number of factors. The
principal important risk factors that could cause the Company’s actual
performance and future events and actions to differ materially from such
forward-looking statements, include, but are not limited to, changes in market
prices of Berkshire’s significant equity investees, the occurrence of one or
more catastrophic events, such as an earthquake, hurricane or an act of
terrorism that causes losses insured by Berkshire’s insurance subsidiaries,
changes in insurance laws or regulations, changes in Federal income tax laws,
and changes in general economic and market factors that affect the prices of
securities or the industries in which Berkshire and its affiliates do business,
especially those affecting the property and casualty insurance industry.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

See “Market Risk disclosures” contained in item 7. “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders

Berkshire Hathaway Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2003 and
2002, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, cash flows and
changes in shareholders’ equity and comprehensive income for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2003. These financial statements are
the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2003 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America.

As described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company
adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 (“SFAS 142”),
“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”, effective January 1, 2002.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

March 4, 2004

Omaha, Nebraska



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(dollars in millions except per share amounts)

December 31,



ASSETS

Insurance and Other:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

31,262

$

10,283

Investments:

Fixed maturity securities

26,116

38,096

Equity securities

35,287

28,363

Other

2,924

3,752

Receivables

12,314

13,153

Inventories

3,656

3,030

Property, plant and equipment

6,260

5,368

Goodwill of acquired businesses

22,948

22,298

Deferred charges reinsurance assumed

3,087

3,379

Other

4,468

4,023

148,322

131,745

Investments in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company

3,899

3,651

Finance and Financial Products:

Cash and cash equivalents

4,695

2,465

Investments in fixed maturity securities:

Available-for-sale

9,092

15,666

Other


1,187

Trading account assets

4,519

6,874

Loans and finance receivables

4,951

3,863

Other

4,370

4,093

28,338

34,148

$

180,559

$

169,544

LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Insurance and Other:

Losses and loss adjustment expenses

$

45,393

$

43,771

Unearned premiums

6,308

6,694

Life and health insurance benefits

2,872

2,642

Other policyholder liabilities

3,635

4,218

Accounts payable, accruals and other liabilities

6,386

4,995

Income taxes, principally deferred

11,479

8,051

Notes payable and other borrowings

4,182

4,775

80,255

75,146

Finance and Financial Products:

Securities sold under agreements to repurchase

7,931

13,789

Trading account liabilities

5,445

7,274

Notes payable and other borrowings

4,937

4,513

Other

3,650

3,394

21,963

28,970

Total liabilities

102,218

104,116

Minority shareholders’ interests


1,391

Shareholders’ equity:

Common stock - Class A, $5 par value and Class B, $0.1667 par value



Capital in excess of par value

26,151

26,028

Accumulated other comprehensive income

19,556

14,271

Retained earnings

31,881

23,730

Total shareholders’ equity

77,596

64,037

$

180,559

$

169,544

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS

(dollars in millions except per share amounts)

Year Ended December 31,




Revenues:

Insurance and Other:

Insurance premiums earned

$

21,493

$

19,182

$

17,905

Sales and service revenues

32,098

16,958

14,507

Interest, dividend and other investment income

3,098

2,943

2,765

Realized investment gains

2,914


1,363

59,603

39,423

36,540

Finance and Financial Products:

Interest income

1,093

1,497

1,377

Realized investment gains

1,215



Other

1,948



4,256

2,812

2,053

63,859

42,235

38,593

Costs and expenses:

Insurance and Other:

Insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses

14,927

15,256

18,385

Insurance underwriting expenses

4,848

4,324

3,574

Cost of sales and services

25,737

11,971

10,340

Selling, general and administrative expenses

4,228

3,033

2,735

Goodwill amortization

—

—


Interest expense




49,893

34,776

35,811

Finance and Financial Products:

Interest expense




Other

2,056



2,375

1,459

1,478

52,268

36,235

37,289

Earnings before income taxes and equity in earnings of
MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company

11,591

6,000

1,304

Equity in earnings of MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company




Earnings before income taxes and minority interests

12,020

6,359

1,438

Income taxes

3,805

2,059


Minority shareholders’ interests




Net earnings

$

8,151

$

4,286

$


Average common shares outstanding *

1,535,405

1,533,294

1,527,234

Net earnings per common share *

$

5,309

$

2,795

$


*

Average shares outstanding include average Class A common
shares and average Class B common shares determined on an
equivalent Class A common stock basis. Net earnings per common
share shown above represents net earnings per equivalent Class A
common share. Net earnings per Class B common share is equal to
one-thirtieth (1/30) of such amount or $177 per share for 2003,
$93 per share for 2002, and $17 per share for 2001.

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(dollars in millions)

Year Ended December 31,




Cash flows from operating activities:

Net earnings

$

8,151

$

4,286

$


Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to cash flows
from operating activities:

Realized investment gains

(4,129

)

(918

)

(1,488

)

Depreciation and amortization




Changes in assets and liabilities before effects from
business acquisitions:

Losses and loss adjustment expenses


3,209

7,571

Deferred charges reinsurance assumed


(147

)

(498

)

Unearned premiums

(585

)

1,880


Receivables

2,018

(896

)


Accounts payable, accruals and other liabilities

(907

)

1,062

(339

)

Finance businesses operating activities

1,558

2,940

(1,083

)

Income taxes



(329

)

Other


(996

)

(148

)

Net cash flows from operating activities

8,257

11,135

6,574

Cash flows from investing activities:

Purchases of securities with fixed maturities

(9,924

)

(16,288

)

(16,475

)

Purchases of equity securities

(1,842

)

(1,756

)

(1,075

)

Proceeds from sales of securities with fixed maturities

17,650

9,108

8,427

Proceeds from redemptions and maturities of securities
with fixed maturities

9,847

6,740

4,305

Proceeds from sales of equity securities

3,159

1,340

3,881

Loans and investments originated in finance businesses

(3,046

)

(2,281

)

(9,502

)

Principal collection on loans and investments
originated in finance businesses

4,241

5,226

4,126

Acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired

(3,213

)

(2,620

)

(4,697

)

Other

(759

)

(780

)

(684

)

Net cash flows from investing activities

16,113

(1,311

)

(11,694

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Proceeds from borrowings of finance businesses

2,479


6,288

Proceeds from other borrowings


1,472


Repayments of borrowings of finance businesses

(2,260

)

(3,802

)

(865

)

Repayments of other borrowings

(783

)

(774

)

(798

)

Change in short term borrowings of finance businesses

(63

)

(1,207

)


Changes in other short term borrowings

(642

)


(345

)

Other

(714

)



Net cash flows from financing activities

(1,161

)

(3,574

)

6,014

Increase in cash and cash equivalents

23,209

6,250


Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

12,748

6,498

5,604

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year *

$

35,957

$

12,748

$

6,498

* Cash and cash equivalents at end of year are comprised of the following:

Insurance and Other

$

31,262

$

10,283

$

5,313

Finance and Financial Products

4,695

2,465

1,185

$

35,957

$

12,748

$

6,498

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(dollars in millions)

Year Ended December 31,




Class A & B Common Stock

Balance at beginning and end of year

$


$


$


Capital in Excess of Par Value

Balance at beginning of year

$

26,028

$

25,607

$

25,524

Common stock issued in connection with business acquisitions

—


—

Exercise of stock options issued in connection with business
acquisitions and SQUARZ warrant premiums




Balance at end of year

$

26,151

$

26,028

$

25,607

Retained Earnings

Balance at beginning of year

$

23,730

$

19,444

$

18,649

Net earnings

8,151

4,286


Balance at end of year

$

31,881

$

23,730

$

19,444

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income

Unrealized appreciation of investments

$

12,049

$

3,140

$

(5,583

)

Applicable income taxes

(4,158

)

(1,147

)

1,956

Reclassification adjustment for appreciation
included in net earnings

(4,129

)

(918

)

(1,488

)

Applicable income taxes

1,379



Foreign currency translation adjustments and other



(114

)

Applicable income taxes

(127

)

(65

)


Minimum pension liability adjustment


(279

)

(35

)

Applicable income taxes

(3

)



Other




Other comprehensive income (loss)

5,285

1,380

(4,652

)

Accumulated other comprehensive income at beginning of year

14,271

12,891

17,543

Accumulated other comprehensive income at end of year

$

19,556

$

14,271

$

12,891

Comprehensive Income

Net earnings

$

8,151

$

4,286

$


Other comprehensive income (loss)

5,285

1,380

(4,652

)

Total comprehensive income (loss)

$

13,436

$

5,666

$

(3,857

)

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

and Subsidiaries

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2003

(1)

Significant accounting policies and practices

(a)

Nature of operations and basis of consolidation

Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (“Berkshire” or “Company”) is a holding company
owning subsidiaries engaged in a number of diverse business
activities. The most important of these are property and casualty
insurance businesses conducted on both a primary and reinsurance
basis. Further information regarding these businesses and
Berkshire’s other reportable business segments is contained in
Note 20. Berkshire initiated and/or consummated a number of
business acquisitions over the past three years which are
discussed in Note 2.

The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include
the accounts of Berkshire consolidated with the accounts of all of
its subsidiaries and affiliates in which Berkshire holds a
controlling financial interest as of the financial statement date.
Normally control reflects ownership of a majority of the voting
interests. Other factors considered in determining whether
control is held include whether Berkshire provides significant
financial support as a result of its authority to purchase or sell
assets or make other operating decisions that significantly affect
the entity’s results of operations and whether Berkshire bears a
majority of the financial risks.

Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Certain
amounts in 2002 and 2001 have been reclassified to conform with
the current year presentation.

(b)

Use of estimates in preparation of financial statements

The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”)
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the reported amount of assets and liabilities at the date of the
financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and
expenses during the period. In particular, estimates of unpaid
losses and loss adjustment expenses and related recoverables under
reinsurance for property and casualty insurance are subject to
considerable estimation error due to the inherent uncertainty in
projecting ultimate claim amounts that will be reported and
settled over a period of many years. In addition, estimates and
assumptions associated with the amortization of deferred charges
reinsurance assumed, the determination of fair value of invested
assets and related impairments, and the determination of goodwill
impairments require considerable judgement by management. Actual
results may differ from the estimates and assumptions used in
preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(c)

Cash equivalents

Cash equivalents consist of funds invested in U.S. Treasury
Bills, money market accounts, and in other investments with a
maturity of three months or less when purchased.

(d)

Investments

Berkshire’s management determines the appropriate classifications of
investments in fixed maturity securities and equity securities at
the time of acquisition and re-evaluates the classifications at
each balance sheet date. Berkshire’s investments in fixed
maturity and equity securities are primarily classified as
available-for-sale, except for certain securities held by finance
businesses which are classified as held-to-maturity.

Held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortized cost, reflecting
Berkshire’s intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity.
Available-for-sale securities are stated at fair value with net
unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated
other comprehensive income.

Realized gains and losses arise when investments are sold (as
determined on a specific identification basis) or are
other-than-temporarily impaired and are included in the
Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Berkshire reviews investments
classified as held-to-maturity or available-for-sale as of each
balance sheet date with respect to investments of an issuer
carried at a net unrealized loss. If in management’s



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

(1)

Significant accounting policies and practices

(Continued)

(d)

Investments

(

Continued)

judgement, the decline in value is other-than-temporary, the cost of
the investment is written down to fair value with a corresponding
charge to earnings. Factors considered in determining whether an
impairment exists include: the financial condition, business
prospects and creditworthiness of the issuer, the length of time that
the asset’s fair value has been less than cost, and Berkshire’s
ability and intent to hold such investments until the fair value
recovers.

Berkshire utilizes the equity method of accounting with respect to
investments where it exercises significant influence, but not
control, over the policies of the investee. A voting interest of
at least 20% and no greater than 50% is normally a prerequisite
for utilizing the equity method. However Berkshire may apply the
equity method with less than 20% voting interests based upon the
facts and circumstances including representation on the Board of
Directors, contractual veto or approval rights, participation in
policy making processes and the existence or absence of other
significant owners. Berkshire applies the equity method to
investments in common stock and investments in preferred stock
when such preferred stock possesses substantially identical
subordinated interests to common stock. Berkshire accounts for
investments in unconsolidated limited partnerships under the
equity method.

In applying the equity method, investments are recorded at
cost and subsequently increased or decreased by the proportionate
share of net earnings or losses of the investee. Berkshire also
records its proportionate share of other comprehensive income
items of the investee as a component of its comprehensive income.
Dividends or other equity distributions are recorded as a
reduction of the investment. In the event that net losses of the
investee have reduced the equity method investment to zero,
additional net losses may be recorded if additional investments in
the investee are at-risk, even if Berkshire has not committed to
provide financial support to the investee. Berkshire bases such
additional equity method loss amounts, if any, on the change in
its claim on the investee’s book value.

(e)

Loans and finance receivables

Loans and finance receivables consist of commercial and
consumer loans originated or purchased by Berkshire’s finance and
financial products businesses. Loans and finance receivables are
carried at amortized cost.

(f)

Derivatives

Derivative contracts are predominantly used to manage economic risks
associated with financial instruments of finance and financial
products businesses, including other derivative contracts. In
addition, Berkshire enters into derivative contracts to manage
general economic risks of the Company as a whole. Derivative
instruments include interest rate, currency and equity swaps and
options, interest rate caps and floors, futures and forward
contracts and foreign currency exchange contracts.

Berkshire carries all derivative contracts at estimated fair value.
These contracts are classified as trading account assets or
trading account liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated
Balance Sheets and reflect reductions permitted under master
netting agreements with counterparties. The fair values of these
instruments represent the present value of expected future cash
flows under the contract, which is a function of underlying
interest rates, currency rates, security values, related
volatility, the creditworthiness of counterparties and duration of
the contract. Future changes in these factors or a combination
thereof may affect the fair value of these instruments. Most
derivative contracts entered into by Berkshire are not designated
as hedges for accounting purposes. Realized and unrealized gains
and losses from such contracts are included in the Consolidated
Statements of Earnings.

(g)

Securities sold under agreements to repurchase

Securities sold under agreements to repurchase are accounted for as
collateralized borrowings and are recorded at the contractual
repurchase amounts.



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(1)

Significant accounting policies and practices

(Continued)

(h)

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost with
respect to manufactured goods includes raw materials, direct and
indirect labor and factory overhead. As of December 31, 2003,
approximately 59% of the total inventory cost was determined using
the last-in-first-out (“LIFO”) method, 28% using the
first-in-first-out (“FIFO”) method, with the remainder using the
specific identification method. With respect to inventories
carried at LIFO cost, the aggregate difference in value between
LIFO cost and cost determined under FIFO methods was not material
as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002.

(i)

Property, plant and equipment

Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost. Depreciation is
provided principally on the straight-line method over estimated
useful lives as follows: aircraft, simulators, training equipment
and spare parts, 4 to 20 years; buildings and improvements, 10 to
40 years; machinery, equipment, furniture and fixtures, 3 to 20
years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the life of the
lease or the life of the improvement, whichever is shorter.
Interest is capitalized as an integral component of cost during
the construction period of simulators and facilities and is
amortized over the life of the related assets.

(j)

Goodwill of acquired businesses

Goodwill of acquired businesses represents the difference between
purchase cost and the fair value of net assets of acquisitions
accounted for under the purchase method. Prior to 2002, goodwill
from each acquisition was generally amortized as a charge to
earnings over periods not exceeding 40 years, and was reviewed for
impairment if conditions were identified that indicated possible
impairment.

Effective January 1, 2002, Berkshire adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142 “Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets.” SFAS No. 142 eliminated the periodic
amortization of goodwill in favor of an accounting model that is
based solely upon impairment tests. Goodwill is reviewed for
impairment using a variety of methods at least annually, and
impairments, if any, are charged to earnings. Annual impairment
tests are performed in the fourth quarter.

(k)

Revenue recognition

Insurance premiums for prospective property/casualty insurance and
reinsurance and health reinsurance policies are earned in
proportion to the level of insurance protection provided. In most
cases, premiums are recognized as revenues ratably over their
terms with unearned premiums computed on a monthly or daily pro
rata basis. Premium adjustments on contracts and audit premiums
are based on estimates made over the contract period. Premiums
for retroactive reinsurance policies are earned at the inception
of the contracts. Premiums for life reinsurance contracts are
earned when due. Premiums earned are stated net of amounts ceded
to reinsurers. Premiums are estimated with respect to certain
reinsurance contracts where premiums are based upon reports from
ceding companies for the reporting period that are contractually
due after the balance sheet date.

Revenues from product sales are recognized upon passage of title to the
customer, which generally coincides with customer pickup, product
shipment, delivery or acceptance, depending on terms of the sales
arrangement. Service revenues are recognized as the services are
performed. Services provided pursuant to a contract are either
recognized over the contract period, or upon completion of the
elements specified in the contract, depending on the terms of the
contract.

(l)

Losses and loss adjustment expenses

Liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses represent
estimated claim and claim settlement costs of property/casualty
insurance and reinsurance contracts with respect to losses that
have occurred as of the balance sheet date. The liabilities for
losses and loss adjustment expenses are recorded at the estimated
ultimate payment amounts, except that amounts arising from certain
workers’ compensation reinsurance business are discounted as
discussed below. Estimated ultimate payment amounts are based
upon (1) individual case estimates, (2) reports of losses from
ceding insurers and (3) estimates of incurred but not reported
(“IBNR”) losses.

The estimated liabilities of workers’ compensation claims
assumed under reinsurance contracts are carried in the
Consolidated Balance Sheets at discounted amounts. Discounted
amounts are based upon an annual discount rate of 4.5% for claims
arising prior to 2003 and 1% for claims arising after 2002. The



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

(1) Significant accounting policies and practices

(Continued)

(l)

Losses and loss adjustment expenses (Continued)

lower rate for post-2002 claims reflects the lower interest rate
environment prevailing in the United States. The discount rates are
the same rates used under statutory accounting principles. The
periodic discount accretion is included in the Consolidated
Statements of Earnings as a component of losses and loss adjustment
expenses.

(m)

Deferred charges reinsurance assumed

The excess of estimated liabilities for claims and claim
costs over the consideration received with respect to retroactive
property and casualty reinsurance contracts that provide for
indemnification of insurance risk is established as a deferred
charge at inception of such contracts. The deferred charges are
subsequently amortized using the interest method over the expected
claim settlement periods. The periodic amortization charges are
reflected in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings
as losses and loss adjustment expenses.

Changes to the expected timing and estimated amount of loss payments
produce changes in the unamortized deferred charge balance. Such
changes in estimates are accounted for retrospectively with the
net effect included in amortization expense in the period of the
change.

(n)

Reinsurance

Provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses are reported in the
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings after deducting
amounts recovered and estimates of amounts recoverable under
reinsurance contracts. Reinsurance contracts do not relieve the
ceding company of its obligations to indemnify policyholders with
respect to the underlying insurance and reinsurance contracts.

(o)

Insurance premium acquisition costs

Certain costs of acquiring insurance premiums are deferred, subject to
ultimate recoverability, and charged to income as the premiums are
earned. Acquisition costs consist of commissions, premium taxes,
advertising and other underwriting costs. The recoverability of
premium acquisition costs, generally, reflects anticipation of
investment income. The unamortized balances of deferred premium
acquisition costs are included in other assets and were $1,278
million and $1,303 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002,
respectively.

(p)

Foreign currency

The accounts of foreign-based subsidiaries are measured using
the local currency as the functional currency. Revenues and
expenses of these businesses are translated into U.S. dollars at
the average exchange rate for the period. Assets and liabilities
are translated at the exchange rate as of the end of the reporting
period. Gains or losses from translating the financial statements
of foreign-based operations are included in shareholders’ equity
as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Gains
and losses arising from other transactions denominated in a
foreign currency are included in the Consolidated Statements of
Earnings.

(q)

Deferred income taxes

Deferred income taxes are calculated under the liability method.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded based on
differences between the financial statement and tax bases of
assets and liabilities at the enacted tax rates. Changes in
deferred income tax assets and liabilities that are associated
with components of other comprehensive income, primarily
unrealized investment gains, are charged or credited directly to
other comprehensive income. Otherwise, changes in deferred income
tax assets and liabilities are included as a component of income
tax expense.

(r)

Accounting pronouncements to be adopted in 2004

In December 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(“FASB”) issued a revision to Statement No. 132, “Employers’
Disclosures about Pension Plans and Other Post Retirement
Benefits”, which requires additional quantitative and qualitative
disclosures concerning plan assets and benefit obligations.
Certain of the new disclosures are effective immediately for U.S.
plans and are included in Note 17.



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(1) Significant accounting policies and practices

(Continued)

(r)

Accounting pronouncements to be adopted in 2004 (Continued)

In December 2003, the FASB issued a revision to
Interpretation No. 46, “Consolidation of Variable Interest
Entities” (“FIN 46”), which was originally issued in January 2003.
FIN 46, as revised, provides guidance on the consolidation of
certain entities when control exists through other than voting (or
similar) interests and was effective immediately with respect to
entities created after January 31, 2003. For certain special
purpose entities created prior to February 1, 2003, FIN 46, as
revised, became effective for financial statements issued after
December 15, 2003. FIN 46, as revised, is effective for all other
entities created prior to February 1, 2003 beginning with
financial statements for reporting periods ending after March 15,
2004.

FIN 46, as revised, requires consolidation by the majority
holder of expected residual gains and losses of the activities of
a variable interest entity (“VIE”). Berkshire is a limited
partner in Value Capital L.P. (“Value Capital”), whose objective
is to achieve income and capital growth from investment and
arbitrage of fixed maturity securities. See Note 10. Neither
Berkshire nor any of its subsidiaries possess any management
authority over Value Capital and possess no voting or similar
rights. Berkshire conducts no business activities with Value
Capital. Berkshire does not guaranty or provide any financial
support with respect to the obligations of Value Capital beyond
its direct equity investment.

Berkshire has concluded that Value Capital meets the definition of a
VIE under FIN 46, as revised. As the primary beneficiary of the
VIE, Berkshire is required to consolidate Value Capital beginning
in the first quarter of 2004. This change will have no effect on
previously reported net earnings. Berkshire’s consolidated assets
and liabilities will increase approximately $18.5 billion based
upon the assets and liabilities of Value Capital as of December
31, 2003.

(2)

Significant business acquisitions

Berkshire’s long-held acquisition strategy is to purchase businesses with
consistent earning power, good returns on equity, able and honest management
and at sensible prices. Businesses with these characteristics typically have
market values that exceed net asset value, thus producing goodwill for
accounting purposes.

On May 23, 2003, Berkshire acquired McLane Company, Inc. (“McLane”), from
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. for cash consideration of approximately $1.5 billion.
McLane is one of the nation’s largest wholesale distributors of groceries and
nonfood items to convenience stores, wholesale clubs, mass merchandisers, quick
service restaurants, theaters and others.

On August 7, 2003, Berkshire acquired all the outstanding common stock of
Clayton Homes, Inc. (“Clayton”) for cash consideration of approximately $1.7
billion in the aggregate. Clayton is a vertically integrated manufactured
housing company with 20 manufacturing plants, 306 company owned stores, 535
independent retailers, 89 manufactured housing communities and financial
services operations that provide mortgage services and insurance protection.

During 2002, Berkshire completed five business acquisitions for cash
consideration of approximately $2.3 billion in the aggregate. Information
concerning these acquisitions follows.

Albecca Inc.

(“Albecca”)

On February 8, 2002, Berkshire acquired all of the outstanding shares of
Albecca. Albecca designs, manufactures and distributes a complete line of
high-quality custom picture framing products primarily under the Larson-Juhl
name.

Fruit of the Loom

(“FOL”)

On April 30, 2002, Berkshire acquired the basic apparel business of Fruit
of the Loom, LTD. FOL is a leading vertically integrated basic apparel company
manufacturing and marketing underwear, activewear, casualwear and
childrenswear. FOL operates on a worldwide basis and sells its products
principally in North America under the Fruit of the Loom and BVD brand names.

Garan, Incorporated

(“Garan”)

On September 4, 2002, Berkshire acquired all of the outstanding common
stock of Garan. Garan is a leading manufacturer of children’s, women’s, and
men’s apparel bearing the private labels of its customers as well as several of
its own trademarks, including GARANIMALS.

CTB International

(“CTB”)

On October 31, 2002, Berkshire acquired all of the outstanding shares of
CTB, a manufacturer of equipment and systems for the poultry, hog, egg
production and grain industries.



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

(2)

Significant business acquisitions

(Continued)

The Pampered Chef, LTD

(“The Pampered Chef”)

On October 31, 2002, Berkshire acquired The Pampered Chef, LTD. The
Pampered Chef is the premier direct seller of kitchen tools in the U.S.,
primarily through branded product lines.

In addition, Berkshire completed four business acquisitions during 2001.
Information concerning these acquisitions follows.

Shaw Industries, Inc.

(“Shaw”)

On January 8, 2001, Berkshire acquired approximately 87.3% of the common
stock of Shaw for $19 per share, or $2.1 billion in the aggregate and in
January 2002, Berkshire acquired the remaining shares in exchange for 4,505
shares of Berkshire Class A common stock and 7,063 shares of Berkshire Class B
common stock. The aggregate market value of Berkshire stock issued was
approximately $324 million. Shaw is the world’s largest manufacturer of tufted
broadloom carpet and rugs for residential and commercial applications
throughout the U.S. Shaw markets its residential and commercial products under
a variety of brand names.

Johns Manville Corporation

(“Johns Manville”)

On February 27, 2001, Berkshire acquired all of the outstanding shares of
Johns Manville for $13 per share, or $1.8 billion in the aggregate. Johns
Manville is a leading manufacturer of insulation and building products. Johns
Manville manufactures and markets products for building and equipment
insulation, commercial and industrial roofing systems, high-efficiency
filtration media, and fibers and non-woven mats used as reinforcements in
building and industrial applications.

MiTek Inc.

(“MiTek”)

On July 31, 2001, Berkshire acquired a 90% interest in MiTek for
approximately $400 million. Existing MiTek management acquired the remaining
10% interest. MiTek produces steel connector products, design engineering
software and ancillary services for the building components market.

XTRA Corporation

(“XTRA”)

On September 20, 2001, Berkshire acquired all of the outstanding shares of
XTRA for approximately $578 million. XTRA is a leading operating lessor of
transportation equipment, including over-the-road trailers, marine containers
and intermodal equipment.

The results of operations for each of the entities acquired are included
in Berkshire’s consolidated results of operations from the effective date of
each acquisition. The following table sets forth certain unaudited
consolidated earnings data for 2003 and 2002, as if each of the acquisitions
discussed above were consummated on the same terms at the beginning of each
year. Dollars are in millions, except per share amounts.



Total revenues

$

72,945

$

66,194

Net earnings

8,203

4,512

Earnings per equivalent Class A common share

5,343

2,942

(3)

Investments in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company

On March 14, 2000, Berkshire acquired 900,942 shares of common stock and
34,563,395 shares of convertible preferred stock of MidAmerican Energy Holdings
Company (“MidAmerican”) for $35.05 per share, or approximately $1.24 billion in
the aggregate. During March 2002, Berkshire acquired 6,700,000 additional
shares of the convertible preferred stock for $402 million. Such investments
currently give Berkshire about a 9.9% voting interest and an 83.7% economic
interest in the equity of MidAmerican (80.5% on a diluted basis). Since March
2000, Berkshire and certain of its subsidiaries also acquired approximately
$1,728 million of 11% non-transferable trust preferred securities, of which
$150 million were redeemed in August 2003. Mr. Walter Scott, Jr., a member of
Berkshire’s Board of Directors, controls approximately 88% of the voting
interest in MidAmerican.

MidAmerican is a U.S. based global energy company whose principal
businesses are regulated electric and natural gas utilities, regulated
interstate natural gas transmission and electric power generation. Through its
subsidiaries it owns and operates a combined electric and natural gas utility
company in the United States, two natural gas pipeline companies in the United
States, two electricity distribution companies in the United Kingdom and a
diversified portfolio of domestic and international electric power projects.
It also owns the second largest residential real estate brokerage firm in the
United States.



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(3)

Investments in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company

(Continued)

While the convertible preferred stock does not vote generally with the
common stock in the election of directors, the convertible preferred stock
gives Berkshire the right to elect 20% of MidAmerican’s Board of Directors.
The convertible preferred stock is convertible into common stock only upon the
occurrence of specified events, including modification or elimination of the
Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 so that holding company registration
would not be triggered by conversion. Additionally, the prior approval of the
holders of convertible preferred stock is required for certain fundamental
transactions by MidAmerican. Such transactions include, among others: a)
significant asset sales or dispositions; b) merger transactions; c) significant
business acquisitions or capital expenditures; d) issuances or repurchases of
equity securities; and e) the removal or appointment of the Chief Executive
Officer. Through the investments in common and convertible preferred stock of
MidAmerican, Berkshire has the ability to exercise significant influence on the
operations of MidAmerican.

MidAmerican’s Articles of Incorporation further provide that the
convertible preferred shares: a) are not mandatorily redeemable by MidAmerican
or at the option of the holder; b) participate in dividends and other
distributions to common shareholders as if they were common shares and
otherwise possess no dividend rights; c) are convertible into common shares on
a 1 for 1 basis, as adjusted for splits, combinations, reclassifications and
other capital changes by MidAmerican; and d) upon liquidation, except for a de
minimus first priority distribution of $1 per share, share ratably with the
shareholders of common stock. Further, the aforementioned dividend and
distribution arrangements cannot be modified without the positive consent of
the preferred shareholders. Accordingly, the convertible preferred stock is,
in substance, a substantially identical subordinate interest to a share of
common stock and economically equivalent to common stock. Therefore, Berkshire
accounts for its investments in MidAmerican pursuant to the equity method.

Condensed consolidated balance sheets of MidAmerican are as follows.
Amounts are in millions.

December 31,

December 31,



Assets:

Properties, plant, and equipment, net

$

11,181

$

10,285

Goodwill

4,306

4,258

Other assets

3,681

3,892

$

19,168

$

18,435

Liabilities and shareholders’ equity:

Debt, except debt owed to Berkshire

$

10,296

$

10,286

Debt owed to Berkshire

1,578

1,728

Other liabilities and minority interests

4,523

4,127

16,397

16,141

Shareholders’ equity

2,771

2,294

$

19,168

$

18,435

Condensed consolidated statements of earnings of MidAmerican for each of
the three years in the period ending December 31, 2003 are as follows. Amounts
are in millions.




Revenues

$

6,145

$

4,968

$

4,973

Costs and expenses:

Cost of sales and operating expenses

3,944

3,189

3,522

Depreciation and amortization




Interest expense – debt held by Berkshire




Other interest expense




5,465

4,473

4,554

Earnings before taxes




Income taxes and minority interests




Net earnings

$


$


$




Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

(4)

Investments in fixed maturity securities

Investments in securities with fixed maturities as of December 31, 2003
and 2002 are shown below (in millions).

Amortized

Unrealized

Unrealized

Fair

December 31, 2003

Cost

Gains

Losses

Value

Insurance and other:

Obligations of U.S. Treasury, U.S. government
corporations and agencies

$

2,019

$


$

(5

)

$

2,109

Obligations of states, municipalities
and political subdivisions

4,659


—

4,900

Obligations of foreign governments

4,986


(26

)

5,040

Corporate bonds and redeemable preferred stock

8,677

2,472

(23

)

11,126

Mortgage-backed securities

2,802


(6

)

2,941

$

23,143

$

3,033

$

(60

)

$

26,116

Finance and financial products, available-for-sale:

Obligations of U.S. Treasury, U.S. government
corporations and agencies

$

3,733

$


$

—

$

4,053

Corporate bonds



—


Mortgage-backed securities

4,076


—

4,256

$

8,513

$


$

—

$

9,092

Mortgage-backed securities, held-to-maturity

$


$


$

—

$


Amortized

Unrealized

Unrealized

Fair

December 31, 2002

Cost

Gains

Losses

Value

Insurance and other:

Obligations of U.S. Treasury, U.S. government
corporations and agencies

$

9,091

$


$

—

$

10,057

Obligations of states, municipalities
and political subdivisions

6,346


(1

)

6,625

Obligations of foreign governments

3,813


(2

)

3,903

Corporate bonds and redeemable preferred stocks

10,120

1,041

(118

)

11,043

Mortgage-backed securities

6,155


(8

)

6,468

$

35,525

$

2,700

$

(129

)

$

38,096

Finance and financial products, available-for-sale:

Obligations of U.S. Treasury, U.S. government
corporations and agencies

$

3,543

$


$

—

$

3,874

Corporate bonds

1,261


(10

)

1,291

Mortgage-backed securities

10,202


—

10,501

$

15,006

$


$

(10

)

$

15,666

Mortgage-backed securities, held-to-maturity

$

1,019

$


$

—

$

1,197

Shown below are the amortized cost and estimated fair values of
securities with fixed maturities at December 31, 2003, by contractual
maturity dates. Actual maturities will differ from contractual maturities
because issuers of certain of the securities retain early call or prepayment
rights. Amounts are in millions.

Amortized

Fair

Cost

Value

Due in 2004

$

4,105

$

4,217

Due 2005 – 2008

7,914

8,656

Due 2009 – 2013

8,590

10,018

Due after 2014

4,169

5,120

24,778

28,011

Mortgage-backed securities

7,441

7,865

$

32,219

$

35,876



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(5)

Investments in equity securities

Data with respect to investments in equity securities are shown below.
Amounts are in millions.

Unrealized

Fair

Cost

Gains

(2)

Value

December 31, 2003

Common stock of:

American Express Company

(1)

$

1,470

$

5,842

$

7,312

The Coca-Cola Company

1,299

8,851

10,150

The Gillette Company


2,926

3,526

Wells Fargo & Company


2,861

3,324

Other equity securities

4,683

6,292

10,975

$

8,515

$

26,772

$

35,287

December 31, 2002

Common stock of:

American Express Company

(1)

$

1,470

$

3,889

$

5,359

The Coca-Cola Company

1,299

7,469

8,768

The Gillette Company


2,315

2,915

Wells Fargo & Company


2,191

2,497

Other equity securities

5,489

3,335

8,824

$

9,164

$

19,199

$

28,363

(1)

Common shares of American Express Company (“AXP”) owned by Berkshire and
its subsidiaries possessed approximately 11.8% of the voting rights of all
AXP shares outstanding at December 31, 2003. The shares are held subject to
various agreements which, generally, prohibit Berkshire from (i)
unilaterally seeking representation on the Board of Directors of AXP and
(ii) possessing 17% or more of the aggregate voting securities of AXP.
Berkshire has entered into an agreement with AXP which will remain effective
so long as Berkshire owns 5% or more of AXP’s voting securities. The
agreement obligates Berkshire, so long as Kenneth Chenault is chief
executive officer of AXP, to vote its shares in accordance with the
recommendations of AXP’s Board of Directors. Additionally, subject to
certain exceptions, Berkshire has agreed not to sell AXP common shares to
any person who owns 5% or more of AXP voting securities or seeks to control
AXP, without the consent of AXP.

(2)

Net of unrealized losses of $65 million and $406 million as of
December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

(6)

Realized investment gains (losses)

Realized investment gains (losses) are summarized below (in millions).




Fixed maturity securities —

Gross realized gains

$

2,715

$


$


Gross realized losses

(129

)

(287

)

(201

)

Equity securities and other —

Gross realized gains

2,033


1,522

Gross realized losses

(490

)

(583

)

(369

)

$

4,129

$


$

1,488

Net realized gains are reflected in the Consolidated Statements of
Earnings as follows.

Insurance and other

$

2,914

$


$

1,363

Finance and financial products

1,215



$

4,129

$


$

1,488



Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data

(7)

Receivables

Receivables of insurance and other businesses are comprised of the
following (in millions).

December 31,

December 31,



Insurance premiums receivable

$

5,183

$

6,318

Reinsurance recoverables on unpaid losses

2,781

2,773

Trade and other receivables

4,791

4,437

Allowances for uncollectible accounts

(441

)

(375

)

$

12,314

$

13,153

(8)

Goodwill of acquired businesses

Effective January 1, 2002, Berkshire adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.”
SFAS 142 changed the accounting for goodwill from a model that required
amortization of goodwill, supplemented by impairment tests, to an accounting
model that is based solely upon impairment tests. Thus, Berkshire’s
Consolidated Statements of Earnings for 2003 and 2002 include no periodic
amortization of goodwill. In 2001, goodwill amortization, net of tax, was $636
million (or $416 per equivalent Class A share). Such amount included $78
million related to Berkshire’s equity method investment in MidAmerican. A
reconciliation of the change in the carrying value of goodwill for 2003 and
2002 is as follows (in millions).



Balance at beginning of year

$

22,298

$

21,510

Acquisitions of businesses



Balance at end of year

$

22,948

$

22,298

(9)

Derivatives

Certain Berkshire subsidiaries, in particular, General Re Securities
(“GRS”), regularly utilize derivatives as risk management tools. In January
2002, GRS commenced a long-term run-off of its operations. Previously GRS
operated as a dealer in various types of derivatives instruments, such as
swaps, forwards, futures and options, which are used by clients to manage
economic risks arising from interest rate, foreign exchange rate, or market
price movements. The run-off is expected to occur over a number of years
during which GRS will limit its new business to certain risk management
transactions and will unwind its existing asset and liability positions in an
orderly manner. General Re Corporation, the parent of GRS, has guaranteed the
obligations of GRS.

In addition, beginning in 2002, another Berkshire subsidiary entered into
derivatives contracts with the objective of hedging a portion of certain
corporate-wide risks. Accordingly, such contracts do not qualify for hedge
accounting. During 2003, such contracts were primarily foreign currency
exchange forward contracts. Additional information regarding Berkshire’s
derivative contracts follows.

Derivative instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of market,
credit, and liquidity risks. Market risks may be controlled by taking
offsetting positions in either cash instruments or other derivatives.
Exposures are managed on a portfolio basis and monitored daily. For instance,
GRS calculates the effect on operating results of potential changes in market
variables, which include volatility, correlation and liquidity. GRS monitors
risks over a one week period and has established $15 million as its value at
risk limit with a 99

th

percentile confidence interval for potential losses over
a weekly horizon. GRS, which may enter into long duration contracts, records
fair value adjustments to recognize counterparty credit exposure and future
costs associated with administering each contract. The fair value adjustment
for counterparty credit exposures and future administrative costs on existing
contracts was $55 million at December 31, 2003.

Master netting agreements are utilized to manage counterparty credit risk,
where gains and losses are netted across all contracts with that counterparty.
In addition, counterparty credit limits are established, and credit exposures
are monitored in accordance with these limits. In addition, Berkshire may
receive cash or investment grade securities from counterparties as collateral
and, where appropriate, may purchase credit insurance or enter into other
transactions to mitigate exposure, if balances exceed specified levels or if
credit ratings of counterparties are downgraded below specified levels.
Berkshire may incorporate contractual provisions that allow the unwinding of
transactions under adverse conditions. Likewise, Berkshire may be required to
post cash or securities as collateral with counterparties under similar
circumstances.



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(9)

Derivatives

(Continued)

At December 31, 2003, Berkshire subsidiaries accepted collateral with a
fair value of $1,220 million to secure unrealized gains on derivatives. Of the
securities held as collateral, approximately $31 million were repledged as of
December 31, 2003. At December 31, 2003, securities with a fair value of
approximately $441 million (which includes $31 million of repledged securities
as described above) were pledged against derivative liabilities with a fair
value of $733 million. Contractual terms with counterparties often require
additional collateral to be posted immediately in the event of a decline in the
financial rating of the counterparty or its guarantor.

Assuming non-performance by all counterparties on all contracts
potentially subject to a loss, the maximum potential loss, based on the cost of
replacement, net of collateral held, at market rates prevailing at December 31,
2003 approximated $3,439 million. The following table presents derivatives
portfolios by counterparty credit quality and maturity at December 31, 2003.
The amounts shown under gross exposure in the table are before consideration of
netting arrangements and collateral held by Berkshire affiliates. Net fair
value shown in the table represents unrealized gains on financial instrument
contracts in gain positions, net of any unrealized loss owed to these
counterparties on offsetting positions. Net exposure shown in the table that
follows is net fair value less collateral held. Amounts are in millions.

Gross Exposure

Net Fair

Net

Percentage

0-5

6 - 10

Over 10

Total

Value

Exposure

of Total

Credit quality

(years)

AAA

$

1,119

$


$


$

2,193

$


$



%

AA

3,236

1,781

1,969

6,986

2,187

1,578


A

2,341

1,035

1,517

4,893

1,554

1,132


BBB and Below








Total

$

7,057

$

3,434

$

4,156

$

14,647

$

4,519

$

3,439


%

Liquidity risk can arise from funding the portfolio of open transactions.
Movements in underlying market variables affect both future cash flows related
to the transactions and collateral required to cover the value of open
positions.

(10)

Investment in Value Capital

Value Capital L.P., (“Value Capital”), a limited partnership, commenced
operations in 1998. A wholly owned Berkshire subsidiary is a limited partner
in Value Capital. The partnership’s objective is to achieve income and capital
growth from investments and arbitrage in fixed income investments. Profits and
losses (after fees to the general partner) are allocated to the partners based
upon each partner’s investment. Through December 31, 2003, Berkshire accounted
for its limited partnership investment pursuant to the equity method. At
December 31, 2003, the carrying value of $634 million (including Berkshire’s
share of accumulated undistributed earnings of $204 million) is included as a
component of other assets of finance and financial products businesses. In
January of 2004, Berkshire received a cash distribution of $30 million from
Value Capital. As a limited partner, Berkshire’s exposure to loss is limited
to the carrying value of its investment. Beginning in 2004, Berkshire will
consolidate Value Capital in connection with the adoption of FIN 46, as
revised. See Note 1 (r) for additional information.

As of December 31, 2003, Value Capital had total assets of $19.2 billion,
total liabilities of $18.5 billion and capital of $688 million. For the year
ending December 31, 2003, revenues were $596 million, expenses were $564
million and net earnings were $32 million.

(11)

Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses

The balances of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses are based upon
estimates of the ultimate claim costs associated with claim occurrences as of
the balance sheet dates including estimates for incurred but not reported
(“IBNR”) claims. Considerable judgment is required to evaluate claims and
establish estimated claim liabilities, particularly with respect to certain
casualty or liability claims, which are typically reported over long periods of
time and subject to changing legal and litigation trends. This delay in claim
reporting is exacerbated in reinsurance of liability or casualty claims as
claim reporting by ceding companies is further delayed by contract terms.



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

(11) Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses

(Continued)

Supplemental data with respect to unpaid losses and loss adjustment
expenses of property/casualty insurance subsidiaries (in millions) is as
follows.




Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses:

Gross liabilities at beginning of year

$

43,771

$

40,562

$

32,868

Ceded losses and deferred charges

(6,002

)

(6,189

)

(5,590

)

Net balance

37,769

34,373

27,278

Incurred losses recorded:

Current accident year

13,135

12,206

15,607

All prior accident years


1,540

1,152

Total incurred losses

13,615

13,746

16,759

Payments with respect to:

Current accident year

4,493

4,042

4,435

All prior accident years

8,092

6,653

5,352

Total payments

12,585

10,695

9,787

Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses:

Net balance at end of year

38,799

37,424

34,250

Ceded losses and deferred charges

5,684

6,002

6,189

Foreign currency translation adjustment




Net liabilities assumed in connection with business acquisitions

—

—


Gross liabilities at end of year

$

45,393

$

43,771

$

40,562

Incurred losses “all prior accident years” reflects the amount of
estimation error charged or credited to earnings in each year with respect to
the liabilities established as of the beginning of that year. Berkshire
recorded additional losses of $480 million in 2003, $1,540 million in 2002 and
$1,152 million in 2001 with respect to losses occurring in prior years. Such
amounts as percentages of the net balance as of the beginning of the year were
1.3%, 4.5% and 4.2% in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

Prior accident years’ losses incurred also include amortization of
deferred charges related to retroactive reinsurance contracts incepting prior
to January 1, 2003. Amortization charges included in prior accident years’
losses were $432 million in 2003, $430 million in 2002 and $328 million in
2001. Certain workers’ compensation reserves of General Re are discounted.
Net discounted liabilities at December 31, 2003 and 2002 were $2,211 million
and $2,015 million, respectively, and are net of discounts totaling $2,435
million and $2,405 million. Periodic accretions of these discounts are also a
component of prior years’ losses incurred. The accretion of discounted
liabilities is included in incurred losses for all prior accident years and was
approximately $85 million in 2003, $81 million in 2002 and $69 million in 2001.
The most significant component of losses from prior years’ occurrences in both
2002 and 2001 was reserve increases with respect to General Re’s North American
and international property/casualty reinsurance businesses.

Berkshire’s insurance subsidiaries are exposed to environmental, asbestos
and other latent injury claims arising from insurance and reinsurance
contracts. Loss reserve estimates for environmental and asbestos exposures
include case basis reserves, which also reflect reserves for legal and other
loss adjustment expenses and IBNR reserves. IBNR reserves are determined based
upon Berkshire’s historic general liability exposure base and policy language,
previous environmental and loss experience and the assessment of current trends
of environmental law, environmental cleanup costs, asbestos liability law and
judgmental settlements of asbestos liabilities.

The liabilities for environmental, asbestos, and latent injury claims and
claims expenses net of reinsurance recoverables were approximately $5.5 billion
at December 31, 2003 and $6.6 billion at December 31, 2002. These liabilities
include $4.4 billion at December 31, 2003 and $5.4 billion at December 31,
2002, of liabilities assumed under



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(11)

Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses

(Continued)

retroactive reinsurance contracts written by the Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance
Group. The decline in these liabilities over the last twelve months was
primarily attributed to commutations of certain contracts in 2003. Claim
liabilities arising from the retroactive contracts are subject to aggregate
policy limits. Thus, Berkshire’s exposure to environmental and latent injury
claims under these contracts is, likewise, limited. Claims paid or reserved
under these policies were approximately 86% of aggregate policy limits as of
the end of 2003.

Berkshire monitors evolving case law and its effect on environmental and
latent injury claims. Changing government regulations, newly identified
toxins, newly reported claims, new theories of liability, new contract
interpretations and other factors could result in significant increases in
these liabilities. Such development could be material to Berkshire’s results
of operations. It is not possible to reliably estimate the amount of
additional net loss, or the range of net loss, that is reasonably possible.

(12)

Notes payable and other borrowings

Notes payable and other borrowings of Berkshire and its subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2003 and 2002 are summarized below. Amounts are in millions.



Insurance and other:

Issued by Berkshire:

SQUARZ notes 3% due 2007

$


$


Investment agreements due 2012-2033



Issued by subsidiaries and guaranteed by Berkshire:

Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings

1,527

1,834

Other debt due 2006-2035



Issued by subsidiaries and not guaranteed by Berkshire:

Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings



Borrowings under investment agreements due 2004-2041



Other debt due 2004-2032

1,023

1,147

$

4,182

$

4,775

Finance and financial products:

Issued by subsidiaries and guaranteed by Berkshire:

Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings

$


$


3.375% notes due 2008


—

4.20% notes due 2010


—

4.625% notes due 2013


—

Bank borrowings due 2006


2,175

Other



Issued by subsidiaries and not guaranteed by Berkshire:

Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings



Other debt due 2004-2037

2,063

1,916

$

4,937

$

4,513

Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings are obligations of
certain businesses that utilize short-term borrowings as part of financing
their operations. Weighted average interest rates as of December 31, 2003 and
2002 were 1.3% and 2.4% respectively. Berkshire affiliates have approximately
$6.6 billion available unused lines of credit and commercial paper capacity to
support their short-term borrowing programs and, otherwise, provide additional
liquidity.

Investment agreements represent numerous individual contractual borrowing
arrangements under which Berkshire is required to periodically pay interest
over contract terms, which range from a few months to over 30 years. Interest
under such contracts may be at fixed or variable rates. The weighted average
interest rate on amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2003 and 2002 was 3.1%
and 3.9%, respectively. Under certain conditions, principal amounts may be
redeemed without premium prior to the contractual maturity date at the option
of the counterparties.



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

(12)

Notes payable and other borrowings

(Continued)

On May 28, 2002, Berkshire issued 40,000 SQUARZ securities for net
proceeds of $398 million. Each SQUARZ security consists of a $10,000 par
amount senior note due in November 2007 together with a warrant, which expires
in May 2007, to purchase either 0.1116 shares of Class A common stock or 3.3480
shares of Class B common stock for $10,000. A warrant premium is payable to
Berkshire at an annual rate of 3.75% and interest is payable to note holders at
a rate of 3.00% per annum. All debt and warrants issued in conjunction with
SQUARZ securities were outstanding at December 31, 2003.

In September 2003, Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation (“BHFC”), a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Berkshire, issued $1.5 billion par of senior notes
consisting of $750 million par of 3.375% notes due 2008 and $750 million par of
4.625% notes due 2013. In December 2003, BHFC issued an additional $500
million par of 4.20% notes due 2010. The proceeds were used in the financing
activities of Clayton Homes.

Bank borrowings due 2006 relate to Berkadia LLC’s (“Berkadia”) floating
rate loan to FINOVA Capital Corporation, a subsidiary of The FINOVA Group
(“FNV”) in connection with a restructuring of all of that entity’s then
outstanding bank debt and publicly traded debt securities in August 2001.
Berkadia financed the entire loan to FNV ($5.6 billion) through a floating rate
loan from a third party lending facility led by Fleet Bank (“Fleet Loan”),
which is secured by the FNV loan. Subsequent to December 31, 2003, FNV repaid
the entire remaining principal amount on the loan and Berkadia has fully repaid
the Fleet Loan.

Generally, Berkshire’s guarantee of a subsidiary’s debt obligation is an
absolute, unconditional and irrevocable guarantee for the full and prompt
payment when due of all present and future payment obligations of the issuer.

Payments of principal amounts expected during the next five years are as
follows (in millions).






Insurance and other

$

1,606

$


$


$


$


Finance and financial products

1,347




1,057

$

2,953

$


$


$


$

1,072

(13)

Income taxes

The liability for income taxes as of December 31, 2003 and 2002 as
reflected in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets is as follows (in
millions).



Payable currently

$


$

(21

)

Deferred

11,435

8,072

$

11,479

$

8,051

The Consolidated Statements of Earnings reflect charges for income taxes
as shown below (in millions).




Federal

$

3,490

$

1,916

$


State




Foreign



(77

)

$

3,805

$

2,059

$


Current

$

3,346

$

2,218

$


Deferred


(159

)


$

3,805

$

2,059

$




Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(13)

Income taxes

(Continued)

The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant
portions of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at December 31,
2003 and 2002 are shown below (in millions).



Deferred tax liabilities:

Unrealized appreciation of investments

$

10,663

$

7,884

Deferred charges reinsurance assumed

1,080

1,183

Property, plant and equipment

1,124

1,059

Investments



Other

1,350


14,554

11,056

Deferred tax assets:

Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses

(1,299

)

(870

)

Unearned premiums

(372

)

(413

)

Other

(1,448

)

(1,701

)

(3,119

)

(2,984

)

Net deferred tax liability

$

11,435

$

8,072

Charges for income taxes are reconciled to hypothetical amounts computed
at the Federal statutory rate in the table shown below (in millions).




Earnings before income taxes

$

12,020

$

6,359

$

1,438

Hypothetical amounts applicable to above
computed at the Federal statutory rate

$

4,207

$

2,226

$


Tax effects resulting from:

Tax-exempt interest income

(88

)

(109

)

(123

)

Dividends received deduction

(100

)

(97

)

(101

)

Net earnings of MidAmerican

(150

)

(126

)

(47

)

Goodwill amortization

—

—


State income taxes, less Federal income tax benefit




Foreign rate differences

(104

)



Other differences, net

(13

)



Total income taxes

$

3,805

$

2,059

$


(14)

Dividend restrictions — Insurance subsidiaries

Payments of dividends by insurance subsidiaries are restricted by
insurance statutes and regulations. Without prior regulatory approval,
insurance subsidiaries may pay up to approximately $3.7 billion as ordinary
dividends during 2004.

Combined shareholders’ equity of U.S. based property/casualty insurance
subsidiaries determined pursuant to statutory accounting rules (Statutory
Surplus as Regards Policyholders) was approximately $40.7 billion at
December 31, 2003 and $28.4 billion at December 31, 2002.

Statutory surplus differs from the corresponding amount determined on the
basis of GAAP. The major differences between statutory basis accounting and
GAAP are that deferred charges reinsurance assumed, deferred policy acquisition
costs, unrealized gains and losses on investments in securities with fixed
maturities and related deferred income taxes are recognized under GAAP but not
for statutory reporting purposes. In addition, statutory accounting for
goodwill of acquired businesses requires amortization of goodwill over 10 years
as compared to 40 years under GAAP for periods ending December 31, 2001 and
prior. As of January 1, 2002, under GAAP, goodwill is only subject to tests
for impairment.



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

(15)

Fair values of financial instruments

The estimated fair values of Berkshire’s financial instruments as of
December 31, 2003 and 2002, are as follows (in millions).

Carrying Value

Fair Value





Insurance and other:

Investments in fixed maturity securities

$

26,116

$

38,096

$

26,116

$

38,096

Investments in equity securities

35,287

28,363

35,287

28,363

Notes payable and other borrowings

4,182

4,775

4,334

4,925

Finance and financial products:

Investments in fixed maturity securities

9,803

16,853

9,908

17,031

Trading account assets

4,519

6,874

4,519

6,874

Loans and finance receivables

4,951

3,863

5,067

3,988

Notes payable and other borrowings

4,937

4,513

5,019

4,661

Trading account liabilities

5,445

7,274

5,445

7,274

In determining fair value of financial instruments, Berkshire used quoted
market prices when available. For instruments where quoted market prices were
not available, independent pricing services or appraisals by Berkshire’s
management were used. Those services and appraisals reflected the estimated
present values utilizing current risk adjusted market rates of similar
instruments. The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, accounts
receivable and payable, other accruals, securities sold under agreements to
repurchase and other liabilities are deemed to be reasonable estimates of their
fair values.

Considerable judgment is necessarily required in interpreting market data
used to develop the estimates of fair value. Accordingly, the estimates
presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that could be
realized in a current market exchange. The use of different market assumptions
and/or estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated
fair value.

(16)

Common stock

Changes in issued and outstanding Berkshire common stock during the three
years ended December 31, 2003 are shown in the table below.

Class A Common, $5 Par Value

Class B Common $0.1667 Par Value

(1,650,000 shares authorized)

(55,000,000 shares authorized)

Shares Issued and

Shares Issued and

Outstanding

Outstanding

Balance December 31, 2000

1,343,904

5,469,786

Conversions of Class A common stock
to Class B common stock and other

(20,494

)

674,436

Balance December 31, 2001

1,323,410

6,144,222

Common stock issued in connection
with a business acquisition

4,505

7,063

Conversions of Class A common stock
to Class B common stock and other

(16,729

)

552,832

Balance December 31, 2002

1,311,186

6,704,117

Conversions of Class A common stock
to Class B common stock and other

(28,207

)

905,426

Balance December 31, 2003

1,282,979

7,609,543

Each share of Class B common stock has dividend and distribution rights
equal to one-thirtieth (1/30) of such rights of a Class A share. Accordingly,
on an equivalent Class A common stock basis there are 1,536,630 shares
outstanding as of December 31, 2003 and 1,534,657 shares as of December 31,
2002.

Each share of Class A common stock is convertible, at the option of the
holder, into thirty shares of Class B common stock. Class B common stock is
not convertible into Class A common stock. Each share of Class B common stock
possesses voting rights equivalent to one-two-hundredth (1/200) of the voting
rights of a share of Class A common stock. Class A and Class B common shares
vote together as a single class.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(17)

Pension plans

Certain Berkshire subsidiaries individually sponsor defined benefit
pension plans covering their employees. Benefits under the plans are generally
based on years of service and compensation, although benefits under certain
plans are based on years of service and fixed benefit rates. Funding policies
are generally to contribute amounts required to meet regulatory requirements
plus additional amounts determined by management based on actuarial valuations.

The components of net periodic pension expense for each of the three years
ending December 31, 2003 are as follows (in millions).




Service cost

$


$


$


Interest cost




Expected return on plan assets

(159

)

(147

)

(137

)

Net amortization, deferral and other




Net pension expense

$


$


$


The increase (decrease) in minimum liabilities included in other
comprehensive income for each year are as follows (in millions). Such amounts
do not include Berkshire’s share of changes in minimum liabilities of
MidAmerican.




$

(16

)

$


$


The accumulated benefit obligation is the actuarial present value of
benefits earned based on service and compensation prior to the valuation date.
The projected benefit obligation is the actuarial present value of benefits
earned based upon service and compensation prior to the valuation date and
includes assumptions regarding future compensation levels when benefits are
based on those amounts. Information regarding accumulated and projected
benefit obligations and plan assets are as follows (in millions).



Projected benefit obligation, beginning of year

$

2,862

$

2,376

Service cost



Interest cost



Benefits paid

(150

)

(165

)

Benefit obligations of acquired businesses

—


Actuarial loss and other



Projected benefit obligation, end of year

$

3,193

$

2,862

Accumulated benefit obligation, end of year

$

2,675

$

2,408

Plan assets at fair value, beginning of year

$

2,548

$

2,215

Employer contributions



Benefits paid

(150

)

(165

)

Plan assets of acquired businesses

—


Actual return on plan assets



Other and expenses



Plan assets at fair value, end of year

$

2,819

$

2,548

Defined benefit pension plan obligations to U.S. employees are funded
through assets held in trusts and are not included as assets in Berkshire’s
Consolidated Financial Statements. Pension obligations under certain non-U.S.
plans and non-qualified U.S. plans are unfunded. As of December 31, 2003 and
2002, total plan assets were invested as follows:



Fixed maturity investments:

Cash and equivalents

$


$


U.S. Government obligations



Mortgage-backed securities


1,349

Corporate obligations



Equity securities



Other



$

2,819

$

2,548



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

(17)

Pension plans

(Continued)

Pension plan assets are generally invested with the long-term objective of
earning sufficient amounts to cover expected benefit obligations, while
assuming a prudent level of risk. There are no target allocation investment
percentages with respect to individual or categories of investments.
Allocations may change rapidly as a result of changing market conditions and
investment opportunities. The expected rates of return on plan assets reflect
Berkshire’s subjective assessment of expected invested asset returns over a
period of several years, given the current low interest rate environment and
current equity security valuations, in general. Actual experience will differ
from the assumed rates, in particular over quarterly or annual periods as a
result of market volatility and changes in the mix of assets.

The funded status of the plans as of December 31, 2003 and 2002 is as
follows (in millions).



Excess of projected benefit obligations over plan assets

$


$


Unrecognized net actuarial gains and other



Accrued benefit cost liability

$


$


The total net deficit status for plans (including unfunded plans) with
accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets was $378 million and
$320 million as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Expected
contributions to plans during 2004 are estimated to be $72 million.

The benefit payments, which reflect expected future service as
appropriate, are expected to be paid as follows (in millions).






2009 to 2013

$144

$


$


$


$


$


Weighted average assumptions used in determining projected benefit
obligations were as follows. These rates are substantially the same as the
weighted average rates used in determining the net periodic pension expense.



Discount rate

6.0

6.4

Discount rate — non-U.S. plans

5.3

5.9

Long-term expected rate of return on plan assets

6.5

6.5

Rate of compensation increase

4.6

4.7

Rate of compensation increase — non-U.S. plans

2.6

3.8

Most Berkshire subsidiaries also sponsor defined contribution retirement
plans, such as a 401(k) or profit sharing plans. The plans generally cover all
employees who meet specified eligibility requirements. Employee contributions
to the plans are subject to regulatory limitations and the specific plan
provisions. Berkshire subsidiaries generally match these contributions up to
levels specified in the plans, and may make additional discretionary
contributions as determined by management. The total expenses related to
employer contributions for these plans were $242 million, $202 million and $77
million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

(18)

Litigation

GEICO is a defendant in a number of class action lawsuits related to the
use of replacement repair parts not produced by the original auto manufacturer,
the calculation of “total loss” value and whether to pay diminished value as
part of the settlement of certain claims. Management intends to vigorously
defend GEICO’s position on these claim settlement procedures. However, these
lawsuits are in various stages of development and the ultimate outcome cannot
be reasonably determined.

Berkshire and its subsidiaries are parties in a variety of legal actions
arising out of the normal course of business. In particular, such legal actions
affect Berkshire’s insurance and reinsurance businesses. Such litigation
generally seeks to establish liability directly through insurance contracts or
indirectly through reinsurance contracts issued by Berkshire subsidiaries.
Plaintiffs occasionally seek punitive or exemplary damages. Berkshire does not
believe that such normal and routine litigation will have a material effect on
its financial condition or results of operations.



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(19)

Supplemental cash flow information

A summary of supplemental cash flow information for each of the three
years ending December 31, 2003 is presented in the following table (in
millions).




Cash paid during the year for:

Income taxes

$

3,309

$

1,945

$


Interest of finance and financial products businesses




Interest of insurance and other businesses




Non-cash investing and financing activities:

Liabilities assumed in connection with acquisitions of businesses

2,167


3,507

Common shares issued in connection with acquisitions of businesses

—


—

Securities sold (purchased) offset by decrease (increase) in
repurchase agreements

5,936

6,666

(6,731

)

(20)

Business segment data

Information related to Berkshire’s reportable business operating segments
is shown below. Berkshire’s reportable segments are reported in a manner
consistent with the way management evaluates the businesses. As such, insurance
underwriting activities are evaluated separately from investment activities.
Realized investment gains are not considered relevant in evaluating investment
performance on an annual basis. Amortization of purchase accounting
adjustments is not considered by management in evaluating the results of the
business segments.

Other businesses not specifically identified consist of: Scott Fetzer, a
diversified manufacturer and distributor of commercial and industrial products;
Buffalo News, a newspaper publisher in Western New York; International Dairy
Queen, which licenses and services a system of about 6,000 Dairy Queen stores;
See’s Candies, a manufacturer and distributor of boxed chocolates and other
confectionery products; Larson-Juhl, which designs, manufactures, and
distributes custom picture framing products; CTB International, a manufacturer
of equipment and systems for the poultry, hog, egg production and grain
industries and The Pampered Chef, a direct seller of kitchen tools.



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

(20)

Business segment data

(Continued)

A disaggregation of Berkshire’s consolidated data for each of the three
most recent years is presented in the tables which follow on this and the
following page. Amounts are in millions.

Revenues




Operating Businesses:

Insurance group:

Premiums earned:

GEICO

$

7,784

$

6,670

$

6,060

General Re

8,245

8,500

8,353

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group

4,430

3,300

2,991

Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group

1,034



Investment income

3,238

3,067

2,844

Total insurance group

24,731

22,249

20,749

Apparel

2,075

1,619


Building products

3,846

3,702

3,269

Finance and financial products

3,073

2,234

1,928

Flight services

2,431

2,837

2,563

McLane Company

13,743

—

—

Retail

2,311

2,103

1,998

Shaw Industries

4,660

4,334

4,012

Other businesses

3,040

2,375

1,957

59,910

41,453

37,202

Reconciliation of segments to consolidated amount:

Realized investment gains

4,129


1,488

Other revenues




Eliminations

(83

)

(56

)

(65

)

Purchase-accounting adjustments

(136

)

(109

)

(67

)

$

63,859

$

42,235

$

38,593

Earnings (loss) before taxes




Operating Businesses:

Insurance group:

Underwriting gain (loss):

GEICO

$


$


$


General Re


(1,393

)

(3,671

)

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group

1,047


(634

)

Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group




Net investment income

3,223

3,050

2,824

Total insurance group

4,941

2,652

(1,230

)

Apparel



(33

)

Building products




Finance and financial products




Flight services




McLane Company


—

—

Retail




Shaw Industries




Other businesses




7,717

5,319


Reconciliation of segments to consolidated amount:

Realized investment gains

4,121


1,445

Equity in earnings of MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company




Interest expense, excluding interest allocated to business segments

(94

)

(86

)

(92

)

Corporate and other




Goodwill amortization and other purchase-accounting adjustments

(177

)

(119

)

(630

)

$

12,020

$

6,359

$

1,438



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(Continued)

(20)

Business segment data

(Continued)

Depreciation

Capital expenditures *

of tangible assets







Operating Businesses:

Insurance group:

GEICO

$


$


$


$


$


$


General Re







Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group







Total insurance group







Apparel







Building products







Finance and financial products







Flight services







McLane Company


—

—


—

—

Retail







Shaw Industries







Other businesses







$

1,002

$


$


$


$


$


* Excludes capital expenditures which were part of business acquisitions.

Goodwill

Identifiable assets

at year-end

at year-end





Operating Businesses:

Insurance group:

GEICO

$

1,370

$

1,370

$

14,088

$

12,751

General Re

13,515

13,503

38,831

38,271

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group

—

—

51,133

40,181

Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group



4,952

4,770

Total insurance group

15,028

15,016

109,004

95,973

Apparel

(1)



1,523

1,539

Building products

2,131

2,082

2,593

2,515

Finance and financial products



28,338

34,148

Flight services

1,369

1,369

2,875

3,105

McLane Company

(2)


—

2,243

—

Retail



1,495

1,341

Shaw Industries

1,996

1,941

1,999

1,932

Other businesses

(3)



1,813

1,785

$

22,948

$

22,298

151,883

142,338

Reconciliation of segments to consolidated amount:

Corporate and other

1,829

1,257

Investments in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company

3,899

3,651

Goodwill

22,948

22,298

$

180,559

$

169,544



(1)

Excludes other intangible assets not subject to amortization of

$


$


(2)

Excludes other intangible assets not subject to amortization of


—

(3)

Excludes other intangible assets not subject to amortization of





(20) Business segment data

(Continued)

Insurance premiums written by geographic region (based upon the domicile
of the insured) are summarized below. Dollars are in millions.

Property/Casualty

Life/Health







United States.

$

14,701

$

14,297

$

13,319

$

1,031

$

1,153

$

1,176

Western Europe

3,880

3,870

2,352




All other



1,065




$

19,378

$

18,967

$

16,736

$

1,838

$

1,899

$

2,005

Consolidated sales and service revenues in 2003, 2002 and 2001 totaled
$32.1 billion, $17.0 billion and $14.5 billion respectively. Over 90% of such
amounts in each year were in the United States with the remainder primarily in
Canada and Europe. In 2003, consolidated sales and service revenues included
$5.5 billion of sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. which were primarily related to
McLane’s wholesale distribution business that Berkshire acquired in May 2003.

Premiums written and earned by Berkshire’s property/casualty and
life/health insurance businesses during each of the three years ending
December 31, 2003 are summarized below. Dollars are in millions.

Property/Casualty

Life/Health







Premiums Written:

Direct

$

10,710

$

9,457

$

8,294

Assumed

9,227

10,471

9,332

$

2,517

$

2,031

$

2,162

Ceded

(559

)

(961

)

(890

)

(679

)

(132

)

(157

)

$

19,378

$

18,967

$

16,736

$

1,838

$

1,899

$

2,005

Premiums Earned:

Direct

$

10,342

$

8,825

$

7,654

Assumed

9,992

9,293

9,097

$

2,520

$

2,021

$

2,143

Ceded

(688

)

(822

)

(834

)

(673

)

(135

)

(155

)

$

19,646

$

17,296

$

15,917

$

1,847

$

1,886

$

1,988

(21)

Quarterly data

A summary of revenues and earnings by quarter for each of the last two
years is presented in the following table. This information is unaudited.
Dollars are in millions, except per share amounts.


st


nd


rd


th


Quarter

Quarter

Quarter

Quarter

Revenues

$

11,376

$

14,396

$

18,232

$

19,855

Net earnings

(1)

1,730

2,229

1,806

2,386

Net earnings per equivalent Class A common share

1,127

1,452

1,176

1,553


Revenues

$

9,506

$

10,030

$

10,603

$

12,096

Net earnings

(1)


1,045

1,141

1,184

Net earnings per equivalent Class A common share





(1)

Includes realized investment gains, which, for any given period have no
predictive value, and variations in amount from period to period have no
practical analytical value, particularly in view of the unrealized
appreciation now existing in Berkshire’s consolidated investment
portfolio. After-tax realized investment gains for the periods presented
above are as follows:


st


nd


rd


th

Quarter

Quarter

Quarter

Quarter

Realized investment gains - 2003

$


$


$


$


Realized investment gains - 2002







Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None

Item 9 A. Controls and Procedures

At
the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form
10-K, the Corporation carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with
the participation of the Corporation’s management, including the Chairman
(Chief Executive Officer) and the Vice President-Treasurer (Chief Financial
Officer), of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Corporation’s
disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14. Based
upon that evaluation, the Chairman (Chief Executive Officer) and the Vice
President-Treasurer (Chief Financial Officer) concluded that the Corporation’s
disclosure controls and procedures are effective in timely alerting them to
material information relating to the Corporation (including its consolidated
subsidiaries) required to be included in the Corporation’s periodic SEC
filings. There has been no change in the Corporation’s internal
controls over financial reporting during the quarter ended
December 31, 2003 that has materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, the Corporation’s internal controls over
financial reporting.

Part III

Except for the information set forth under the caption “Executive
Officers of the Registrant” in Part I hereof, information required by
this Part (Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14) is incorporated by reference
from the Registrant’s definitive proxy statement, filed pursuant to
Regulation 14A, for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the
Registrant to be held on May 1, 2004, which meeting will involve the
election of directors.

Part IV

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule, and Reports on Form 8-K

(a) 1. Financial Statements

The following consolidated financial statements, as well as the
Independent Auditors’ Report, are included in Part II Item 8 of
this report:

PAGE

Independent Auditors’ Report


Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2003 and 2002


Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the years ended
2003, 2002 and 2001


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
2003, 2002 and 2001


Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity and
Comprehensive

Income for the years ended 2003, 2002 and 2001


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

42-63

2.

Financial Statement Schedule

Independent Auditors’ Report


Schedule I — Parent Company

68-69

Condensed Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2003
and 2002 and

Condensed Statements of Earnings and
Cash Flows

for the years ended 2003, 2002 and 2001.

Other schedules are omitted because they are not required,
information therein is not applicable, or is reflected in
the Consolidated Financial Statements or notes thereto.

3.

Exhibits

See the “Exhibit Index” at page 70.



Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule, and Reports on Form 8-K

(b)

Reports on Form 8-K

Form 8-K dated October 6, 2003. Item 5. Other Events. Financial
Statements and Exhibits. Report included exhibits in connection
with the issuance of $750 million principal amount of 3.375% notes
due 2008 and $750 million principal amount of 4.625% notes due 2013
by Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary
of Berkshire.

Form 8-K dated November 7, 2003. Item 9.
Regulation FD Disclosure
and Item 12. Results of operations and Financial Condition. Report
contained a press release issued November 7, 2003 announcing
Berkshire’s earnings for the third quarter ending September 30,
2003.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

Date: March 11, 2004

/s/ Marc D. Hamburg

Marc D. Hamburg

Vice President and

Principal Financial Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

/s/   Warren E. Buffett

Warren E. Buffett

Chairman of the Board

of Directors - Chief

Executive Officer

March 11, 2004

Date

/s/   Howard G. Buffett

Howard G. Buffett

Director

March 11, 2004

Date

/s/   Susan T. Buffett

Susan T. Buffett

Director

March 11, 2004

Date

/s/   Malcolm G. Chace

Malcolm G. Chace

Director

March 11, 2004

Date

/s/   David S. Gottesman

David S. Gottesman

Director

March 11, 2004

Date

/s/   Charlotte Guyman

Charlotte Guyman

Director

March 11, 2004

Date

/s/   Donald R. Keough

Donald R. Keough

Director

March 11, 2004

Date

/s/   Charles T. Munger

Charles T. Munger

Vice Chairman of the

Board of Directors

March 11, 2004

Date

/s/   Thomas S. Murphy

Thomas S. Murphy

Director

March 11, 2004

Date

/s/   Walter Scott, Jr.

Walter Scott, Jr.

Director

March 11, 2004

Date

/s/   Ronald L. Olson

Ronald L. Olson

Director

March 11, 2004

Date

/s/   Marc D. Hamburg

Marc D. Hamburg

Vice President -

Principal Financial

Officer

March 11, 2004

Date

/s/   Daniel J. Jaksich

Daniel J. Jaksich

Controller

March 11, 2004

Date



INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders

Berkshire Hathaway Inc.

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. and subsidiaries (“the Company”) as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and for each
of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003, and have issued our
report thereon dated March 4, 2004 (which report expresses an unqualified
opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph relating to the adoption of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets”); such consolidated financial statements and report are
included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our audits also included the financial
statement schedule of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., listed in Item 15. The
financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company’s management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our
opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the
basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in
all material respects the information set forth therein.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Omaha, Nebraska

March 4, 2004



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

(Parent Company)

Condensed Financial Information

(Dollars in millions)

Schedule I

Balance Sheets

December 31,



Assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$


$


Investments in consolidated subsidiaries

75,522

62,106

Investments in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company

3,026

2,706

Other assets



$

78,608

$

64,858

Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity:

Accounts payable and accrued expenses

$


$


Income taxes

(28

)


Notes payable and other borrowings

1,032


1,012


Shareholders’ equity

77,596

64,037

$

78,608

$

64,858

Statements of Earnings

Year ended December 31,




Income items:

From consolidated subsidiaries:

Dividends

$


$


$

4,508

Undistributed earnings

7,112

3,484

(3,812

)

7,866

4,019


Other income




7,876

4,025


Cost and expense items:

General and administrative




Interest to affiliates




Other interest



—

Income tax

(35

)

(24

)





Equity in earnings of MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company




Net earnings

$

8,151

$

4,286

$


See Note to Condensed Financial Information



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

(Parent Company)

Condensed Financial Information

(Dollars in millions)

Schedule I (continued)

Statements of Cash Flows

Year ended December 31,




Cash flows from operating activities:

Net earnings

$

8,151

$

4,286

$


Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to cash flows
from operating activities:

Undistributed earnings of subsidiaries and MidAmerican Energy
Holdings Company

(7,459

)

(3,801

)

3,697

Income taxes payable



(357

)

Other


(2

)


Net cash flows from operating activities



4,150

Cash flows from investing activities:

Investments in and advances to subsidiaries

(1,157

)

(226

)

(4,165

)

Investments in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company


(1,185

)

—

Purchases of investments

—

—

(50

)

Proceeds from sales of investments

—


—

Net cash flows from investing activities

(1,078

)

(1,361

)

(4,215

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Proceeds from borrowings



—

Repayments of borrowings

(28

)

(3

)

—

Other




Net cash flows from financing activities




Increase in cash and cash equivalents




Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year



—

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$


$


$


Other cash flow information:

Income taxes paid

$

3,129

$

1,816

$

1,634

Interest paid




Note to Condensed Financial Information

During 2002, Berkshire issued 40,000 SQUARZ securities, consisting of $400
million par amount of notes and 40,000 warrants that permit holders to acquire
Berkshire’s Class A or Class B stock. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements in Item 8 for additional information. In addition, Berkshire’s
other borrowings at December 31, 2003 included $632 million from investment
agreements entered into during 2002 and 2003. Principal is payable under
certain conditions at par prior to maturity and otherwise is payable after
2011.

Berkshire Hathaway Inc. has guaranteed certain debt obligations of its
subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2003, the unpaid balance of subsidiary debt
guaranteed by Berkshire totaled approximately $4.6 billion.

In addition, Berkshire has guaranteed the short term obligations of a
member of its finance and financial products group with respect to securities
sold under agreements to repurchase. Amounts due under such agreements totaled
$7.8 billion at December 31, 2003, and were fully collateralized with
mortgage-backed securities owned by that finance group member.



EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.


Agreement
        and Plan of Merger dated as of June 19, 1998 between Registrant and
        General Re Corporation.

Incorporated by reference to
        Annex I to Registration Statement No. 333-61129 filed on Form S-4.

3(i)

Restated Certificate
        of Incorporation

Incorporated by reference to
        Exhibit 3.1 to Registration Statement No. 333-61129 filed on
        Form S-4.

3(ii)

By-Laws

Incorporated by reference to
        Exhibit 3.2 to Registration Statement No. 333-61129 filed on
        Form S-4.

4.1

Form of Indenture
        dated as of May 28, 2002 between Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and The
        Bank of New York, note trustee with respect to 3% Notes due November 15,
        2007 which were issued in connection with the SQUARZ securities.

Incorporated by reference to
        Exhibit 4.2 to Registration Statement No. 333-98145 filed on
        Form S-3.

Other instruments
        defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of Registrant and its
        subsidiaries are not being filed since the total amount of securities
        authorized by all other such instruments does not exceed 10% of the total
        assets of the Registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis
        as of December 31, 2003. The Registrant hereby agrees to furnish
        to the Commission upon request a copy of any such debt instrument to which
        it is a party.


Statement of computation
        of ratio of earnings to fixed charges


Subsidiaries of
        the Registrant


Independent Auditors’
        Consent


Rule 13a —
        14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications


Section 1350
        Certifications

70