
10-K405
10-K405



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                             ---------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
               /X/  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995
                                       OR
             / /  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                 FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM       TO
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-9210
                             ---------------------
 
                        OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 
               DELAWARE                                95-4035997
   (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF                  (I.R.S. EMPLOYER
    INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)                IDENTIFICATION NO.)
       10889 WILSHIRE BOULEVARD                          90024
       LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA                         (ZIP CODE)
   (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE
               OFFICES)
 
       REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (310) 208-8800
                             ---------------------
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
 
                                                 NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
         TITLE OF EACH CLASS                      ON WHICH REGISTERED
- --------------------------------------   --------------------------------------
9 5/8% Senior Notes due 1999             New York Stock Exchange
10 1/8% Senior Notes due 2001            New York Stock Exchange
10 1/8% Senior Debentures due 2009       New York Stock Exchange
11 1/8% Senior Debentures due 2019       New York Stock Exchange
9 1/4% Senior Debentures due 2019        New York Stock Exchange
$3.00 Cumulative CXY-Indexed             New York Stock Exchange
  Convertible Preferred Stock
Common Stock                             New York Stock Exchange,
                                           Pacific Stock Exchange
Rights                                   New York Stock Exchange,
                                           Pacific Stock Exchange
 
        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT: NONE
 
    Indicate  by check  mark whether  the registrant  (l) has  filed all reports
required to be filed by  Section 13 or 15(d) of  the Securities Exchange Act  of
1934  during  the preceding  12  months (or  for  such shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to  such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.
                                Yes  X    No
                                    ---     ----

    Indicate  by check mark if disclosure  of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's  knowledge, in definitive  proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. /X/
                             ---------------------
 
    At February 29, 1996, the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
nonaffiliates of the registrant was approximately $7.4 billion, based on the New
York Stock Exchange composite tape closing price on February 29, 1996.
 
    At  February  29,  1996,  there  were  319,187,618  shares  of  Common Stock
outstanding.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
    Portions of the registrant's Annual Report  for the year ended December  31,
1995,  are  incorporated by  reference  into Parts  I  and II.  Portions  of the
registrant's definitive Proxy Statement filed  in connection with its April  26,
1996,  Annual Meeting  of Stockholders are  incorporated by  reference into Part
III.
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 

 
                                      (i)

                                     PART I
 
ITEMS 1 AND 2 BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES
GENERAL
 
    Occidental  Petroleum  Corporation, a  Delaware  corporation ("Occidental"),
explores for, develops, produces and markets crude oil and natural gas;  engages
in  interstate  and  intrastate  natural  gas  transmission  and  marketing; and
manufactures and  markets  a  variety of  basic  chemicals,  petrochemicals  and
polymers  and  plastics. Occidental  conducts  its principal  operations through
three subsidiaries:  Occidental  Oil  and  Gas  Corporation,  MidCon  Corp.  and
Occidental  Chemical Corporation. Occidental's executive  offices are located at
10889  Wilshire  Boulevard,  Los  Angeles,  California  90024;  telephone  (310)
208-8800.
 
    Occidental   was  organized  in   April  1986  and,  as   the  result  of  a
reorganization effective  May 21,  1986, became  the successor  to a  California
corporation  of  the same  name  organized in  1920.  As used  herein,  the term
"Occidental" refers to  Occidental alone  or together with  one or  more of  its
subsidiaries.
 
    Occidental's  principal businesses  constitute three  industry segments, the
operations of which  are described below.  For information with  respect to  the
revenues,  net income  and assets of  Occidental's industry segments  and of its
operations in various geographic areas for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1995, see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of
Occidental  ("Consolidated  Financial  Statements"),   which  are  included   in
Occidental's  1995 Annual Report ("1995 Annual  Report") and are incorporated by
reference in Item  8 of  this report, and  the information  appearing under  the
caption  "Management's Discussion and  Analysis," which is  included in the 1995
Annual Report  and  is incorporated  by  reference in  Item  7 of  this  report.
Throughout  this report, portions of the  1995 Annual Report are incorporated by
reference. These portions of the 1995  Annual Report are included as Exhibit  13
to this report.
 
OIL AND GAS OPERATIONS
 
EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION
 
    GENERAL   Through Occidental  Oil and Gas  Corporation and its subsidiaries,
and its approximate 30 percent equity interest in Canadian Occidental  Petroleum
Ltd.  ("CanadianOxy"), Occidental produces or  participates in the production of
crude oil, condensate and  natural gas in the  United States, Canada,  Colombia,
the Congo, Ecuador, the Dutch and United Kingdom sectors of the North Sea, Oman,
Pakistan, Peru, Qatar, Russia, Venezuela and Yemen. Occidental is continuing its
development  programs for certain existing fields  in certain of these countries
and also is conducting exploration activities  in several of these countries  as
well as in other countries.



    In  1995, Occidental again added more oil  to its reserves than it produced,
continuing its  record of  total  reserve increases.  Occidental's  consolidated
worldwide  net  proved  developed and  undeveloped  reserves of  crude  oil (not
including those  of CanadianOxy)  were  930 million  barrels at  year-end  1995,
compared  with 918 million barrels at  year-end 1994. Domestic reserves of crude
oil were 196 million barrels at year-end 1995, compared with 218 million barrels
at year-end  1994,  while international  crude  oil reserves  increased  to  734
million  barrels from 700 million barrels  at year-end 1994. Worldwide net crude
oil reserve additions  of 138  million barrels,  mainly in  Peru, Venezuela  and
Qatar,  more  than replaced  Occidental's  worldwide production  of  101 million
barrels. The calculation  of net reserve  additions does not  take into  account
sales  of reserves. Worldwide  net proved developed  and undeveloped reserves of
natural gas were approximately 2.5 trillion cubic feet ("Tcf") at year-end 1995,
with 1.8 Tcf attributable to domestic operations. Worldwide net proved developed
and undeveloped natural gas  reserves were about 2.3  Tcf in the previous  year.
Discoveries  of substantial quantities of gas and oil in the Philippines are not
reflected in Occidental's proved reserves. Similarly, only a portion of the  gas
and  condensate  reserves in  Malaysia has  been  reflected in  proved reserves.
Occidental's crude  oil reserves  include condensate  and natural  gas  liquids,
except  for the United States, where crude oil reserves include only condensate.
In addition,  natural gas  reserves in  the  United States  are presented  on  a
wet-gas  basis  (including  leasehold  natural  gas  liquids  reserves), whereas
natural gas reserves in other  locations exclude natural gas liquids.  Estimates
of  reserves have  been made  by Occidental  engineers. These  estimates include
reserves in which Occidental holds an economic interest under service  contracts
and  other arrangements. The reserves are stated after applicable royalties. See
the information  incorporated  under  the  caption  "Supplemental  Oil  and  Gas
Information" incorporated by reference in Item 8 of this report.
 
    Net  daily worldwide  oil production  grew by  17 percent  to an  average of
278,000 barrels per day in 1995,  and net worldwide natural gas production  rose
by  10  percent  to an  average  of 739  million  cubic feet  ("MMcf")  per day.
International  operations  accounted   for  77  percent   of  Occidental's   oil
production,  while 83 percent of gas production  came from the United States. On
an oil equivalent basis, Occidental produced 408,000 net barrels per day in 1995
from operations in 12 countries, including the United States.
 
    As a  producer  of crude  oil  and  natural gas,  Occidental  competes  with
numerous  other producers, as well as  with nonpetroleum energy producers. Crude
oil and natural gas are commodities that are sensitive to prevailing  conditions
of  supply and demand and generally are sold at posted or contract prices. Among
the methods  that Occidental  uses to  compete are  the acquisition  of  foreign
contract  exploration blocks in  areas with known  oil and gas  deposits and the
cost-efficient development  and  exploitation  of  its  worldwide  oil  and  gas
reserves.  Specific strategies include the buying  or selling of proved reserves
and flexible and responsive marketing techniques, particularly for natural  gas.
Occidental  is  also  pursuing  opportunities  to  increase  production  through
enhanced oil recovery projects, similar to those in Qatar and Venezuela, focused
exploration and strategic acquisitions.
 
    Occidental's domestic  oil  and gas  operations  are affected  by  political
developments  and by federal, state and  local laws and regulations relating to,
among other  things, increases  in taxes  and royalties,  production limits  and
environmental  matters. All sectors of the natural gas industry continued during
1995 to adjust their  marketing activities under the  provisions of a series  of
orders  adopted by  the Federal  Energy Regulatory  Commission ("FERC")  in 1992
("Order 636"). Order 636 was implemented to improve the competitive structure of
the natural gas  industry and at  the same time  maintain adequate and  reliable
service.  Both FERC and  state regulatory agencies have  continued to modify the
scope of the regulation of the transportation services framework put into effect
by Order 636 with a series of Orders issued in 1994 that will tend to deregulate
the gathering  systems  of  interstate pipelines  and  their  affiliates.  These
activities  are  not  expected  to have  a  significant  impact  on Occidental's
domestic oil and gas production operations.
 
    In December 1995, Occidental entered into a transaction with Clark USA, Inc.
("Clark") under which  Occidental agreed to  deliver approximately 17.7  million
barrels  of West Texas  Intermediate crude ("WTI")-equivalent  oil over the next
six  years.  In  exchange,  Occidental   received  $100  million  in  cash   and
approximately  5.5 million  shares of  Clark common  stock. As  a result  of the
transaction, Occidental owns approximately 19  percent of Clark. Occidental  has
accounted  for the consideration received in the transaction as deferred revenue
which is  being  amortized  into  revenue  as  WTI-equivalent  oil  is  produced
 

and  delivered  during the  term  of the  agreement.  Reserves dedicated  to the
transaction are excluded from the estimate  of proved oil and gas reserves  (see
the  information  incorporated  under  the  caption  "Supplemental  Oil  and Gas
Information" incorporated by reference in Item 8 of this report).
 
    Portions of Occidental's oil and gas assets are located in countries outside
North America,  some of  which may  be considered  politically and  economically
unstable.  These assets and  the related operations  are subject to  the risk of
actions by governmental authorities and insurgent groups. Occidental attempts to
conduct its financial  affairs so  as to protect  against such  risks and  would
expect  to receive compensation in the event of nationalization. At December 31,
1995, the carrying value of Occidental's oil and gas assets in countries outside
North America  aggregated  approximately  $2.038 billion,  or  approximately  11
percent of Occidental's total assets at that date. Approximately $635 million of
such  assets was located in the Middle East, and $563 million of such assets was
located in Latin America. Substantially all of the remainder were located in the
Dutch sector of the North Sea, West Africa and Russia.
 
    UNITED STATES  Occidental produces crude oil and natural gas, principally in
Texas, the Gulf of Mexico, Kansas, Oklahoma, Louisiana, New Mexico,  California,
Mississippi and Alaska.
 
    Net  daily domestic  production of  crude oil  averaged approximately 64,000
barrels in  1995, compared  with  59,000 barrels  in  1994. Net  daily  domestic
production  of natural gas averaged 612 MMcf  in 1995, compared with 620 MMcf in
1994.
 
    Occidental's average price for domestic crude  oil was $15.61 per barrel  in
1995,  compared with $14.21 in the previous  year. The average natural gas price
in 1995 was $1.51 per thousand cubic  feet ("Mcf"), compared with $1.85 per  Mcf
during 1994.
 
    The  purchase on December 29, 1994 of Placid Oil Company ("Placid") added in
1994 proven domestic reserves of 20.1 million barrels of oil equivalent.  During
1995,  Occidental personnel  assumed operations of  Placid's domestic properties
which are  primarily located  in central  Louisiana. Placid  participated in  16
development  wells during  1995, of which  15 were  successful. Occidental's net
daily domestic production for 1995 increased  by 4,200 barrels of crude oil  and
21.1 MMcf of natural gas as a result of the Placid acquisition.
 
    Occidental's  largest concentration  of gas  reserves and  production is the
Hugoton area  encompassing portions  of  Kansas, Oklahoma  and Texas,  where  it
produced  an  average of  more than  218 MMcf  of gas  per day  or approximately
one-third of the  domestic total. Occidental  has approximately 1.1  Tcf of  gas
reserves  and 5.7 million  barrels of oil  reserves in the  Hugoton area and has
continued development in this region  by drilling approximately 50 infill  wells
and adding 29 producing wells through exploration of deeper levels in 1995.
 
    In  central Oklahoma, Occidental's continued carbon dioxide ("CO2") strategy
during 1995  resulted in  reserve additions  of 1.7  million barrels.  Extension
wells  drilled in the area resulted in adding reserves of 200,000 barrels of oil
and 1.7  billion  cubic feet  ("Bcf")  of gas.  Occidental  plans to  begin  CO2
injection into the S.E. Bradley A Unit in mid-1996.
 
    Twenty  wells were drilled in  the Milne Point field  in Alaska during 1995.
These wells resulted in reserve additions of 4.8 million barrels of oil. Another
15 wells  were also  drilled,  which resulted  in  the reclassification  of  1.8
million barrels from proved undeveloped to proved developed.
 
    Occidental  continued to  develop its  interest in  the deep,  high pressure
Austin Chalk play in  the Masters Creek Field  in Rapides Parish, Louisiana.  In
December,  the  Murray A-1,  a  14,700 foot  total  vertical depth  dual lateral
horizontal well,  was  completed. The  well  was successfully  tested  at  3,200
barrels  of oil and 10 MMcf of gas per  day and will be brought on production in
early 1996. This paves the way for further development of Occidental's interests
in the  36,000  acre leasehold.  Additionally,  Occidental participated  in  the
Labokay  exploration located seven  miles west of  the Masters Creek properties.
Occidental has a 50 percent working interest in the extension.
 
    Occidental has  an  agreement  to  make available  to  certain  parties,  in
connection  with a legal settlement, up  to 49,500 million British thermal units
("MMBtu")  of   natural   gas  per   day   through  2010   at   prices   related
 

to  market. Occidental also has an agreement to supply fuel gas at market prices
to a CITGO  Petroleum Corporation ("CITGO")  refinery until 2003  to the  extent
that CITGO does not obtain such gas from other sources.
 
    Additionally,  Occidental  has  an  agreement to  supply  CITGO,  at CITGO's
option, with  a majority  of its  domestic lease  crude oil  production  through
August 31, 1998. During 1995, Occidental sold CITGO approximately 38,000 barrels
of oil per day under this agreement.
 
    Occidental  has various agreements to supply certain gas marketing companies
with 70,900 MMBtu of natural gas per day for 1996 and with volumes ranging  from
69,400  down to  1,900 MMBtu per  day from  1997 through 2003.  Prices under the
different agreements are based  on energy equivalent  crude oil prices,  market-
sensitive  prices or contract  prices, some with  a yearly escalation provision.
Occidental also has agreements with various public utility companies to  provide
approximately 40,000 MMBtu of natural gas per day through 1997 and approximately
19,100  MMBtu per day in 1998. The public utility agreements provide for market-
sensitive prices. In addition, Occidental  has entered into several other  sales
contracts  of one year  or more to  industrial customers with  a total volume of
15,700 MMBtu of natural gas per day  in 1996, decreasing to 2,400 MMBtu per  day
by 1998.
 
    CANADA   Occidental owns an approximate  30 percent interest in CanadianOxy,
which is accounted for as an equity investment. See Note 15 to the  Consolidated
Financial Statements.
 
    CanadianOxy  produces crude oil, natural gas, natural gas liquids and sulfur
in Canada, principally in the Province of Alberta; owns a 7.23 percent  interest
in  Syncrude Canada Ltd., which produces synthetic  crude oil from the tar sands
of Northern Alberta; has interests in  producing oil and gas leases onshore  and
offshore  in the United States and in the United Kingdom sector of the North Sea
and Yemen;  engages in  exploration  activities in  Canada, the  United  States,
Yemen,  Indonesia,  Romania,  Pakistan,  Kazakstan,  Colombia  and  Vietnam; and
participates with Occidental in certain of  its operations in Peru and  Ecuador.
CanadianOxy also conducts chemical operations in Canada and the United States.
 
    At  December 31,  1995, Occidental's proportional  interest in CanadianOxy's
worldwide net proved developed and undeveloped reserves aggregated approximately
38 million barrels of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids, 156 Bcf  of
natural  gas and 48 million barrels of  synthetic crude oil recoverable from tar
sands.
 
    COLOMBIA   Occidental  conducts  exploration and  production  operations  in
Colombia  under  four  contracts  with  Ecopetrol,  the  Colombian  national oil
company. These  contracts cover  the producing  Cano Limon  area in  the  Llanos
region  of northeastern Colombia, one exploration  area in the Llanos fold belt,
one exploration  area  in the  Bogota  basin and  one  exploration area  in  the
Magdalena  Valley. Occidental's  interest in these  contracts is  through its 75
percent ownership of the stock of a subsidiary that owns the company  conducting
operations   in  Colombia.  After   giving  effect  to   a  government  royalty,
Occidental's net share of  existing production is 15  percent from the  contract
covering the Llanos area.
 
    All  of Occidental's share of production  is exported through a trans-Andean
pipeline system  that  carries crude  oil  to  an export  terminal  at  Covenas.
Occidental  has  an 18.75  percent net  ownership interest  in the  pipeline and
marine terminal.  The  pipeline is  subject  to periodic  attacks  by  insurgent
groups, which from time to time disrupt the flow of oil.
 
    Gross  production from  Occidental's Cano Limon  area averaged approximately
197,000 barrels per day in 1995, compared with 189,000 barrels per day in 1994.
 
    CONGO  In April  1993, Occidental signed an  agreement with the Republic  of
the  Congo  (the  "Congo")  providing  for  the  purchase  of  a  share  of  the
government's entitlement to oil from certain offshore properties. The  agreement
was  subsequently amended to substitute the government's entitlement from fields
either currently producing or scheduled  for development to replace  undeveloped
areas included in the initial agreement. Occidental began receiving revenue from
the entitlement oil in 1994. In 1995, the
 

Congolese  government  approved  production-sharing contracts  for  two offshore
exploration blocks  in  the  Congo's  major  producing  area.  Occidental's  net
production in the Congo was approximately 9,000 barrels per day in 1995.
 
    ECUADOR    Occidental operates  the 494,000-acre  Block  15, in  the Oriente
Basin, under a risk-service  contract. Five oil  fields were discovered  between
1985  and 1992 and  production started in  May 1993 from  three fields. Drilling
will continue until the fields are fully developed. Gross production was  23,800
barrels per day in 1995 and Occidental's net production was approximately 20,200
barrels per day.
 
    In  late 1995, Occidental and the government of Ecuador reached agreement on
amending the Block 15 contract. In  exchange for an additional exploration  work
program  and  a fixed  percentage royalty  on  production from  newly discovered
fields, Occidental will receive  an increased share  of profits from  production
from  any new discoveries. Also,  the contract term for  new discoveries will be
extended for at least seven years.
 
    Occidental has an  85 percent  interest in the  parent of  the company  that
holds title to the block. CanadianOxy owns the remaining 15 percent.
 
    NORTH  SEA   Through the  purchase of  a subsidiary  of Placid  named Placid
International Oil Ltd., now Occidental Netherlands, Inc., as part of the  Placid
acquisition   in  December   1994,  Occidental   acquired  interests   in  seven
gas-producing licenses and four exploration licenses in the Dutch sector of  the
North  Sea. Also acquired was a 38.6 percent interest in a 110-mile gas pipeline
system that services the area. Net production for 1995 was approximately 78 MMcf
of gas per day.
 
    OMAN  Occidental is the operator, with a 65 percent working interest, of the
Suneinah Block, which  contains the Safah  field, the Al  Barakah field and  the
Wadi  Latham field. Occidental's net share of  production from the block in 1995
averaged approximately 12,000 barrels per day of crude oil, compared with 12,300
barrels per day in 1994.
 
    PAKISTAN  In April 1995, Occidental  sold the subsidiary company that  owned
Occidental's  interests in the Dhurnal  and Bhangali oil and  gas fields and the
Ratana gas field located in northern Pakistan.
 
    In southern Pakistan, Occidental  has a 30 percent  working interest in  the
Badin  Block, which in 1995 produced a net share of 6,000 barrels of oil per day
and 49 MMcf of gas per day, compared to 4,700 barrels of oil per day and 43 MMcf
of gas per day in  1994. Exploration of the block  resulted in five oil and  gas
discoveries that will help maintain production at current rates.
 
    In addition, Occidental holds exploration rights for a 356,000-acre block in
northern  Pakistan  for two  contiguous blocks  in the  Central Indus  gas basin
totaling 2.9 million acres and for four other blocks totaling 5.2 million acres.
 
    PERU  Occidental conducts exploration and production activities under  three
separate  service contracts with the Peruvian government. Two of these contracts
cover continuing operations in the northern  jungle and in the northern  coastal
area  of Talara and provide  for Occidental to receive,  as compensation for its
services, fees, based on barrels  of production, that vary  with the value of  a
"basket"  of international oils.  All production is  delivered to Perupetro, the
Peruvian national oil  company. Occidental  has a  100 percent  interest in  the
jungle  contract and a 63 percent interest  in the Talara contract. The contract
for Talara, signed in 1978, expired in July 1995, but was renewed for one  year.
The  third contract, in which Occidental owns  a 35 percent working interest, is
for an exploration block adjacent to the northern jungle block.
 
    Gross production  from  the  northern jungle  block  averaged  approximately
55,000  barrels per day in  1995, compared with 58,000  barrels per day in 1994.
Occidental's net production in Peru amounted to approximately 58,000 barrels per
day in 1995, compared to 61,000 barrels per day in 1994.
 
    QATAR   In  October  1994,  a unified  agreement  was  approved  authorizing
Occidental  to implement a development plan  to increase production and reserves
from the Idd el Shargi North Dome field.
 
    Under a  production sharing  agreement, Occidental  is the  operator of  the
field  and will complete development of  the field's three main reservoirs using
horizontally drilled wells in conjunction with pressure
 

maintenance by both water injection and gas injection to effect a high  recovery
from  the reservoir. Production  increased from the initial  base rate of 20,000
barrels per day to approximately 67,000 barrels per day at the end of 1995.
 
    RUSSIA    In  1992,  Occidental  and  AAOT  Chernogorneft  Enterprise  began
operation  of a fifty  percent owned joint  venture company, Vanyoganneft, which
was formed to increase oil recovery and production from the Vanyogan and  Ayogan
oil  fields and  to sell  the oil  to foreign  markets. The  two oil  fields are
located 40 miles northeast of the city of Nizhnevartovsk in the western Siberian
oil basin. Through well workovers, new development wells and the use of electric
submersible pumps, production was increased by  more than 8,000 barrels per  day
and  reached  50,000  gross  barrels  per  day  at  year-end  1993.  The Russian
government mandated the cessation of joint  venture exports at the beginning  of
1994,  which caused  Occidental to slow  investment substantially  and to reduce
expatriate staff. As a result, Occidental reduced repair work and new  drilling.
Exports of crude oil resumed in the fourth quarter of 1994 and continued through
1995.  During 1995, gross production averaged 46,900 barrels per day. Occidental
expects to continue to export a significant amount of its production in 1996.
 
    In 1992, Occidental was awarded the 1.5-million-acre Block 15 in the Russian
Federation's Komi Republic. A joint venture, Parmaneft, was established  between
Occidental,  which  owns a  75 percent  interest, and  Ukhtaneftegasgeologica to
explore for oil  and gas and  develop discoveries within  the block. During  the
exploration  phase,  Occidental  is  paying  100  percent  of  the  costs. South
Terekheveiskaya Parmaneft-1, the joint venture's first exploratory well  drilled
in  1993, tested high-gravity oil  at a rate of  approximately 6,400 barrels per
day. The  block  contains a  number  of other  prospects  that may  contain  oil
reserves.  In addition to  Block 15, Parmaneft  acquired rights under subsurface
licenses for two undeveloped Russian fields several miles southeast of Block 15.
 
    VENEZUELA   In  November  1993,  Occidental  executed  a  20-year  operating
services  agreement with  Maraven, an affiliate  of the  Venezuelan national oil
company, to increase  oil production and  reserves from existing  fields in  the
968,000-acre unit located just west of Lake Maracaibo. A three-year work program
began  in February 1994 that includes the workover and repair of existing wells,
the drilling of new  wells, the installation of  high-rate pumping equipment  in
all  wells and  the expansion of  existing production  facilities to accommodate
increased production. Occidental achieved  further production increases in  1995
with  production averaging 20,900  barrels per day for  1995, and 25,800 barrels
per day for  the month of  December 1995.  At Lake Maracaibo  Occidental is  the
operator,  with  a  100  percent  working  interest,  and  it  will  receive, as
compensation for its  services, fees based  on barrels of  production that  vary
with  the values of a "basket"  of international oils, inflation and accumulated
production.
 
    YEMEN  In 1991,  Occidental acquired an 18  percent working interest in  the
6.8-million-acre  Masila  Block,  where  CanadianOxy, the  operator,  with  a 52
percent  working  interest,  has  made  12  oil  discoveries.  Construction   of
production  gathering and treating facilities, a  90-mile pipeline system and an
offshore export terminal on  the Gulf of Aden  were completed in November  1993.
Production   started   in   July   1993.   Occidental's   net   share   under  a
production-sharing contract was 15,200  barrels per day  in 1995. Drilling  will
continue until the fields are fully developed. Occidental also has a 100 percent
working interest in a production sharing contract in a central Yemen exploration
block.
 
    OTHER  INTERNATIONAL  EXPLORATION    In  1992,  a  substantial  gas  and oil
discovery was made in the Malampaya  prospect on Block SC-38 offshore  northwest
Palawan  Island  in the  Philippines. Appraisal  wells  confirmed that  the 1989
Camago discovery by  Occidental and the  Malampaya discovery contain  sufficient
recoverable  gas for  a commercial  project. Occidental  and its  partner, Shell
Philippines Exploration Corporation,  the operator, are  formulating plans  with
the  Philippine government to  develop and market  the gas. Occidental  has a 50
percent working interest.
 
    In East Malaysia, Occidental has  made significant gas discoveries  offshore
Sarawak.   In  1995,  agreements  were  executed   with  its  partners  for  the
commercialization of these discoveries. A joint venture company will be owned by
Occidental and its partners, PETRONAS, the Malaysian national oil company, Shell
Gas B.V.  and Nippon  Oil Company  to construct  the country's  third  liquefied
natural  gas (LNG) plant. Feedstock  for the plant will  initially come from the
Jintan discovery containing recoverable gas estimated at
 

2.9 Tcf. Occidental is  the operator, with  a 37.5 percent  interest in the  gas
discoveries.  Occidental will  also have  a 10 percent  interest in  the new LNG
plant. Development  of  the Jintan  field  is  scheduled to  commence  with  the
detailed  upstream facility design  in 1996. The estimated  start-up date of the
LNG plant is the year 2001.
 
    In  addition,  Occidental  acquired  new  exploration  blocks  in   Albania,
Argentina,  Bangladesh,  The  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Hungary,  Ireland,  the
Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Papua  New   Guinea  and  Pakistan.  During   1996,
exploration  activities  are planned  in these  areas as  well as  on previously
acquired  blocks  in   Albania,  Colombia,  Gabon,   Indonesia,  Malaysia,   the
Philippines, Vietnam, Yemen and Russia.
 
    SPECIAL  ITEMS IN 1995  Financial results for 1995 include charges of $109.0
million for  the  settlement  of  litigation  and  $95.0  million  for  a  major
reorganization  of Occidental's worldwide oil  and gas operations, consolidating
operations management at the division's headquarters in Bakersfield, California.
The reorganization charge recorded had no cash impact in 1995.
 
RESERVES, PRODUCTION AND RELATED INFORMATION
 
    Reference is made to  Note 18 to the  Consolidated Financial Statements  and
the  information  incorporated  under  the  caption  "Supplemental  Oil  and Gas
Information" incorporated by reference in Item 8 of this report for  information
with respect to Occidental's oil and gas reserves, the production from and other
changes  in such reserves, the discounted  present value of estimated future net
cash  flows  therefrom,  certain  costs  and  other  financial  and  statistical
information  regarding  Occidental's  oil  and  gas  exploration  and production
operations. Estimates of  reserves have  been made by  Occidental engineers  and
include reserves under which Occidental holds an economic interest under service
contracts  and other arrangements.  The definitions used  are in accordance with
applicable Securities and Exchange  Commission regulations. Accordingly,  unless
otherwise  stated, all references to reserves are  made on a net basis. In 1995,
Occidental reported to the U.S. Department of Energy (the "DOE") on Form  EIA-28
the  same proved oil and gas reserves at December 31, 1994, as are set forth for
that date in the  information incorporated under  the caption "Supplemental  Oil
and Gas Information" contained in Occidental's 1994 Annual Report.
 
NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION OPERATIONS
 
GENERAL
 
    Through  MidCon  Corp.  ("MidCon"),  Occidental  engages  in  interstate and
intrastate  natural  gas  transmission  and  marketing.  MidCon's   subsidiaries
purchase,  transport, store, produce and process  gas and sell gas to utilities,
municipalities and industrial and commercial users.
 
    The principal subsidiaries of  MidCon are: Natural  Gas Pipeline Company  of
America ("Natural"), which owns a major interstate pipeline transmission system;
MidCon   Texas  Pipeline  Corp.  ("MidCon  Texas"),  which,  together  with  its
subsidiaries, owns and operates intrastate pipeline systems in Texas; and MidCon
Gas Services Corp. ("MidCon Gas"), which engages in the production, purchase and
sale of gas and arranges for the transportation and storage of such gas.  MidCon
Exploration  Company ("MidCon Exploration") owns 50 percent interests in federal
oil and gas leases for two blocks in the Garden Banks area, offshore  Louisiana.
Other  subsidiaries of MidCon process  natural gas. Through subsidiaries, MidCon
also owns interests in several gas pipeline joint ventures.
 
    MidCon's interstate pipeline operations are subject to extensive  regulation
by  the FERC.  The FERC  regulates, among  other things,  rates and  charges for
transportation and storage of gas  in interstate commerce, the construction  and
operation  of interstate  pipeline facilities  and the  accounts and  records of
interstate pipelines. Certain of  MidCon Texas' rates and  other aspects of  its
business are subject to regulation by the Texas Railroad Commission.
 
    Order  636 was adopted  by the FERC to  address certain marketing advantages
purportedly enjoyed by interstate pipelines  over other resellers of gas.  Order
636  includes  requirements  that  interstate  pipelines  no  longer  provide  a
"bundled" service that uses their  gas transportation and storage facilities  as
part  of marketing gas to sales  customers. As a consequence, Natural eliminated
its traditional gas sales service to customers effective December 1, 1993.
 

    When Natural discontinued merchant service it no longer needed gas  supplies
to  meet  sales requirements.  Natural  has eliminated  most  of its  gas supply
contracts through termination or buyout. Of the contracts that remain, Natural's
obligations have been  resolved in a  number of  ways in order  to minimize  gas
supply   realignment  ("GSR")  costs.   Natural  reached  settlement  agreements
providing for recovery  of a significant  amount of its  GSR costs. Under  these
settlements,  which have  been approved  by the  FERC, Natural,  through monthly
demand charge billings, recovers GSR costs  allocated to these customers over  a
48-month  period that  commenced in December  1993. The FERC  has also permitted
Natural to implement a  tariff mechanism to recover  additional portions of  its
GSR  costs in rates charged  to transportation customers that  were not party to
the settlements.
 
    SPECIAL ITEMS IN  1995  MidCon  reorganized its operations  near the end  of
1995  to  expedite design  of products  and services  to meet  changing customer
needs, maximize  return on  assets, enhance  operating efficiencies  and  reduce
costs.   This  reorganization,  which   eliminated  approximately  400  employee
positions, resulted in a charge of $37 million and had no cash impact in 1995.
 
PROPERTIES
 
    Natural's  principal  facilities   consist  of   two  major   interconnected
transmission  pipelines terminating in the  Chicago metropolitan area. One line,
which extends  from the  west Texas  and New  Mexico producing  areas,  includes
approximately 7,100 miles of main pipeline and various small-diameter lines. The
other  line  extends  from the  Gulf  Coast  areas of  Texas  and  Louisiana and
comprises approximately 4,900 miles of main pipeline and various  small-diameter
lines. These two main pipelines are connected at points in Texas and Oklahoma by
Natural's  240-mile Amarillo/Gulf  Coast ("A/G")  Pipeline. A  105-mile pipeline
runs from the  Arkoma Basin gas-producing  area of eastern  Oklahoma to the  A/G
Pipeline.
 
    Nine  underground  storage fields  are operated  in  four states  to provide
services to Natural's customers  and to support  pipeline deliveries during  the
winter, when space heating demand is higher.
 
    MidCon  Texas  owns  and  operates an  intrastate  pipeline  system, located
primarily in the Texas Gulf Coast area. The system includes approximately  2,500
miles  of  pipelines, supply  lines, sales  laterals  and related  facilities. A
subsidiary of MidCon Texas owns a separate Texas intrastate pipeline system (the
"Palo Duro  System")  that includes  approximately  400 miles  of  pipeline  and
related  facilities. The  Palo Duro System  is leased to  a nonaffiliate. MidCon
Texas operates a  gas storage  facility in  south Texas  that it  leases from  a
partnership in which a subsidiary of MidCon Texas owns an interest.
 
MARKETS, SALES, TRANSPORTATION, STORAGE, PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING
 
    The location of MidCon's pipelines provides access to large market areas, to
most  other  major  pipeline systems  and  to  nearly all  major  North American
producing  areas.  This  permits  delivery   of  natural  gas  directly  or   by
displacement to pipeline systems serving most of the United States.
 
    Deliveries  of  gas  by  MidCon's  pipelines  include  volumes  sold  by the
pipelines and their marketing affiliates and  volumes owned by others which  are
transported.  The following table sets forth in  Bcf the gas volumes sold to, or
transported for, nonaffiliates by Natural, MidCon Texas and MidCon Gas for  each
of the last three calendar years:
 

 

    Sales  volumes shown in  the foregoing table for  MidCon Texas include sales
deliveries by a marketing affiliate to nonaffiliates. The table does not include
gas  transported  by  Natural  for  affiliates  for  sale  to  nonaffiliates  of
approximately  221 Bcf in 1995, 220 Bcf in  1994, and 151 Bcf in 1993. The table
also does not show volumes of gas that have been auctioned by Natural  following
the termination of its traditional gas sales service on December 1, 1993.
 
    As  a result of the elimination  of sales service by Natural, transportation
and storage  have  become  the  cornerstones  of  Natural's  business.  Much  of
Natural's  former sales  service was replaced  by a  combined transportation and
storage service. Customers  purchasing this service  pay monthly demand  charges
irrespective  of  gas volumes  actually  transported and  stored,  and commodity
charges based  upon  actual  gas  volumes transported  and  actual  gas  volumes
injected  into, and withdrawn from, storage.  In addition, Natural is authorized
to assess  separate monthly  demand  charges to  these  customers to  recover  a
portion of the GSR costs.
 
    Natural's  service  agreements with  its  major customers  for  the combined
transportation  and  storage  services  initiated  in  response  to  Order   636
terminated  on December 1,  1995. Replacement contracts  for new services, which
included new combined transportation and  storage service options, were  entered
with  those customers,  but several were  renewed at reduced  service levels and
reduced rates. More than  85 percent of Natural's  pipeline capacity to  Chicago
remains  subscribed for firm  transportation service. A  new resource management
group has  been charged  with developing  innovative utilization  strategies  to
optimize  the value of the remaining capacity.  Natural filed on June 1, 1995, a
general rate case with the FERC to allow Natural to institute tariff changes  to
reflect  these new transportation and storage  services and to approve rates for
these new  services.  By orders  issued  by the  FERC,  these new  rates  became
effective  on  December 1,  1995, subject  to  certain modifications.  Among the
issues in the rate  case is the  allocation of Natural's costs  in light of  the
overall  reductions in service levels by major customers. The combined effect of
the new rate case and the new customer contracts could reduce Natural's revenues
in 1996, but this will depend on market conditions and the success of  Natural's
effort to optimize the value of its uncommitted capacity.
 
    Pursuant  to transportation  agreements and FERC  tariff provisions, Natural
offers  both  firm  transportation  service  and  interruptible   transportation
service. Under Natural's tariff, transportation customers pay a commodity charge
for volumes actually transported, based upon the geographical location, the time
of  year and  the distance of  the transportation  provided. Firm transportation
customers pay reservation charges each  month, irrespective of volumes  actually
transported.  In  addition, as  in the  case of  the combined  service described
above, Natural is authorized to assess  separate monthly demand charges to  firm
transportation customers to recover a portion of the GSR costs.
 
    Natural also provides firm and interruptible gas storage service pursuant to
storage  agreements and FERC-approved tariffs. Storage customers pay a commodity
charge for actual volumes injected and  withdrawn and, in many cases, a  monthly
charge  based upon volumes of gas stored.  Firm storage customers pay a separate
monthly demand charge irrespective of actual volumes stored.
 
    In 1995, Natural transported about 68  percent of the natural gas  delivered
into  its  principal market,  the Chicago  metropolitan  area. The  Chicago area
deliveries were primarily to three major gas distribution utility companies.
 
    Natural's  transportation  competitors  in  the  Chicago  metropolitan  area
consist  of  other interstate  pipelines that  own  facilities in  the vicinity,
Natural faces the  prospect of  increased competition  in this  market as  other
pipelines  consider expansion projects to increase their capability to serve the
Chicago area. Increased  volumes of  gas produced  in western  Canada are  being
targeted  for the  Midwest and Eastern  markets. In October  1995, Natural filed
with the FERC to expand its existing  system from Harper, Iowa to Chicago.  This
expansion,  plus existing capacity, will accommodate more than 500 million cubic
feet per day of new gas supplies to be delivered through a proposed expansion of
Northern Border Pipeline, a nonaffiliated system that transports gas originating
in western Canada. Northern Border's expansion program also includes a new  line
from  Harper  to  the  Chicago  area, and  both  plans  are  pending  before the
 

FERC. Natural is opposing  the proposed rate structure  for the Northern  Border
proposal  and also  arguing that, from  an environmental  position, the Northern
Border proposal is less favorable than Natural's proposed expansion.
 
    Natural also furnishes transportation  service for others  to and from  many
other  locations  on its  pipeline system  and, in  recent years,  has increased
transportation deliveries  to markets  outside  the Chicago  metropolitan  area.
Competition  for such service  may be provided  by one or  more other pipelines,
depending upon the nature of the transportation service required. Transportation
rates, service options and available pipeline  capacity and, in some cases,  the
availability  of,  and  rates  for,  storage services  are  the  key  factors in
determining Natural's ability to compete for particular transportation business.
 
    Early in 1996,  the Trailblazer  pipeline system  began assessing  potential
shipper  interest for an  expansion of that line.  Trailblazer runs from eastern
Colorado to eastern Nebraska and transports gas produced in the Rocky Mountains.
Natural is  the  operator  of  the  joint-venture  pipeline,  with  an  indirect
one-third ownership interest. Trailblazer moved nearly 180 billion cubic feet of
gas  in 1995, a record  for the 13-year-old line,  reflecting the changes in the
U.S. gas flow from west to east.
 
    MidCon Texas  and  its  subsidiaries make  sales  principally  to  customers
located  in  the Houston-Beaumont  and Port  Arthur areas  of Texas  and provide
transportation service within  the state  of Texas.  Intense competition  exists
among  numerous suppliers for sales  of gas to customers  in MidCon Texas' sales
markets. Price  is the  primary competitive  factor. At  most locations  on  its
system,   MidCon  Texas   faces  competition   from  other   pipelines  for  gas
transportation business. Transportation  rates and  available pipeline  capacity
are  generally the key  factors in determining MidCon  Texas' ability to compete
for particular transportation business.
 
    The rates for MidCon Texas' city-gate sales are subject to regulation by the
Texas Railroad Commission. Other sales  and transportation rates are  determined
by  prevailing  market conditions  and  are largely  unregulated. Transportation
service is provided by MidCon Texas on both a firm and an interruptible basis.
 
    MidCon Gas makes sales of gas nationwide to local distribution companies and
commercial and industrial end users. These sales arrangements frequently include
peaking and  swing services  that MidCon  Gas  is able  to provide  through  its
management  of contractual rights  for transportation and  storage capacity from
MidCon's pipeline  subsidiaries  and  other  pipeline  companies.  Sales  prices
received  by MidCon Gas are established by negotiation. MidCon Gas also offers a
variety of fuel  management services  to utilities  and other  large volume  gas
users.
 
    During  1995, MidCon subsidiaries sold  approximately 160 million gallons of
natural gas  liquids obtained  through gas  processing operations.  In  November
1994, MidCon Exploration made an oil and gas discovery in the Garden Banks area,
offshore  Louisiana, that tested at a daily rate of approximately 10,500 barrels
of oil and 11.9 MMcf  of gas. MidCon Exploration owns  a 50 percent interest  in
the  well and  in a  contiguous Garden Banks  block, which  also contains proved
reserves.  In  November  1995,  a  production  platform  was  installed  on  the
contiguous block that will support development of both blocks. Production of oil
and gas from both blocks will commence in the second quarter of 1996.
 
    Through  other subsidiaries,  MidCon is exploring  opportunities in domestic
and foreign emerging energy markets  such as wholesale electric power  brokering
and independent electric power generation.
 
GAS SUPPLY
 
    As  a  part of  its  service restructuring  pursuant  to Order  636, Natural
reduced substantially the amount of gas supplies it has under contracts expiring
over the next several years.
 
    MidCon Texas purchases  its gas  supplies from  producers and,  to a  lesser
extent,  from  other  pipeline  companies  or  their  subsidiaries.  MidCon  Gas
purchases gas supplies from Natural at auction and from producers and other  gas
marketers.  MidCon  Gas  also  obtains  supplies  from  its  own  production and
maintains inventories of gas  supplies in storage  facilities of its  affiliates
and other pipeline companies.
 

PIPELINE VENTURES
 
    Through  subsidiaries, MidCon  owns interests of  20 to 50  percent in three
pipeline ventures that operate approximately 530  miles of pipeline in the  Gulf
of  Mexico and interests, of varying  percentages, in approximately 260 miles of
jointly owned  supply laterals  that also  operate in  the Gulf  of Mexico.  The
ventures  transport gas  onshore from  producers in  the offshore  Louisiana and
Texas areas for various customers. Other subsidiaries of MidCon own interests of
18 and 33  1/3 percent, respectively,  in two onshore  pipeline ventures.  These
ventures  operate approximately 520 miles of  pipelines in Wyoming, Colorado and
Nebraska.
 
CHEMICAL OPERATIONS
 
GENERAL
 
    Occidental conducts  its  chemical operations  through  Occidental  Chemical
Corporation   and  its   various  subsidiaries   and  affiliates  (collectively,
"OxyChem"). OxyChem  manufactures  and markets  a  variety of  basic  chemicals,
petrochemicals and polymers and plastics.
 
    A  substantial portion  of OxyChem's  products are  principally commodity in
nature, I.E., they are  equivalent to products manufactured  by others that  are
generally  available  in the  marketplace  and are  produced  and sold  in large
volumes, primarily to  industrial customers for  use as raw  materials. Many  of
OxyChem's  manufacturing operations are integrated, and many of its products are
both sold  to  others and  further  processed  by OxyChem  into  other  chemical
products.
 
    OxyChem  has been expanding and  further integrating its industrial chemical
business through acquisitions and  expansions of existing facilities.  Effective
May  1, 1995, OxyChem combined its sodium chlorate operations with CanadianOxy's
sodium chlorate  and  chlor-alkali operations.  CanadianOxy  has an  85  percent
interest  in the partnerships and  is the managing partner  and OxyChem has a 15
percent interest in the  partnerships. The combined  operations are carried  out
under the name of CXY Chemicals.
 
    OxyChem  also has added capacity at several  of its facilities over the past
few years through "debottlenecking" projects, which expand or modify portions of
existing  facilities  that  had  previously  limited  production,  thus   adding
incremental capacity at a relatively low cost.
 
    In  March 1995, OxyChem  established a specialty  business organization as a
separate group  of  OxyChem.  The  operations of  the  new  group  comprise  the
following:  Durez  phenolic  resins and  molding  compounds,  specialty products
consisting  of  chemical   intermediates  and   performance  chemicals,   sodium
silicates,  chromium  chemicals,  designed  products,  and  ACL  pool  chemicals
(formally  chlorinated  isocyanurates).  Each  of  these  operations  has   been
organized  to provide much greater flexibility and support in dealing within its
competitive environments, while  allowing it to  benchmark its business  against
its competition.
 
    In 1995, OxyChem divested a number of businesses outside its core areas; the
proceeds  of  the  divestitures  were  applied  to  Occidental's  debt-reduction
program.  In  May  1995,  OxyChem   completed  the  sale  of  its   high-density
polyethylene  business, including  plants, related inventories,  and the Alathon
trademarks, to Lyondell  Petrochemical Company for  approximately $400  million.
The  sale eliminated a major capital expenditure  for a new ethylene plant which
would have been  necessary to  supply this  business. In  October 1995,  OxyChem
completed  the  sale  of  its  agricultural  chemical  business  to  the  Potash
Corporation of  Saskatchewan  Inc.  for approximately  $284  million.  In  1995,
OxyChem  completed the sale, pursuant to  a Federal Trade Commission divestiture
order, of  its polyvinyl  chloride ("PVC")  facilities at  Addis, Louisiana,  to
Borden  Chemicals  and  Plastics for  $104  million, and  Burlington  South, New
Jersey, to Ozite Corporation for $27 million.
 
    OxyChem  also  made  the  strategic  decision  to  close  certain  declining
businesses.  OxyChem discontinued  operations at  its North  Tonawanda, New York
Durez facility to avoid continuing losses at the plant arising from a  declining
market  for phenolic molding compounds.  OxyChem also discontinued operations at
its Oxnard, California sodium silicates plant to enhance production efficiencies
at its five remaining silicate plants.
 

    OxyChem has also taken  steps to expand its  specialty business in 1995.  In
November 1995, OxyChem agreed to acquire a 64 percent equity interest in INDSPEC
Chemical  Corporation ("INDSPEC") for Occidental common stock then valued at $85
million. INDSPEC is the largest producer of resorcinol in the world and the sole
commercial producer of resorcinol in the United States. Resorcinol is a chemical
used primarily as a bonding and stiffening agent in the manufacture of tires and
tread rubber.  In  addition, resorcinol  is  used  in the  manufacture  of  high
performance   wood   adhesives,  ultraviolet   light   stabilizers,  sunscreens,
dyestuffs, pharmaceuticals, agrichemicals, carbonless  paper and fire  retardant
plastic  additives. Under the  terms of the  agreement, INDSPEC's management and
employees will  retain  voting  control  of the  company.  This  transaction  is
expected to close in 1996.
 
    In  December 1995, OxyChem announced a 450-million-pounds-per-year expansion
at its Pasadena, Texas PVC plant.  This expansion will add incremental  capacity
at  a  relatively  low cost.  The  $80  million project  is  scheduled  to begin
operations in the  fourth quarter  of 1997  and will  increase total  production
capacity  at the site to 1.8 billion  pounds per year. The capacity expansion is
expected to reestablish OxyChem as the  second-largest supplier of PVC resin  to
the U.S. merchant market.
 
    In  February 1996,  OxyChem announced a  realignment of  its global business
into four business units:  Basic Chemicals; Specialty Business;  Petrochemicals;
and  Polymers and Plastics. The realignment will result in employment reductions
of at  least 450  persons. The  costs associated  with the  realignment are  not
expected to have a material impact on the 1996 results of operations.
 
    OxyChem's  operations  are  affected  by  cyclical  factors  in  the general
economic environment and by specific chemical industry conditions. The  chemical
industry  in the United States was characterized  in 1995 by higher sales prices
and margins for many chemical products, including those manufactured by OxyChem.
The integration strategy adopted by OxyChem permitted it to maintain  relatively
high  operating rates in 1995, with similar operating rates expected to continue
for 1996.
 
    OxyChem's operations also have been affected by environmental regulation and
associated costs. See the information appearing under the caption "Environmental
Regulation" in this report.
 

PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS
 
    OxyChem produces the following chemical products:
 

 
    Based in part  on statistics in  chemical industry publications,  Occidental
believes  that during 1995 it was the largest U.S. merchant marketer of chlorine
and caustic soda; including OxyMar  (OxyChem's joint venture with Marubeni)  the
second-largest producer of vinyl chloride monomer; the third-largest producer of
PVC  resins;  the  largest  producer  of  chrome  chemicals;  the second-largest
producer of sodium silicates;
 

including its PD Glycol joint venture with DuPont, the third-largest producer of
ethylene glycols;  the seventh-largest  producer of  ethylene; and  the  largest
supplier   to  the  DOT-3  brake  fluids   aftermarket  in  the  United  States.
Additionally, Occidental  believes  it  was  the  world's  largest  producer  of
potassium  hydroxide,  phenolic molding  compounds and  chlorinated isocyanurate
products and the world's largest marketer of ethylene dichloride.
 
RAW MATERIALS
 
    Nearly all  raw materials  utilized  in OxyChem's  operations that  are  not
produced  by OxyChem  or acquired from  affiliates are readily  available from a
variety of  sources. Most  of OxyChem's  key raw  materials purchases  are  made
through  short- and long-term contracts. OxyChem  is not dependent on any single
nonaffiliated supplier  for a  material amount  of its  raw material  or  energy
requirements,  subject to  establishing alternative  means of  transportation or
delivery  in  the  event  of  the  termination  of  arrangements  with  existing
suppliers.
 
PATENTS, TRADEMARKS AND PROCESSES
 
    OxyChem  owns and licenses a large number of patents and trademarks and uses
a variety of  processes in  connection with its  operations, some  of which  are
proprietary and some of which are licensed. OxyChem does not regard its business
as  being materially  dependent on  any single  patent or  trademark it  owns or
licenses or any process it uses.
 
SALES AND MARKETING
 
    OxyChem's products are  sold primarily to  industrial users or  distributors
located  in the United States, largely by its own sales force. OxyChem sells its
products principally at current market or current market-related prices  through
short-  and long-term sales  agreements. Except for sales  in the export market,
OxyChem generally does  not use spot  markets to sell  products. No  significant
portion  of OxyChem's  business is dependent  on a single  customer. In general,
OxyChem does not  manufacture its  products against  a backlog  of firm  orders;
production  is  geared  primarily  to  the  level  of  incoming  orders  and  to
projections of future demand.
 
COMPETITION
 
    The chemical business is very competitive. Since most of OxyChem's  products
are  commodity in nature, they compete primarily  on the basis of price, quality
characteristics and timely delivery. Because OxyChem's products generally do not
occupy proprietary positions,  OxyChem endeavors  to be  an efficient,  low-cost
producer  through  the employment  of modern,  high-yield plants,  equipment and
technology. OxyChem's  size and  the  number and  location  of its  plants  also
produce  competitive  advantages, principally  in its  ability to  meet customer
specifications and delivery requirements.
 
PROPERTIES
 
    OxyChem, which  is  headquartered in  Dallas,  Texas, operates  29  chemical
product  manufacturing  facilities  in the  United  States. Many  of  the larger
facilities are  located in  the Gulf  Coast  areas of  Texas and  Louisiana.  In
addition, OxyChem operates 13 chemical product manufacturing facilities in eight
foreign  countries, with the most significant  foreign plants being in Brazil. A
number of additional facilities process, blend and store the chemical  products.
OxyChem  uses  an extensive  fleet  of barges  and  railroad cars  and  owns and
operates a pipeline network of over 950 miles along the Gulf Coast of Texas  for
the transportation of ethylene, propylene and feedstocks.
 
    All of OxyChem's manufacturing facilities are owned or leased on a long-term
basis.
 
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
 
    Occidental's  oil  and gas  operations, based  on depletable  resources, are
capital intensive,  involving large-scale  expenditures. In  particular, in  the
search  for and development of new reserves, long lead times are often required.
In addition, Occidental's other businesses require capital expenditures in order
to remain  competitive  and  to  comply  with  safety  and  environmental  laws.
Occidental's   capital   expenditures   for  its   ongoing   businesses  totaled
approximately $979 million in 1995 and $1.1 billion in 1994 and 1993,  exclusive
of the non-cash consideration for acquisitions. The 1995 amount included capital
expenditures aggregating
 

$575  million for oil  and gas, $243  million for chemical  and $150 million for
natural gas transmission. Occidental's total capital expenditures, exclusive  of
acquisitions,  if any,  for 1996 are  expected to approximate  $1.0 billion, the
majority of which is for oil and gas operations.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
    Occidental and  its  subsidiaries employed  a  total of  17,280  persons  at
December  31, 1995, of whom 12,380 were located in the United States. 6,320 were
employed in oil and gas operations, 2,170 in natural gas transmission operations
and 8,250 in  chemical operations. An  additional 540 persons  were employed  at
corporate headquarters. Approximately 1,500 U.S.-based employees are represented
by labor unions.
 
    Occidental  has  a  long-standing  policy  to  ensure  that  fair  and equal
employment opportunities are  extended to  all persons without  regard to  race,
religion,  color,  sex,  age,  national  origin,  handicap  or  veteran  status.
Occidental is  committed to  vigorous, good-faith  enforcement of  this  policy.
Occidental maintains numerous affirmative action programs which are in effect at
company locations.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION
 
    Occidental's  operations in  the United  States are  subject to increasingly
stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to improving or
maintaining the quality of the environment. Foreign operations are also  subject
to environmental protection laws. Applicable U.S. laws include the Comprehensive
Environmental  Response,  Compensation  and  Liability Act,  as  amended  by the
Superfund Amendments  and Reauthorization  Act,  the Resource  Conservation  and
Recovery Act, as amended by the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments and similar
state  environmental  laws.  The  laws which  require  or  address environmental
remediation apply retroactively  to previous  waste disposal  practices and,  in
many  cases,  the  laws apply  regardless  of  fault, legality  of  the original
activities  or  ownership   or  control  of   sites.  Occidental  is   currently
participating  in  environmental assessments  and cleanups  under these  laws at
federal Superfund sites,  comparable state  sites and  other remediation  sites,
including Occidental facilities and previously owned sites. Also, Occidental and
certain  of  its subsidiaries  have  been involved  in  a substantial  number of
governmental and private proceedings  involving historical practices at  various
sites,  including,  in  some  instances, having  been  named  as  defendants, as
potentially responsible parties ("PRPs"), or  as both defendants and PRPs  under
the  federal  Superfund law.  These  proceedings seek  remediation,  funding for
remediation, or  both, and,  in some  cases, compensation  for alleged  personal
injury  or property  damage, punitive  damages and  civil penalties, aggregating
substantial amounts.
 
    Occidental has accrued  reserves for  its environmental  liabilities. As  of
December   31,  1995  and   1994,  Occidental  had   environmental  reserves  of
approximately $582 million and  $635 million, respectively. Occidental  provided
additional reserves of approximately $22 million in 1995, $5 million in 1994 and
$18  million in 1993 for costs associated with expected remediation efforts at a
number of sites. The 1995 amount related primarily to the chemical division. The
1994 and 1993 amounts related primarily to the oil and gas division.
 
    Occidental's estimated  operating expenses  in 1995  relating to  compliance
with  environmental  laws  and  regulations  governing  ongoing  operations were
approximately $111 million, compared with $114 million in 1994 and $110  million
in  1993. The  1995 amount  included $63 million  in the  chemical division, $41
million in  the  oil  and  gas  division and  $7  million  in  the  natural  gas
transmission   division.  In   addition,  estimated   capital  expenditures  for
environmental compliance were $74 million in 1995, compared with $67 million  in
1994  and $83 million in  1993. The 1995 amount included  $43 million in the oil
and gas division, $27  million in the  chemical division and  $4 million in  the
natural   gas  transmission   division.  Occidental   presently  estimates  that
divisional  capital   expenditures  for   environmental  compliance   (including
environmental  control facilities)  will be in  the range of  $80-85 million for
each of 1996 and 1997.
 
ITEM 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
    There  is  incorporated  by  reference  herein  the  information   regarding
lawsuits,  claims and related  matters in Note 10  to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
 
    In December  1995, OxyChem  and the  U.S. Department  of Justice  reached  a
tentative  settlement of claims  brought by the U.S.  Government ("U.S.") in the
U.S. District Court for the Western District of New
 

York against OxyChem for remediation costs incurred by the U.S., plus  interest,
at  a former chemical waste landfill. A  consent order, which has received court
approval, requires  OxyChem to  pay the  U.S. approximately  $129 million,  plus
interest, over a four-year period.
 
    In August 1995, Occidental announced the settlement of the 1979-81 crude oil
tier-trading administrative proceedings brought by the U.S. Department of Energy
(the "DOE") against Cities Service (now OXY USA Inc.). In these proceedings, the
DOE  had  sought  approximately  $254 million,  plus  accrued  interest totaling
approximately $870  million as  of December  31, 1994.  Under the  terms of  the
settlement, OXY USA paid $100 million to the DOE in September 1995 and will make
five additional annual payments of $35 million, plus interest.
 
    In 1991, Continental Trend Resources obtained a jury verdict against OXY USA
Inc. ("OXY USA") in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Oklahoma
for  $269,000 in actual damages and $30,000,000 in punitive damages for tortious
interference with contract.  In 1995,  the U.S. Court  of Appeals  for the  10th
Circuit  affirmed the  subsequent judgment and  OXY USA has  petitioned the U.S.
Supreme Court for  a writ  of certiorari.  A stay  of mandate  exists pending  a
decision by the U.S. Supreme Court.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL PROCEEDINGS
 
    In  January  1993,  the  U.S. Environmental  Protection  Agency  (the "EPA")
advised OxyChem that the chlor-alkali  facility at Taft, Louisiana had  violated
certain  federal  air  emission  standards for  asbestos  used  in manufacturing
operations. OxyChem provided certain information to the EPA concerning OxyChem's
compliance with  the  asbestos  standards  at  the  Taft  facility.  No  further
enforcement  action was taken  until September 1995 when  the U.S. Department of
Justice, at the EPA's request, offered  OxyChem the opportunity to settle  civil
penalties  for  an  amount  in  excess  of  $100,000  with  respect  to  alleged
violations. OxyChem has denied most  of the allegations and  is in the midst  of
settlement  negotiations. On February  16, 1996 the U.  S. Department of Justice
filed an  action  in Federal  Court  in New  Orleans  seeking to  recover  civil
penalties  for the alleged violations.  OxyChem has not filed  its answer to the
government's complaint which has not formally been served on OxyChem.
 
    OxyChem is  contesting alleged  violations of  the West  Virginia  Hazardous
Waste  Management Regulations  regarding its  closed facility  located in Belle,
West Virginia and  penalties sought by  the state of  West Virginia Division  of
Environmental Protection in an amount in excess of $100,000.
 

ITEM 4 SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
    No  matters were submitted to a vote of Occidental's security holders during
the fourth quarter of 1995.
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 

 


 
    The  current term  of office  of each Executive  Officer will  expire at the
April 26, 1996, organizational meeting of  the Occidental Board of Directors  or
at such time as his or her successor shall be elected.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5 MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

    There  is  hereby incorporated  by  reference the  quarterly  financial data
appearing under  the  caption "Quarterly  Financial  Data" and  the  information
appearing under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis--Liquidity and
Capital  Resources" in the  1995 Annual Report, relevant  portions of which 1995
Annual Report are filed as Exhibit 13 to this report. Occidental's common  stock
was  held by approximately 118,614 stockholders of record at year-end 1995, with
an estimated 192,000 additional stockholders whose shares were held for them  in
street  name  or  nominee  accounts.  The  common  stock  is  listed  and traded
principally on the New York  and Pacific stock exchanges  and also is listed  on
various  foreign exchanges identified  in the 1995  Annual Report. The quarterly
financial data on pages 61 and 62 of the 1995 Annual Report sets forth the range
of trading  prices for  the  common stock  as reported  on  the New  York  Stock
Exchange's composite tape.
 
ITEM 6 SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
    There  is hereby incorporated  by reference the  information appearing under
the caption "Five-Year Summary  of Selected Financial Data"  in the 1995  Annual
Report.
 
ITEM 7 MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF  FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
       OF OPERATIONS
 
    There is hereby  incorporated by reference  the information appearing  under
the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis" in the 1995 Annual Report.
 

ITEM 8 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA




                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
 
To the Stockholders and Board of Directors, Occidental Petroleum Corporation:
 
    We  have audited, in accordance  with generally accepted auditing standards,
the  consolidated  financial   statements  included   in  Occidental   Petroleum
Corporation's  Annual Report for the year  ended December 31, 1995, incorporated
by reference in  this Annual Report  on Form  10-K, and have  issued our  report
thereon  dated February 22, 1996. Our audit  was made for the purpose of forming
an opinion  on  those statements  taken  as  a whole.  The  financial  statement
schedule  listed in the Index to Financial Statements and Related Information is
the responsibility of the Company's management and is presented for purposes  of
complying  with the Securities  and Exchange Commission's  rules and regulations
under the Securities  Exchange Act of  1934 and is  not a required  part of  the
basic  financial statements.  This schedule has  been subjected  to the auditing
procedures applied in the  audit of the basic  financial statements and, in  our
opinion,  fairly states in all material  respects the financial data required to
be set forth therein in  relation to the basic  financial statements taken as  a
whole.
 
                                          ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
 
Los Angeles, California
February 22, 1996
 




ITEM 9 CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
       DISCLOSURE
 
    Not applicable.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10 DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
    There  is  hereby  incorporated  by  reference  the  information   regarding
Occidental's  directors appearing under  the caption "Election  of Directors" in
Occidental's definitive proxy statement filed  in connection with its April  26,
1996,  Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "1996 Proxy Statement"). See also the
list of Occidental's executive officers and related information under "Executive
Officers of the Registrant" in Part I hereof.
 
ITEM 11 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
    There is hereby  incorporated by reference  the information appearing  under
the  captions  "Executive  Compensation"  (excluding,  however,  the information
appearing under  the  subcaptions "Report  of  the Compensation  Committee"  and
"Performance  Graphs")  and  "Election of  Directors--Information  Regarding the
Board of Directors and Its Committees" in the 1996 Proxy Statement.
 
ITEM 12 SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
    There is hereby incorporated  by reference the  information with respect  to
security  ownership appearing under  the caption "Security  Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management" in the 1996 Proxy Statement.
 
ITEM 13 CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
    There is hereby  incorporated by reference  the information appearing  under
the  caption  "Election  of  Directors--Compensation  Committee  Interlocks  and
Insider Participation" in the 1996 Proxy Statement.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14 EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
    (a) (1) AND (2).  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
 
        Reference is  made to  the  Index to  Financial Statements  and  Related
    Information  under  Item 8  in  Part II  hereof,  where these  documents are
    listed.
 
    (a) (3).  EXHIBITS
 







 



 



(b)  REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
    During  the fourth quarter  of 1995, Occidental  filed the following Current
Reports on Form 8-K:
 
    1.  Current  Report on Form  8-K dated  October 18, 1995  (date of  earliest
event  reported), filed on October 19, 1995, for the purpose of reporting, under
Item 5, Occidental's results of operations for the third quarter ended September
30, 1995.
 
    2.  Current  Report on Form  8-K dated  October 25, 1995  (date of  earliest
event  reported), filed on November 3, 1995, for the purpose of reporting, under
Item 5, Occidental's reorganization of its oil and gas division.
 
    3.  Current Report  on Form 8-K  dated December 21,  1995 (date of  earliest
event reported), filed on December 27, 1995, for the purpose of reporting, under
Item 5, Occidental's settlement of certain Love Canal litigation.
 
    During  the first quarter of  1996 to the date  hereof, Occidental filed the
following Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
    1.  Current  Report on Form  8-K dated  January 24, 1996  (date of  earliest
event  reported), filed on January 25, 1996, for the purpose of reporting, under
Item 5, Occidental's  results of operations  for the fourth  quarter and  fiscal
year ended December 31, 1995.
 

                                   SIGNATURES
 
    Pursuant  to  the requirements  of  Section 13  or  15(d) of  the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                          OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
 
March 27, 1996                            By:            Ray R. Irani
                                             -----------------------------------
                                                        Ray R. Irani
                                             Chairman of the Board of Directors,
                                                President and Chief Executive
                                                         Officer

    Pursuant to the requirements  of the Securities Exchange  Act of 1934,  this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
 

 









 



 


 

