10-K


form10k-fy2005.htm

FORM10K-FY2005

form10k-fy2005

UNITED
      STATES

SECURITIES
      AND
      EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington,
      D.C.

FORM
      10-K

(X)
      ANNUAL REPORT
      PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE SECURITIES

EXCHANGE
      ACT OF

For
      the fiscal year
      ended

December
      30,

OR

(
      ) TRANSITION
      REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE

SECURITIES
      EXCHANGE
      ACT OF 1934

For
      the transition
      period from ___________to______________

Commission
      File Number: 0-18645

TRIMBLE
      NAVIGATION LIMITED

(Exact
      name of
      Registrant as specified in its charter)

Registrant’s
      telephone number, including area code:

(408)
      481-8000

Securities
      registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: NONE

Securities
      registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Common
      Stock

Preferred
      Share Purchase Rights

(Title
      of
      Class)

Indicate
      by check
      mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule
      of the Securities Act.

Yes 
      [X]   No [  ]

Indicate
      by check
      mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section
      13 or
      Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act.

Yes

[
      ]

No

[
      X ]

Indicate
      by check
      mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
      by
      Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
      12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file
      such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
      past
      90 days.

Yes

[
      X ]

No

[
      ]

Indicate
      by check
      mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
      S-K
      is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
      knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
      reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form
      10-K.

[
      X ]

Indicate
      by check
      mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
      or a non-accelerated filer.

Large
      Accelerated
      Filer

[
      X ]

Accelerated
      Filer

[
      ] Non-accelerated
      Filer

[
      ]

Indicate
      by check
      mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
      the
      Exchange Act).

Yes

[
      ]

No

[
      X ]

As
      of July 1, 2005, the aggregate market value of the Common Stock held by
      non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $2.0 billion based on the
      closing price as reported on the NASDAQ National Market.

Indicate
      the number
      of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's classes of common stock,
      as of
      the latest practicable date.

Class

Outstanding
                at
                March 6, 2006

Common
                stock,
                no par value

54,338,187
                shares

Page

DOCUMENTS
      INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Certain
      parts of
      Trimble Navigation Limited's Proxy Statement relating to the annual meeting
      of
      stockholders to be held on May 18, 2006 (the "Proxy Statement") are incorporated
      by reference into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Page

SPECIAL
      NOTE
      ON FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This
      Annual Report
      on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of
      Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the
      Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which are subject to the "safe harbor" created
      by those sections. The forward-looking statements

regarding
      future
      events and the future results of Trimble Navigation Limited (“Trimble” or “The
      Company” or “We” or “Our” or “Us”) are based on current expectations, estimates,
      forecasts, and projections about the industries in which Trimble operates and
      the beliefs and assumptions of the management of Trimble.

Discussions
      containing such forward-looking statements may be found in "Management's
      Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."
      In
      some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such
      as
      "may," "will," "should," "could," "predicts," "potential," "continue,"
      "expects," "anticipates," "future," "intends," "plans," "believes," "estimates,"
      and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve certain risks
      and uncertainties that could cause actual results, levels of activity,
      performance, achievements and events to differ materially from those implied
      by
      such forward-looking statements,

but are not limited
      to those discussed in this Report under the section entitled “Other Risk
      Factors” and elsewhere, and in other reports Trimble files with the Securities
      and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), specifically the most recent reports on
      Form 8-K and Form 10-Q, each as it may be amended from time to
      time.

These forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this Annual Report
      on Form 10-K. We reserve the right to update these statements for any
      reason, including the occurrence of material events. The risks and uncertainties
      under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
      and Results of Operations—Risks and Uncertainties" contained herein, among other
      things, should be considered in evaluating our prospects and future financial
      performance.

We have attempted
      to identify forward-looking statements in this report by placing an asterisk
      (*)
      before paragraphs containing such material.

Page

TRIMBLE
      NAVIGATION LIMITED

      FORM
      10-K ANNUAL REPORT

TABLE
      OF
      CONTENTS

TRADEMARKS

Trimble,
      the globe
      and triangle logo, EZ-Guide, Telvisant, Lassen, SiteVision, GeoExplorer, AgGPS,
      Thunderbolt, FirstGPS, Spectra Precision, CrossCheck, Recon, and TrimTrac among
      others are trademarks of Trimble Navigation Limited and its subsidiaries
      registered in the United States and other countries. EZ-Steer, Force and Ranger
      are trademarks of Trimble Navigation Limited and its subsidiaries. All other
      trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

Page

PART
      I

Item

Business
      Overview

Trimble
      Navigation
      Limited, a California corporation (“Trimble” or “the Company” or “we” or “our”
or “us”), provides advanced positioning product solutions, most typically to
      commercial and government users. The principle applications served include
      surveying, agriculture, machine guidance, asset and fleet management, and
      telecommunications infrastructure. Our products typically provide benefits
      that
      can include lower operational costs, and higher productivity. Examples of
      products include systems that guide agricultural and construction equipment,
      surveying instruments, systems that track fleets of vehicles, and data
      collection systems that enable the management of large amounts of geo-referenced
      information. In addition, we also manufacture components for in vehicle
      navigation and telematics systems, and timing modules used in the
      synchronization of wireless networks.

Trimble
      products
      often combine knowledge of location or position together with a wireless link
      to
      provide a solution to a specific application. Position is provided through
      a
      number of alternative technologies including the Global Positioning System
      (GPS)
      and systems that use laser or optical technologies to establish position.
      Wireless communication techniques include both public networks, such as
      cellular, and private networks, such as business band radio. Our products are
      augmented by our software algorithms; this includes embedded firmware that
      enables the positioning solution and applications software that allows the
      customer to make use of the positioning information.

We
      design and market
      our own products. Our manufacturing strategy includes a combination of in house
      assembly as well as the use of third party subcontractors. Our global operations
      include major development, manufacturing or logistics operations in the United
      States, Sweden, Germany, New Zealand, France, Canada, and the Netherlands.
      Products are sold through dealers, representatives, joint ventures, and other
      channels throughout the world. These channels are supported by our sales offices
      located in more than 15 countries.

We
      began operations
      in 1978 and incorporated in California in 1981. Our common stock has been
      publicly traded on NASDAQ since 1990 under the symbol TRMB.

Technology
      Overview

A
      significant
      portion of our revenue is derived from applying Global Navigation Satellite
      Systems (GNSS) to terrestrial applications. GNSS systems include a system of
      orbiting US based satellites and associated ground control that is funded and
      maintained by the U. S. Government and is available worldwide free of charge,
      a
      Russian satellite based system, and the future European Galileo system. GNSS
      positioning is based on a technique that precisely measures distances from
      four
      or more satellites. The satellites continuously transmit precisely timed radio
      signals using extremely accurate atomic clocks. A GNSS receiver measures
      distances from the satellites in view by determining the travel time of a signal
      from the satellite to the receiver, and then uses those distances to compute
      its
      position. Under normal circumstances, a stand-alone GNSS receiver is able to
      calculate its position at any point on earth, in the earth's atmosphere, or
      in
      lower earth orbit, to approximately 10 meters, 24 hours a day. Much better
      accuracies are possible through a technique called “differential GNSS.” In
      addition to providing position, GNSS provides extremely accurate time
      measurement.

GNSS
      accuracy is
      dependent upon the locations of the receiver and the number of GNSS satellites
      that are above the horizon at any given time. Reception of GNSS signals requires
      line-of-sight visibility between the satellites and the receiver, which can
      be
      blocked by buildings, hills, and dense foliage. The receiver must have a line
      of
      sight to at least four satellites to determine its latitude, longitude, attitude
      (angular orientation), and time. The accuracy of GNSS may also be limited by
      distortion of GNSS signals from ionospheric and other atmospheric conditions.

Our
      GNSS products
      are based on proprietary receiver technology. Over time, the advances in
      positioning, wireless communication, and information technologies have enabled
      us to add more capability to our products and thereby deliver more value to
      our
      users. For example, the developments in wireless technology and deployments
      of
      next generation wireless networks have enabled less expensive wireless
      communications. These developments allow for the efficient transfer of position
      data to locations away from the positioning field device, allowing the data
      to
      be accessed by more users and thereby increasing productivity. This has allowed
      us to include a wireless link in many of our products and connect remote field
      operations to a central location.

Page

Our
      laser and
      optical products either measure distances and angles to provide a position
      in
      three dimensional space or they provide highly accurate laser references from
      which position can be established. The key element of these products is
      typically a laser, which is generally a commercially available laser diode
      and a
      complex mechanical assembly. These elements are augmented by software
      algorithms.

Business
      Strategy

Our
      business
      strategy is developed around an analysis of several key elements:

·

Attractive
                markets

- We focus on
                markets that offer potential for revenue growth, profitability, and
                market
                leadership.

·

Innovative
                solutions that provide significant benefits to our customers

-
                We seek to
                apply our technology to applications in which position data is important
                and where we can create unique value. We look for opportunities in
                which
                the rate of technological change is high and which have a requirement
                for
                the integration of multiple technologies into a solution.

·

Distribution
                channels to best access our markets

-
                We select
                distribution channels that best serve the needs of individual markets.
                These channels can include independent dealers, direct sales, joint
                ventures, OEM sales, and distribution alliances with key partners.
                We view
                international expansion as an important element of our strategy and
                seek
                to develop international channels.

Business
      Segments and Markets

We
      are organized
      into five reporting segments encompassing our various applications and product
      lines: Engineering and Construction, Field Solutions, Component Technologies,
      Mobile Solutions, and Portfolio Technologies. Our segments are distinguished
      by
      the markets they serve. Each segment consists of businesses which are
      responsible for product development, marketing, sales, strategy, and financial
      performance.

Engineering
      and Construction

Products
      in the
      Engineering and Construction segment improve productivity and accuracy
      throughout the entire construction process including the initial survey,
      planning, design, site preparation, and building phases. Our products are
      intended to both improve the productivity of each phase, as well as facilitate
      the entire process by improving information flow from one step to the next.

The
      product
      solutions typically include multiple technologies. The elements of these
      solutions may incorporate GPS, optical, laser, radio or cellular communications.

An
      example of the
      customer benefits provided by our product is our GPS and robotic optical
      surveying instruments which enable the surveyor to perform operations in the
      field faster, more reliably than conventional surveying instruments and with
      a
      smaller crew. Similarly, our construction machine guidance products allow the
      operator to achieve the desired landform by eliminating stakeout and reducing
      rework. These steps in the construction process can be readily linked together
      with data collection modules to minimize the time and effort required to
      maintain data accuracy throughout the entire construction process.

We
      sell and
      distribute our products in this segment through a global network of independent
      dealers that are supported by Trimble personnel. This channel is supplemented
      by
      relationships that create additional channel breadth including our joint
      ventures with Caterpillar, Nikon, and private branding arrangements with other
      companies.

We
      also design and
      market handheld data collectors and data collection software for field use
      by
      surveyors, contractors, and other professionals. These products are sold
      directly, through dealers, and other survey manufacturers.

Competitors
      in this
      segment are typically companies that provide optical, laser, or GPS positioning
      products. Our principal competitors are Topcon Corporation and Leica Geosystems.
      Price points in this segment range from less than $1,000 for certain laser
      systems to approximately $125,000 for a high-precision, three-dimensional,
      machine control system.

Page

Representative
      products sold in this segment include:

Spectra
      Precision® Laser System

-
      The Spectra
      Precision Laser machine systems include a portfolio of laser-based machine
      display and control systems for grading and excavating applications. These
      machine systems can be used on a wide range of machines, including dozers,
      backhoes, scrapers, skid steers and excavators. Furthermore, the Spectra Laser
      grade control systems offers visual guidance to the operators while performing
      such tasks as cutting the edge of the blade or bucket.

Trimble®
      SPS700 Robotic Construction Total Station -

The
      Trimble SPS700
      Robotic Total Station is used with the Trimble LM80 Layout Manager to provide
      contractors with more control of their construction layout. The robotic
      operation allows contractors to perform layout tasks significantly more
      efficiently than with conventional mechanical systems leading to increased
      productivity.

Trimble®
S6
      Total Station -

The
      Trimble S6 Total
      Station is a technologically advanced optical surveying system. Its advanced
      servo motors make the Trimble S6 fast, silent, and precise, allowing surveyors
      to measure points and collect data in the field efficiently and productively.
      The Trimble S6 offers unique new Trimble technologies that enable cable-free
      operation, longer battery life, and accuracy assurance, among many other
      features. Its detachable Trimble CU controller is utilized to effectively
      collect, display, and manage field data.

Trimble®
R8
      GNSS System -

The
      Trimble R8 GNSS
      System combines a GNSS receiver, radio, and battery in one compact unit to
      produce a lightweight and versatile, cable-free GNSS surveying solution.
      Surveyors can use the Trimble R8 system to achieve centimeter-level accuracy
      in
      their measurements in real time. The Trimble R8 GNSS offers R-Track technology,
      which is a unique Trimble technology developed with GNSS capabilities to support
      new GPS signals for civilian use and the Russian Glonass system. These new
      signals such as the next-generation GPS L2C and L5 signals and GLONASS provide
      our customers increased reliability and productivity.

Trimble®
      Recon® Controller

-
      The Trimble Recon
      Controller is a rugged handheld controller used by surveyors and engineers
      in
      the field. Running the Microsoft Pocket PC operating system, the Trimble Recon
      controller enables users to run the Trimble software of their choice, plus
      other
      applications to support their business needs. The Trimble Recon controller
      features a touch screen for quick and easy data entry and a color graphic
      display. It tackles multiple surveying applications, including topographic
      surveying, engineering, construction, and mapping.

GCS
      family
      of Grade Control Systems -

Grade
      control
      systems meets construction contractors' needs with productivity-enhancing
      solutions for earthmoving, site prep and roadwork. The Trimble GCS family
      provides upgrade options that deliver earthmoving contractors with the
      flexibility to select a system that meets their daily needs today, and later
      add
      on to meet their changing needs. For example, a single control system such
      as
      the GCS300 can provide for low-cost point of entry into grade control, and
      over
      time can be upgraded to the GCS400 dual sensor system, or to the full 3D GCS900
      Grade Control System.

Spectra
      Precision® Laser portable tools -

Our
      Spectra
      Precision Laser portfolio includes a broad range of laser based tools for the
      interior, drywalls and ceilings, HVAC, and mechanical contractor. Designed
      to
      replace traditional methods of measurement and leveling for a wide range of
      interior construction applications, our laser tools are easy to learn and use.
      Our Spectra Precision Laser product portfolio includes rotating lasers for
      horizontal leveling and vertical alignment, as well as laser pointers and a
      laser based distance measuring device. They are available through independent
      and national construction supply houses both in the US and in Europe.

Field
      Solutions

Our
      Field Solutions
      segment addresses the agriculture and geographic information system (GIS)
      markets.

Our
      agriculture
      products consist of manual and automated navigation guidance for tractors and
      other farm equipment used in spraying, planting, cultivation, and harvesting
      applications. The benefits to the farmer include faster machine operation,
      higher yields, and lower consumption of chemicals than conventional equipment.
      We also provide positioning solutions for leveling agricultural fields in
      irrigation applications and aligning drainage systems to better manage water
      flow in fields.

We
      use multiple
      distribution channels to access the agricultural market, including independent
      dealers and partners such as CNH Global . Competitors in this market are either
      vertically integrated implement companies such as John Deere, or agricultural
      instrumentation suppliers such as Raven, CSI Wireless and Novariant.

Page

Our
      GIS product line
      is centered on handheld data collectors that gather information in the field
      to
      be incorporated into GIS databases. Typically this information includes
      features, attributes, and positions of fixed infrastructure and natural resource
      assets. An example would be that of a utility company performing a survey of
      its
      transmission poles including the age and condition of each telephone pole.
      Our
      handheld unit enables this data to be collected and automatically stored while
      confirming the location of the asset. The data can then be downloaded into
      a GIS
      database. This stored data could later be used to navigate back to any
      individual asset or item for maintenance or data update. Our mobile GIS
      initiative goes one step further by allowing this information to be communicated
      from the field worker to the back-office GIS database through the combination
      of
      wireless technologies, as well as giving the field worker the ability to
      download information from the database. This capability provides significant
      advantages to users including improved productivity, accuracy and access to
      the
      information in the field.

Distribution
      for GIS
      products is primarily through a network of independent dealers and business
      partners, supported by Trimble personnel. Primary markets for our GIS products
      and solutions include both governmental and commercial users. Government users
      are most often municipal governments and natural resource agencies. Commercial
      users include utility companies. Competitors in this market are typically survey
      instrument companies utilizing GPS technology. Two examples are Leica Geosystems
      and Thales.

Approximate
      price
      points in this segment range from $3,000 for a GIS handheld unit to $35,000
      for
      a fully automated, farm equipment control system.

Representative
      products sold within this segment include:

AgGPS®
      Autopilot™

System

- A GPS-enabled,
      agricultural navigation system that connects to a tractor’s steering system and
      automatically steers the tractor along a precise path to within three
      centimeters or less. This enables both higher machine productivity and more
      precise application of seed and chemicals, thereby reducing costs to the
      farmer.

AgGPS®
      EZ-Guide® Plus

System

- A GPS-enabled,
      manual guidance system that provides the tractor operator with steering visual
      corrections required to stay on course to within 20 centimeters or less. This
      system reduces the overlap or gap in spraying, fertilizing, and other field
      applications.

AgGPS®
      EZ-Steer™

System

- A value added
      assisted steering system, that when combined with the EZ-Guide Plus system,
      automatically steers agricultural vehicles along a path within 20 centimeters
      or
      less. This system installs in less than thirty minutes and is designed to reduce
      gaps and overlaps in spraying, fertilizing, and other field applications as
      well
      as reduce operator fatigue.

GeoExplorer®


Series

- Combines a GPS
      receiver in a rugged handheld unit running industry standard Microsoft Windows
      Mobile version 5.0, making it easy to collect and maintain data about objects
      in
      the field. The GeoExplorer series features three models ranging in accuracy
      from
      subfoot to 1-3 meters —allowing the user to select the system most appropriate
      for their data collection and maintenance needs.

GPS
      Pathfinder® Series -

A
      diverse collection
      of rugged GPS receivers with a variety of accuracy options from subfoot to
      submeter

ideally
      suited for
      GIS data collection and maintenance applications. These receivers integrate
      seamlessly with industry-standard GIS systems, providing the user with timely
      and accurate data for decision-making.

Component
      Technologies

Our
      Component
      Technologies segment provides GPS-based components for applications that require
      embedded position or time. Our largest markets are in the telecommunications
      and
      automotive industries where we supply modules, boards, custom integrated
      circuits and software, or single application IP licenses to the customer
      according to the needs of the application. Sales are made directly to original
      equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and system integrators who incorporate our
      component into a sub-system or a complete system-level product.

In
      the
      telecommunications infrastructure market, we provide timing modules that keep
      wireless networks synchronized and on frequency. For example, CDMA cellular
      telephone networks require a high level of both short-term and long-term
      frequency stability for proper operation (synchronization of information/voice
      flow to avoid dropped calls). Our timing modules meet these needs at a much
      lower cost than the atomic standards or other

Page

specially
      prepared
      components that would otherwise be required. Customers include wireless
      infrastructure companies such as Nortel, Samsung, and Andrew.

In
      the automotive
      and embedded market, we provide a GPS component that is embedded into in-vehicle
      navigation (IVN), fleet management, vehicle security, asset management and
      telematics applications. For the automotive market, in addition to core GPS
      technology, we provide a location engine for IVN that blends GPS with advanced
      dead reckoning (DR) technology to provide exceptional position density in the
      most challenging navigation environments. The primary selling attributes in
      this
      market are quality, technology, logistics and customer support. Trimble supplies
      several Tier-1 IVN system manufacturers in Europe and Asia.

Component
      Technologies has developed GPS software technologies which it is making
      available for license. This software can run on certain digital signal
      processors (DSP) or microprocessors removing the need for dedicated GPS baseband
      signal processor chips. Component Technologies has an agreement with u-Nav
      Microelectronics to license Trimble GPS software technology for u-Nav GPS
      chipsets.

The
      major competitor
      in the telecommunication infrastructure market is Symmetricom. Competitors
      in
      the automotive and embedded markets are typically component companies with
      GPS
      capability, including Japan Radio Corporation, Motorola, and SiRF.

Representative
      products sold by this segment include:

Thunderbolt®
      GPS Disciplined Clock

- The Thunderbolt
      clock is used as a time source for the synchronization of wireless networks.
      By
      combining a GPS receiver with a high-quality quartz oscillator, the Thunderbolt
      clock achieves the performance of an atomic standard with higher reliability
      and
      lower price.

FirstGPS®
      Technology

- We license our
      FirstGPS technology, which is a host-based, GPS system available as two
      integrated circuits and associated software. The software runs on a customer’s
      existing microprocessor system complementing the work done by the integrated
      circuit to generate position, velocity, and time. This low-power technology
      is
      particularly suitable for small, mobile, battery-operated applications.

Lassen®
      iQ

Module

- The Lassen iQ
      module adds complete GPS functionality to a mobile product in a postage
      stamp-sized footprint with ultra-low power consumption, consuming less than
      100mW at 3.3V. This module is designed for portable handheld, battery-powered
      applications such as cell phones, pagers, PDAs, digital cameras, and many
      others.

TrimTrac®
      Locator

- Our TrimTrac
      product is a complete end user device that combines GPS functionality with
      tri-band global system for mobile communications (GSM) wireless communications.
      It is intended for high volume personal vehicle and commercial asset management
      applications that demand a low-cost locator device.

Mobile
      Solutions

Our
      Mobile Solutions
      segment addresses the market for fleet management services by providing a
      Trimble solution that includes both the hardware and subscription service needed
      to run the application. The subscription service is web based. Our solutions
      are
      typically provided to the user through Internet-enabled access to our hosted
      platform for a monthly service fee. This solution enables the fleet owner to
      dispatch, track, and monitor the conditions of vehicles in the fleet on a
      real-time basis. A vehicle-mounted unit consists of a single module including
      a
      GPS receiver, sensor interface, and a cellular modem. Our solution includes
      the
      communication service from the vehicle to our data center and access over the
      Internet to the application software, relieving the user of the need to maintain
      extensive computer operations.

One
      element of our
      market strategy targets opportunities in specific vertical markets where we
      believe we can provide a unique value to the end user by tailoring our hardware
      and subscription service solution for a particular industry. For example, one
      vertical we are addressing is ready mix concrete. Here, we combine a suite
      of
      sensors into a solution that can automatically determine the status of a vehicle
      without driver intervention. We plan on leveraging our technology and
      capabilities and customers into other verticals, such as direct store delivery,
      public safety and construction management.

We
      also have a
      horizontal market strategy that focuses on providing turnkey solutions to a
      broad range of service fleets and mobile workers that span a large number of
      market segments. Here, we leverage our capabilities without the same level
      of
      customization. These products are distributed through individual dealers as
      well
      as in the vertical applications.

Page

Our
      enterprise
      strategy focuses on sales to large, enterprise accounts. Here, in addition
      to a
      Trimble-hosted solution, we can also integrate our service directly into the
      customer’s IT infrastructure, giving them improved control of their information.
      In this market we sell directly to end users and sales cycles tend to be long
      due to field trials followed by an extensive decision-making
      process.

Approximate
      prices
      for the hardware fall in the range of $400 to $3,000, while the monthly
      subscription service fees range from approximately $20 to approximately $55,
      depending on the customer service level. Competition comes largely from
      service-oriented businesses such as @Road.

We
      have also entered
      new markets by acquisitions of MobileTech Solutions, Inc. and Advanced Public
      Saftey, Inc. (APS) MobileTech provides field workforce automation solutions
      and
      has a leading position in the direct store delivery market. APS provides mobile
      and handheld software products used by law enforcement, fire rescue and other
      public safety agencies.

Representative
      products sold by this segment include:

TrimWeb™
      Systems

- Our fleet
      management service offerings are comprised of the TrimWeb system and TrimFleet
      system. The TrimWeb system provides different levels of service that run from
      snapshots of fleet activity to real-time fleet dispatch capability via access
      to
      the TrimWeb platform network through a secure internet connection. The TrimWeb
      system includes truck communication service and computer backbone support of
      the
      service. Variations of the TrimWeb system are tailored for specific industry
      applications.

CrossCheck®
      Module

- This hardware,
      mounted on the vehicle, provides location and information through its built-in
      cellular interface. This module also includes GPS positioning, sensor interfaces
      for vehicle conditions, and built-in intelligence for distributed
      decision-making.

RoutePower™
      CE Mobile -

This
      software
      operates in the Microsoft CE/Pocket PC environment and addresses the pre-sales,
      delivery, routes sales and full service vending functions performed on the
      routes of Direct Store Delivery (DSD) companies. In addition, RoutePower
      software can communicate with digital phones, printers, GPS receivers, and
      other
      peripherals in a wireless non-tethered Bluetooth environment.

GateWay™
      Middleware Software -

This
      software
      handles all communications from/to the mobile computer as well as from/to the
      host and any other decision support systems. In addition, the GateWay software
      supports all functionality of the RoutePower

™

mobile system
      regardless of host system capabilities.

PocketCitation™
      System -

This
      electronic
      ticketing system enables law enforcement officers to issue traffic citations
      utilizing a mobile handheld device. This system scans the traffic offender’s
      driver’s license and automatically populates the appropriate information into
      the citation.

QuickTicket™
      System -

This
      system works in
      conjunction with mobile software platforms to enable law enforcement officers
      to
      complete electronic traffic citations in under 30 seconds.

Portfolio
      Technologies

Our
      Portfolio
      Technologies segment includes various operations that aggregate to less than
      percent of our total revenue. The operations in this segment are Applanix,
      Military and Advanced Systems (MAS), and Trimble Outdoors.

Applanix
      develops,
      manufactures, sells and supports high-value, precision products that combine
      GPS
      with inertial sensors for accurate measurement of the position and attitude
      of
      moving vehicles. Sales are made directly by our sales force to the end users
      or
      to systems integrators. Competitors include IGI in the airborne survey market,
      and iXsea and TSS in the marine survey market.

Our
      MAS business
      supplies GPS receivers and embedded modules that use the military’s GPS advanced
      capabilities. The modules are principally used in aircraft navigation and timing
      application. Military products are sold directly to either the US Government
      or
      defense contractors. Sales are also made to authorized foreign end users.
      Competitors in this market include Rockwell Collins, L3, and Raytheon.

Page

The
      Trimble Outdoors
      service utilizes GPS-enabled cell phones to provide information for outdoor
      recreational activities. Some of the recreational activities include hiking,
      biking, backpacking, boating, and water sports. Consumers purchase the Trimble
      Outdoors product through our wireless operator partners which include
      Sprint-Nextel, SouthernLINC Wireless and Boost Mobile. In 2005, Trimble entered
      into an agreement with Rodale Inc., owner of Backpacker Magazine, to bring
      high
      quality trip content to consumer GPS cell phones. The Trimble Outdoors service
      operates on more than 20 different GPS cell phones.

Representative
      products sold by this segment include:

Applanix
      POS/AV™

- An integrated
      GPS/inertial system for airborne surveying that measures aircraft position
      to an
      accuracy of a few centimeters and aircraft attitude (angular orientation) to
      an
      accuracy of 30 arc seconds or better. This system is typically interfaced to
      large format cameras and scanning lasers for producing geo-referenced
      topographic maps of the terrain.

Force™
      GS
      (GRAM-SAASM) Module

- A dual frequency,
      embedded GPS module that is used in a variety of military airborne
      applications.

Trimble®
      Outdoors™ -

Trip
      planning and
      navigation software that works with GPS-enabled cell phones and conventional
      GPS
      receivers. This software enables consumers to research specific trips online
      as
      part of trip pre-planning. In addition, users are able to share outdoor and
      off-road experiences online with their friends and family.

Acquisitions
      and Joint Ventures

Our
      growth strategy
      is centered on developing and marketing innovative and complete value-added
      solutions to our existing customers, while also marketing them to new customers
      and geographic regions. In some cases, this has led to partnering with or
      acquiring companies that bring technologies, products or distribution
      capabilities that will allow us to enter or penetrate a market more effectively
      than if we had done so solely through internal development. Over the past five
      years, this has led us to form two joint ventures and acquire multiple
      companies. No assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions
      will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our financial
      condition or operating results.

Advanced
      Public
      Safety, Inc. (APS)

*
      On December 30,
      2005, we acquired APS of Deerfield Beach, Florida. APS provides mobile and
      handheld software products used by law enforcement, fire-rescue and other public
      safety agencies. With the APS acquisition, we plan to leverage our rugged mobile
      computing devices and our fleet management systems to provide complete mobile
      resource solutions for the public safety industry. APS will be reported within
      our Mobile Solutions business segment.

MobileTech
      Solutions Inc.

*
      On October 25,
      2005, we acquired MobileTech Solutions, Inc. of Plano, Texas. MobileTech
      Solutions provides field workforce automation solutions and has a leading
      position in the direct store delivery (DSD) market. We expect the MobileTech
      Solutions acquisition to extend our portfolio of fleet management and field
      workforce applications. MobileTech Solutions’ performance is reported under our
      Mobile Solutions business segment.

Apache
      Technologies, Inc.

On
      April 19, 2005,
      we acquired Apache Technologies Inc. of Dayton, Ohio.  Apache is a leading
      developer of laser detection technology.  With the acquisition, we extended
      our laser product portfolio for handheld laser detectors and entry-level machine
      displays and control systems, as well as our distribution network in the United
      States.  Apache’s performance is reported under our Engineering and
      Construction business segment.

Pacific
      Crest
      Corporation

On
      January 10, 2005
      we acquired Pacific Crest Corporation of Santa Clara, California, a supplier
      of
      wireless data communication systems for positioning and environmental monitoring
      applications. The Pacific Crest acquisition has enhanced our wireless data
      communications capabilities in the Engineering and Construction business
      segment.

Page

GeoNav

On
      July 5, 2004 we
      acquired GeoNav GmbH, a small provider of customized field data collection
      solutions for the cadastral survey market in Europe. This acquisition augments
      our capability for localization of our products in Europe. GeoNav’s performance
      is reported under our Engineering and Construction segment.

TracerNET
      Corporation

On
      March 5, 2004 we
      acquired TracerNET Corporation of Virginia, a provider of wireless fleet
      management solutions. The TracerNET acquisition added more diverse and complete
      fleet management solutions. TracerNET’s performance has been integrated into our
      Mobile Solutions segment.

MENSI
      S.A.

On
      December 9, 2003,
      we acquired MENSI S.A., a French developer of terrestrial 3D laser scanning
      technology. The MENSI acquisition enhanced our technology portfolio and expanded
      our product offerings. MENSI’s performance is reported under our Engineering and
      Construction segment.

Applanix
      Corporation

On
      July 7, 2003, we
      acquired Applanix Corporation, a Canadian developer of systems that integrate
      inertial navigation system and GPS technologies. The Applanix acquisition
      extended our technology portfolio and offers increased robustness and
      capabilities in positioning products. Applanix’s performance is reported under
      our Portfolio Technologies segment.

Nikon-Trimble
      Co., Ltd.

On
      March 28, 2003,
      Trimble and Nikon Corporation agreed to form a joint venture in Japan,
      Nikon-Trimble Co., Ltd., which assumed the operations of Nikon Geotecs Co.,
      Ltd., a Japanese subsidiary of Nikon Corporation and Trimble Japan KK, our
      Japanese subsidiary. Nikon-Trimble began operations in July of 2003.

Nikon-Trimble
      is 50%
      owned by us and 50% owned by Nikon, with equal voting rights. It is focusing
      on
      the design and manufacture of surveying instruments including mechanical total
      stations and related products. In Japan, this joint venture distributes Nikon’s
      survey products as well as our survey, agriculture, construction and GIS
      products. Outside of Japan, we are the exclusive distributor of Nikon survey
      and
      construction products.

The
      joint venture
      has enhanced our market position in survey instruments through geographic
      expansion and market penetration. The Nikon products broadens our survey and
      construction product portfolio and enables us to better access emerging markets
      such as Russia, China, and India. It also provides us with the ability to sell
      our GPS and robotic technology to existing Nikon customers.

Caterpillar
      Trimble Control Technologies, LLC

On
      April 1, 2002, we
      established and began operations of a joint venture with Caterpillar called
      Caterpillar Trimble Control Technologies, LLC, in which each company has a
      50%
      ownership stake and equal voting rights. This joint venture develops and
      manufactures machine control products for the construction and mining markets
      for installation in the factory or as a dealer option.

Patents,
      Licenses and Intellectual Property

We
      hold
      approximately 600 US patents and approximately 100 non-US patents, the majority
      of which cover GPS technology and other applications such as optical and laser
      technology.

We
      prefer to own the
      intellectual property used in our products, either directly or though
      subsidiaries. From time to time we license technology from third parties.

There
      are
      approximately 200 trademarks registered to Trimble and its subsidiaries
      including "Trimble," the globe and triangle logo, "AgGPS," "GeoExplorer," and
      "Telvisant," among others that are registered in the United States and other
      countries. Additional trademarks are pending registration.

Page

Sales
      and
      Marketing

We
      tailor the
      distribution channel to the needs of our products and regional markets through
      a
      number of forms of sales channel solutions around the world. We sell our
      products worldwide primarily through dealers, distributors, and authorized
      representatives, occasionally granting exclusive rights to market certain
      products within specific countries. This channel is supported and supplemented
      (where third party distribution is not available) by our regional sales offices
      throughout the world. We also utilize distribution alliances, OEM relationships
      and joint ventures with other companies as a means to serve selected markets.

During
      the 2005
      fiscal year, United States represented 54%, Europe represented 25%, Asia Pacific
      represented 11% and other regions represented 10% of our total revenues. During
      the 2004 fiscal year, United States represented 50%, Europe represented 28%,
      Asia Pacific represented 13% and other regions represented 9% of our total
      revenues.

Warranty

The
        warranty periods for our products are generally between one and three years.
        Selected military programs may require extended warranty periods up to 5.5
        years
        and certain Nikon products have a five-year warranty period. We support our
        GPS
        products through a circuit board replacement program from locations in the
        United Kingdom, Germany, Japan, and the United States. The repair and
        calibration of our non-GPS products are available from company-owned or
        authorized facilities. We reimburse dealers and distributors for all authorized
        warranty repairs they perform.

While
      we engage in
      extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring
      and evaluating the quality of component suppliers, our warranty obligation
      is
      affected by product failure rates, material usage, and service delivery costs
      incurred in correcting a product failure. Should actual product failure rates,
      material usage, or service delivery costs differ from the estimates, revisions
      to the estimated warranty accrual and related costs may be required.

Seasonality
      of Business

*

Our
      individual
      segment revenues may be affected by seasonal buying patterns. Typically the
      second fiscal quarter has been the strongest quarter for the Company driven
      by
      the construction buying season. The second quarter has averaged 27% of total
      revenue in the last two fiscal years.

Backlog

In
      most of our
      markets, the time between order placement and shipment is short. Therefore,
      we
      believe that backlog is not a reliable indicator of present or future business
      conditions.

Manufacturing

Manufacturing
      of
      substantially all our GPS subsystems is subcontracted to Solectron Corporation.
      During fiscal 2005 we continued to utilize Solectron's Suzhou facilities in
      China for all of our Component Technologies products. During 2004 we expanded
      our use of Solectron in Mexico for our Field Solutions products and handhelds.
      We continue to utilize Solectron California for our high-end GPS products and
      new product introduction services. Solectron is responsible for substantially
      all material procurement, assembly, and testing. We continue to manage product
      design through pilot production for the subcontracted products, and we are
      directly involved in qualifying suppliers and key components used in all our
      products. Our current contract with Solectron continues in effect until either
      party gives the other ninety days written notice.

We
      manufacture laser
      and optics-based products at our plants in Dayton, Ohio; Danderyd, Sweden;
      Jena
      and Kaiserslautern, Germany; Paris, France; and Toronto, Canada. Some of these
      products or portions of these products are also subcontracted to third parties
      for assembly.

Our
      manufacturing
      sites in Dayton, Ohio; Danderyd, Sweden; Jena and Kaiserslautern, Germany are
      registered to ISO9001:2000, covering the design, production, distribution,
      and
      servicing of all our products. The Component Technologies segment is registered
      to QS9000 for its automotive products. QS9000 is the automotive version of
      ISO9000 covering specific requirements for the market.

Page

Research
      and
      Development

We
      believe that our
      competitive position is maintained through the development and introduction
      of
      new products that incorporate improved features, better performance, smaller
      size and weight, lower cost, or some combination of these factors. We invest
      substantially in the development of new products. We also make significant
      investment in the positioning, communication, and information technologies
      that
      underlie our products and will likely provide competitive
      advantages.

Our
      research and
      development expenditures, net of reimbursed amounts were $84.3 million for
      fiscal 2005, $77.6 million for fiscal 2004, and $67.6 million for fiscal 2003.

*
      We expect to
      continue investing in research and development with the goal of maintaining
      or
      improving our competitive position, as well as the goal of entering new markets.

Employees

As
      of December 30,
      2005, we employed 2,462 employees, including 32% in sales and marketing, 28%
      in
      manufacturing, 26% in engineering, and 14% in general and administrative
      positions. Approximately 40% of employees are in locations outside the United
      States.

Our
      employees are
      not represented by unions except for those in Sweden and some in Germany. We
      also employ temporary and contract personnel that are not included in the above
      headcount numbers. We have not experienced work stoppages or similar labor
      actions.

Available
      Information

The
      Company’s annual
      reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form
      8-K, and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge on the
      Company’s web site

through

www.trimble.com

/investors.html

,

as soon as
      reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or
      furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Information
      contained on our web site is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K.

In
      addition, you may
      request a copy of these filings (excluding exhibits) at no cost by writing
      or
      telephoning us at our principal executive offices at the following address
      or
      telephone number:

Trimble
      Navigation
      Limited

      Stewart Drive, Sunnyvale, CA 94085

Attention:
      Investor
      Relations Telephone: 408-481-8000

Executive
      Officers

The
      names, ages, and
      positions of the Company's executive officers as of March 1, 2006 are as
      follows:

Page

Steven
      W. Berglund

- Steven Berglund
      has served as president and chief executive officer of Trimble since March
      1999.
      Prior to joining Trimble, Mr. Berglund was president of Spectra Precision,
      a
      group within Spectra Physics AB, and a pioneer in the development of laser
      systems. He spent 14 years at Spectra Physics in a variety of senior leadership
      positions. In the early 1980s, Mr. Berglund spent a number of years at Varian
      Associates in Palo Alto, where he held a variety of planning and manufacturing
      roles. Mr. Berglund began his career as a process engineer at Eastman Kodak
      in
      Rochester, New York. He attended the University of Oslo and the University
      of
      Minnesota where he received a B.S. in chemical engineering in 1974. He later
      received his M.B.A. from the University of Rochester in New York in
      1977.

Rajat
      Bahri

- Rajat Bahri
      joined Trimble as Chief Financial Officer in January 2005. Prior to joining
      Trimble, Mr. Bahri served for more than 15 years in various capacities within
      the financial organization of several subsidiaries of Kraft Foods, Inc. and
      General Foods Corporation. Most recently, he served as the chief financial
      officer for Kraft Canada, Inc. From June 2000 to June 2001 he served as chief
      financial officer of Kraft Pizza Company. From 1997 to 2000, Mr. Bahri was
      Operations Controller for Kraft Jacobs Suchard Europe. Mr. Bahri holds a
      Bachelor of Commerce from the University of Delhi in 1985 and an M.B.A. from
      Duke University in 1987. In 2005, he was elected on the board of Simple
      Technologies, Inc., a publicly traded company.

Joseph
      F. Denniston, Jr

.

-
      Joseph Denniston
      joined Trimble as vice president of operations in April 2001, responsible for
      worldwide manufacturing, distribution and logistics. Prior to Trimble, Mr.
      Denniston worked for 3Com Corporation. During his 14-year tenure, he served
      as
      vice president of supply chain management for the Americas and held several
      positions in test engineering, manufacturing engineering and operations.
      Previously at Sentry Schlumberger for seven years, he held several positions
      including production engineering, production management and test engineering
      over six years. Mr. Denniston received a B.S. in electrical engineering
      technology from the Missouri Institute of Technology in 1981 and an M.S. in
      computer science engineering from Santa Clara University in 1990.

Bryn
      A.
      Fosburgh

-

Bryn
      Fosburgh joined
      Trimble in 1994 as a technical service manager for surveying, mining, and
      construction. In 1997, Mr. Fosburgh was appointed director of development for
      the Company’s land survey business unit where he oversaw the development of
      field and office software that enabled the interoperability of Trimble survey
      products. From October 1999 to July 2002, he served as division vice president
      of survey and infrastructure. From 2002 to 2005, Mr. Fosburgh served as vice
      president and general manager of Trimble's Geomatics and Engineering (G&E)
      business area, with responsibility for all the division-level activities
      associated with survey, construction, and infrastructure solutions. In January
      2005, he was appointed vice president and general manager of the Engineering
      and
      Construction Division. Prior to Trimble, he was a civil engineer with the
      Wisconsin Department of Transportation responsible for coordinating the
      planning, data acquisition, and data analysis for statewide GPS surveying
      projects in support of transportation improvement projects. He has also held
      various engineering, research and operational positions for the U.S. Army Corps
      of Engineers and Defense Mapping Agency. Mr. Fosburgh received a B.S. in geology
      from the University of Wisconsin in Green Bay in 1985 and an M.S. in civil
      engineering from Purdue University in 1989.

Mark
      A.
      Harrington -

Mark
      Harrington
      joined Trimble in January 2004 as vice president of strategy and business
      development. Prior to joining Trimble, Mr. Harrington served as vice president
      of finance at Finisar Corporation and chief financial officer for Cielo
      Communications, Inc., a photonics components manufacturer, from February 1998
      to
      September 2002, and Vixel Corporation, a photonics manufacturer, from April
      to December 2003. His experience also includes 11 years at Spectra-Physics
      where
      he served in a variety of roles including vice president of finance for
      Spectra-Physics Lasers, Inc. and vice president of finance for Spectra-Physics
      Analytical, Inc. Mr. Harrington began his career at Varian Associates, Inc.
      where he held a variety of management and individual positions in finance,
      operations and IT. Mr. Harrington received his B.S. in Business Administration
      from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln.

Debi
      Hirshlag

-

Debi
      Hirshlag joined
      Trimble in July 2005 as vice president of human resources. Prior to joining
      Trimble, Ms. Hirshlag served as vice president of human resources at Ariba
      Inc.,
      a purchasing technology company from January 2003 to July 2004, and vice
      president of corporate services at Latitude Communications, a conferencing
      software provider from January 2001 to December 2002. In addition, she has
      held
      human resources positions at Seagate Technology, Inc., Pepsi-Cola and Amoco
      Corporation. Ms. Hirshlag received her B.S. in industrial management from
      Carnegie Mellon University and an M.A. in labor and industrial relations from
      the University of Illinois.

Page

John
      E.
      Huey

-

John
      Huey joined
      Trimble in 1993 as director corporate credit and collections, and was promoted
      to assistant treasurer in 1995 and treasurer in 1996. Past experience includes
      two years with ENTEX Information Services, five years with National Refractories
      and Minerals Corporation (formerly Kaiser Refractories), and thirteen years
      with
      Kaiser Aluminum and Chemical Sales, Inc. He has held positions in credit
      management, market research, inventory control, sales, and as an assistant
      controller. Mr. Huey received his B.A. degree in Business Administration in
      from Thiel College in Greenville, Pennsylvania and an MBA in 1972 from West
      Virginia University in Morgantown, West Virginia.

Irwin
      L.
      Kwatek

-
      Irwin Kwatek has
      served as vice president and general counsel of Trimble since November 2000.
      Prior to joining Trimble, Mr. Kwatek was vice president and general counsel
      of
      Tickets.com, a ticketing service provider, from May 1999 to November 2000.
      Prior
      to Tickets.com, he was engaged in the private practice of law for more than
      six
      years. During his career, he has served as vice president and general counsel
      to
      several publicly held high-tech companies including Emulex Corporation, Western
      Digital Corporation and General Automation, Inc. Mr. Kwatek received his B.B.A.
      from Adelphi College in Garden City, New York and an M.B.A. from the University
      of Michigan in Ann Arbor. He received his J.D. from Fordham University in New
      York City in 1968.

Michael
      W. Lesyna

-

Michael
      Lesyna
      joined Trimble in September 1999 as vice president of strategic marketing.
      In
      September 2000, he was appointed vice president and general manager of the
      Mobile Solutions Division. In July 2004, Lesyna was appointed vice president
      of
      Business Transformation. In this cross-divisional role he focuses on driving
      operational improvements based on the marketing, sales and distribution channel
      strategies of Trimble's business segments. The scope of his work includes
      tailored business prioritization as well as lean manufacturing and lean overhead
      principles. Prior to Trimble, Mr. Lesyna spent six years at Booz Allen &
Hamilton where he most recently served as a principal in the operations
      management group. Prior to Booz Allen & Hamilton, Mr. Lesyna held a variety
      of engineering positions at Allied Signal Aerospace. Mr. Lesyna received his
      M.B.A., as well as an M.S. and B.S. in mechanical engineering from Stanford
      University.

Bruce
      E.
      Peetz

-
      Bruce Peetz has
      served as vice president of Advanced Technology and Systems since 1998 and
      has
      been with Trimble for 15 years. From 1996 to 1998, Mr. Peetz served as general
      manager of the Survey Business. Prior to joining Trimble, Mr. Peetz was a
      research and development manager at Hewlett-Packard for 10 years. Mr. Peetz
      received his B.S. in electrical engineering from Massachusetts Institute of
      Technology in Cambridge, Massachusetts in 1973.

Anup
      V.
      Singh

-
      Anup Singh joined
      Trimble in December 2001 as corporate controller. In August 2004 he was
      appointed vice president and corporate controller. Prior to joining Trimble,
      Mr.

Singh
      was with

Excite@Home

from July 1999 to
      December 2001.

Durin

g
      his tenure at
      Excite@Home, he

held
      the positions
      of senior director of Corporate Financial Planning and Analysis, and
      international controller. Before Excite@Home, Mr. Singh also worked for 3Com
      Corporation from December 1997 to July 1999, and Ernst & Young LLP in San
      Jose, California and London, England. Mr. Singh received his B.A. in 1991 and
      M.A. in 1995 in economics and management science from Cambridge University
      in
      England. He is also a chartered accountant and was admitted as a member of
      the
      Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in 1994.

Alan
      R.
      Townsend

-

Alan
      Townsend has
      served as vice president and general manager of the Field Solutions business
      area since November 2001. From 1995 to 2001, Mr. Townsend was general manager
      of
      Mapping and GIS. Mr. Townsend joined Trimble in 1991 as the manager of Trimble
      Navigation New Zealand Ltd. Prior to Trimble, Mr. Townsend held a variety of
      technical and senior management roles within the Datacom Group of companies
      in
      New Zealand including managing director of Datacom Software Research Ltd. from
      1986 to 1991. In addition, Mr. Townsend is a director of IT Capital Ltd., a
      venture capital company based in Auckland, New Zealand. He is also a fellow
      of
      the New Zealand Institute of Management and a past president of the New Zealand
      Software Exporters Association. Mr. Townsend received a B.S.c in economics
      from
      the University of Canterbury in 1970.

Dennis
      L. Workman

-

Dennis
      Workman has
      served as vice president and general manager of Trimble’s Component Technologies
      segment since September 1999. From 1998 to 1999, Mr. Workman was senior director
      and chief technical officer of the newly formed Mobile and Timing Technologies
      (MTT) business group, also serving as general manager of Trimble's Automotive
      and Timing group. In 1997, he was director of engineering for Software &
Component Technologies. Mr. Workman joined Trimble in 1995 as director of the
      newly created Timing vertical market. Prior to Trimble, Mr. Workman held various
      senior-level technical positions at Datum Inc. During his nine year tenure
      at
      Datum, he held the position of CTO. Mr. Workman received a B.S. in mathematics
      and physics from St. Mary’s College in 1967 and an M.S. in electrical
      engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in
      1969.

Page

Item
      1A

Risk
      Factors

RISKS
      AND
      UNCERTAINTIES

You
      should carefully
      consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information
      contained in this Form 10-K and in any other documents to which we refer you
      in
      this Form 10-K, before purchasing our securities. The risks and uncertainties
      described below are not the only ones we face.

Our
      Inability to
      Accurately Predict Orders and Shipments May Affect Our Revenue, Expenses and
      Earnings per Share

.

We
      have not been
      able in the past to consistently predict when our customers will place orders
      and request shipments so that we cannot always accurately plan our manufacturing
      requirements. As a result, if orders and shipments differ from what we predict,
      we may incur additional expenses and build excess inventory, which may require
      additional reserves and allowances. Any significant change in our customers’
purchasing patterns could have a material adverse effect on our operating
      results and reported earnings per share for a particular quarter.

Our
      Operating
      Results in Each Quarter May Be Affected by Special Conditions, Such As
      Seasonality, Late Quarter Purchases, Weather, and Other Potential
      Issues.

Due
      in part to the
      buying patterns of our customers, a significant portion of our quarterly
      revenues occurs from orders received and immediately shipped to customers in
      the
      last few weeks and days of each quarter, although our operating expenses tend
      to
      remain fairly predictable. Engineering and construction purchases tend to occur
      in early spring, and governmental agencies tend to utilize funds available
      at
      the end of the government’s fiscal year for additional purchases at the end of
      our third fiscal quarter in September of each year. Concentrations of orders
      sometimes also occur at the end of our other two fiscal quarters. Additionally,
      a majority of our sales force earns commissions on a quarterly basis which
      may
      cause concentrations of orders at the end of any fiscal quarter. If for any
      reason expected sales are deferred, orders are not received, or shipments are
      delayed a few days at the end of a quarter, our operating results and reported
      earnings per share for that quarter could be significantly
      impacted.

We
      Are Dependent
      on a Specific Manufacturer and Assembler for Many of Our Products and on
      Specific Suppliers of Critical Parts for Our Products.

We
      are substantially
      dependent upon Solectron Corporation in California, China and Mexico as our
      preferred manufacturing partner for many of our GPS products previously
      manufactured out of our Sunnyvale facilities. Under the agreement with
      Solectron, we provide to Solectron a twelve-month product forecast and place
      purchase orders with Solectron at least thirty calendar days in advance of
      the
      scheduled delivery of products to our customers depending on production lead
      time. Although purchase orders placed with Solectron are cancelable, the terms
      of the agreement would require us to purchase from Solectron all inventory
      not
      returnable or usable by other Solectron customers. Accordingly, if we
      inaccurately forecast demand for our products, we may be unable to obtain
      adequate manufacturing capacity from Solectron to meet customers’ delivery
      requirements or we may accumulate excess inventories, if such inventories are
      not usable by other Solectron customers.

Our
      current
      contract with Solectron continues in effect until either party gives the other
      ninety days written notice.

In
      addition, we rely
      on specific suppliers for a number of our critical components. We have
      experienced shortages of components in the past. Our current reliance on
      specific or a limited group of suppliers involves several risks, including
      a
      potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components and
      reduced control over pricing. Any inability to obtain adequate deliveries or
      any
      other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply
      or to manufacture such components internally could significantly delay our
      ability to ship our products, which could damage relationships with current
      and
      prospective customers and could harm our reputation and brand, and could have
      a
      material adverse effect on our business.

Our
      Annual and
      Quarterly Performance May Fluctuate.

Our
      operating
      results have fluctuated and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the
      future on a quarterly and annual basis as a result of a number of factors,
      many
      of which are beyond our control. Results in any period could be affected by:

Page

In
      addition, demand
      for our products in any quarter or year may vary due to the seasonal buying
      patterns of our customers in the agricultural and engineering and construction
      industries. Due to the foregoing factors, our operating results in one or more
      future periods are expected to be subject to significant fluctuations. The
      price
      of our common stock could decline substantially in the event such fluctuations
      result in our financial performance being below the expectations of public
      market analysts and investors, which are based primarily on historical models
      that are not necessarily accurate representations of the future.

Our
      Gross Margin
      Is Subject to Fluctuation.

Our
      gross margin is
      affected by a number of factors, including product mix, product pricing, cost
      of
      components, foreign currency exchange rates and manufacturing costs. For
      example, sales of Nikon-branded products generally have lower gross margins
      as
      compared to our GPS survey products. Absent other factors, a shift in sales
      towards Nikon-branded products would lead to a reduction in our overall gross
      margins. A decline in gross margin could potentially negatively impact our
      earnings per share.

Failure
      to
      maintain effective internal controls in compliance with Section 404 of the
      Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have an adverse effect on our business and stock
      price.

Section
      404 of the
      Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to include an internal control report of
      management in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. For fiscal 2004 and 2005 we
      satisfied the requirements of Section 404, which requires annual management
      assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial
      reporting and a report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments.

A
      system of
      controls, however well designed and operated, cannot provide absolute assurance
      that the objectives of the system will be met. In addition, the design of a
      control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood
      of
      future events. Because of the inherent limitations of control systems, there
      is
      only reasonable assurance that our controls will succeed in achieving their
      stated goals under all potential future conditions.

We
      Are Dependent
      on New Products.

Our
      future revenue
      stream depends to a large degree on our ability to bring new products to market
      on a timely basis. We must continue to make significant investments in research
      and development in order to continue to develop new products, enhance existing
      products and achieve market acceptance of such products. We may incur problems
      in the future in innovating and introducing new products. Our development stage
      products may not be successfully completed or, if developed, may not achieve
      significant customer acceptance. If we were unable to successfully define,
      develop and introduce competitive new products, and enhance existing products,
      our future results of operations would be adversely affected. Development and
      manufacturing schedules for technology products are difficult to predict, and
      we
      might not achieve timely initial customer shipments of new products. The timely
      availability of these products in volume and their acceptance by customers
      are
      important to our future success. A delay in new product introductions could
      have
      a significant impact on our results of operations.

Page

We
      Are Dependent
      on Proprietary Technology.

Our
      future success
      and competitive position is dependent upon our proprietary technology, and
      we
      rely on patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright law to protect our
      intellectual property. The patents owned or licensed by us may be invalidated,
      circumvented, and challenged. The rights granted under these patents may not
      provide competitive advantages to us. Any of our pending or future patent
      applications may not be issued within the scope of the claims sought by us,
      if
      at all.

Others
      may develop
      technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, duplicate our
      technology or design around the patents owned by us. In addition, effective
      copyright, patent and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or
      not
      applied for in certain countries. The steps taken by us to protect our
      technology might not prevent the misappropriation of such technology.

The
      value of our
      products relies substantially on our technical innovation in fields in which
      there are many current patent filings. We recognize that as new patents are
      issued or are brought to our attention by the holders of such patents, it may
      be
      necessary for us to withdraw products from the market, take a license from
      such
      patent holders, or redesign our products. We do not believe any of our products
      currently infringe patents or other proprietary rights of third parties, but
      we
      cannot be certain they do not do so. In addition, the legal costs and
      engineering time required to safeguard intellectual property or to defend
      against litigation could become a significant expense of operations. Such events
      could have a material adverse effect on our revenues or
      profitability.

Our
      products may
      contain errors or defects, which could result in damage to our reputation,
      lost
      revenues, diverted development resources and increased service costs, warranty
      claims and litigation.

Our
      devices are
      complex and must meet stringent requirements. We warrant that our products
      will
      be free of defect for various periods of time, depending on the product. In
      addition, certain of our contracts include epidemic failure clauses. If invoked,
      these clauses may entitle the customer to return or obtain credits for products
      and inventory, or to cancel outstanding purchase orders even if the products
      themselves are not defective.

We
      must develop our
      products quickly to keep pace with the rapidly changing market, and we have
      a
      history of frequently introducing new products. Products and services as
      sophisticated as ours could contain undetected errors or defects, especially
      when first introduced or when new models or versions are released. In general,
      our products may not be free from errors or defects after commercial shipments
      have begun, which could result in damage to our reputation, lost revenues,
      diverted development resources, increased customer service and support costs
      and
      warranty claims and litigation which could harm our business, results of
      operations and financial condition.

We
      Are Dependent
      on the Availability of Allocated Bands within the Radio Frequency
      Spectrum.

Our
      GPS technology
      is dependent on the use of the Standard Positioning Service (“SPS”) provided by
      the US Government’s GPS. The GPS SPS operates in radio frequency bands that are
      globally allocated for radio navigation satellite services. International
      allocations of radio frequency are made by the International Telecommunications
      Union (“ITU”), a specialized technical agency of the United Nations. These
      allocations are further governed by radio regulations that have treaty status
      and which may be subject to modification every two to three years by the World
      Radio Communication Conference.

Any
      ITU reallocation
      of radio frequency bands, including frequency band segmentation or sharing
      of
      spectrum, may materially and adversely affect the utility and reliability of
      our
      products. Many of our products use other radio frequency bands, together with
      the GPS signal, to provide enhanced GPS capabilities, such as real-time
      kinematic precision. The continuing availability of these non-GPS radio
      frequencies is essential to provide enhanced GPS products to our precision
      survey and construction machine controls markets. Any regulatory changes in
      spectrum allocation or in allowable operating conditions may cause a material
      adverse effect on our operating results.

In
      addition,
      unwanted emissions from mobile satellite services and other equipment operating
      in adjacent frequency bands or in-band from licensed and unlicensed devices
      may
      materially and adversely affect the utility and reliability of our products.
      The
      FCC continually receives proposals for novel technologies and services, such
      as
      ultra-wideband technologies, which may seek to operate in, or across, the radio
      frequency bands currently used by the GPS SPS and other public safety services.
      Adverse decisions by the FCC that result in harmful interference to the delivery
      of the GPS SPS and other radio frequency spectrum also used in our products
      may
      result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial
      condition.

Page

Many
      of Our
      Products Rely on the GPS Satellite System.

The
      GPS satellites
      and their ground support systems are complex electronic systems subject to
      electronic and mechanical failures and possible sabotage. The satellites
      currently in orbit were originally designed to have lives of 7.5 years and
      are
      subject to damage by the hostile space environment in which they operate.
      However, of the current deployment of 29 satellites in place, some have already
      been in operation for 12 years. To repair damaged or malfunctioning satellites
      is currently not economically feasible. If a significant number of satellites
      were to become inoperable, there could be a substantial delay before they are
      replaced with new satellites. A reduction in the number of operating satellites
      may impair the current utility of the GPS system and the growth of current
      and
      additional market opportunities.

In
      2004, a
      Presidential policy affirmed a 1996 Presidential Decision Directive that marked
      the first time in the evolution of GPS that access for civilian use free of
      direct user fees. In addition, Presidential policy has been complemented by
      corresponding legislation, that was signed into law. However, there can be
      no
      assurance that the US Government will remain committed to the operation and
      maintenance of GPS satellites over a long period, or that the policies of the
      US
      Government for the use of GPS without charge will remain unchanged. Because
      of
      ever-increasing commercial applications of GPS, other US Government agencies
      may
      become involved in the administration or the regulation of the use of GPS
      signals. Any of the foregoing factors could affect the willingness of buyers
      of
      our products to select GPS-based systems instead of products based on competing
      technologies.

Many
      of our products
      also use signals from systems that augment GPS, such as the Wide Area
      Augmentation System (WAAS) and National Differential GPS System (NDGPS). Many
      of
      these augmentation systems are operated by the federal government and rely
      on
      continued funding and maintenance of these systems. In addition, some of our
      products also use satellite signals from the Russian Glonass System. Any
      curtailment of the operating capability of these systems could result in
      decreased user capability thereby impacting our markets.

The
      European
      governments have begun development of an independent satellite navigation
      system, known as Galileo. We believe we will have access to the signal design
      to
      develop compatible receivers. However, if access to the signal structure is
      delayed it may have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating
      results.

We
      may be
      Materially Affected by New Regulatory Requirements.

We
      are subject to
      various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern
      our operations, including the handling and disposal of non-hazardous and
      hazardous wastes, and emissions and discharges into the environment. Failure
      to
      comply with such laws and regulations could result in costs for corrective
      action, penalties, or the imposition of other liabilities.

In
      particular, under
      certain of these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator
      of property may be liable for the costs of remediating hazardous substances
      or
      petroleum products on or from its property, without regard to whether the owner
      or operator knew of, or caused, the contamination, as well as incur liability
      to
      third parties impacted by such contamination. In addition, we face increasing
      complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to
      new
      and upcoming requirements relating to the materials composition of many of
      our
      products. The European Union (“EU”) has adopted new directives to facilitate the
      recycling of electrical and electronic equipment sold in the EU. One of these
      is
      the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and
      Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”) directive. The RoHS directive restricts the use of
      lead, mercury and certain other substances in electrical and electronic products
      placed on the market in the European Union after September 30, 2006.

Similar
      laws and
      regulations have been or may be enacted in other regions, including in the
      United States, China and Japan. Other environmental regulations may require
      us
      to reengineer our products to utilize components which are more environmentally
      compatible and such reengineering and component substitution may result in
      additional costs to us. Although we do not anticipate any material adverse
      effects based on the nature of our operations and the effect of such laws,
      there
      is no assurance that such existing laws or future laws will not have a material
      adverse effect on our business.

Our
      Business is
      Subject to Disruptions and Uncertainties Caused by War or Terrorism.

Acts
      of war or acts
      of terrorism could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating
      results, and financial condition. The threat of terrorism and war and heightened
      security and military response to this threat, or

Page

any
      future acts of
      terrorism, may cause further disruption to our economy and create further
      uncertainties. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result
      in
      delays or cancellations of orders, or the manufacture or shipment of our
      products, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be
      materially and adversely affected.

We
      Are Exposed
      to Fluctuations in Currency Exchange Rates.

A
      significant
      portion of our business is conducted outside the US, and as such, we face
      exposure to movements in non-US currency exchange rates. These exposures may
      change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse
      impact on our financial results and cash flows. Fluctuation in currency impacts
      our operating results.

Currently,
      we hedge
      only those currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities
      denominated in non-functional currencies. The hedging activities undertaken
      by
      us are intended to offset the impact of currency fluctuations on certain
      non-functional currency assets and liabilities. Our attempts to hedge against
      these risks may not be successful resulting in an adverse impact on our net
      income.

We
      Face Risks in
      Investing in and Integrating New Acquisitions.

We
      have recently
      acquired several companies and may in the future acquire other companies.
      Acquisitions of companies, divisions of companies, or products entail numerous
      risks, including:

As
      a result of such acquisitions, we have significant assets that include goodwill
      and other purchased intangibles. The testing of these intangibles under
      established accounting guidelines for impairment requires significant use of
      judgment and assumptions. Changes in business conditions could require
      adjustments to the valuation of these assets. In addition, losses incurred
      by a
      company in which we have an investment may have a direct impact on our financial
      statements or could result in our having to write-down the value of such
      investment. Any such problems in integration or adjustments to the value of
      the
      assets acquired could harm our growth strategy and have a material adverse
      effect on our business, financial condition and compliance with debt
      covenants.

We
      May Not Be
      Able to Enter Into or Maintain Important Alliances.

We
      believe that in
      certain business opportunities our success will depend on our ability to form
      and maintain alliances with industry participants, such as Caterpillar, Nikon,
      and CNH Global. Our failure to form and maintain such alliances, or the
      pre-emption of such alliances by actions of other competitors or us, will
      adversely affect our ability to penetrate emerging markets. No assurances can
      be
      given that we will not experience problems from current or future alliances
      or
      that we will realize value from any such strategic alliances.

Page

We
      Face
      Competition in Our Markets.

Our
      markets are
      highly competitive and we expect that both direct and indirect competition
      will
      increase in the future. Our overall competitive position depends on a number
      of
      factors including the price, quality and performance of our products, the level
      of customer service, the development of new technology and our ability to
      participate in emerging markets. Within each of our markets, we encounter direct
      competition from other GPS, optical and laser suppliers and competition may
      intensify from various larger US and non-US competitors and new market entrants,
      some of which may be our current customers. The competition in the future may,
      in some cases, result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market
      share, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business,
      operating results and financial condition. We believe that our ability to
      compete successfully in the future against existing and additional competitors
      will depend largely on our ability to execute our strategy to provide systems
      and products with significantly differentiated features compared to currently
      available products. We may not be able to implement this strategy successfully,
      and our products may not be competitive with other technologies or products
      that
      may be developed by our competitors, many of whom have significantly greater
      financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, sales and other resources than
      we do.

We
      Must
      Carefully Manage Our Future Growth.

Growth
      in our sales
      or continued expansion in the scope of our operations could strain our current
      management, financial, manufacturing and other resources, and may require us
      to
      implement and improve a variety of operating, financial and other systems,
      procedures, and controls. We have recently implemented a new enterprise resource
      planning software system and we may experience in our financial and order
      management processing as a result of new procedures. Problems associated with
      any improvement or expansion of these systems, procedures or controls may
      adversely affect our operations and these systems, procedures or controls may
      not be designed, implemented or improved in a cost-effective and timely manner.
      Any failure to implement, improve and expand such systems, procedures, and
      controls in a timely and efficient manner could harm our growth strategy and
      adversely affect our financial condition and ability to achieve our business
      objectives.

We
      Are Dependent
      on Retaining and Attracting Highly Skilled Development and Managerial
      Personnel.

Our
      ability to
      maintain our competitive technological position will depend, in a large part,
      on
      our ability to attract, motivate, and retain highly qualified development and
      managerial personnel. Competition for qualified employees in our industry and
      locations is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to
      attract, motivate, and retain enough qualified employees necessary for the
      future continued development of our business and products.

We
      Are Subject
      to the Impact of Governmental and Other Similar Certifications.

We
      market certain
      products that are subject to governmental and similar certifications before
      they
      can be sold. For example, CE certification for radiated emissions is required
      for most GPS receiver and data communications products sold in the European
      Union. An inability to obtain such certifications in a timely manner could
      have
      an adverse effect on our operating results. Also, some of our products that
      use
      integrated radio communication technology require an end user to obtain
      licensing from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) for frequency-band
      usage. These are secondary licenses that are subject to certain restrictions.
      An
      inability or delay in obtaining such certifications or changes to the rules
      by
      the FCC could adversely affect our ability to bring our products to market
      which
      could harm our customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on
      our
      business.

We
      Are Subject
      to the Adverse Impact of Radio Frequency Congestion.

We
      have certain
      products, such as GPS RTK systems, and surveying and mapping systems that use
      integrated radio communication technology requiring access to available radio
      frequencies allocated by the FCC (or the NTIA in the case of federal government
      users of this equipment) for which the end user is required to obtain a license
      in order to operate their equipment. In addition, access to these frequencies
      by
      state agencies is under management by state radio communications coordinators.
      Some bands are experiencing congestion that excludes their availability for
      access by state agencies in some states. To reduce congestion, the FCC announced
      that it will require migration of radio technology from wideband to narrowband
      operations in these bands. The rules require migration of users to narrowband
      channels by 2011. In the meantime congestion could cause FCC coordinators to
      restrict or refuse licenses. An inability to obtain access to these radio
      frequencies by end users could have an adverse effect on our operating
      results.

Page

The
      Volatility
      of Our Stock Price Could Adversely Affect Your Investment in Our Common
      Stock.

The
      market price of
      our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. During
      fiscal 2005, our stock price ranged from $44.55 to $26.64. We believe that
      a
      variety of factors could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate,
      perhaps substantially, including:

In
      addition, in recent years the stock market in general and the markets for shares
      of "high-tech" companies in particular, have experienced extreme price
      fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of
      affected companies. Any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect
      the market price of our common stock, and the market price of our common stock
      may decline.

Provisions
      in
      Our Charter Documents and Under California Law Could Prevent or Delay a Change
      of Control, which Could Reduce the Market Price of Our Common
      Stock.

Certain
      provisions
      of our articles of incorporation, as amended and restated, our bylaws, as
      amended and restated, and the California General Corporation Law may be deemed
      to have an anti-takeover effect and could discourage a third party from
      acquiring, or make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, control
      of us
      without approval of our board of directors. These provisions could also limit
      the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for
      shares of our common stock. Certain provisions allow the board of directors
      to
      authorize the issuance of preferred stock with rights superior to those of
      the
      common stock.

We
      have adopted a
      Preferred Shares Rights Agreement, commonly known as a "poison pill." The
      provisions described above, our poison pill and provisions of the California
      General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from
      acquiring us.

Item
      1B

Unresolved
      Staff Comments

None

Page

Item

Properties

The
      following table
      sets forth the significant real property that we own or lease:

Location

Segment(s)
              served

Size
                in
                Sq. Feet

Commitment

Sunnyvale,
              California

All

160,000

Leased,
                expiring 2012

                buildings

Huber
              Heights (Dayton), Ohio

Engineering
                & Construction

Field
                Solutions

Distribution

150,000

57,200

35,600

Owned,
              no
              encumbrances

Leased,
                expiring in 2011

Leased,
                month
                to month

Westminster,
              Colorado

Engineering
              & Construction, Field Solutions

73,000

Leased,
                expiring 2011

                buildings

Corvallis,
              Oregon

Engineering
              & Construction

20,000

21,000

Owned,
                no
                encumbrances

Leased,
                expiring 2006

Richmond
              Hill, Canada

Portfolio
              Technologies

50,200

Leased,
                expiring 2007

Danderyd,
              Sweden

Engineering
              & Construction

93,900

Leased,
                expiring 2010

Christchurch,
              New Zealand

Engineering
                & Construction, Mobile Solutions, Field Solutions

65,000

Leased,
                expiring 2010

                buildings

New
              Carlisle, Ohio

Engineering
              & Construction

30,000

Leased,
                expiring 2013

Jena,
              Germany

Engineering
              & Construction

28,700

Leased,
                no
                expiration date

                months
                notice

Kaiserslautern,
              Germany

Engineering
              & Construction

26,000

Leased,
                expiring 2010

Raunheim,
              Germany

Sales

28,700

Leased,
                expiring 2011

In
      addition, we
      lease a number of smaller offices around the world primarily for sales
      functions. For financial information regarding obligations under leases, see
      Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

*
      We believe that
      our facilities are adequate to support current and near-term operations.

Item

Legal
      Proceedings

*
      We are from time
      to time a party to disputes or litigation incidental to our business. We believe
      that our ultimate liability as a result of such disputes, if any, would not
      be
      material to our overall financial position, results of operations, or
      liquidity.

Item

Submission
      of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No
      matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter
      of 2005.

Page

PART
      II

Item
      5.

Market
      for
      Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

Our
      common stock is
      traded on the NASDAQ National Market under the symbol "TRMB." The table below
      sets forth, during the periods indicated, the high and low per share sale prices
      for our common stock as reported on the NASDAQ National Market.

As
      of December 30,
      2005, there were

approximately
      1,044
      holders

of record of our common stock.

Dividend
      Policy

We
      have not declared
      or paid any cash dividends on our common stock during any period for which
      financial information is provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. At
      this time, we intend to retain future earnings, if any, to fund the development
      and growth of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends
      on
      our common stock in the foreseeable future.

Under
      the existing
      terms of our credit facility, we are allowed to pay dividends and repurchase
      shares of our common stock in any twelve (12) month period, in an aggregate
      amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of net income (plus to the extent deducted
      in determining net income for such period, non-cash expenses in respect of
      stock
      options) for the previous twelve month period.  Also, we are allowed to
      spend an additional $50 million to pay dividends and repurchase shares if we
      are
      in compliance with our fixed charge coverage ratio.

Equity
      Compensation Plan Information

The
      following table
      sets forth, as of December 30, 2005, the total number of securities outstanding
      under our stock option plans, the weighted average exercise price of such
      options, and the number of options available for grant under such plans. See
      Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary
      of
      our plans.

Page

Item
      6.

Selected
      Financial Data

The
      following
      selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
      Operations” and our consolidated financial statements and related notes
      appearing elsewhere in this annual report. Historical results are not
      necessarily indicative of future results. In particular, because the results
      of
      operations and financial condition related to our acquisitions are included
      in
      our Consolidated Statements of Income and Consolidated Balance Sheets data
      commencing on those respective acquisition dates, comparisons of our results
      of
      operations and financial condition for periods prior to and subsequent to those
      acquisitions are not indicative of future results.

December
                30,

December
                31,

January
                2,

January
                3,

December
                28,

As
                of And For
                the Fiscal Years Ended






(Dollar
                in
                thousands, except per share data)

Revenue

$

774,913

$

668,808

$

540,903

$

466,602

$

475,292

Gross
                margin

$

389,805

$

324,810

$

268,030

$

234,432

$

237,235

Gross
                margin
                percentage

50%

49%

50%

50%

50%

Income
                (loss)
                from continuing operations

(1)

$

84,855

$

67,680

$

38,485

$

10,324

$

(23,492)

Gain
                on
                disposal of discontinued operations (net of tax)

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$


Net
                income
                (loss)

$

84,855

$

67,680

$

38,485

$

10,324

$

(22,879)

Per
                common
                share:

Income
                (loss)
                from continuing operations

-
                Basic

$

1.59

$

1.32

$

0.81

$

0.24

$

(0.63)

-
                Diluted

$

1.49

$

1.23

$

0.77

$

0.24

$

(0.63)

Gain
                on
                disposal of discontinued operations (net of tax)

-
                Basic

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

0.01

-
                Diluted

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

0.01

Net
                income
                (loss)

-
                Basic

$

1.59

$

1.32

$

0.81

$

0.24

$

(0.62)

-
                Diluted

$

1.49

$

1.23

$

0.77

$

0.24

$

(0.62)

Shares
                used in
                calculating basic earnings per share

53,216

51,163

47,505

42,860

37,091

Shares
                used in
                calculating diluted earnings per share

56,819

54,948

50,012

43,578

37,091

Cash
                dividends
                per share

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

Total
                assets

$

743,088

$

653,978

$

552,602

$

447,704

$

425,475

Non-current
                portion of long term debt and other liabilities

$

19,474

$

38,226

$

85,880

$

114,051

$

131,759

(1)

We
                have
                significant intangible assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets
                that
                include goodwill and other purchased intangibles related to acquisitions.
                At the beginning of fiscal 2002, we adopted Statement of Financial
                Accounting Standards No. 141 (“SFAS 141”), Business Combinations, and No.
                142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (“SFAS 142”). Application of the
                non-amortization provisions of SFAS 142 significantly reduced amortization
                expense of purchased intangibles and goodwill to approximately $8.3
                million for the fiscal year 2002 from $29.4 million in fiscal year
                2001.

Page

Item
      7.

Management's
      Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
      Operations

The
      following
      discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial
      statements and the related notes. The following discussion contains
      forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Our
      actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the
      forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these
      differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and those
      listed under "Risks Factors."

EXECUTIVE
      LEVEL OVERVIEW

Trimble’s
      foundation
      remains positioning technology. We have augmented this technology with wireless
      communication and application capabilities in order to enable us to participate
      in a wider number of markets and to play a more central role in those markets.
      Our efforts to market these technologies can generally be characterized as
      falling into the categories of either end user markets or component markets.
      The
      Engineering and Construction, Field Solutions, and Mobile Solutions segments
      can
      be broadly described as end user markets and the Component Technologies and
      Portfolio Technologies segments can be described as components markets. In
      the
      end user markets we provide a value added solution to the end user. Typically
      this requires a solution that includes a hardware platform and customer support.
      In the components businesses, we typically sell to another company that adds
      significant value and brings the solution to the end user.

The
      segments
      constituting the end user, solutions activities, make up over 80% of our
      revenue. The critical success factors in these businesses center around
      attaining a significant understanding of the end users’ needs, applying that
      knowledge to create highly innovative products, integrating those products
      into
      an effective system, and establishing a proficient global, third-party
      distribution.

The
      components
      businesses require different characteristics to be successful. The customer
      is
      typically an OEM, system integrator, or other third party that integrates our
      components into a system. To satisfy this customer group, our focus is on price,
      product functionality, and quality. With recent product introductions we have
      begun to add higher functionality into our products in order to provide greater
      value and potentially capture higher average selling prices for our offerings.
      Worldwide applications for the product range from vehicle tracking to remote
      asset management, including by way of example monitoring and tracking of
      construction materials, truck trailers and off-road equipment.

During
      2005 we
      continued to execute our strategy with a series of actions that can be
      summarized in four categories.

Reinforcing
      our position in existing markets

Generally,
      we
      believe that our markets provide us with additional, substantial potential
      for
      substituting our technology for traditional methods. In 2005 we continued to
      develop new products and to strengthen our distribution channels to realize
      these opportunities. The acquisitions of Pacific Crest and Apache provided
      us
      with additional hardware competencies and applications knowledge. A number
      of
      new products like Trimble S6 and machine control products strengthened our
      competitive position and created new value for the user.

Extend
      our
      position in existing markets through new product
      categories

We
      are utilizing the
      strength of the Trimble brand in our markets to expand our revenues by bringing
      new products to existing users. A 2005 example was the introduction of Ag GPS
      Steer System.

Bring
      existing technology to new markets

*
      We continue to
      reinforce our position in existing markets, and positioned ourselves in newer
      markets that will serve as important sources of future growth. Our efforts
      in
      China, India, Russia, Korea and Eastern Europe all reflected improving financial
      results, with the promise of more in the future.

Entered
      completely new markets

*
      In fiscal 2005 we
      acquired Advanced Public Safety, Inc. (APS), a software development company
      that
      provides mobile and handheld software products used by law enforcement,
      fire-rescue and other public safety agencies. With this acquisition, we plan
      to
      leverage our rugged mobile computing devices and fleet management systems to
      provide complete mobile resource solutions for the public safety industry.
      The
      APS acquisition opens up a new vertical

Page

segment
      in which we
      can offer public safety agencies complete mobile computing and resource
      management solutions. In addition,

we
      acquired
      MobileTech Solutions, Inc., a provider of field workforce automation solutions
      and that has a leading market position in the direct store delivery (DSD)
      market. We expect the MobileTech Solutions acquisition to extend our portfolio
      of fleet management and field workforce applications.

CRITICAL
      ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Our
      accounting
      policies are more fully described in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated
      Financial Statements. The preparation of financial statements and related
      disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in
      the
      United States requires us to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that
      affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and
      accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We consider the
      accounting polices described below to be our critical accounting polices. These
      critical accounting policies are impacted significantly by judgments,
      assumptions, and estimates used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial
      Statements, and actual results could differ materially from the amounts reported
      based on these policies.

Revenue
      Recognition

We
      recognize revenue
      in accordance with US GAAP. The accounting rules related to revenue recognition
      are complex and are impacted by interpretations of the rules and an
      understanding of industry practices, both of which are subject to
      change.

We
      recognize product
      revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has
      occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably
      assured. In instances where final acceptance of the product is specified by
      the
      customer or is uncertain, revenue is deferred until all acceptance criteria
      have
      been met. Revenue is reduced by a sales return reserve as described under
“Allowance for Doubtful Accounts and Sales Returns.”

Contracts
      and
      customer purchase orders are generally used to determine the existence of an
      arrangement. Shipping documents and customer acceptance, when applicable, are
      used to verify delivery. We assess whether the fee is fixed or determinable
      based on the payment terms associated with the transaction and whether the
      sales
      price is subject to refund or adjustment. We assess collectibility based
      primarily on the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit checks
      and analysis, as well as the customer’s payment history.

Our
      shipment terms
      for US orders, and international orders fulfilled from our European distribution
      center are typically FCA (Free Carrier) shipping point, except certain sales
      to
      US government agencies which are shipped FOB destination. FCA shipping point
      means that we fulfill the obligation to deliver when the goods are handed over,
      cleared for export, and into the charge of the carrier named by the buyer at
      the
      named place or point. If no precise point is indicated by the buyer, we may
      choose within the place or range stipulated where the carrier will take the
      goods into carrier’s charge.

Other
      international
      orders are shipped FOB destination, which means these international orders
      are
      not recognized as revenue until the product is delivered and title has
      transferred to the buyer or FCA shipping point. FOB destination means that
      we
      bear all costs and risks of loss or damage to the goods up to that point.

Revenue
      to
      distributors and resellers is recognized upon delivery, assuming all other
      criteria for revenue recognition have been met. Distributors and resellers
      do
      not have a right of return.

Revenue
      from
      purchased extended warranty and support agreements is deferred and recognized
      ratably over the term of the warranty/support period.

In
      accordance with
      Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue 00-21, “Accounting for Revenue
      Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables,” when a sale involves multiple
      elements, the entire fee from the arrangement is allocated to each respective
      element based on its relative fair value and recognized when revenue recognition
      criteria for each element are met.

Software
      revenue is
      recognized in accordance with Statement of Position (SOP) No. 97-2, “Software
      Revenue Recognition” and Statement of Position (SOP) No. 98-9, “Modification of
      SOP 97-2.” Our software arrangements generally consist of a perpetual license
      fee and post-contract customer support (PCS). We have established
      vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value for our PCS contracts
      based on the renewal rate. The remaining value of the software arrangement
      is
      allocated to the license fee using the residual method, and revenue is primarily
      recognized when the software has been delivered and there are no remaining
      obligations. Revenue from PCS is recognized ratably over the term of the PCS
      agreement.

Page

Allowance
      for
      Doubtful Accounts and Sales Returns

Our
      accounts
      receivable balance, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, was $145.1 million
      as of December 30, 2005, compared with $123.9 million as of December 31, 2004.
      The allowance for doubtful accounts as of December 30, 2005 was $5.2 million,
      compared with $9.0 million as of December 31, 2004. We make ongoing assumptions
      relating to the collectibility of our accounts receivable in our calculation
      of
      the allowance for doubtful accounts. We evaluate the collectibility of our
      trade
      accounts receivable based on a number of factors such as age of the accounts
      receivable balances, credit quality, historical experience, and current economic
      conditions that may affect a customer’s ability to pay. In circumstances where
      we are aware of a specific customer’s inability to meet its financial
      obligations to us, a specific allowance for bad debts is estimated and recorded
      which reduces the recognized receivable to the estimated amount we believe
      will
      ultimately be collected. In addition to specific customer identification of
      potential bad debts, bad debt charges are recorded based on our recent past
      loss
      history and an overall assessment of past due trade accounts receivable amounts
      outstanding.

A
      reserve for sales
      returns is established based on historical trends in product return rates
      experienced in the ordinary course of business. The reserve for sales returns
      as
      of December 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004 included $1.5 million and $2.2
      million, respectively, for estimated future returns that were recorded as a
      reduction of our accounts receivable and revenue. If the actual future returns
      were to deviate from the historical data on which the reserve had been
      established, our revenue could be adversely affected.

Inventory
      Valuation

Our
      inventories, net
      balance was $107.9 million as of December 30, 2005, compared with $87.7 million
      as of December 31, 2004. Our inventory allowances as of December 30, 2005 were
      $23.2 million, compared with $26.2 million as of December 31, 2004. Our
      inventory is recorded at the lower of standard cost or market (net realizable
      value). We generally use a standard cost accounting system to value inventory
      and these standards are reviewed a minimum of once a year and multiple times
      a
      year in our most active manufacturing plants. We perform an in depth excess
      and
      obsolete analysis of our inventory based upon assumptions about future demand
      and current market conditions. We adjust the inventory value based on estimated
      excess and obsolete inventories determined primarily by future demand forecasts.
      If actual future demand or market conditions are less favorable than those
      projected by us, additional inventory write-downs may be required.

Income
      Taxes

Judgments
      and
      estimates occur in the calculation of income tax and deferred tax assets and
      liabilities.

Income
      taxes are
      accounted for under the liability method whereby deferred tax assets or
      liability account balances are calculated at the balance sheet date using
      current tax laws and rates in effect for the year in which the differences
      are
      expected to affect taxable income. A valuation allowance is recorded to reduce
      the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that
      such assets will not be realized.

The
      valuation
      allowance decreased by $7.1 million in fiscal 2005, $21.8 million in fiscal
      2004 and $13.1 million in fiscal 2003. Approximately, $1.2 million, $8.0
      million and $14.1 million of the valuation allowance at December 30,
      2005, December 31, 2004 and January 2, 2004 respectively relate to the tax
      benefit of stock option deduction, which will be credited to equity if and
      when
      realized. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we consider future
      taxable income, resolution of tax uncertainties and prudent and feasible tax
      planning strategies.

Goodwill
      Impairment

Goodwill
      as of
      December 30, 2005 was $286.1 million, compared with $259.5 million as of
      December 31, 2004. We performed goodwill impairment tests at the end of the
      fiscal third quarter of 2005 and 2004 for each reporting unit and found there
      was no impairment of our goodwill. We will continue to evaluate our goodwill
      for
      impairment on an annual basis at the end of each fiscal third quarter and
      whenever events and changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount
      may not be recoverable.

The
      process of
      evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective and requires
      significant assumptions.

For
      goodwill, the
      annual impairment evaluation includes a comparison of the carrying value of
      the
      reporting unit

Page

(including
      goodwill)
      to that reporting unit’s fair value. If the reporting unit’s estimated fair
      value exceeds the reporting unit’s carrying value, no impairment of goodwill
      exists. If the fair value of the reporting unit does not exceed the unit’s
      carrying value, then an additional analysis is performed to allocate the fair
      value of the reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit
      as
      if that unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value
      of
      the unit was the purchase price. If the excess of the fair value of the
      reporting unit over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities
      is
      less than the carrying value of the unit’s goodwill, an impairment charge is
      recorded for the difference.

We
      cannot predict
      the occurrence of certain future events that might adversely affect the reported
      value of goodwill. Such events include, but are not limited to, strategic
      decisions made in response to economic and competitive conditions, the impact
      of
      the economic environment on our customer base, or a material negative change
      in
      our relationships with significant customers.

Accounting
      for
      Long-Lived Assets Including Intangibles Subject to
      Amortization

Depreciation
      and
      amortization of our long-lived assets is provided using straight-line methods
      over their estimated useful lives. Changes in circumstances such as the passage
      of new laws or changes in regulations, technological advances, changes to our
      business model, or changes in the capital strategy could result in the actual
      useful lives differing from initial estimates. In those cases where we determine
      that the useful life of a long-lived asset should be revised, we will depreciate
      the net book value in excess of the estimated residual value over its revised
      remaining useful life. Factors such as changes in the planned use of equipment,
      customer attrition, contractual amendments, or mandated regulatory requirements
      could result in shortened useful lives.

Long-lived
      assets
      and asset groups are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in
      circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be
      recoverable. The estimated future cash flows are based upon, among other things,
      assumptions about expected future operating performance and may differ from
      actual cash flows. Long-lived assets evaluated for impairment are grouped with
      other assets to the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely
      independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets and liabilities. If
      the
      sum of the projected undiscounted cash flows (excluding interest) is less than
      the carrying value of the assets, the assets will be written down to the
      estimated fair value in the period in which the determination is made.

Warranty
      Costs

The
      liability for
      product warranties was $7.5 million as of December 30, 2005, compared with
      $6.4
      million as of December 31, 2004. (See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated
      Financial Statements for further information regarding our warranty liability.)

The
      warranty

periods
      for our
      products are

generally between
      one

and

three years.

Selected

military programs
      may require extended warranty periods up to 5.5 years and certain Nikon products
      have a five year warranty period

.
      We accrue for
      warranty costs as part of our cost of sales based on associated material costs,
      technical support labor costs, and costs incurred by third parties performing
      warranty work on our behalf. Our expected future cost is primarily estimated
      based upon historical trends in the volume of product returns within the
      warranty period and the cost to repair or replace the equipment.

While
      we engage in
      extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring
      and evaluating the quality of our component suppliers, our warranty obligation
      is affected by product failure rates, material usage, and service delivery
      costs
      incurred in correcting a product failure. Should actual product failure rates,
      material usage, or service delivery costs differ from our estimates, revisions
      to the estimated warranty accrual and related costs may be required.

Guarantees,
      Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others

In
      the normal course
      of business to facilitate sales of its products, we indemnify other parties,
      including customers, lessors, and parties to other transactions with us, with
      respect to certain matters. We have agreed to hold the other party harmless
      against losses arising from a breach of representations or covenants, or out
      of
      intellectual property infringement or other claims made against certain parties.
      These agreements may limit the time within which an indemnification claim can
      be
      made and the amount of the claim. In addition, we have entered into
      indemnification agreements with our officers and directors, and our bylaws
      contain similar indemnification obligations to our agents.

It
      is not possible
      to determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements
      due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts
      and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments
      made by the Company under these agreements were not material and no liabilities
      have been recorded for these obligations on the Consolidated Balance Sheets
      as
      of December 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004.

Page

Stock
      Compensation

We
      apply Accounting
      Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees"
      (APB
      25) and related interpretations in accounting for our stock option plans and
      stock purchase plan. Accordingly, we do not recognize compensation cost for
      stock options granted at a price equal to fair market value.

In
      accordance with
      the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (“SFAS
      123”), "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" and “Statement of Financial
      Accounting Standards No. 148” (“SFAS 148”), “Accounting for Stock-Based
      Compensation - Transition and Disclosure,” we estimated the fair value of the
      options and purchases under the employee stock purchase plan, and determined
      the
      expense, net of related tax effects, that would have been included in the
      determination of net income if the fair value based method had been applied
      to
      all awards. Stock-based compensation net of tax was $8.7 million, $8.6 million
      and $9.8 million for fiscal 2005, fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003.

For
      options granted
      prior to October 1, 2005, the fair value for these options was estimated at
      the
      date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. For stock options
      granted on or after October 1, 2005, the fair value of each award is
      estimated on the date of grant using a binomial valuation model. Similar to
      the
      Black-Scholes model, the binomial model takes into account variables such as
      volatility, dividend yield rate, and risk free interest rate. In
      addition,

the
      binomial model
      incorporates actual option-pricing behavior and changes in volatility over
      the
      option’s contractual term. For these reasons, we believe that the binomial model
      provides a fair value that is more representative of actual experience and
      future expected experience than the value calculated using the Black-Scholes
      model. Below is a comparison of assumptions used in under each valuation model
      in fiscal 2005:

Note
      15 of the Notes
      to the Consolidated Financial Statements describes the plans we operate, and
      Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contains a summary
      of the pro forma effects to reported net income and earnings per share for
      fiscal 2005, 2004, and 2003 as if we had elected to recognize compensation
      cost
      based on the fair value of the options granted at grant date.

Investment
      in
      Joint Ventures

We
      have adopted the
      equity method of accounting for our investments in the Caterpillar and Nikon
      joint ventures. This requires that we record our share of the joint ventures’
profits or losses in a given fiscal period. See Note 5 of the Notes to the
      Consolidated Financial Statements for joint venture accounting.

RECENT
      BUSINESS DEVELOPMENTS

XYZ
      of GPS, Inc.
      (XYZ)

*
      On February 26,
      2006, we acquired the assets of XYZ of Dickerson, Maryland. XYZ develops
      real-time GNSS reference station, integrity monitoring and dynamic positioning
      software for meter, decimeter and centimeter applications. The purchase of
      XYZ’s
      intellectual property is expected to extend our product portfolio of
      infrastructure solutions by providing software that enhances differential GNSS
      correction systems used in marine aides to navigation, surveying, civil
      engineering, hydrography, mapping and Geographic Information System (GIS),
      and
      scientific applications.

Page

Advanced
      Public
      Safety, Inc. (APS)

*
      On December 30,
      2005, we acquired APS of Deerfield Beach, Florida. APS provides mobile and
      handheld software products used by law enforcement, fire-rescue and other public
      safety agencies. With the APS acquisition, we plan to leverage our rugged mobile
      computing devices and our fleet management systems to provide complete mobile
      resource solutions for the public safety industry. APS will be reported within
      our Mobile Solutions business segment.

MobileTech
      Solutions, Inc.

*
      On October 25,
      2005, we acquired MobileTech Solutions, Inc. of Plano, Texas. MobileTech
      Solutions provides field workforce automation solutions and has a leading market
      position in the Direct Store Delivery (DSD) market. We expect the MobileTech
      Solutions acquisition to extend our portfolio of fleet management and field
      workforce applications. MobileTech Solutions’ performance is reported under our
      Mobile Solutions business segment.

Apache
      Technologies, Inc.

On
      April 19, 2005,
      we acquired Apache Technologies Inc. of Dayton, Ohio.  Apache is a leading
      developer of laser detection technology.  With the acquisition, we extended
      our laser product portfolio for handheld laser detectors and entry-level machine
      displays and control systems, as well as our distribution network in the United
      States.  Apache’s performance is reported under our Engineering and
      Construction business segment.

Pacific
      Crest
      Corporation

On
      January 10, 2005
      we acquired Pacific Crest Corporation of Santa Clara, California, a supplier
      of
      wireless data communication systems for positioning and environmental monitoring
      applications. The Pacific Crest acquisition has enhanced our wireless data
      communications capabilities in the Engineering and Construction business
      segment.

RESULTS
      OF
      OPERATIONS

Overview

The
      following table
      is a summary of revenue, gross margin and operating income for the periods
      indicated and should be read in conjunction with the narrative descriptions
      below.

Basis
      of
      Presentation

We
      have a 52-53 week
      fiscal year, ending on the Friday nearest to December 31, which for fiscal
      was December 30, 2005. Fiscal 2005 was a 53-week year and fiscal 2004 and fiscal
      2003 were 52-week years. As a result of the extra week in fiscal 2005,
      year-over-year results are not exactly comparable. Thus, due to the inherent
      nature of adopting a 52-53 week fiscal year, the Company, analysts,
      shareholders, investors, and others will have to make appropriate adjustments
      to
      any analysis performed when comparing our activities and results in fiscal
      years
      that contain 53 weeks to those that contain the standard 52 weeks.

Page

Revenue

In
      fiscal 2005,
      total revenue increased by $106.1 million or 15.9% to $774.9 million from $668.8
      million in fiscal 2004. The increase in fiscal 2005 was primarily due to
      stronger performances across all our operating segments with the exception
      of
      Component Technologies. The Engineering and Construction, Field Solutions and
      Mobile Solutions segments increased 19%, 21% and 34%, respectively, compared
      to
      fiscal 2004. Revenue growth within these segments was driven by new product
      introductions and increased penetration of existing markets. Both the
      Engineering and Construction and Mobile Solutions operating segments also
      benefited from the impact of the Pacific Crest, Apache and MobileTech
      acquisitions.

In
      fiscal 2004,
      total revenue increased by $127.9 million or 23.6% to $668.8 million from $540.9
      million in fiscal 2003. This increase was primarily due to stronger performances
      in most of our operating segments driven by new product offerings and increased
      penetration of the markets we serve (primarily Engineering and Construction
      and
      Field Solutions), expanded distribution and selective acquisitions (primarily
      Mobile Solutions and Portfolio Technologies), as well as the positive impact
      of
      the weaker US dollar on revenues generated in foreign currencies, primarily
      the
      Euro.

*
      During the 2005
      fiscal year, sales to customers in the United States represented 54%, Europe
      represented 25%, Asia Pacific represented 11% and other regions represented
      10%
      of our total revenues. During the 2004 fiscal year, sales to customers in the
      United States represented 50%, Europe represented 28%, Asia Pacific represented
      13% and other regions represented 9% of our total revenues. We anticipate that
      sales to international customers will continue to account for a major portion
      of
      our revenues.

*
      No single customer
      accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues in fiscal 2005, 2004, and 2003.
      It is possible, however, that in future periods the failure of one or more
      large
      customers to purchase products in quantities anticipated by us may adversely
      affect the results of operations.

Gross
      Margin

Our
      gross margin
      varies due to a number of factors including product mix, pricing, distribution
      channel used, the effects of production volumes, new product start-up costs,
      and
      foreign currency translations. Gross margin as a percentage of total revenues
      was 50.3% in fiscal 2005 and 48.6% in fiscal 2004. The increase in gross margin
      percentage for fiscal 2005, compared with fiscal 2004, was due to the success
      of
      our market segmentation strategy, higher service revenues, cost reductions,
      and
      introduction of higher margin products.

Gross
      margin as a
      percentage of total revenues was 48.6 % in fiscal 2004 and 49.6% in fiscal
      2003.
      The decrease in gross margin percentage for fiscal 2004, compared with fiscal
      2003, was due to changes in the mix of products sold, principally related to
      increased sales of lower margin Nikon-branded survey and construction products,
      our agriculture products, pricing pressure in our Component Technologies
      business (which typically demonstrates increased unit volumes coupled with
      declining unit prices), the impact of the weaker US dollar on our non US
      manufacturing, and distribution costs.

*
      Because of
      potential product mix changes within and among the industry markets, market
      pressures on unit selling prices, fluctuations in unit manufacturing costs,
      including increases in component prices and other factors, current level gross
      margins cannot be assured.

Operating

Income

Operating
      income as
      a percentage of total revenue was 16.1% in fiscal 2005 compared to 12.8% in
      fiscal 2004 and 10.0% in fiscal 2003. The increase is driven by improvement
      in
      revenues, in gross margins, and greater leverage of operating expenses.
      Operating expenses represented 34.2% of total revenue in fiscal 2005 as compared
      to 35.8% in fiscal 2004.

Results
      by
      Segment

To
      achieve
      distribution, marketing, production, and technology advantages in our targeted
      markets, we manage our operations in the following five segments: Engineering
      and Construction, Field Solutions, Component Technologies, Mobile Solutions,
      and
      Portfolio Technologies. Segment operating income (loss) is net revenue less
      operating expenses, excluding general corporate expenses, amortization of
      purchased intangibles, restructuring charges, non-operating income (expense),
      and income taxes.

Page

The
      following table
      is a breakdown of revenue and operating income by segment for the periods
      indicated and should be read in conjunction with the narrative descriptions
      below.

December
                  30,

December
                  31,

January
                  2,

Fiscal
                  Years
                  Ended




(Dollars
                  in thousands)

Engineering
                  and Construction

Revenue

$524,461

$440,478

$367,058

Segment
                  revenue as a percent of total revenue

68%

66%

68%

Operating
                  income

117,993

79,505

60,664

Operating
                  income as a percent of segment revenue

22%

18%

17%

Field
                  Solutions

Revenue

127,843

105,591

79,879

Segment
                  revenue as a percent of total revenue

16%

16%

15%

Operating
                  income

32,527

25,151

14,500

Operating
                  income as a percent of segment revenue

25%

24%

18%

Component
                  Technologies

Revenue

53,902

65,522

64,193

Segment
                  revenue as a percent of total revenue

7%

9%

12%

Operating
                  income

8,034

13,880

16,560

Operating
                  income as a percent of segment revenue

15%

21%

26%

Mobile
                  Solutions

Revenue

31,481

23,531

12,981

Revenue
                  as a
                  percent of total consolidated revenue

4%

4%

2%

Operating
                  loss

(3,072)

(5,997)

(6,452)

Operating
                  loss
                  as a percent of segment revenue

(10%)

(25%)

(50%)

Portfolio
                  Technologies

Revenue

37,226

33,686

16,792

Segment
                  revenue as a percent of total revenue

5%

5%

3%

Operating
                  income (loss)

5,178

4,866

(1,686)

Operating
                  income (loss) as a percent of segment revenue

14%

14%

(10%)

A
      reconciliation of
      our consolidated segment operating income to consolidated income before income
      taxes follows:

Engineering
      and
      Construction

Engineering
      and
      Construction revenues increased by $84.0 million or 19% while segment operating
      income increased by $38.5 million or 48.4% for fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal
      2004. The revenue growth was driven by the introduction of products such as
      the
      Trimble S6 and machine control products, and growth of existing products such
      as
      the Trimble R8 GPS System. Revenue growth was also attributed to the
      acquisitions for fiscal 2005. Segment operating income increased as a result
      of
      higher revenues and increased sales of higher margin products.

Page

Engineering
      and
      Construction revenues increased by $73.4 million or 20% while segment operating
      income increased by $18.8 million or 31.1% for fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal
      2003. The relatively strong environment of fiscal 2003 continued into fiscal
      2004, resulting in continued robust demand for survey, machine control, and
      laser products. In addition, the full year effects for Nikon-branded products
      contributed to the year over year increase. Targeted new product introductions,
      such as the 5500 Servo Driven Total Station, provided improved market
      penetration. The weaker US dollar also contributed to increased revenues in
      this
      operating segment. Operating income increased at a higher rate than revenue
      growth due to greater operating leverage on expenses.

Field
      Solutions

Field
      Solutions
      revenues increased by approximately $22.3 million or 21.1% while segment
      operating income increased by $7.4 million or 29.3% for fiscal year 2005 as
      compared to fiscal 2004. Revenue increased primarily due to successful new
      products such as the

Ag

GPS
      EZ-Guide System
      and

Ag

GPS
      EZ-Steer System
      in our agriculture product line and as a result of higher demand for both
      automated and manual guidance products into the agricultural market in the
      first
      quarter of the fiscal year.

Field
      Solutions
      revenues increased by approximately $25.7 million or 32.2% while segment
      operating income increased by $10.7 million or 73.5% for fiscal year 2004 as
      compared to fiscal 2003. Revenues increased primarily as a result of higher
      demand for both automated and manual guidance products in the agricultural
      market. In particular, revenues were enhanced by the introduction of EZ-Guide
      Plus. We saw increases in our GIS product lines due to increases in our dealer
      and distributor business. Additionally, programs designed to expand our
      distribution channel by supplementing value-added, solutions focused business
      partners to our traditional dealer profile were successful. In addition, we
      saw
      improved results in Europe and increased opportunities in China. Increases
      in
      this segment’s operating income were primarily due to higher
      revenues.

Component
      Technologies

Component
      Technologies revenues decreased by $11.6 million or 17.7% and segment operating
      income decreased by $5.8 million or 42.1% for the fiscal year 2005 as compared
      to fiscal 2004. Revenues decreased primarily due to the decline in demand for
      our in-vehicle navigation products as a result of changes in buying strategies
      among certain automotive manufacturers, and softness in the timing businesses.
      The decrease was partially offset by an increase in the OEM board business.
      Operating income decreased primarily due to lower revenue and unfavorable
      product mix.

Component
      Technologies revenues increased by $1.3 million or 2.1%, while segment operating
      income decreased by $2.7 million or 16.2% for the fiscal year 2004 as compared
      to fiscal 2003. Revenues increased primarily due to higher demand from vehicle
      navigation and tracking customers, partially offset by the decline in demand
      from wireless infrastructure customers. The segment operating income decrease
      was primarily due to pricing pressures from the embedded and in-vehicle
      navigation product lines, a less favorable product mix, and increased spending
      for development of new categories of products.

Mobile
      Solutions

Mobile
      Solutions
      revenues increased by $8.0 million or 33.8% in fiscal 2005 over fiscal 2004
      due
      to increased subscriber growth, an increase in sales into the ready-mix
      suppliers, and increased sales from our dealer channel as we continue to develop
      and extend this channel. Operating loss decreased in fiscal 2005 compared to
      fiscal 2004 primarily attributable to an increase in revenues and increase
      in
      gross margins due higher recurring service revenue.

Mobile
      Solutions
      revenues increased by $10.6 million or 81.3% in fiscal 2004 over fiscal 2003
      due
      primarily to increases sales into the construction materials market, higher
      dealer sales and a significant enterprise sale. During the first quarter of
      fiscal 2004, we completed the acquisition of TracerNET to strengthen our
      presence in this segment. The benefits of the integration were not fully
      reflected until the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 and the full year impact
      of
      these activities were not realized until fiscal 2005. Segment operating loss
      decreased by $0.5 million or 7.1% in fiscal 2004 over fiscal 2003 due to
      increased revenues which was largely offset by increased expenses related to
      the
      integration of the TracerNET acquisition.

Page

Portfolio
      Technologies

Portfolio
      Technologies revenues increased by $3.5 million or 10.5% while segment operating
      income increased by $0.3 million or 6.4% for fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal
      2004. The increase in revenue and operating income was primarily due to stronger
      performance in our Applanix airborne business which was offset by an increase
      in
      marketing expenses related to our Trimble Outdoors initiative.

Portfolio
      Technologies revenues increased by $16.9 million or 100.6% while segment
      operating income increased by $6.6 million or 388.6% for fiscal 2004 as compared
      to fiscal 2003. The increases in revenues and operating income were primarily
      due to the inclusion of full year results of Applanix, acquired in July 2003,
      and higher sales of our military and advanced systems products.

Research
      and
      Development, Sales and Marketing, and General and Administrative Expenses

The
      following table
      shows research and development (“R&D”), sales and marketing, and general and
      administrative (“G&A”) expenses in absolute dollars and as a percentage of
      total net revenues for the fiscal years ended 2005, 2004 and 2003 and should
      be
      read in conjunction with the narrative descriptions of those operating expenses
      below.

Overall,
      R&D,
      sales and marketing, and G&A increased by approximately $26.3 million in
      fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004.

Research
      and
      development expenses increased by $6.7 million in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal
      2004 primarily due to the inclusion of expenses from acquisitions not applicable
      in the prior year in the amount of $2.8 million and increase in compensation
      of
      $2.8 million. All of our R&D costs have been expensed as incurred. Cost of
      software developed for external sale subsequent to reaching technical
      feasibility were not considered material and were expensed as
      incurred.

Research
      and
      development expenses increased by $9.9 million in fiscal 2004 compared to fiscal
      2003 primarily due to sustaining engineering expenses and costs incurred related
      to new product development, continued investment in next generation
      technologies, and the effect of foreign currency fluctuations.

*
      Overall research
      and development spending remained relatively constant at approximately 11%
      of
      revenues. We expect to continue to devote resources to the development of new
      products and the enhancement of existing products. We believe that research
      and
      development is critical to our strategic product development objectives and
      that
      to leverage our leading technology and meet the changing requirements of our
      customers, we will need to fund investments in several development projects
      in
      parallel.

Sales
      and marketing
      expenses increased by $12.2 million in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004,
      but
      decreased as a percent of total revenues. The increase was primarily due to
      advertising and promotion costs associated with the launch of new products
      of
      $5.4 million, the inclusion of expenses from acquisitions not applicable in
      the
      prior year of $1.5 million, increase in travel expenses of $1.4 million,
      increase in compensation of $1.7 million and an increase $0.6 million foreign
      currency transaction loss.

Sales
      and marketing
      expenses increased by $10.2 million in fiscal 2004 compared to fiscal 2003,
      but
      decreased as a percent of total revenues. The majority of the increase was
      due
      to the

increase
      in revenue,
      promotional programs associated with new products, and the foreign exchange
      impact on expenses in our non US operations.

*
      We intend to
      continue to focus and expand our sales and marketing efforts across all the
      geographies and markets we serve in order to increase market awareness of our
      products and to better support our existing customers worldwide. Our future
      growth will depend in part on the timely development and continued viability
      of
      the markets in which we currently compete as well as our ability to continue
      to
      identify and exploit new markets for our products.

Page

General
      and
      administrative expenses increased by $7.4 million in fiscal 2005 compared to
      fiscal 2004 primarily due to an increase in compensation expense of $5.9
      million, increase in rent expense of $1.0 million as we were making duplicate
      payments during our move to our new headquarters, the inclusion of expenses
      from
      acquisitions not applicable in the prior year of $1.8 million, and increase
      of
      $0.8 million in patent expense. This was partially offset by a decrease in
      bad
      debt expense of $1.7 million and an increase of $0.4 million foreign currency
      transaction gain. Spending overall remained relatively constant at approximately
      7% of revenues.

General
      and
      administrative expenses increased by $5.4 million in fiscal 2004 compared to
      fiscal 2003 primarily due to the inclusion of G&A expenses from
      acquisitions, expenses related to compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and
      bad debt expenses of $1.2 million.

Other
      Operating Expenses

Restructuring
      Charges

Restructuring
      charges of $0.3 million, $0.6 million, and $2.0 million were recorded in fiscal
      years 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

The
      charges in
      fiscal 2005 were primarily related to office closure costs due to integration
      efforts of the Mensi acquisition. The charges in fiscal 2004 were primarily
      related to severance costs due to the realignment of Trimble Mobile Solutions
      Inc. while charges in fiscal 2003 were primarily related to our Japanese office
      relocation due to the Nikon-Trimble joint venture formation. As a result of
      these actions, the headcount of the affected operations decreased by 36 and
      in fiscal 2004, and 2003, respectively. As of December 30, 2005, the remaining
      accrual balance of $0.3 million is related to the office closure expected to
      be
      paid over the next several years.

In-Process
      Research and Development

We
      recorded
      In-process research and development (IPR&D) expense of $1.1 million related
      to acquisitions made in fiscal 2005. We did not record any IPR&D expense in
      fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003. At the date of each acquisition, the projects
      associated with the IPR&D efforts had not yet reached technological
      feasibility and the research and development in process had no alternative
      future uses. The value of the IPR&D was determined using a discounted cash
      flow model similar to the income approach, focusing on the income producing
      capabilities of the in-process technologies. Accordingly, the value assigned
      to
      these IPR&D amounts were charged to expense on the respective acquisition
      date of each of the acquired companies.

Amortization
      of
      Purchased and Other Intangible Assets

Amortization
      expense
      of purchased and other intangibles represented 0.9% of revenue in fiscal 2005,
      a
      decrease of $1.5 million from fiscal 2004 when it represented 1.3% of revenue.
      Although we had acquisitions in the current fiscal year, amortization decreased
      due to the fact our Spectra Precision Group intangibles were fully amortized
      in
      the second quarter of fiscal 2005. Amortization expense of purchased and other
      intangibles represented 1.3% of revenue in fiscal 2004, an increase of $0.6
      million from fiscal 2003 when it represented 1.5% of revenue.

Page

Non-operating
      Expense, Net

The
      following table
      shows non-operating expense, net for the periods indicated and should be read
      in
      conjunction with the narrative descriptions of those expenses
      below:

Non-operating
      expense, net decreased by $10.5 million or 98.5% during fiscal 2005 as compared
      with fiscal 2004 primarily due to a decrease in net interest expense of $2.0
      million as a result of the repayment of debt and interest earned on higher
      cash
      balances offset by a $0.9 million write-off of debt issuance costs relating
      to
      the 2003 Credit Facility, an increase of $1.9 million in foreign currency
      transaction gain and a $7.3 million decrease in expenses for affiliated
      operations as a result of increased profits from our joint ventures and
      recognition of the remaining deferred gain from the Caterpillar joint venture.
      This was partially offset by a decrease in other income primarily due to the
      absence of a non-recurring gain in investments of approximately $1.0 million
      in
      fiscal year 2004.

*
      Expenses for
      affiliated operation decreased by $7.3 million in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal
      2004 due to the recognition of the remaining $9.2 million deferred gain related
      to the Caterpillar joint venture. Since the joint venture is now profitable
      on a
      sustainable basis, future operating losses are not anticipated and there are
      no
      future outstanding financial obligations by us to the joint venture, we
      recognized the gain. This amount was offset by an increased impact from the
      incremental transfer pricing effects due to growth in our construction product
      sales of $2.6 million. (See Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
      Statements for financial information regarding joint ventures). Furthermore,
      we
      recorded our share of profits in the Caterpillar joint venture which increased
      by $2.5 million. This was partially offset by a decrease in our share of profits
      in our Nikon-Trimble joint venture of $1.1 million.

Non-operating
      expense, net decreased by $7.6 million or 42% during fiscal 2004 as compared
      with fiscal 2003 primarily due to lower interest expense after the repayment
      of
      the principal balance of a subordinated note in June 2003, the write off of
      $2.3
      million of debt issuance costs as a result of our debt refinancing in June
      and $1.3 million related to the write off of the remaining unamortized portion
      of the warrants issued to Spectra-Physics Holdings USA, Inc. The increases
      in
      expense for affiliated operations were primarily due to our higher construction
      machine control revenues which led to increased impact from the pricing effects
      of transactions between us and the Caterpillar joint venture. This was partially
      offset by an increase of $1.1 million related to our share of profits in the
      Nikon-Trimble joint venture. The increase in other income (expense) was
      primarily due to a net gain related to the sale of an investment.

Income
      Tax
      Provision

Our
      effective income
      tax rates for fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003 were 32%, 10% and (8%),
      respectively. The 2004 and 2003 income tax rates are less than the US federal
      statutory rate of 35%, primarily due to the realization of benefits from net
      operating losses and other previously reserved deferred tax assets. Our 2005
      income tax rate is less than US federal statutory rate, primarily due to the
      benefit from the US incentive repatriation of undistributed foreign subsidiary
      earnings provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.

Repatriation
      of
      foreign earnings. The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act) provides
      for
      a special one-time elective dividends received deduction on the repatriation
      of
      certain foreign earnings to a U.S. taxpayer equal to 85% of the eligible
      distribution. During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company repatriated $39.5
      million, of which $24 million qualified for the special one-time elective
      dividends received deduction and $15.5 million constituted earnings that do
      not
      qualify under the Act; previously taxed income and return of capital. The
      company recorded a $6.4 million tax benefit from these foreign
      earnings.

Page

Litigation
      Matters

*
      From time to time,
      we are involved in litigation arising out of the ordinary course of our
      business. There are no known claims or pending litigation that are expected
      to
      have a material effect on our overall financial position, results of operations,
      or liquidity.

OFF-BALANCE
      SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

Other
      than lease
      commitments incurred in the normal course of business (see Contractual
      Obligation table below), we do not have any off-balance sheet financing
      arrangements or liabilities, guarantee contracts, retained or contingent
      interests in transferred assets, or any obligation arising out of a material
      variable interest in an unconsolidated entity. We do not have any majority-owned
      subsidiaries that are not included in the consolidated financial statements.
      Additionally, we do not have any interest in, or relationship with, any special
      purpose entities.

LIQUIDITY
      AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Cash
      and Cash
      Equivalents

Our
      financial
      condition further strengthened at December 30, 2005. Cash and cash equivalents
      totaled $73.9 million with essentially no debt compared to cash and cash
      equivalents of $71.9 million and debt of $39.0 million at December 31, 2004.

In
      fiscal 2005, cash
      provided by operating activities was $92.9 million, as compared to $74.6 million
      in fiscal 2004. The increase of $18.3 million was

primarily
      driven by
      the $17.2 million increase in net income during fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal
      2004.

Our
      ability to
      continue to generate cash from operations will depend in large part on
      profitability, the rate of collections of accounts receivable, our inventory
      turns, and our ability to manage other areas of working capital. Our accounts
      receivable days for sales outstanding increased from 63 days at the end of
      fiscal 2004 to 66 days at the end of fiscal 2005. The increase is due to
      acquisitions, delayed payments from some government contracts, and past due
      accounts from a couple of key customers. Our inventory turns was unchanged
      at
      four at the end of fiscal 2005 and 2004.

In
      fiscal 2004, cash
      provided by operating activities was $74.6 million, as compared to $29.6 million
      in fiscal 2003. The increase of $45.0 million was

primarily
      driven by
      the $29.2 million increase in net income during fiscal 2004 compared to fiscal
      2003 and better management of working capital.

Our
      accounts
      receivable days for sales outstanding decreased from 65 days at the end of
      fiscal 2003 to 63 days at the end of fiscal 2004. Our inventory turns was
      unchanged at four at the end of fiscal 2005 and 2004.

Cash
      used in
      investing activities was $74.9 million in fiscal 2005 as compared to $25.1
      million in fiscal 2004.

The
      $49.8 million
      increase was primarily due to an increase of $40.0 million in cash acquisitions
      and an increase of $10.6 million in investment in capital equipment

of
      which $6.6
      million was related to the relocation of our Sunnyvale headquarters.

Cash
      used in
      investing activities was $25.1 million in fiscal 2004 as compared to $22.7
      million in fiscal 2003.

The
      increase was
      primarily due to cash acquisitions and investment in capital equipment.

During
      fiscal 2004, we spent approximately $12.8 million on capital expenditures.

Page

Cash
      used in
      financing activities was $13.4 million in fiscal 2005 as compared to $24.2
      million in fiscal 2004. The $10.8 million decrease was primarily due to a $12.9
      million decrease in repayment of net debt as we repaid our entire debt balance
      in the second fiscal quarter of 2005. This was partially offset by a $2.3M
      decrease in proceeds received from issuance of common stock and warrants.

Cash
      used in
      financing activities was $24.2 million in fiscal 2004 as compared to $54,000
      in
      fiscal 2003. However, during fiscal 2004, we repaid approximately $65.2 million
      of debt related to our previous 2003 Credit Facility. These debt payments were
      funded by cash provided by operating activities, and the issuance of common
      stock to employees pursuant to our stock option plan and employee stock purchase
      plan of approximately $26.8 million.

*
      We believe that
      our cash and cash equivalents, together with our credit facilities ($200 million
      as of December 30, 2005), will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating
      cash needs for at least the next twelve months.

*
      We expect fiscal
      2006 capital expenditures to be approximately $15 million to $20 million,
      primarily for computer equipment, software upgrades, manufacturing tools and
      test equipment, and leasehold improvements associated with business
      expansion.

Decisions
      related to
      how much cash is used for investing are influenced by the expected amount of
      cash to be provided by operations.

Debt

At
      the end of fiscal
      2005, our total debt was comprised of government loans to foreign subsidiaries
      in amount of approximately $649,000 as compared with approximately $39.0 million
      at the end of fiscal 2004.

On
      July 28, 2005, we
      entered into a $200 million unsecured revolving credit agreement (“2005 Credit
      Facility”) with a syndicate of 10 banks with The Bank of Nova Scotia as the
      administrative agent. The 2005 Credit Facility replaces our $175 million secured
      2003 Credit Facility. The funds available under the new 2005 Credit Facility
      may
      be used for our general corporate purposes and up to $25 million of the 2005
      Credit Facility may be used for letters of credit. We incur a commitment fee
      if
      the 2005 Credit Facility is not used. The commitment fee is not material to
      our
      results during all periods presented. At December 30, 2005 and as of the date
      of
      this report, the Company has a zero balance outstanding and was in compliance
      with all financial debt covenants. For additional discussion of our debt, see
      Note 9 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

CONTRACTUAL
      OBLIGATIONS

The
      following table
      summarizes our contractual obligations at December 30, 2005:

Total
      debt consists
      of government loans to foreign subsidiaries.

(See Note 9 of the
      Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further financial information
      regarding long-term debt)

Other
      purchase
      obligations and commitments represent open non-cancelable purchase orders for
      material purchases with our vendors and a forecasted commitment with a supplier
      for outsourced services as described in Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated
      Financial Statements. Our pension obligation which is not included in the table
      above, and is included in “Other non-current liabilities” on our Consolidated
      Balance Sheets, is disclosed at Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated
      Financial Statements.

Page

NEW
      ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

In
      May 2005, the
      Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial
      Accounting Standard (FASB) No. 154, "Accounting Changes and Error Corrections"
      ("SFAS 154") which replaces Accounting Principles Board Opinions No. 20
      "Accounting Changes" and SFAS No. 3, "Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim
      Financial Statements-An Amendment of APB Opinion No. 28." SFAS 154 provides
      guidance on the accounting for and reporting of accounting changes and error
      corrections. It establishes retrospective application, or the latest practicable
      date, as the required method for reporting a change in accounting principle
      and
      the reporting of a correction of an error. SFAS 154 is effective for accounting
      changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December
      15, 2005 and is required to be adopted by the Company in the first quarter
      of
      fiscal 2006. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that the adoption
      of
      SFAS 154 will have on its consolidated results of operations and financial
      condition but does not expect it to have a material impact.

In
      March 2005, the
      FASB issued FASB Interpretation Number (FIN) 47, "Accounting for Conditional
      Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143"
      ("FIN
      47"). FIN 47 requires an entity to recognize a liability for the fair value
      of a
      conditional asset retirement obligation when incurred if the liability's fair
      value can be reasonably estimated. FIN 47 is effective for fiscal years ending
      after December 15, 2005. The Company was not impacted by the adoption of FIN
      in fiscal 2005.

In
      December 2004,
      the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment.” SFAS No. 123R requires
      employee stock options and rights to purchase shares under stock participation
      plans to be accounted for under the fair value method, and eliminates the
      ability to account for these instruments under the intrinsic value method
      prescribed by APB Opinion No. 25, and allowed under the original provisions
      of
      SFAS No. 123. SFAS No. 123R requires the use of an option pricing model for
      estimating fair value, which is amortized to expense over the service periods.

The
      requirements of SFAS No. 123R are effective for fiscal years beginning after
      June 15, 2005. SFAS No. 123R allows for either prospective recognition of
      compensation expense or retrospective recognition, which may be back to the
      original issuance of SFAS No. 123 or only to interim periods in the year of
      adoption. The Company will use the prospective method for future fiscal period
      after the SFAS No. 123R effective date of 12/31/05. As a result, financial
      statements for fiscal periods after our SFAS No. 123R effective date will
      include stock-based compensation expenses that are not comparable to financial
      statements of fiscal periods prior to the SFAS No. 123R effective date. Due
      to
      constant fluctuations to the expected volatility, expected term, risk free
      interest rate, and expected forfeiture assumptions used in valuating stock-based
      compensation, expected stock-based compensation expense in future fiscal periods
      is not predictable.

Page

Item
      7A.

Quantitative
      and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk

We
      are exposed to
      market risk related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange
      rates. We use certain derivative financial instruments to manage these risks.
      We
      do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes.
      All financial instruments are used in accordance with policies approved by
      our
      board of directors.

Market
      Interest Rate Risk

We
      may be exposed to
      market risk in the event we borrow against our 2005 Credit Facility. Borrowings
      under the 2005 Credit Facility have interest payments based on a floating rate
      of LIBOR plus a number of basis points tied to a formula based on our Leverage
      Ratio. The 2005 Credit Facility had outstanding principal balances of zero
      as of
      December 30, 2005.

Foreign
      Currency Exchange Rate Risk

We
      enter into
      foreign exchange forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of foreign
      currency fluctuations on certain trade and inter-company receivables and
      payables, primarily denominated in Australian, Canadian, New Zealand, and
      Swedish currencies, the Euro, and the British pound. These contracts reduce
      the
      exposure to fluctuations in exchange rate movements as the gains and losses
      associated with foreign currency balances are generally offset with the gains
      and losses on the forward contracts. These instruments are marked to market
      through earnings every period and generally range from one to three months
      in
      original maturity. We do not enter into foreign exchange forward contract for
      trading purposes.

Foreign
      exchange
      forward contracts outstanding as of December 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004
      are
      summarized as follows (in thousands):

*
      We do not
      anticipate any material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position
      utilizing our current hedging strategy.

Page

TRIMBLE
      NAVIGATION LIMITED

INDEX
      TO
      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Page

Item
      8.

Financial
      Statements and Supplementary Data

CONSOLIDATED
      BALANCE SHEETS

December
                30,

December
                31,

As
                at



(in
                thousands)

ASSETS

Current
                assets

:

Cash
                and cash
                equivalents

$

73,853

$

71,872

Accounts
                receivable, less allowance for doubtful

accounts
                of
                $5,230 and $8,952, and sales return reserve of $1,500 and $2,210,
                respectively

145,100

123,938

Other
                receivables

6,489

4,182

Inventories,
                net

107,851

87,745

Deferred
                income taxes

18,504

21,852

Other
                current
                assets

8,580

7,878

Total
                current
                assets

360,377

317,467

Property
                and
                equipment, net

42,664

30,991

Goodwill

286,146

259,522

Other
                purchased intangible assets, net

27,310

13,835

Deferred
                income taxes

3,580

8,019

Other
                assets

23,011

24,144

Total
                non-current assets

382,711

336,511

Total
                assets

$

743,088

$

653,978

LIABILITIES
                AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

Current
                liabilities:

Current
                portion of long-term debt

$


$

12,500

Accounts
                payable

45,206

43,551

Accrued
                compensation and benefits

36,083

31,202

Accrued
                liabilities

16,189

11,510

Deferred
                revenues

12,588

9,317

Accrued
                warranty expense

7,466

6,425

Deferred
                income taxes

4,087

2,521

Income
                taxes
                payable

24,922

11,951

Total
                current
                liabilities

146,757

128,977

Non-current
                portion of long-term debt


26,496

Deferred
                gain
                on joint venture

-

9,179

Deferred
                income tax

5,602

5,435

Other
                non-current liabilities

19,041

11,730

Total
                liabilities

171,833

181,817

Commitments
                and contingencies

Shareholders'
                equity:

Preferred
                stock no par value; 3,000 shares authorized;

none
                outstanding

--

--

Common
                stock,
                no par value; 90,000 shares authorized;

53,910
                and
                52,213 shares issued and outstanding at December 30, 2005 and December
                31,
                2004, respectively

384,196

345,127

Retained
                earnings

167,525

82,670

Accumulated
                other comprehensive income

19,534

44,364

Total
                shareholders' equity

571,255

472,161

Total
                liabilities and shareholders' equity

$

743,088

$

653,978

See
      accompanying
      Note to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

CONSOLIDATED
      STATEMENTS OF INCOME

December
                30,

December
                31,

January
                2,

Fiscal
                Years
                Ended




(in
                thousands, except per share amounts)

Revenue

(1)

$

774,913

$

668,808

$

540,903

Cost
                of sales

(1)

385,108

343,998

272,873

Gross
                margin

389,805

324,810

268,030

Operating
                expenses

Research
                and
                development

84,276

77,558

67,641

Sales
                and
                marketing

120,215

108,054

97,870

General
                and
                administrative

52,137

44,694

39,253

Restructuring
                charges



2,019

Amortization
                of purchased intangible assets

6,855

8,327

7,312

In-process
                research and development

1,100

-

-

Total
                operating expenses

264,861

239,185

214,095

Operating
                income

124,944

85,625

53,935

Non-operating
                income (expense), net

Interest
                income




Interest
                expense

(2,331)

(3,888)

(11,938)

Foreign
                currency transaction gain (loss), net

1,022

(859)

(592)

Expenses
                for
                affiliated operations, net

(291)

(7,590)

(6,403)

Other
                income


1,200


Total
                non-operating expense, net

(156)

(10,701)

(18,350)

Income
                before
                taxes

124,788

74,924

35,585

Income
                tax
                provision (benefit)

39,933

7,244

(2,900)

Net
                income

$

84,855

$

67,680

$

38,485

Basic
                earnings
                per share

$

1.59

$

1.32

$

0.81

Shares
                used in
                calculating basic earnings per share

53,216

51,163

47,505

Diluted
                earnings per share

$

1.49

$

1.23

$

0.77

Shares
                used in
                calculating diluted earnings per share

56,819

54,948

50,012

(1)
      Sales to related
      parties were $9.1 million, $7.6 million, and $4.0 million in fiscal 2005, 2004
      and 2003, respectively, while cost of sales to those related parties were $4.0
      million, $3.8 million, and $1.9 million in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003,
      respectively. See Note 5 to these Consolidated Financial Statements for a
      discussion of related parties.

See
      accompanying
      Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Page

CONSOLIDATED
      STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Common
                stock

Accumulative

Retained

Other

Total

Earnings

Comprehensive

Shareholders'

Shares

Amount

(Deficit)

Income/(Loss)

Equity

(in
                thousands)

Balance
                at
                January 3, 2003

43,965

$
                225,872

$
                (23,495)

$
                (1,026)

$
                201,351

Components
                of
                comprehensive income:

Net
                income

38,485

38,485

Loss
                on
                interest rate swap

(7)

(7)

Unrealized
                gain on investments



Foreign
                currency translation adjustments

31,198

31,198

Total
                comprehensive income

69,750

Issuance
                of
                common stock in connection with acquisitions and joint venture,
                net

1,282

25,795

25,795

Issuance
                of
                common stock under employee plans and exercise of warrants

1,593

13,929

13,929

Issuance
                of
                warrants



Issuance
                of
                common stock in private placement

3,148

36,583

36,583

Balance
                at
                January 2, 2004

49,988

303,015

14,990

30,239

348,244

Components
                of
                comprehensive income:

Net
                income

67,680

67,680

Loss
                on
                interest rate swap



Unrealized
                loss on investments

(6)

(6)

Foreign
                currency translation adjustments, net of tax

14,025

14,025

Total
                comprehensive income

81,805

Issuance
                of
                common stock in connection with acquisitions, net




Issuance
                of
                common stock under employee plans and exercise of warrants

1,930

26,805

26,805

Tax
                benefit
                from stock option exercises

14,408

14,408

Balance
                at
                December 31, 2004

52,213

345,127

82,670

44,364

472,161

Components
                of
                comprehensive income:

Net
                income

84,855

84,855

Loss
                on
                interest rate swap

(106)

(106)

Unrealized
                loss on investments

(34)

(34)

Foreign
                currency translation adjustments, net of tax

(24,690)

(24,690)

Total
                comprehensive income

60,025

Issuance
                of
                common stock in connection with acquisitions, net


-

Issuance
                of
                common stock under employee plans and exercise of warrants

1,687

24,582

24,582

Tax
                benefit
                from stock option exercises

14,487

14,487

Balance
                at
                December 30, 2005

53,910

$
                384,196

$
                167,525

$
                19,534

$
                571,255

See
      accompanying
      Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Page

CONSOLIDATED
      STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

December
                30,

December
                31,

January
                2,

Fiscal
                Years
                Ended




(In
                thousands)

Cash
                flows
                from operating activities:

Net
                income

$

84,855

$

67,680

$

38,485

Adjustments
                to
                reconcile net income to net cash

provided
                by
                operating activities:

Depreciation

10,671

8,874

8,864

Amortization

7,020

8,510

7,916

Provision
                for
                doubtful accounts

(502)

1,210

(32)

Deferred
                gain
                on joint venture

(9,180)

(665)

(947)

Amortization
                of debt issuance cost

1,270


3,515

Deferred
                income taxes

14,242

(1,482)

(6,532)

In-process
                research and development

1,100

-

-

Other

(466)

(21)

2,533

Decrease
                (increase) in assets and liabilities:

Accounts
                receivable, net

(19,017)

(17,245)

(13,944)

Deferred
                revenues

2,406

1,619

1,650

Other
                receivables

(2,108)

2,231

(4,389)

Inventories,
                net

(17,888)

(15,529)

(4,862)

Other
                current
                and non-current assets

(2,294)

(69)

(792)

Accounts
                payable

1,078

14,668

(6,387)

Accrued
                compensation and benefits

3,408

4,847

6,723

Accrued
                liabilities

6,232

(1,757)

(6,437)

Income
                taxes
                payable

12,054

1,218

4,201

Net
                cash
                provided by operating activities

92,880

74,576

29,565

Cash
                flows
                from investing activities:

Acquisition
                of
                property and equipment

(23,436)

(12,750)

(10,901)

Proceeds
                from
                sale of assets

-



Cost
                of
                acquisitions, net of cash acquired

(51,379)

(11,388)

(6,606)

Cost
                of joint
                venture and equity investments

-

(1,500)

(4,810)

Costs
                of
                capitalized patents

(103)

(41)

(670)

Net
                cash used
                in investing activities

(74,918)

(25,133)

(22,653)

Cash
                flows
                from financing activities:

Issuance
                of
                common stock and warrants

24,463

26,805

50,514

Collection
                of
                notes receivable



1,326

Proceeds
                from
                long-term debt and revolving credit lines

6,000

14,000

138,288

Payments
                on
                long-term debt and revolving credit lines

(44,250)

(65,235)

(190,074)

Net
                cash
                provided by (used in) financing activities

(13,402)

(24,159)


Effect
                of
                exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents

(2,579)

1,172

9,771

Net
                increase
                in cash and cash equivalents

1,981

26,456

16,737

Cash
                and cash
                equivalents, beginning of fiscal year

71,872

45,416

28,679

Cash
                and cash
                equivalents, end of fiscal year

$

73,853

$

71,872

$

45,416

See
      accompanying
      Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Page

NOTES
      TO
      CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE
      1:
      DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Trimble
      Navigation
      Limited began operations in 1978 and incorporated in California in 1981. Trimble
      provides advanced positioning product solutions, most typically to commercial
      and government users. The principal applications served include surveying,
      construction, agriculture, machine guidance, asset and fleet management, and
      telecommunications infrastructure. The Company’s products typically provide its
      customers benefits that can include lower costs, and higher productivity.
      Examples of products include systems that guide agricultural and construction
      equipment, surveying instruments, systems that track fleets of vehicles, and
      data collection systems that enable the management of large amounts of geo
      referenced information. In addition, the Company also manufactures components
      for in vehicle navigation and telematics systems, and timing modules used in
      the
      synchronization of wireless networks.

NOTE
      2:

ACCOUNTING
      POLICIES

Use
      of
      Estimates

The
      preparation of
      financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles
      requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts
      reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are
      used
      for revenue recognition, allowances for doubtful accounts, sales returns
      reserve, allowances for inventory valuation, warranty costs, investments,
      goodwill impairments, and income taxes among others. The actual results
      experienced by the Company may differ materially from management’s
      estimates.

Basis
      of
      Presentation

Trimble
      has a fiscal
      year that ends on the Friday nearest to December 31.

Fiscal
      2005, a
      53-week year, ended on December 30, 2005 and fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003,
      52-week years, ended on December 31, 2004 and January 2, 2004, respectively.

These
      Consolidated
      Financial Statements include the results of Trimble and its subsidiaries.
      Inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Certain amounts
      from prior years have been reclassified to conform to the current year
      presentation.

In
        2005 the Company
        revised its statements of cash flows for 2004 and 2003. The changes relate
        to
        the Company’s classification of the foreign exchange impact on its cash and cash
        equivalents that was erroneously included in cash flows from operations.
        These
        corrections have been made retrospectively modifying the presentation for
        and 2003. The changes resulted in an increase to cash flows from operations
        of
        $1.5 million and a decrease of $6.9 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively.
        These revisions to the statements of cash flows had no impact on the Company’s
        cash and cash equivalents, balance sheet, or income statement.

Foreign
      Currency Translation

Assets
      and
      liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries that operate in local currencies are
      translated to U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet
      date, with the resulting translation adjustments directly recorded to a separate
      component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Income and expense accounts
      are translated at average exchange rates during the year. Where the U.S. dollar
      is the functional currency, translation adjustments are recorded in foreign
      currency transaction adjustments, net of tax in accumulated other comprehensive
      income within the shareholders’ equity section of the consolidated balance
      sheets.

Cash
      and
      Cash Equivalents

Cash
      and cash
      equivalents include all cash and highly liquid investments with insignificant
      interest rate risk and maturities of three months or less at the date of
      purchase. The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents approximates fair
      value because of the short maturity of those instruments.

Fair
      Value
      of Financial Instruments

The
      fair value of
      certain of the Company’s financial instruments, including cash and cash
      equivalents, and other accrued liabilities approximate cost because of their
      short maturities. The fair value of investments is determined using quoted
      market prices for those securities or similar financial instruments.

Page

Concentration
      of Risk

Cash
      and cash
      equivalents are maintained with several financial institutions. Deposits held
      with banks may exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits.
      Generally, these deposits may be redeemed upon demand and are maintained with
      financial institutions of reputable credit and therefore bear minimal credit
      risk.

The
      Company is also
      exposed to credit risk in the Company’s trade receivables, which are derived
      from sales to end user customers in diversified industries as well as various
      resellers. Trimble performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers’
financial condition and limits the amount of credit extended when deemed
      necessary but generally does not require collateral.

With
      the selection
      of Solectron Corporation in August 1999 as an exclusive manufacturing partner
      for many of its GPS products, Trimble became substantially dependent upon a
      sole
      supplier for the manufacture of many of its products. In addition, the Company
      relies on sole suppliers for a number of its critical components.

Allowance
      for Doubtful Accounts

Trimble
      maintains
      allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the
      inability of its customers to make required payments.

Trimble
      evaluates
      the collectibility of its trade accounts receivable based on a number of factors
      such as age of the accounts receivable balances, credit quality, historical
      experience, and current economic conditions that may affect a customer’s ability
      to pay. In circumstances where the Company is aware of a specific customer’s
      inability to meet its financial obligations to the Company, a specific allowance
      for bad debts is estimated and recorded which reduces the recognized receivable
      to the estimated amount Trimble believes will ultimately be collected. In
      addition to specific customer identification of potential bad debts, bad debt
      charges are recorded based on the Company’s recent past loss history and an
      overall assessment of past due trade accounts receivable amounts outstanding.

Inventories

Inventories
      are
      stated at the lower of standard cost or market (net realizable value). Standard
      costs approximate actual costs, which are generally on a first-in, first-out
      basis. The Company uses a standard cost accounting system to value inventory
      and
      these standards are reviewed at a minimum of once a year and multiple times
      a
      year in the most active manufacturing plants. The Company provides inventory
      allowances based on excess and obsolete inventories determined primarily by
      future demand forecasts. If actual future demand or market conditions are less
      favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write-downs
      may be required.

Software
      Development Costs

The
      Company
      capitalizes material software development costs for internal use pursuant to
      Statement of Position No. 98-1, “Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software
      Developed or Obtained for Internal Use.”

Goodwill,
      Purchased Intangible Assets and Long-Lived Assets

Intangible
      assets
      include goodwill, distribution channels, patents, licenses, technology, acquired
      backlog and trademarks which are capitalized at cost. Intangible assets with
      definite lives are amortized on the straight-line basis. Useful lives generally
      range from three to seven years with weighted average useful life of 5.2 years.

If
      facts and
      circumstances indicate that intangible assets or property and equipment may
      be
      impaired, an evaluation of continuing value would be performed. If an evaluation
      is required, the estimated future undiscounted cash flows associated with these
      assets would be compared to their carrying amount to determine if a write-down
      to fair market value or discounted cash flow value is required. Trimble
      performed an annual impairment test of goodwill at the end of the third fiscal
      quarter of 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and found there was no impairment
      of goodwill. Trimble will continue to evaluate its goodwill for impairment
      on an
      annual basis at the end of each fiscal third quarter and whenever events and
      changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not be
      recoverable.

Revenue
      Recognition

Trimble’s
      revenues
      are recorded in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC)
      Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 104, “Revenue Recognition.” The Company
      recognizes product revenue when

Page

persuasive
      evidence
      of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or
      determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. In instances where
      final
      acceptance of the product is specified by the customer or is uncertain, revenue
      is deferred until all acceptance criteria have been met.

Contracts
      and
      customer purchase orders are typically used to determine the existence of an
      arrangement. Shipping documents and customer acceptance, when applicable, are
      used to verify delivery. The Company assesses whether the fee is fixed or
      determinable based on the payment terms associated with the transaction and
      whether the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment. The Company assesses
      collectibility based primarily on the creditworthiness of the customer as
      determined by credit checks and analysis, as well as the customer’s payment
      history.

Trimble’s
      shipment
      terms for US orders, and international orders fulfilled from its European
      distribution center are typically FCA (Free Carrier) shipping point, except
      certain sales to US government agencies which are shipped FOB destination.
      FCA
      shipping point means that Trimble fulfills the obligation to deliver when the
      goods are handed over, cleared for export, and into the charge of the carrier
      named by the buyer at the named place or point. If no precise point is indicated
      by the buyer, Trimble may choose within the place or range stipulated where
      the
      carrier will take the goods into carrier’s charge. Shipping and handling costs
      are included in the cost of goods sold.

Other
      international
      orders are shipped FOB destination, which means these international orders
      are
      not recognized as revenue until the product is delivered and title has
      transferred to the buyer or FCA shipping point. FOB destination means that
      Trimble bears all costs and risks of loss or damage to the goods up to that
      point.

Revenue
      to
      distributors and resellers is recognized upon delivery, assuming all other
      criteria for revenue recognition have been met. Distributors and resellers
      do
      not have a right of return.

Revenues
      from
      purchased extended warranty and support agreements are deferred and recognized
      ratably over the term of the warranty/support period.

In
      accordance with
      Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue 00-21, “Accounting for Revenue
      Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables,” when a sale involves multiple elements
      the entire fee from the arrangement is allocated to each respective element
      based on its relative fair value and recognized when revenue recognition
      criteria for each element are met.

Software
      revenue is
      recognized in accordance with Statement of Position (SOP) No. 97-2, “Software
      Revenue Recognition” and Statement of Position (SOP) No. 98-9, “Modification of
      SOP 97-2.” Trimble’s software arrangements generally consist of a perpetual
      license fee and post contract customer support (PCS). Trimble has established
      vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value for its PCS contracts
      based on the renewal rate. The remaining value of the software arrangement
      is
      allocated to the license fee using the residual method, which revenue is
      primarily recognized when the software has been delivered and there are no
      remaining obligations. Revenue from PCS is recognized ratably over the term
      of
      the PCS agreement.

A
      reserve for sales
      returns is established based on historical trends in product return rates
      experienced in the ordinary course of business. The reserve for estimated future
      returns is recorded as a reduction of our accounts receivable and revenue.
      If
      the actual returns were to deviate from the historical data on which the sales
      reserve had been established, the Company’s revenue could be adversely
      affected.

Warranty

The
      Company accrues
      for warranty costs as part of its cost of sales based on associated material
      product costs, technical support labor costs, and costs incurred by third
      parties performing work on Trimble’s behalf. The products sold are generally
      covered by a warranty for periods ranging from 90 days to three years, and
      in
      some instances up to 5.5 years.

While
      the Company
      engages in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively
      monitoring and evaluating the quality of component suppliers, its warranty
      obligation is affected by product failure rates, material usage, and service
      delivery costs incurred in correcting a product failure. Should actual product
      failure rates, material usage, or service delivery costs differ from the
      estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty accrual and related costs may
      be
      required.

Page

Changes
      in the
      Company’s product warranty liability during the 12 months ended December 30,
      2005 and December 31, 2004, are as follows:

Guarantees,
      Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others

In
      the normal course
      of business to facilitate sales of its products, the Company indemnifies other
      parties, including customers, lessors, and parties to other transactions with
      the Company, with respect to certain matters. The Company has agreed to hold
      the
      other party harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations
      or
      covenants, or out of intellectual property infringement or other claims made
      against certain parties. These agreements may limit the time within which an
      indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim. In addition,
      the
      Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its officers and
      directors, and the Company’s bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations
      to the Company’s agents.

It
      is not possible
      to determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements
      due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts
      and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments
      made by the Company under these agreements were not material and no liabilities
      have been recorded for these obligations on the Consolidated Balance Sheets
      as
      of December 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004.

Advertising
      Costs

The
      Company expenses
      all advertising costs as incurred. Advertising expenses were approximately
      $14.8
      million, $9.5 million, and $9.2 million in fiscal 2005, 2004, and 2003,
      respectively.

Research
      and
      Development Costs

Research
      and
      development costs are charged to expense as incurred. C

ost
      of software
      developed for external sale subsequent to reaching technical feasibility were
      not considered material and were expensed as incurred.

The
      Company received
      third party funding of approximately $9.0 million, $7.7 million, and $4.9
      million in fiscal 2005, 2004, and 2003 respectively. The Company offsets
      research and development expenses with any third party funding received. The
      Company retains the rights to any technology developed under such
      arrangements.

Stock-Based
      Compensation

In
      accordance with
      the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (“SFAS
      123”), "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" and “Statement of Financial
      Accounting Standards No. 148” (“SFAS 148”), “Accounting for Stock-Based
      Compensation - Transition and Disclosure,” Trimble applies Accounting Principles
      Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" (“APB 25”) and
      related interpretations in accounting for its stock-based compensation.
      Accordingly, the Company does not recognize compensation cost for stock options
      granted at fair market value. Note 15 of the Consolidated Financial Statements
      describe the plans operated by Trimble.

For
      purposes of pro
      forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of the options is amortized to
      expense over the options' vesting period, and the estimated fair value of
      purchases under the employee stock purchase plan is expensed in the year of
      purchase as well as the stock-based employee compensation cost, net of related
      tax effects, that would have been included in the determination of net income
      if
      the fair value based method had been applied to all awards.

Page

Pro
      forma
      information regarding net income and earnings per share is required by SFAS
      and has been determined as if Trimble had accounted for its employee stock
      options and purchases under the employee stock purchase plan using the fair
      value method of SFAS 123.

Options

For
      options granted
      prior to October 1, 2005, the fair value for these options was estimated at
      the
      date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. For stock options
      granted on or after October 1, 2005, the fair value of each award is
      estimated on the date of grant using a binomial valuation model. Similar to
      the
      Black-Scholes model, the binomial model takes into account variables such as
      volatility, dividend yield rate, and risk free interest rate. In
      addition,

the
      binomial model
      incorporates actual option-pricing behavior and changes in volatility over
      the
      option’s contractual term. For these reasons, Trimble believes that the binomial
      model provides a fair value that is more representative of actual experience
      and
      future expected experience than the value calculated using the Black-Scholes
      model.

Under
      the
      Black-Scholes and binomial models, the estimated values of employee stock
      options granted during fiscal years 2005, 2004, and 2003 were $14.53, $13.85,
      and $10.03, respectively. The value of each option grant is estimated on the
      date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and binomial model
      with the following assumptions:

An
      analysis of
      historical information is used to determine the Company’s assumptions, to the
      extent that historical information is relevant, based on the terms of the grants
      being issued in any given period. The expected life for options granted reflects
      options granted to existing employees that generally vest ratably over five
      years from the date of grant.

Page

Employee
      Stock
      Purchase Plan

Under
      the Employee
      Stock Purchase Plan, rights to purchase shares are granted during the second
      and
      fourth quarter of each year. The fair value of rights granted under the Employee
      Stock Purchase Plan was estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
      option-pricing model. The estimated weighted average value of rights granted
      under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan during fiscal years 2005, 2004, and
      were $9.88, $7.31, and $3.57 respectively. The fair value of rights granted
      during 2005, 2004, and 2003 was estimated at the date of grant using the
      following assumptions:

Trimble's
      pro forma
      information is as follows:

SFAS
      123 requires
      the use of option pricing models that were not developed for use in valuing
      employee stock options. The Black-Scholes option pricing model were developed
      for use in estimating the fair value of short-lived exchange-traded options
      that
      have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. In addition, the models
      require the input of highly subjective assumptions. Because the Company’s
      stock-based compensation has characteristics significantly different from those
      of traded options, and because changes in the subjective input assumptions
      can
      materially affect the fair value estimate, in the opinion of management, the
      existing models do not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the
      fair
      value of employee stock-based compensation.

Depreciation

Depreciation
      of
      property and equipment owned is computed using the straight-line method over
      the
      shorter of the estimated useful lives or the lease terms. Useful lives include
      a
      range from two to six years for machinery and equipment, five years for
      furniture and fixtures, two to five years for computer equipment and software,
      and the life of the lease for leasehold improvements.

The
      costs of repairs
      and maintenance are expensed when incurred, while expenditures for
      refurbishments and improvements that significantly add to the productive
      capacity or extend the useful life of an asset are capitalized.

Depreciation
      expense
      was $10.7 million in fiscal 2005, $8.9 million in fiscal 2004, and $8.9 million
      in fiscal 2003.

Page

Income
      Taxes

Income
      taxes are
      accounted for under the liability method whereby deferred tax asset or liability
      account balances are calculated at the balance sheet date using current tax
      laws
      and rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to affect
      taxable income. A valuation allowance is recorded to reduce the carrying amounts
      of deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that such assets will
      not
      be realized.

Computation
      of

Earnings
      Per
      Share

Number
      of shares
      used in calculation of basic earnings per share represents the weighted average
      common shares outstanding during the period and excludes any dilutive effects
      of
      options, warrants, and convertible securities. The dilutive effects of options,
      warrants, and convertible securities are included in diluted earnings per share.

New
      Accounting Standards

In
      May 2005, the
      FASB issued SFAS No. 154, "Accounting Changes and Error Corrections" ("SFAS
      154") which replaces Accounting Principles Board Opinions No. 20 "Accounting
      Changes" and SFAS No. 3, "Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial
      Statements-An Amendment of APB Opinion No. 28." SFAS 154 provides guidance
      on
      the accounting for and reporting of accounting changes and error corrections.
      It
      establishes retrospective application, or the latest practicable date, as the
      required method for reporting a change in accounting principle and the reporting
      of a correction of an error. SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and
      corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005
      and
      is required to be adopted by the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2006.
      The Company is currently evaluating the effect that the adoption of SFAS 154
      will have on its consolidated results of operations and financial condition
      but
      does not expect it to have a material impact.

In
      March 2005, the
      FASB issued FIN 47, "Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations,
      an
      interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143" ("FIN 47"). FIN 47 requires an entity
      to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement
      obligation when incurred if the liability's fair value can be reasonably
      estimated. FIN 47 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005.
      The Company was not impacted by the adoption of FIN 47 in fiscal
      2005.

In
      December 2004,
      the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment.” SFAS No. 123R requires
      employee stock options and rights to purchase shares under stock participation
      plans to be accounted for under the fair value method, and eliminates the
      ability to account for these instruments under the intrinsic value method
      prescribed by APB Opinion No. 25, and allowed under the original provisions
      of
      SFAS No. 123. SFAS No. 123R requires the use of an option pricing model for
      estimating fair value, which is amortized to expense over the service periods.

The
      requirements of SFAS No. 123R are effective for fiscal years beginning after
      June 15, 2005. SFAS No. 123R allows for either prospective recognition of
      compensation expense or retrospective recognition, which may be back to the
      original issuance of SFAS No. 123 or only to interim periods in the year of
      adoption. The Company will use the prospective method for future fiscal periods
      after the SFAS No. 123R effective date of 12/31/05. As a result, financial
      statements for fiscal periods after our SFAS No. 123R effective date will
      include stock-based compensation expenses that are not comparable to financial
      statements of fiscal periods prior to the SFAS No. 123R effective date. Due
      to
      constant fluctuations to the expected volatility, expected term, risk free
      interest rate, and expected forfeiture assumptions used in valuating stock-based
      compensation, expected stock-based compensation expense in future fiscal periods
      is not predictable.

Page

NOTE
      3:
      EARNINGS PER SHARE

The
      following data
      show the amounts used in computing earnings per share and the effect on the
      weighted-average number of shares of potentially dilutive common stock.

3-for-2
      Stock Split

Trimble’s
      Board of
      Directors approved a 3-for-2 split of all outstanding shares of the Company’s
      Common Stock, payable March 4, 2004 to stockholders of record on February 17,
      2004. Cash was paid in lieu of fractional shares. All shares and per share
      information presented has been adjusted to reflect the stock split on a
      retroactive basis for all periods presented.

NOTE
      4:
      BUSINESS COMBINATIONS

Acquisitions

The
      following is a
      summary of acquisitions made by Trimble during fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003 all
      of
      which were accounted for as purchases:

Page

The
      Consolidated
      Financial Statements include the operating results of each business from the
      date of acquisition. Pro forma results of operations have not been presented
      because the effects of each of these acquisitions were not material to the
      Company’s results.

The
      total purchase
      consideration for each of the above acquisitions was allocated to the assets
      acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values as of
      the
      date of acquisition. Acquisition costs directly related to the acquisitions
      are
      capitalized. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed for certain acquisitions
      in
      the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 were allocated based on preliminary estimates.
      Trimble is in the process of finalizing these estimates pending the completion
      of fair value assessments and asset appraisals on identified intangible assets.
      Final changes to the value of estimated intangible assets will also adjust
      the
      amounts attributable from goodwill.

At
      the date of each
      acquisition, the projects associated with in-process research and development
      (IPR&D) efforts had not yet reached technological feasibility and the
      research and development in process had no alternative future uses. Accordingly,
      the value assigned to these IPR&D amounts were charged to expense on the
      respective acquisition date of each of the acquired companies. Trimble recorded
      IPR&D expense of $1.1 million relating to acquisitions made in fiscal 2005.
      As mentioned above, Trimble is in the process of finalizing the acquisitions
      in
      the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, pending the completion of fair value
      assessments. Final changes to the estimated value of the IPR&D will also
      adjust the amounts attributable to goodwill. We did not record any IPR&D
      expense in fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003.

The
      following table summarizes the Company’s business combinations completed during
      fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003 (in thousands):

Page

Certain
      acquisitions
      include additional earn-out cash payments based on future revenue derived from
      existing products. These earn-out payments are considered additional purchase
      price consideration. Earn-out cash payments made for fiscal 2005, fiscal 2004
      and fiscal 2003 were $1.6 million, $1.2 million and $4.0 million respectively.
      Earn-outs and changes in purchase price allocation estimates were recorded
      as
      purchase price adjustments and goodwill adjustments. Acquisitions made by
      Trimble have additional potential earn-out cash payments not to exceed
      approximately $44.7 million.

Intangible
      Assets

The
      following tables present details of the Company’s total intangible assets:

Total
      intangibles
      assets before accumulated amortization increased by $17.8 million primarily
      due
      to $20.7 million increase in intangible assets purchased in connection with
      acquisitions in fiscal 2005 offset by $2.5 million in exchange rate impact
      on
      non-US currency denominated intangible assets. Accumulated amortization
      increased by $4.3 million primarily due to a $7.0 million increased in
      amortization expense partially offset by $2.2 million in exchange rate impact
      on
      non-US currency denominated intangible assets. .

The
      following table
      presents details of the amortization expense of purchased and other intangible
      assets as reported in the Consolidated Statements of Income:

The
      decrease in
      amortization expense is due to certain intangibles becoming fully amortized
      in
      the second quarter of fiscal 2005.

Page

The
      estimated future amortization expense of intangible assets as of December 30,
      2005, is as follows (in thousands):

Goodwill

Goodwill
      consisted
      of the following:

The
      net increase in
      goodwill of approximately $26.6 million during fiscal 2005 was primarily due
      to
      a $39.9 million increase in goodwill from acquisitions of Pacific Crest, Apache,
      MobileTech Solutions and APS and $1.9 million in earn-out amounts recorded
      fiscal 2005 related to the Apache, Mensi and Levelite acquisitions. This amount
      was offset by the foreign exchange rate impact of approximately $15.8 million
      on
      non-US currency denominated goodwill assets. See Note 7 of the Notes to the
      Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Trimble’s
      goodwill by operating segment.

NOTE
      5:
      JOINT VENTURE

Caterpillar
      Trimble Control Technologies Joint Venture

On
      April 1, 2002,
      Caterpillar Trimble Control Technologies LLC (“CTCT”), a joint venture formed by
      Trimble and Caterpillar began operations. The joint venture is 50% owned by
      Trimble and 50% owned by Caterpillar, with equal voting rights. The joint
      venture is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Under the equity
      method, Trimble’s share of profits and losses are included in expenses for
      affiliated operations, net in the non-operating income (expense), net section
      of
      the Consolidated Statements of Income. CTCT develops and markets advanced
      electronic guidance and control products for earth moving machines in the
      construction, mining and waste industries.

During
      fiscal 2002,
      Trimble received a special cash distribution of $11.0 million from CTCT. The
      distribution was recorded as a deferred gain and amortized to the extent that
      losses were attributable from CTCT under the equity method of accounting. Since
      the joint venture is now profitable on a sustainable basis, future operating
      losses are not anticipated and there are no future outstanding financial
      obligations by Trimble to the joint venture, Trimble recognized the unamortized
      portion of the gain or $9.2 million in fiscal 2005 as non operating
      income.

Trimble
      acts as a
      contract manufacturer for CTCT. Products are manufactured based on orders
      received from CTCT and are sold at cost plus a mark up to CTCT. CTCT resells
      products to both Caterpillar and Trimble for sales through their respective
      distribution channels. Generally, Trimble sells products to the after market
      dealer channel, and Caterpillar sells products for factory and dealer
      installation. CTCT does not hold inventory in that the resale of

Page

products
      to
      Caterpillar and Trimble occur simultaneously when the products are purchased
      from the subcontract manufacturer in Trimble.

The
      net expenses for
      affiliated operations at CTCT also includes incremental costs as a result of
      purchasing products from CTCT at a higher price than Trimble's original
      manufacturing costs, partially offset by contract manufacturing fees charged
      to
      CTCT. In addition, Trimble received reimbursement of employee-related costs
      from
      CTCT for Trimble employees dedicated to CTCT totaling $9.7 million for both
      fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 and $7.9 million for fiscal 2003. The reimbursements
      were offset against operating expenses.

The
      net outstanding
      balance due from CTCT was $0.2 million at

December
      30, 2005
      and $0.7 million at December 31, 2004 and is included in account receivables,
      net on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Nikon-Trimble
      Joint Venture

On
      March 28, 2003,
      Nikon-Trimble Co., Ltd (“Nikon-Trimble”), a joint venture was formed by Trimble
      and Nikon Corporation. The joint venture began operations in July 2003 and
      is
      50% owned by Trimble and 50% owned by Nikon, with equal voting rights. It
      focuses on the design and manufacture of surveying instruments including
      mechanical total stations and related products.

Nikon-Trimble
      is the
      distributor in Japan for Nikon and Trimble products. Trimble is the exclusive
      distributor outside of Japan for Nikon branded survey products. For products
      sold from Trimble to the Nikon-Trimble, revenue is recognized by Trimble on
      a
      sell-through basis from Nikon-Trimble to the end customer. Profits from these
      inter-company sales are eliminated.

The
      terms and
      conditions of the sales of products from Trimble to Nikon-Trimble are comparable
      with those of the standard distribution agreements which Trimble maintains
      with
      its dealer channel and margins earned are similar to those from third party
      dealers. Similarly, the purchases of product by Trimble from the Nikon-Trimble
      are made on terms comparable with the arrangements which Nikon maintained with
      its international distribution channel prior to the formation of the joint
      venture with Trimble.

Trimble
      uses the
      equity method of accounting for its investment in Nikon-Trimble, with 50% share
      of profit or loss from this joint venture reported by Trimble in the
      Consolidated Statements of Income under the heading of expenses for affiliated
      operations, net. Trimble reported a loss of approximately $36,000 and a profit
      of $1.1 million for fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, respectively, as its
      proportionate share of the net income.

At
      December 30,
      2005, the net payable by Trimble to Nikon-Trimble related to the purchase and
      sale of products from and to Nikon-Trimble is $2.0 million and was included
      in
      accounts payable on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. In addition, Trimble
      received reimbursement of employee-related costs from Nikon-Trimble for one
      Trimble employee dedicated to Nikon-Trimble totaling $0.4 million for fiscal
      2005. The reimbursements were offset against operating expenses. The carrying
      amount of the investment was approximately $12.9 million at December 30, 2005
      and $13.5 million at December 31, 2004.

Page

NOTE

6:
      CERTAIN
      BALANCE SHEET COMPONENTS

The
      following tables provide details of selected balance sheet items (in thousands):

During
      the year,
      accumulated depreciation decreased by $8.4 million due to the write-off of
      fully
      depreciated assets and disposals in the amount of $16.2 million and the foreign
      exchange rate impact of $2.6 million offset by $10.7 million in depreciation
      expense.

Other
      non-current
      liabilities include deferred rent as a result of the new Sunnyvale lease
      executed in fiscal 2005.

NOTE
      7:
      REPORTING SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

To
      achieve
      distribution, marketing, production, and technology advantages in Trimble's
      targeted markets, the Company manages its operations in the following five
      segments:

·

Engineering
                and Construction — Consists of products currently used by survey and
                construction professionals in the field for positioning data collection,
                field computing, data management, and automated machine guidance
                and
                control. These products provide solutions for numerous construction
                applications including surveying, general construction, site preparation
                and excavation, road and runway construction, and underground
                construction. During fiscal 2005 the Company acquired

Apache
                and
                Pacific Crest and their

performances
                are reported in this business
                segment.

·

Field
                Solutions — Consists of products that provide solutions in a variety of
                agriculture and fixed asset applications, primarily in the areas
                of
                precise land leveling, machine guidance, yield monitoring, variable-rate
                applications of fertilizers and chemicals, and fixed asset data collection
                for a variety of governmental and private entities. This segment
                is an
                aggregation of the mapping and geographic information systems (GIS)
                and
                agriculture businesses. Trimble has aggregated these business operations
                under a single general manager in order to continue to leverage its
                research and development activities due to the similarities of products
                across the segment.

Page

·

Component
                Technologies — Consists of products including proprietary chipsets,
                printed circuit boards, modules, and licenses of intellectual property.
                The applications into which end users currently incorporate the component
                products include timing applications for synchronizing wireless networks,
                in-vehicle navigation and telematics systems, fleet management, security
                systems, data collection networks, and wireless handheld consumer
                products.

·

Mobile
                Solutions — Consists of products that enable end users to monitor and
                manage their mobile assets by communicating location and activity-relevant
                information from the field to the office. Trimble offers a range
                of
                products that address a number of sectors of this market including
                truck
                fleets, security, telematics, and public safety vehicles. During
                fiscal
                2005 the Company acquired MobileTech Solutions and Advanced Public
                Safety
                and their performances are reported in this business
                segment.

·

Portfolio
                Technologies — The various operations that comprise this segment were
                aggregated on the basis that no single operation accounted for more
                than
                10% of Trimble’s total revenue. The operations in this segment are
                Applanix, Military and Advanced Systems (MAS) and Trimble Outdoors.

Trimble
      evaluates
      each of its segment's performance and allocates resources based on profit and
      loss from operations before income taxes, and some corporate allocations.
      Trimble and each of its segments employ the same accounting policies.

Page

The
      following table
      presents revenues, operating income (loss), and identifiable assets for the
      five
      segments.

Operating
      income
      (loss) is net revenue less operating expenses, excluding general corporate
      expenses, amortization, restructuring charges, non-operating income (expense),
      and income taxes. The identifiable assets that Trimble's chief operating
      decision maker views by segment are accounts receivable and inventory.

December
                30,

December
                31,

January
                2,

Fiscal
                Years
                Ended




(in
                thousands)

Engineering
                & Construction

Revenue

$
                524,461

$
                440,478

$
                367,058

Operating
                income before corporate allocations

117,993

79,505

60,664

Accounts
                receivable

105,980

90,743

84,897

Inventories

80,590

65,116

56,008

Goodwill

229,176

238,801

229,287

Field
                Solutions

Revenue

127,843

105,591

79,879

Operating
                income before corporate allocations

32,527

25,151

14,500

Accounts
                receivable

21,823

19,141

16,589

Inventories

11,790

7,016

3,398

Goodwill

-

-

-

Component
                Technologies

Revenue

53,902

65,522

64,193

Operating
                income before corporate allocations

8,034

13,880

16,560

Accounts
                receivable

6,283

9,377

10,003

Inventories

7,154

5,271

2,021

Goodwill

-

-

-

Mobile
                Solutions

Revenue

31,481

23,531

12,981

Operating
                loss
                before corporate allocations

(3,072)

(5,997)

(6,452)

Accounts
                receivable

10,789

9,073

4,103

Inventories

1,983

5,735

3,038

Goodwill

44,118

7,660

-

Portfolio
                Technologies

Revenue

37,226

33,686

16,792

Operating
                income (loss) before corporate allocations

5,178

4,866

(1,686)

Accounts
                receivable

7,750

8,283

7,321

Inventories

6,334

4,607

6,361

Goodwill

12,852

13,061

12,138

Total

Revenue

$
                774,913

$
                668,808

$
                540,903

Operating
                income before corporate allocations

160,660

117,405

83,586

Accounts
                receivable

(1)

152,625

136,617

122,913

Inventories

107,851

87,745

70,826

Goodwill

286,146

259,522

241,425

(1)
      As presented, accounts receivable represents trade receivables, gross, which
      are
      specified between segments.

Page

The
      following are reconciliations corresponding to totals in the accompanying
      Consolidated Financial Statements:

(1)
      Includes
      trade-related accruals and cash received in advance that are not allocated
      by
      segment.

The
      distribution of
      Trimble’s gross consolidated revenue by segment is summarized in the table
      below. Gross consolidated revenue includes external and internal sales. Total
      external consolidated revenue is reported net of eliminations of internal sales
      between segments.

Page

The
      geographic
      distribution of Trimble’s revenues and identifiable assets is summarized in the
      table below. Other foreign countries include Canada, and countries in South
      and
      Central America, the Middle East, Africa, and the Pacific Rim. Identifiable
      assets indicated in the table below exclude inter-company receivables,
      investments in subsidiaries, goodwill, and intangibles assets.

Geographic
                Area

Other

Non-US

Fiscal
                Years
                Ended

US

Europe

Asia
                Pacific

Countries

Eliminations

Total

(In
                thousands)

December
                30,

Sales
                to
                unaffiliated customers

(1)

$

415,443

$

191,734

$

88,315

$

79,421

$

-

$

774,913

Inter-geographic
                transfers

222,909

175,739

1,198

1,661

(401,507)

-

Total
                revenue

$

638,352

$

367,473

$

89,513

$

81,082

$

(401,507)

$

774,913

Identifiable
                assets

$

295,196

$

120,582

$

4,602

$

9,251

$

-

$

429,631

December
                31,

Sales
                to
                unaffiliated customers

(1)

$

331,607

$

186,197

$

86,117

$

64,886

$

-

$

668,808

Inter-geographic
                transfers

149,499

138,159

3,479

2,640

(293,777)

-

Total
                revenue

$

481,106

$

324,356

$

89,596

$

67,527

$

(293,777)

$

668,808

Identifiable
                assets

$

242,141

$

118,194

$

6,959

$

13,286

$

-

$

380,580

January
                2,

Sales
                to
                unaffiliated customers

(1)

$

265,846

$

160,094

$

70,257

$

44,706

$

-

$

540,903

Inter-geographic
                transfers

112,623

116,185

3,755

-

(232,563)

-

Total
                revenue

$

378,469

$

276,279

$

74,012

$

44,706

$

(232,563)

$

540,903

(1)
      Sales attributed to countries based on the location of the
      customer.

Transfers
      between US
      and non-US geographic areas are made at prices based on total costs and
      contributions of the supplying geographic area. The Company's subsidiaries
      in
      Asia have derived revenue from commissions from US operations in each of the
      periods presented. These commission revenues and expenses are excluded from
      total revenue and operating income (loss) in the preceding table. Other than
      the
      United States, no other country comprised more than 10% of sales to unaffiliated
      customers for any periods presented, except as disclosed above.

Revenues
      by product
      groups are not practicable to obtain and therefore are not presented.

No
      single customer
      accounted for 10% or more of Trimble's total revenues in fiscal years 2005,
      2004, and 2003.

NOTE

:
      RESTRUCTURING CHARGES

Restructuring
      charges of $0.3 million, $0.6 million, and $2.0 million were recorded in fiscal
      years 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The charges in fiscal 2005 were
      primarily related to office closure costs due to integration efforts of the
      Mensi acquisition. The charges in fiscal 2004 were primarily related to
      severance costs due to the realignment of Trimble Mobile Solutions Inc. while
      charges in fiscal 2003 were primarily related to our Japanese office relocation
      due to the Nikon-Trimble joint venture formation. As a result of these actions,
      the headcount of the affected operations decreased by 36 and 77 in fiscal 2004,
      and 2003, respectively. As of December 30, 2005, the remaining accrual balance
      of $0.3 million is related to facilities closure expected to be paid over the
      next several years. The restructuring accrual is included in the Condensed
      Consolidated Balance Sheets under the heading of “Accrued Liabilities”.

Page

NOTE

:
      LONG-TERM
      DEBT

Long-term
      debt
      consisted of the following:

The
      following summarizes the future cash payment obligations (excluding interest)
      as
      of December 30, 2005:

Credit
      Facilities

On
      July 28, 2005,
      the Company entered into a $200 million unsecured revolving credit agreement
      (“2005 Credit Facility”) with a syndicate of 10 banks with The Bank of Nova
      Scotia as the administrative agent. The 2005 Credit Facility replaces the
      Company’s $175 million secured 2003 Credit Facility. The funds available under
      the new 2005 Credit Facility may be used by the Company for general corporate
      purposes and up to $25 million of the 2005 Credit Facility may be used for
      letters of credit.

The
      Company may
      borrow funds under the 2005 Credit Facility in U.S. Dollars or in certain other
      currencies, and will bear interest, at the Company's option, at either: (i)
      a
      base rate, based on the administrative agent's prime rate, plus a margin of
      between 0% and 0.125%, depending on the Company's leverage ratio as of its
      most
      recently ended fiscal quarter, or (ii) a reserve-adjusted rate based on LIBOR,
      EURIBOR, STIBOR or other agreed-upon rate, depending on the currency borrowed,
      plus a margin of between 0.625% and 1.125%, depending on the Company's leverage
      ratio as of the most recently ended fiscal quarter. The Company's obligations
      under the 2005 Credit Facility are guaranteed by certain of the Company's
      domestic subsidiaries.

The
      2005 Credit
      Facility contains customary affirmative, negative and financial covenants
      including, among other requirements, negative covenants that restrict the
      Company's ability to dispose of assets, create liens, incur indebtedness,
      repurchase stock, pay dividends, make acquisitions, make investments, enter
      into
      mergers and consolidations and make capital expenditures, and financial
      covenants that require the maintenance of leverage and fixed charge coverage
      ratios. The 2005 Credit Facility contains events of default that include, among
      others, non-payment of principal, interest or fees, breach of covenants,
      inaccuracy of representations and warranties, cross defaults to certain other
      indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency events, material judgments, and events
      constituting a change of control. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance
      of an event of default, interest on the obligations will accrue at an increased
      rate and the lenders may accelerate the Company's obligations under the 2005
      Credit Facility, however that acceleration will be automatic in the case of
      bankruptcy and insolvency events of default. Trimble incurs a commitment fee
      if
      the 2005 Credit Facility is not used. The commitment fee is not material to
      the
      Company’s results during all periods presented.

At
      December 30,
      2005, the Company has a zero balance outstanding and was in compliance with
      all
      financial debt covenants.

Page

Promissory
      Note

As
      of December 30,
      2005, the Company had other notes payable totaling approximately $0.6 million
      consisting of government loans to foreign subsidiaries.

NOTE

:
      COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Operating
      Leases

On
      May 13, 2005, Trimble entered into a lease agreement for the lease of real
      property located in Sunnyvale, California. The lease agreement has a seven
      year
      term, commencing January 1, 2006 and ending December 31, 2012.

Trimble's
      principal
      facilities in the United States are leased under various cancelable and
      non-cancelable operating leases that expire at various dates through 2012.

For
      tenant improvement allowances and rent holidays, Trimble records a deferred
      rent
      liability on the consolidated balance sheets and amortizes the deferred rent
      over the terms of the leases as reductions to rent expense on the consolidated
      statements of income.

The
      Company has
      options to renew certain of these leases for an additional five years.

Future
      minimum
      payments required under non-cancelable operating leases are as follows:

Net
      rent expense
      under operating leases was $12.6 million in fiscal 2005, $10.9 million in fiscal
      2004, and $13.2 million in fiscal 2003. Sublease income was $39,000, $38,000,
      and $1.7 million for fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Purchase
      Commitments with a Supplier

Trimble
      entered into
      a significant supply agreement in fiscal 2004 that sets forth minimum purchase
      commitments for outsourced services. The term of the supply agreement is the
      earlier of four years from the initial product ship date, or when Trimble has
      paid for a cumulative total of 200,000 billable hours (approximately $10.4
      million). Should Trimble not purchase and pay for 200,000 hours, then Trimble
      will compensate the supplier for 20% of the shortfall. Thereafter, the contract
      continues in effect until terminated by either party with 30 days prior written
      notice to the other party. As of December 30, 2005, based on current hours
      earned to date the future obligation is approximately $3.1 million which is
      expected to be paid over the next year. Trimble does not expect a shortfall
      based on current hours earned to date.

Page

NOTE

:
      FAIR VALUE
      OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The
      estimated fair
      values of financial instruments outstanding are as follows:

The
      fair value of
      the bank borrowings, and promissory notes have been estimated using an estimate
      of the interest rate Trimble would have had to pay on the issuance of notes
      with
      a similar maturity and discounting the cash flows at that rate. The fair values
      do not give an indication of the amount that Trimble would currently have to
      pay
      to extinguish any of this debt.

The
      fair value of
      forward foreign exchange contracts is estimated based on the difference between
      the market price and the carrying amount of comparable contracts. These
      contracts are adjusted to fair value at the end of every month

.

NOTE
      12:
      INCOME TAXES

Trimble's
      income tax
      provision (benefit) consisted of the following:

The
      pre-tax US
      income was approximately $99.5 million, $70.0 million and $39.5 million in
      fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  The pre-tax non-US income
      (loss) was approximately $25.3 million, $4.9 million and ($3.9) million in
      fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

The
      fiscal year 2005
      and 2004 tax provisions reflected above were reduced by $14.5 million and $14.4
      million of tax benefits, respectively attributable to stock option deductions
      which were credited to equity.

Page

The
      income tax
      provision (benefit) differs from the amount computed by applying the statutory
      US federal income tax rate to income before taxes. The sources and tax effects
      of the differences are as follows:

December
                31,

December
                31,

January
                2,

Fiscal
                Years
                Ended




(In
                thousands)

Expected
                tax
                from continuing operations at 35% in all years

$

43,677

$

26,223

$

12,455

Change
                in
                valuation allowance

(24,004)

(15,028)

US
                State
                income taxes


1,299

-

Export
                sales
                incentives

(2,316)

(1,176)

-

Non-US
                tax
                rate differential and unbenefitted losses

3,684

5,134

-

US
                Federal
                research and development credit

(895)

(508)

-

Benefit
                from
                repatriation legislation

(6,445)

Other

1,479


(327)

Income
                tax
                provision (benefit)

$

39,933

$

7,244

$

(2,900)

Effective
                tax
                rate

32%

10%

(8%)

The
      components of deferred taxes consist of the following:

December
                30,

December
                31,

January
                2,

As
                of




(In
                thousands)

Deferred
                tax
                liabilities:

Purchased
                intangibles

$

11,058

$

3,247

$

1,338

Depreciation
                and amortization

11,711

10,183

3,776

Other
                individually immaterial items

1,516



Total
                deferred
                tax liabilities

24,285

13,659

5,365

Deferred
                tax
                assets:

Inventory
                valuation differences

8,983

8,782

9,001

Expenses
                not
                currently deductible

6,233

8,034

5,528

US
                Federal
                credit carryforwards

5,619

9,150

Deferred
                revenue


3,857

4,280

US
                State
                credit carryforwards

8,530

6,722

6,999

Warranty

2,361

2,216

2,374


2,871

US
                Federal net
                operating loss carryforward

2,669

2,998

-

Net
                foreign
                tax credits on undistributed foreign earnings

5,743

2,682

-

Other
                individually immaterial items

7,452

7,655

3,106

Total
                deferred
                tax assets

42,535

48,565

43,309

Valuation
                allowance

(5,855)

(12,989)

(34,756)

Total
                deferred
                tax assets

36,680

35,576

8,553

Total
                net
                deferred tax assets

$

12,395

$

21,917

$

3,188

The
      Company has $2.7
      million of tax effected US federal net operating loss carryforwards from an
      acquisition, which is subject to certain limitations under IRC Section 382.
      The
      Company has state research and development credit carryforwards of approximately
      $13.1 million, which do not expire.

Page

The
      valuation
      allowance decreased by $7.1 million in fiscal 2005, $21.8 million in fiscal
      and $13.1 million in fiscal 2003. Approximately, $1.2
      million, $8.0 million and $14.1 million of the valuation allowance at
      December 30, 2005, December 31, 2004 and January 2, 2004 respectively
      relate to the tax benefit of stock option deduction, which will be credited
      to
      equity if and when realized.

Repatriation
      of
      foreign earnings. The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act) provides
      for
      a special one-time elective dividends received deduction on the repatriation
      of
      certain foreign earnings to a U.S. taxpayer equal to 85% of the eligible
      distribution. During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company repatriated $39.5
      million, of which $24 million qualified for the special one-time elective
      dividends received deduction and $15.5 million constituted earnings that do
      not
      qualify under the Act; previously taxed income and return of capital. The
      company recorded a $6.4 million tax benefit from these foreign
      earnings.

NOTE

13:
      COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

The
      components of comprehensive income and related tax effects were as follows:

The
      components of accumulated other comprehensive, net of related tax were as
      follows:

NOTE
      14:
      EMPLOYEE STOCK BENEFIT PLANS

Employee
      Stock Purchase Plan

The
      Company has an
      Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“Purchase Plan”) under which an aggregate of
      5,325,000 shares of Common Stock have been reserved for sale to eligible
      employees as approved by the shareholders to date. The plan permits full-time
      employees to purchase Common Stock through payroll deductions at 85% of the
      lower of the fair market value of the Common Stock at the beginning or at the
      end of each six-month offering period. The Purchase Plan terminates on December
      31, 2008. In fiscal 2005 and 2004, the shares issued under the Purchase Plan
      were 179,999 and 183,214 shares, respectively. At December 30, 2005, the number
      of shares reserved for future purchases by eligible employees was 367,836.

Restricted
      Stock Award

During
      the second
      quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company granted 20,000 shares of restricted common
      stock. The award vests 20% on June 30, 2005 and an additional 20% each June
      thereafter. The Company recorded compensation expense of $120,000 for fiscal
      2005. Trimble did not grant any restricted stock in fiscal 2004 and fiscal
      2003.

Page

      Stock
      Plan

In
      2002, Trimble’s
      Board of Directors adopted the 2002 Stock Plan (“2002 Plan”). The 2002 Plan
      approved by the shareholders provides for the granting of incentive and
      non-statutory stock options for up to 4,500,000 shares plus any shares currently
      reserved but un-issued to employees, consultants, and directors of Trimble.
      Incentive stock options may be granted at exercise prices that are not less
      than
      100% of the fair market value of Common Stock on the date of grant. Employee
      stock options granted under the 2002 Plan have 120-month terms, and vest at
      a
      rate of 20% at the first anniversary of grant, and monthly thereafter at an
      annual rate of 20%, with full vesting occurring at the fifth anniversary of
      the
      grant. The exercise price of non-statutory stock options issued under the 2002
      Plan must be at least 85% of the fair market value of Common Stock on the date
      of grant. As of December 30, 2005, options to purchase 3,641,850 shares were
      outstanding and 1,509,230 were available for future grant under the 2002 Plan.

      Stock
      Option Plan

In
      1992, Trimble's
      Board of Directors adopted the 1993 Stock Option Plan (“1993 Plan”). The 1993
      Plan, as amended to date and approved by shareholders, provided for the granting
      of incentive and non-statutory stock options for up to 9,562,500 shares of
      Common Stock to employees, consultants, and directors of Trimble. Incentive
      stock options may be granted at exercise prices that are not less than 100%
      of
      the fair market value of Common Stock on the date of grant. Employee stock
      options granted under the 1993 Plan have 120-month terms, and vest at a rate
      of
      20% at the first anniversary of grant, and monthly thereafter at an annual
      rate
      of 20%, with full vesting occurring at the fifth anniversary of grant. The
      exercise price of non-statutory stock options issued under the 1993 Plan must
      be
      at least 85% of the fair market value of Common Stock on the date of grant.
      As
      of December 30, 2005 options to purchase 2,364,495 shares were outstanding
      and
      no shares were available for future grant.

      Management Discount Stock Option Plan

In
      1992, Trimble's
      Board of Directors approved the 1992 Management Discount Stock Option Plan
      ("Discount Plan"). As of December 30, 2005, options to purchase 187,500 shares
      were outstanding and no shares were available for future grant under the 1992
      Management Discount Stock Option Plan.

      Director Stock Option Plan

In
      December 1990,
      Trimble adopted a Director Stock Option Plan under which an aggregate of 570,000
      shares of Common Stock have been reserved for issuance to non-employee directors
      as approved by the shareholders to date. At December 30, 2005, options to
      purchase 220,000 shares were outstanding, and no shares were available for
      future grants under the Director Stock Option Plan.

SFAS
      Disclosures

As
      stated in Note 2
      of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Trimble has elected
      to
      follow APB 25 and related interpretations in accounting for its employee stock
      options and stock purchase plans. The alternative fair value accounting provided
      for under SFAS 123 requires use of option pricing models that were not developed
      for use in valuing employee stock options. Under APB 25, because the exercise
      price of Trimble's employee stock options equals the market price of the
      underlying stock on date of grant, no compensation expense is recognized.

Page

Exercise
      prices for
      options outstanding as of December 30, 2005, ranged from $5.33 to $43.43. The
      weighted average remaining contractual life of those options is 6.46 years.
      In
      view of the wide range of exercise prices, Trimble considers it appropriate
      to
      provide the following additional information with respect to options outstanding
      at December 30, 2005:

Activity
      during
      fiscal 2005, 2004, and 2003, under the combined plans was as follows:

Non-statutory
      Options

On
      May 3, 1999,
      Trimble entered into an agreement to grant a non-statutory option to purchase
      up
      to 45,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $6.50 per share, with
      an expiration date of March 29, 2004. These non-statutory options were exercised
      January 15, 2004.

Page

Warrants

On
      April 12, 2002,
      the Company issued to Spectra-Physics Holdings USA, Inc., a warrant to purchase
      up to 564,350 shares of Trimble’s Common Stock over a fixed period of time.
      Initially, Spectra-Physics’ warrant entitled it to purchase 300,000 shares of
      Common Stock over a five-year period at an exercise price of $10.07 per share.
      On a quarterly basis beginning July 14, 2002, Spectra-Physics’ warrant became
      exercisable for an additional 375 shares of Common Stock for every $1 million
      of
      principal and interest outstanding to Spectra-Physics until the obligation
      was
      paid off in full. These shares are purchasable at a price equal to the average
      of Trimble’s closing price for the five days immediately proceeding the last
      trading day of each quarter. On July 14, 2002 an additional 26,046 shares became
      exercisable at an exercise price of $9.64 per share. On October 14, 2002 an
      additional 26,736 shares became exercisable at an exercise price of $6.12.
      On
      January 14, 2003, an additional 27,426 shares became exercisable at an exercise
      price of $9.03. On April 14, 2003, an additional 14,312 shares became
      exercisable at an exercise price of $13.37. The additional shares are
      exercisable over a 5-year period. No additional shares will be issuable under
      the warrant as the underlying obligation has been paid off in full.

The
      approximate fair
      value of the warrants of $2.4 million was determined using the Black-Scholes
      pricing model with the following assumptions: contractual life of 5-year period,
      risk-free interest rate of 4%; volatility of 65%; and no dividends during the
      contractual term. The value of the warrants was being amortized to interest
      expense over the term of the Subordinated Note and the unamortized balance
      was
      written off to interest expense on June 2003 upon repayment of the
      note.

On
      December 21, 2001
      and January 15, 2002, in connection with the first and second closing of the
      private placement of the Company’s Common Stock, Trimble granted five-year
      warrants to purchase an additional 919,008 shares of Common Stock, subject
      to
      certain adjustments, at an exercise price of $12.97 per share.

NOTE
      15:
      BENEFIT PLANS

401(k)
      Plan

Under
      Trimble's
      401(k) Plan, US employee participants (including employees of certain
      subsidiaries) may direct the investment of contributions to their accounts
      among
      certain mutual funds and the Trimble Navigation Limited Common Stock Fund.
      The
      Trimble Fund sold net 42,945 shares of Common Stock for an aggregate of $1.6
      million in fiscal 2005. Trimble, at its discretion, matches individual employee
      401(k) Plan contributions at a rate of fifty cents of every dollar that the
      employee contributes to the 401(k) Plan up to 5% of the employee’s annual salary
      to an annual maximum of $2,500. Trimble's matching contributions to the 401(k)
      Plan were $2.2 million in fiscal 2005, $1.9 million in fiscal 2004 and $1.8
      million in fiscal 2003.

Profit-Sharing
      Plan

In
      1995, Trimble
      introduced an employee profit-sharing plan in which all employees, excluding
      executives and certain levels of management, participate. The plan distributes
      to employees approximately 5% of quarterly adjusted pre-tax income. Payments
      under the plan during fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $5.9 million, $4.4
      million, and $2.5 million, respectively.

Defined
      Contribution Pension Plans

Certain
      of the
      Company’s European subsidiaries participate in state sponsored pension plans.
      Contributions are based on specified percentages of employee salaries. For
      these
      plans, Trimble contributed and charged to expense approximately $0.6 million
      for
      fiscal 2005, $0.6 million for fiscal 2004, and $2.0 million for fiscal 2003.

Defined
      Benefit Pension Plan

Trimble
      provides
      defined benefit pension plans in certain countries outside the United States,
      including Sweden and Germany. The largest of these plans is provided by the
      Swedish subsidiary which has an unfunded defined benefit pension plan that
      covered substantially all of its full-time employees through 1993. Benefits
      are
      based on a percentage of eligible earnings. The employee must have had a
      projected period of pensionable service of at least 30 years as of 1993. If
      the
      period was shorter, the pension benefits were reduced accordingly. Active
      employees do not accrue any future benefits; therefore, there is no service
      cost
      and the liability will only increase for interest cost.

Page

Net
      periodic benefit
      costs in fiscal 2005, 2004, and 2003 were not material.

The
      changes in the
      benefit obligations and plan assets of the significant non-US defined benefit
      pension plans for fiscal 2005 and 2004 were as follows:

Actuarial
      assumptions used to determine the net periodic pension costs for the year ended
      December 30, 2005 were as follows:

Trimble’s
      accumulated benefits obligation was $7.0 million and $7.3 million for fiscal
      2005 and fiscal 2004 respectively.

Trimble’s
      plan
      assets are primarily located in our German subsidiaries. For fiscal 2005 and
      fiscal 2004, the asset allocation of our total plan assets was approximately
      as
      follows: 89% local government bonds, 7% real estate and 4% equity securities.
      Long-term asset allocation and expected return on assets assumptions are derived
      from detailed annual studies conducted by Trimble’s asset management group and
      actuaries. Trimble’s asset management group limits allocation to equity
      securities and real estate to a maximum of 10% and 25%, respectively, with
      the
      remaining assets to be allocated to local government bonds. While the asset
      allocation give appropriate consideration to recent performance and historical
      returns, the strategy is focused primarily on conservative and sustainable
      long-term returns. Based on historical returns, Trimble expects future return
      on
      assets to be approximately 4%.

Trimble
      expects to
      contribute approximately $300,000 to plan assets in fiscal year ended
      2006.

Page

The
      following benefit payments, which reflect estimated future employee service,
      as
      appropriate, are expected to be paid:

NOTE

6:
      RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS

Related-Party
      Lease

Trimble
      currently
      leases office space in Ohio from an association of three individuals, one of
      whom is an employee of the Company, under a non-cancelable operating lease
      arrangement expiring in 2011. The annual rent is subject to adjustment based
      on
      the terms of the lease. The Consolidated Statements of Income include expenses
      from this operating lease of $350,000 for fiscal years 2005, 2004, and
      2003.

As
      part of the
      Apache Technologies, Inc. acquisition in the second quarter of fiscal 2005,
      Trimble currently leases an office, manufacturing facility and equipment from
      a
      group of individuals, all of whom are now employees of the Company, under a
      non-cancelable operating lease expiring in January 2013. The Consolidated
      Statements of Income include expenses for this operating lease of approximately
      $148,000 for fiscal year 2005.

These
      related-party
      leases were entered into at rates that were similar to comparable market
      rates.

Related-Party
      Notes Receivable

Trimble
      has notes
      receivable from employees of approximately $0.1 million as of December 30,
      and $0.4 million as of December 31, 2004. The notes bear interest from 4.52%
      to
      6.62% and have an average remaining life of 0.3 years as of December 30, 2005.

See
      Note 5 to the
      Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information
      regarding Trimble’s related party transactions with joint venture
      partners.

NOTE

7:
      STATEMENT
      OF CASH FLOW DATA

Page

NOTE

8:
      LITIGATION

From
      time to time,
      the Company is involved in litigation arising out of the ordinary course of
      its
      business. There are no known claims or pending litigation expected to have
      a
      material effect on the Company’s overall financial position, results of
      operations, or liquidity.

NOTE
      19:
      SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

Significant
      quarterly items for fiscal 2005 include the following: (i) in the first quarter
      of 2005 a $0.2 million charge, or less than $0.01 per diluted share relating
      to
      facilities closure; (ii) in the third quarter of 2005 a $0.9 million charge,
      or
      $0.02 per diluted share relating to a write-off of debt issuance costs; (iii)
      in
      the fourth quarter of 2005 a $1.1 million charge, or $0.02 per diluted share
      relating to in-process research and development and $9.2 million or $0.16 per
      diluted share related to deferred gain on joint venture.

Significant
      quarterly items for fiscal 2004 include the following: (i) in the second quarter
      of 2004 a $1.2 million income, or $0.03 per diluted share relating to valuation
      of investment; (ii) in the third quarter of 2004 a $0.2 million income, or
      less
      than $0.01 per diluted share relating to revaluation of investment; (iii) in
      the
      fourth quarter of 2004 a $0.4 million charge, or less than $0.01 per diluted
      share relating to revaluation of investment.

Page

Report
      of
      Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The
      Board of
      Directors and Shareholders of Trimble Navigation Limited

We
      have audited the
      accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Trimble Navigation Limited as of
      December 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004, and the related consolidated statements
      of income, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years
      in
      the period ended December 30, 2005. Our audits also included the financial
      statement schedule listed in the index at Item 15(a)(2). These financial
      statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management.
      Our
      responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
      schedule based on our audits.

We
      conducted our
      audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
      Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
      perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
      statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining,
      on a
      test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
      statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used
      and
      significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
      financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
      reasonable basis for our opinion.

In
      our opinion, the
      financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects,
      the consolidated financial position of Trimble Navigation Limited at December
      30, 2005 and December 31, 2004, and the consolidated results of its operations
      and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
      30,
      2005, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also,
      in
      our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in
      relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
      presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth
      therein.

We
      also have
      audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
      Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Trimble Navigation
      Limited’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 30, 2005,
      based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued
      by
      the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our
      report dated March 8,

2006,
      expressed an
      unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/
      Ernst &
Young LLP

Palo
      Alto,
      California

March
      8,

Page

Report
      of
      Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The
      Board of
      Directors and Shareholders of Trimble Navigation Limited

We
      have audited
      management’s assessment, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on
      Internal Control Over Financial Reporting at Item 9A, that Trimble Navigation
      Limited maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of
      December 30, 2005, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated
      Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
      Commission (the COSO criteria). Trimble Navigation Limited’s management is
      responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
      and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
      reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s
      assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control
      over financial reporting based on our audit.

We
      conducted our
      audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
      Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
      perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective
      internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
      respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
      over
      financial reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing and evaluating
      the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing
      such
      other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe
      that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A
      company’s internal
      control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
      assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
      of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
      accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial
      reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the
      maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect
      the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
      reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
      preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
      accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
      being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
      of
      the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
      detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s
      assets that could have a material effect on the financial
      statements.

Because
      of its
      inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent
      or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness
      to
      future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
      because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
      policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In
      our opinion,
      management’s assessment that Trimble Navigation Limited maintained effective
      internal control over financial reporting as of December 30, 2005, is fairly
      stated, in all material respects, based on the COSO criteria. Also, in our
      opinion, Trimble Navigation Limited maintained, in all material respects,
      effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 30, 2005,
      based on the COSO criteria.

We
      also have
      audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
      Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Trimble
      Navigation Limited as of December 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004, and the
      related consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity, and cash flows
      for each of the three years in the period ended December 30, 2005, of Trimble
      Navigation Limited and our report dated March 8,

      expressed an
      unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/
      Ernst &
Young LLP

Palo
      Alto,
      California

March
      8,

Page

Item

Changes
      in
      and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
      Disclosure

None

Item
      9A.
      Controls and Procedures

(a)
      Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Trimble’s
      Chief
      Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), after evaluating
      the effectiveness of the company’s “disclosure controls and procedures” (as
      defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act
      of
      1934 (the “Exchange Act”)), as of December 30, 2005, have concluded that as of
      December 30, 2005, the company’s disclosure controls and procedures were
      effective and designed to provide reasonable assurance that material information
      relating to the company and its consolidated subsidiaries required to be
      included in the company’s periodic filings under the Exchange Act would be made
      known to them by others within those entities.

Inherent
      Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls

The
      company’s
      management, including the CEO and CFO, does not expect that our internal control
      over financial reporting will prevent or detect all error and all fraud. A
      control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only
      reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be
      met. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain
      assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance
      that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential
      future conditions.

(b)
      Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

The
      company’s
      management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
      control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule
      13a-15(f). The company’s management, including the CEO and CFO, conducted an
      evaluation of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting
      based on the Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee
      of
      Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on the results of
      this evaluation, the company’s management concluded that its internal control
      over financial reporting was effective as of December 30, 2005.

Management's
      assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting
      as of December 30, 2005 has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an
      independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which
      is included elsewhere herein.

(c)
      Changes
      in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

During
      the quarter
      ended December 30, 2005, there were no changes in the company’s internal control
      over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely
      to materially affect, the company’s internal control over financial
      reporting.

Item
      9B.
      Other Information

None.

Page

PART
      III

Item

Directors
      and Executive Officers of the Registrant

The
      information
      required by this item, insofar as it relates to Trimble's directors, will be
      contained under the captions "Election of Directors" and "Section 16(a)
      Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" in the Proxy Statement and is
      incorporated herein by reference. The information required by this item relating
      to executive officers is set forth above in Item 1 Business Overview under
      the
      caption “Executive Officers.”

Code
      of
      Ethics

The
      Company’s
      Business Ethics and Conduct Policy applies to, among others, to the Company’s
      Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Corporate Controller, and
      other finance organization employees. The Business Ethics and Conduct Policy
      is
      available on the Company’s website at www.trimble.com under the heading
“Corporate Governance and Policies” on the Investor Information page of our
      website. A copy will be provided, without charge, to any shareholder who
      requests one by written request addressed to General Counsel, Trimble Navigation
      Limited, 935 Stewart Drive, Sunnyvale, CA 94085.

If
      any substantive
      amendments to the Business Ethics and Conduct Policy are made or any waivers
      are
      granted, including any implicit waiver, from a provision of the Business Ethics
      and Conduct Policy, to its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer
      or
      Corporate Controller, the Company will disclose the nature of such amendment
      or
      waiver on the Company’s website at www.trimble.com or in a report on Form
      8-K.

Item

Executive
      Compensation

The
      information
      required by this item will be contained in the Proxy Statement under the caption
      "Executive Compensation" and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item

Security
      Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
      Matters

The
      information
      required by this item will be contained in the Proxy Statement under the caption
      "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management Related
      Stockholder Matters" and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item

Certain
      Relationships and Related Transactions

The
      information
      required by this item will be contained in the Proxy Statement under the caption
      "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" and is incorporated herein
      by
      reference.

Item

Principal
      Accountant Fees and Services

The
      information
      required by this item will be contained in the Proxy Statement under the caption
      "Principal Accountant Fees and Services" and is incorporated herein by
      reference.

Page

PART
      IV

Item
      15.

Exhibits,
      Financial Statement Schedules.

(a)

(1)

Financial
                Statements

The
      following
      consolidated financial statements required by this item are included in Part
      II
      Item 8 hereof under the caption "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."

(2)

Financial
      Statement Schedules

The
      following
      financial statement schedule is filed as part of this report:

Page
                in this
                Annual

Report
                on

Form 10-K

Schedule
                II -
                Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

S-1

All
      other schedules
      have been omitted as they are either not required or not applicable, or the
      required information is included in the consolidated financial statements or
      the
      notes thereto.

(3)

Exhibits

Exhibit

Number

Page

EXHIBIT
      LIST

Exhibit

Number

Page

SIGNATURES

Pursuant
      to the
      requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
      the
      registrant has duly caused this Report on Form 10-K to be signed on its behalf
      by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

TRIMBLE
      NAVIGATION
      LIMITED

By

:
      /s/ Steven W.
      Berglund

Steven
      W. Berglund,

President
      and Chief
      Executive Officer

March
      10,

Page

POWER
      OF
      ATTORNEY

Know
      all persons by
      these presents, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes
      and
      appoints Steven W. Berglund as his attorney-in-fact, with the power of
      substitution, for him in any and all capacities, to sign any amendments to
      this
      Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with exhibits thereto and other
      documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
      hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorney-in-fact, or his
      substitute or substitutes, may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

Pursuant
      to the
      requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Annual Report on
      Form
      10-K has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant
      and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:

Page

SCHEDULE
      II

TRIMBLE
      NAVIGATION LIMITED

VALUATION
      AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

(IN
      THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)

Page
          86