
10-K
FORM 10K FOR YEAR ENDED JANUARY 1, 1999



                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

      (X) ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE SECURITIES
                              EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                    For the fiscal year ended January 1, 1999

                                       OR

          ( ) TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
           For the transition period from _____________ to ___________

                         Commission File Number: 0-18645

                           TRIMBLE NAVIGATION LIMITED
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

               California                             94-2802192       
     (State or other jurisdiction of              (I.R.S. Employer 
      incorporation or organization)               Identification No.)

               645 North Mary Avenue
               Sunnyvale, CA                         94088         
     (Address of principal executive offices)      (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (408) 481-8000

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: NONE

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                  Common Stock
                                (Title of Class)

         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

         The  aggregate  market value of the  registrant's  Common Stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately  $180,915,000 as of March 15,
1999,  based upon the closing sale price of the common stock on the Nasdaq Stock
Market for that date.

         There were 22,266,475  shares of the  registrant's  Common Stock issued
and outstanding as March 15, 1999.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

         Items  10,  11,  12 and  13 of  Part  III  incorporate  information  by
reference from the  registrant's  Proxy Statement for its 1999 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders  to be held on June 2, 1999.  Except  with  respect to  information
specifically  incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K, the Proxy Statement
is not deemed to be filed as a part hereof.




This report contains  forward-looking  statements  within the meaning of Section
27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934.  Actual  results could differ  materially  from those  indicated in the
forward-looking  statements  as a result  of the risk  factors  set forth in, or
incorporated  by  reference  into,  this  report.  The Company has  attempted to
identify forward-looking statements in this report by placing an asterisk (*) in
the left-hand margin of paragraphs containing such material.

                                     PART I

Item 1.  Business

General

         Trimble Navigation Limited, a California corporation ("Trimble" or "the
Company"),  is a leader in designing and developing  innovative products enabled
by  GPS  technology.  The  Company  provides  end-user  and  Original  Equipment
Manufacture  solutions for diverse applications  including  surveying,  mapping,
marine  survey,  mining,  construction  and  agriculture,   mobile  positioning,
commercial  avionics,  military  systems,  automotive,  timing,  and  geographic
information  systems.  Trimble  designs,  manufactures  and  markets  electronic
products that determine precise  geographic  location.  The Company's  principal
products,   which  utilize  substantial  amounts  of  proprietary  software  and
firmware,  are  integrated  systems for  collecting,  analyzing  and  displaying
position data in forms optimized for specific end-user applications.

     * The Company  has  developed  or is  developing  systems  for  seismology,
machine  control,  delivery fleets,  buses,  ships,  airplanes,  automobiles and
cellular  infrastructures.  Trimble  anticipates  that  additional  markets will
emerge to make use of the highly accurate position data obtainable from GPS.

Background

         Precise  determination  of  locations  both on and  above  the  earth's
surface is a fundamental  requirement  for many human  activities.  For example,
position  data is used for  navigation  on land,  sea and  air,  and to  conduct
surveys and draw maps. Previous  technologies have limited users to simultaneous
determination of only two dimensions--latitude and longitude--while altitude and
time required  separate  measurements with different  equipment.  GPS technology
provides users with all of these  measurements,  using one instrument.  GPS is a
system of 27  orbiting  Navstar  satellites  established  and funded by the U.S.
Government.  On  April  27,  1995,  GPS  was  declared  to  have  achieved  Full
Operational  Capability by the U.S. Air Force Space Command. The U.S. Government
intends  for GPS to  complement  or  replace  many  other  forms  of  electronic
navigation and position data systems.  GPS offers major advantages over previous
technologies  in  precision  and  accuracy,  with  worldwide  coverage  in three
dimensions,  and does so in addition to providing time and velocity  measurement
capabilities.

         GPS  positioning is based on a  triangulation  technique that precisely
measures  distances  from  three  or more  Navstar  satellites.  The  satellites
continuously  transmit  precisely timed radio signals using  extremely  accurate
atomic clocks. A GPS receiver  calculates  distances from the satellites in view
by determining  the travel time of the  satellites'  signals.  The receiver then
triangulates its position using its known distance from various satellites,  and
calculates  latitude,  longitude and  altitude.  Under normal  circumstances,  a
stand-alone  GPS  receiver  is able to  calculate  its  position at any point on
earth, in the earth's atmosphere, or in lower earth orbit, to





within 100  meters,  24 hours a day.  When a GPS  receiver  is  coupled  with a
reference  receiver  with known  precise  position,  accuracies of less than one
centimeter  are  possible.  In  addition,  GPS  provides  highly  accurate  time
measurement.

     * The  usefulness  of GPS is dependent  on the number and  locations of GPS
satellites that are above the horizon at any given time. The current  deployment
of 27 satellites  permits  three-dimensional  worldwide coverage 24 hours a day.
However,  reception of GPS signals requires line-of-sight visibility between the
Navstar  satellites and the receiver,  which can be blocked by buildings,  hills
and dense  foliage.  For the  receiver  to  collect a  sufficient  signal,  each
satellite must be above the horizon,  and the receiver must have a line of sight
to at  least  three  satellites  in  order  to  determine  its  location  in two
dimensions-latitude  and longitude-and at least four satellites to determine its
location in three dimensions-latitude,  longitude, and altitude. The accuracy of
GPS may also be limited by distortion of GPS signals from  ionospheric and other
atmospheric  conditions,  and intentional or inadvertent signal  interference or
Selective  Availability  (SA).  Selective  Availability,  which  is the  largest
component of GPS distortion, is controlled by the Department of Defense and is a
currently  activated,  intentional  system-wide  degradation of stand-alone  GPS
accuracy  from  approximately  twenty-five  to  one  hundred  meters.  Selective
Availability  may be implemented  by the U.S.  Department of Defense in order to
deny hostile forces the highly accurate position,  time and velocity information
supplied  by GPS.  In certain  military  applications,  classified  devices  are
utilized to decode the SA  degradation  and return  accuracies to their original
levels.

         By using a technique  called  "differential  GPS" involving two or more
GPS receivers, accuracies can currently be improved to approximately one to five
meters for navigation and one centimeter for survey  applications,  even with SA
activated.  This  technique  compensates  for a number of potential  measurement
distortions,  including  distortions caused by ionospheric and other atmospheric
conditions,  as well as distortions  intentionally introduced into the satellite
data itself,  such as SA.  Differential  GPS involves  placing one receiver at a
known location and continuously comparing its calculated location with its known
location to measure  distortions  in the signal  transmission  and errors in the
satellite  data. At any one time,  such  distortions  and errors are  reasonably
constant  over large  areas,  so that one or more remote GPS  receivers  can use
these  measurements  to correct  their own  position  calculations.  Measurement
corrections can be transmitted either in real time over a suitable communication
link such as radio or telephone,  or integrated later with accumulated  data, as
is frequently the practice in survey applications.

         Each of Trimble's GPS products is based on  proprietary  GPS receivers.
Trimble's  GPS  receivers  are capable of tracking  all  satellites  in view and
automatically  selecting  the optimum  combination  of  satellites  necessary to
provide the most  accurate  set of  measurements  possible.  Communications  and
computational modules, such as databases, database management systems, radio and
other communication equipment,  and various user interfaces,  are added to these
receivers to create fully integrated application solutions.

         Navstar  satellites  and  their  ground  support  systems  are  complex
electronic  systems  subject to electronic and mechanical  failures and possible
sabotage.  The  satellites  have  design  lives of 7.5 years and are  subject to
damage by the hostile space environment in which they operate. To repair damaged
or  malfunctioning  satellites is not  economically  feasible.  If a significant
number of  satellites  were to become  inoperable,  there could be a substantial
delay before they are replaced with new satellites. A reduction in the number of
operating  satellites would impair the current utility of the GPS system and the
growth of current and additional market opportunities. In addition, there can be
no assurance that the U.S. government will remain committed to the operation and
maintenance  of GPS satellites  over a long period,  or that the policies of the
U.S.  Government  for the  use of GPS  without  charge  will  remain  unchanged.
However,  the 1996 Presidential  Decision  Directive marks the first time in the
evolution of GPS that access for  consumer,  civilian and  commercial  use has a





solid foundation in law. Because of ever-increasing  commercial  applications of
GPS, other U.S. Government agencies may become involved in the administration or
the  regulation of the use of GPS signals.  Any of the  foregoing  factors could
affect the willingness of buyers of the Company's  products to select  GPS-based
systems  instead of products  based on  competing  technologies.  Any  resulting
change in market demand for GPS products could have a material adverse effect on
the  Company's   financial  results.   In  1995,  certain  European   government
organizations expressed concern regarding the susceptibility of GPS equipment to
intentional or inadvertent  signal  interference.  Such concern could  translate
into  reduced  demand  for GPS  products  in certain  geographic  regions in the
future.

Business Strategy

         The Company sees GPS as an information utility. In order to exploit the
wide range of  applications  made  possible  by this  information  utility,  the
Company has implemented the following strategies:

     * Targeted  Markets.  The Company targets a number of specific  markets for
its GPS products,  based on end-user applications.  (See Industry Segments below
for further discussion of the Company's segments).  The Company believes that by
adding application-specific features and functionality to its GPS technology, it
can deliver value-added products into its targeted markets. To date, the Company
has  identified  markets  that  it  believes  represent   significant   economic
opportunities due to the broad range of potential  applications for accurate and
cost-effective  position  velocity  and  time  information.   The  Company  also
continuously  seeks to identify  new markets into which GPS products and systems
can be introduced. The Company believes that its continued growth will depend in
part on its ability to identify and penetrate new markets for GPS applications.

         Differentiated  Product  Solutions.  The Company seeks to establish and
sustain  leadership  in its  targeted  markets  by  offering  products  that are
differentiated  through software,  firmware,  customized user interfaces and the
Company's  service  and  support.   Where  feasible,   the  Company   emphasizes
application-specific  systems  that  solve  specific  sets  of  problems  in its
markets.  The Company  believes that a  substantial  portion of the value of its
products  is  derived  from the  firmware  that is  embedded  in the  product or
software  provided to enable  superior  performance.  In  addition,  the Company
incorporates   other   technologies   into  some  of  its   products,   such  as
communications,  computational capabilities and non-GPS positioning technologies
in order to optimize product features for its two segments.

         Technology  Leverage.  The modular design of Trimble's products enables
the Company to create and maintain a broad line of products without  necessarily
repeating  development  efforts or  requiring  extensive  redesigns  for product
upgrades.  Trimble further  believes that its approach of providing many product
software features enables the Company to respond quickly to the needs of rapidly
evolving markets through software upgrades.

         Multichannel Distribution.  The Company seeks direct communication with
its customers in order to develop and modify its product designs as necessary to
maximize  utility and payback to the user.  Trimble has built a worldwide  sales
and service organization of Company employees, distributors and dealers for each
major  market it  addresses.  In  addition,  the Company  intends to continue to
develop  new-and  to  strengthen   existing-alliances   and  Original  Equipment
Manufacture  relationships  with established  foreign and domestic  companies as
part of its  strategy to penetrate  certain  targeted  markets.  The Company has
pursued such alliances with several companies including VDO Car Systems, Pioneer
Electronics Corporation,  Delco Electronics,  Nortel, British Telecom,  American
Mobile Satellite Corporation, E-systems, PRC Public Sector, Honeywell, and Intel




in the Mobile Timing and Technology segment; Caterpillar, Inc., Topcon, and Case
Corporation in the Precision Positioning segment.

         Integration  with   Communication   Technologies.   GPS  technology  is
increasingly being integrated with wireless communication technologies, offering
economic and  strategic  advantages in areas such as  navigation,  vehicle fleet
management,  long-haul trucking,  public safety, and real-time  applications for
mining, surveying, and mapping.  Accordingly,  the Company is currently devoting
research  and  development  efforts to products  that  integrate  the  Company's
proprietary GPS receivers with wireless communication technologies.

INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

         The  Company  operates  in a single  industry  segment  as a leader  in
designing and developing  innovative  products  enabled by GPS  technology.  The
Company  provides  end-user and Original  Equipment  Manufacture  solutions  for
diverse  applications  including  surveying,  mapping,  marine  survey,  mining,
construction and agriculture, mobile positioning,  commercial avionics, military
systems,  automotive,  timing, and geographic information systems.  During 1998,
the Company  announced that it was  discontinuing  its  participation in General
Aviation. The Company sells its products through a direct-sales force located in
fifteen  countries,   as  well  as  through  a  worldwide  network  of  dealers,
distributors and authorized representatives. Research and development activities
are  conducted  at  the  Company's  facilities  in  Sunnyvale,  California,  and
Christchurch, New Zealand.  Manufacturing is performed in Sunnyvale,  California
and Austin, Texas.

     The Company  manages its industry  segment within two Business  Units:  the
Precision  Positioning Group (PPG) and the Mobile and Timing  Technologies (MTT)
Group.

         The  industry  segment  is  managed  in two  Business  Units to achieve
different distribution,  marketing,  production,  and technology strategies. The
Precision  Positioning Group derives its revenues from GPS-based land surveying,
mining,  construction and agriculture,  geographic  information systems mapping,
and marine survey markets. The Mobile and Timing Technologies market derives its
revenues from GPS-based  automotive,  timing,  mobile positioning  technologies,
commercial  aviation,  and military  systems  markets,  and from  development of
software licenses and other rights for the use of GPS to third parties.

         Although the Company  believes  that these  Business  Units have growth
potential  for  sales of GPS  products,  there  can be no  assurance  that  such
Business  Units will  continue to  develop,  particularly  given that  GPS-based
systems are still in an early stage of  adoption in some of these  markets.  The
Company's  future growth will depend on the timely  development  of the industry
markets in which the Company currently competes, and on the Company's ability to
continue to identify  and exploit new markets for its  products.  Each  Business
Unit is managed by a group vice president who has  responsibility  for strategy,
marketing, product development and financial performance.

Precision Positioning Group

         The  Precision  Positioning  Group focuses its efforts in markets where
the distribution chain uses independent  distributors or a direct sales force to
sell directly to the end users. The products are system solutions in a high-end,
value-added market.

         A key business strategy of PPG is interoperability,  which involves the
focus on, and  development  of systems that integrate  sensors  utilizing a wide
variety of  technologies  and  communications  with GPS.  This  interoperability
developed by the Company is an  extremely  important  advantage  over any of the




competition. The emphasis is on providing solutions for applications rather than
just GPS  technology,  and results in a higher real value to the  customer.  The
concept of interoperability applies to electronic and mechanical  accommodations
of other technologies,  together with GPS, to solve a problem. Probably the most
important area of  interoperability,  and often the least recognizable until the
integrated solution is put into use, is in the area of data interchange.  In the
Land  Surveying  product line for example,  the Trimble Survey  Controller  data
collector  software and Trimble  Survey Office PC software  products  enable the
seamless  collection,  processing  and  use of  data  from  Trimble's  Real-time
Kinematic  (RTK)  GPS  surveying  products  and  conventional   (optomechanical)
instrument surveys using products of other manufactures.

         The  Precision   Positioning  Group  consists  of  four  product  lines
addressing the following markets: Land Surveying; Marine Surveying;  Mapping and
GIS Systems; and Mining, Construction and Agriculture.

         Land  Surveying.  Surveying  involves  establishing  precise points and
boundaries for legal, construction and mining purposes. It consists primarily of
collecting and processing position  information.  Surveying accuracy is expected
to be within a centimeter.  The Company believes that its GPS surveying products
substantially reduce the cost, time, and number of people required to survey and
process precise position information for a given level of accuracy.  Many of the
applications  which the  Company  addresses  in the  surveying  market  include,
control   surveying,   construction  and  engineering   surveying,   topographic
surveying,  property line surveying and geodetic research. The Company addresses
the  land  surveying   market  with  GPS  systems  and  a  recently   introduced
conventional (optomechanical) surveying instrument with reflectorless technology
and application software.  GPS does not require line-of-sight between land-based
reference  points and is  unaffected  by most  adverse  weather  conditions  (as
compared  to  traditional  methods  such  as  optical  or  laser  measurements),
providing  advantages  in many  survey  applications.  Reflectorless  technology
provides  the ability to survey in areas  where GPS  signals are  obstructed-for
example,  tunnels,  parking  garages,  and dense  forests,  as well as  building
facades or dam faces that are difficult or dangerous to reach. A key competitive
advantage of the land surveying product line is the seamless interchange between
GPS and conventional surveying tools and laser range-finders,  with full support
from the office and field software.  Additionally,  the land surveying  products
support  two-way data  exchange  with  third-party  CAD,  design and  Geographic
Information Systems (GIS) packages.

         For a number of years the Company's  GPS  surveying  products have been
one of the first choices for control surveying  applications.  Control surveying
is the precise  determination of the location of local geodetic reference points
from which further local surveying is based. The Company's GPS surveying systems
have reduced the cost of establishing  control points,  compared to conventional
techniques,  and have led to programs to  remeasure  previous  geodetic  control
points to sharply increase precision and eliminate errors. Additionally, GPS has
become a standard tool for geodetic  research.  Research  geodesists  have found
that long baseline  precisions  using GPS are  significantly  greater than those
obtainable with optical and electronic  distance-measuring  equipment. This high
degree of  precision  has also created a  significant  market for GPS in seismic
research  where earth  movements of less than one centimeter can now be measured
and  monitored.  Today GPS is the  preferred  technology  for both  control  and
geodetic surveying.

         The  Company's  GPS  surveying  products  are also used in  large-scale
construction projects in which the position of a large number of points needs to
be  cost-effectively   established.  The  Company's  products  are  particularly
efficient  for  applications  in  areas  where   ground-level   obstructions  to
visibility prevent line-of-sight  conventional surveying techniques. The Company
also  supplies  route  surveying   applications,   which  provide  a  cost-  and
time-effective means of precisely locating a large number of points and physical
features along routes and rights-of-way,  such as roads, pipelines and telephone
and power lines.



         Real-time    Kinematic   GPS   surveying   has   made   GPS   surveying
instrumentation a successful  alternative to conventional  surveying instruments
for a wide variety of  applications.  Today,  a significant  portion of the land
survey business is for applications  where  conventional  instruments could have
been  used.  This  is  possible  through  the  use of  Real-time  Kinematic  GPS
surveying.  The  Company  was the first to  introduce  RTK GPS in 1993.  RTK GPS
involves  the  computation  of  precise  positions  in  real  time,  instead  of
postprocessing the observed data. Vectors are computed between a precisely known
fixed base station and one or more roving GPS surveying systems. This is done by
transmitting  information  from the base  station to the  rovers,  using a radio
link. These rovers use the information to calculate a precise position. The data
collector  software  converts the position from the World  Geodetic  System 1984
(WGS-84,  the worldwide  coordinate  system used by GPS) to the local coordinate
system used for the area of the survey work.  This enables the productive use of
RTK GPS surveying systems by a single surveyor on foot, for construction layout,
topographic mapping, and demarcation and division of large tracts of land.

         In 1998 the Company  introduced  the TTS 500 optical total station with
reflectorless  technology  as an  extension  and  complementary  tool to GPS.  A
significant   competitive   advantage  of  the  TTS  500  is  the  reflectorless
technology,  which  allows  for the use of non  cooperative  target  technology.
Traditional conventional surveying instruments require a prism target for making
distance  measurements  in  order  to  precisely  survey  a site.  Reflectorless
technology  allows the user to point the  telescope  of the TTS 500 at virtually
any  target  within  a  250-meter  range  to  make  millimeter   level  distance
measurements.

         In the surveying  market,  the Company faces on going  competition from
other GPS  vendors,  such as Ashtech,  Inc.  (now part of  Magellan  via Orbital
Sciences Corp) and NovAtel Inc. The Company also faces  competition from vendors
of traditional optical surveying products,  such as Carl Zeiss; Leica AG; Sokkia
Company, Ltd.; Spectra Precision;  and Topcon Corporation.  All have entered the
GPS surveying market and are introducing GPS products of their own.

         Marine  Surveying.  Marine  surveying  is focused on  precise,  dynamic
positioning,  and precise  navigation in marine  environments.  The applications
cover offshore oil exploration,  hydrographic  surveys,  environmental  surveys,
marine construction, cable and pipe laying, dredging, barge positioning and many
others. The Company provides complete solutions that utilize its GPS sensors and
extensive  software  product  capabilities,  often  in  conjunction  with  other
equipment, for many of these applications. Trimble's marine surveying activities
also include the design and marketing of Differential GPS (DGPS) systems,  which
include reference  stations,  integrity  monitors and control stations,  used to
establish and monitor the integrity of DGPS and RTK broadcasts.

         In marine surveying and marine construction  applications,  the Company
faces competition from CSI, Sercel,  Leica,  Ashtech, Inc. (now part of Magellan
via Orbital Sciences Corp) and Coastal Engineering.

         Mapping and GIS Systems.  For mapping  applications,  large  amounts of
position and  attribute  data (such as color,  size and condition of the object)
must be obtained.  Compared to surveying,  mapping  involves more  extensive but
less  precise  location  and plotting of  geographical  and  man-made  features.
Mapping  applications  include  large-scale  mapping of geographic  and man-made
features,  data collection for Geographic  Information  Systems (GIS) databases,
natural resource management and ground contour mapping.  Required accuracies are
typically from twenty-five centimeters to three meters.

         Currently,  large-scale  accurate  mapping is usually  accomplished  by
photogrammetric  analysis  of  aerial  photographs,   a  complex  and  expensive
technique.  The Company  supplies the mapping market with products  enabling the




user to capture position data while in aircraft,  or traversing  terrain on foot
or in a vehicle.  The Company is also  developing  additional  products  for the
mapping market.  The Company  believes that these products can lower the cost of
position and attribute data collection.

         GIS databases are used by federal,  state, county, and city governments
and by  utility  companies  for a variety  of  applications  requiring  accurate
information on the location of natural  resources and municipal  infrastructure,
such as utilities and transport  networks.  Currently,  building such a database
requires  time-consuming  compilation  of data from  numerous  existing maps and
digitized  photographs,  as well  as  costly  physical  surveys.  The  Company's
products,  used in connection with commercially  available  databases,  have the
potential to substantially  reduce the cost of constructing  GIS databases,  and
increasing their accuracy.

         In the mapping market, the Company faces competition from Ashtech, Inc.
(now part of Magellan via Orbital  Sciences  Corp);  NovAtel  Inc.;  CMT,  Inc.;
Garmin  Corporation;  Magellan  Corporation  (a subsidiary  of Orbital  Sciences
Corporation);  Motorola,  Inc.; Sokkia Company,  Ltd.; Topcon  Corporation;  and
others.  Competition  in the mapping  market has increased as  competitors  have
introduced new products.

         Mining,  Construction &  Agriculture.  Trimble's GPS receivers and data
communications  products are used on machine-type  vehicles to provide real-time
positioning and other key information for the vehicle operator. This information
may be displayed on digital  readouts or graphic  displays and may be integrated
with other on board  electronic  information  systems  to guide and to  indicate
machine  position  and  performance  in an  easily  understood  manner.  As  the
availability  of  highly  accurate,  cost-effective  and  robust  real-time  GPS
solutions  has  increased,  numerous  potential  machine  guidance  and  control
applications  have been  identified.  Among the emerging  applications on large,
mobile  field  machines  are  precision  farming  equipment,  mining  equipment,
construction machinery and aerial spraying.

         Guidance and control of large,  mobile field machines has traditionally
been done by the machine  operator  without the aid of advanced  navigation  and
positioning  technology.  Lasers  have  been  used  for some  applications  on a
limited, though increasing,  basis. These traditional techniques have frequently
proven less than optimal  because they are limited to  positioning in elevation,
or have complex methods for horizontal  guidance.  Lasers, for example,  provide
good  vertical  height  information  but  are  not  inherently   well-suited  to
three-dimensional  position  information and rely on  line-of-sight  to function
effectively.  Because  field  machinery  is very  expensive  to own and operate,
maximizing  efficiency is paramount,  and even small productivity gains can have
significant  economic  returns.  GPS has the  potential to provide  accurate and
robust  positioning  information.  When this  information is used in conjunction
with other  critical  information  about the materials  being worked on, such as
location of target ores, overall operational efficiency can increase.

         Trimble's  products,  including  sensors and  systems,  are marketed to
Original Equipment  Manufacturers (OEMs),  systems integrators,  and directly to
end-users.  Because some mobile  machine  markets are  dominated by a relatively
small  number of OEMs,  success  can be  influenced  by the  ability to maintain
favorable relationships with selected OEMs. Currently, Trimble has established a
relationship  with  some of these  OEMs,  including  Caterpillar  Inc.  and Case
Corporation.

     * Since the  applicability  of GPS for these types of applications is still
new, its use and subsequent  benefits are not yet widely  understood or adopted.
The Company must, therefore,  devote significant efforts to educating the market
as to the advantages of GPS in these applications. This can result in a delay in
market development.



         The Company faces competition from traditional GPS  manufacturers  such
as Ashtech, Inc. (now part of Magellan via Orbital Sciences Corp), Leica AG, and
NovAtel  Inc.,  Topcon,   Spectra  Precision,   as  well  as  from  established,
laser-based integrated system providers.

Mobile and Timing Technologies

         The Mobile and Timing Technologies Group focuses its efforts in markets
where  the  majority  of its  products  are  sold  directly  to OEMs  or  system
integrators.   The  products  are  designed  to  support  system   solutions  in
high-volume applications.  In some instances the Business Unit's products are in
the form of  software  licenses  and  other  rights  for the use of GPS by third
parties. This Business Unit focuses on five product lines:  automotive,  timing,
mobile positioning, air transport systems, and military aerospace systems.

         Automotive.  The  Company's  Automotive  market has built a  leadership
position in the  worldwide  market for  embedded  GPS  products.  Already in its
seventh-generation  design,  MTT offers  products  that  provide  full-function,
high-performance  embedded GPS engines for systems  integrators.  The  extensive
range of GPS products is used in such diverse  applications  as car  navigation,
vehicle  and  high-value  cargo  tracking,  precision  agriculture,  and  mobile
computing.

         Trimble's   Automotive   market   has  a   reputation   for   providing
high-performance  products,  high-level  technical  support,  and custom product
engineering.  Trimble continues to maintain leadership in the embedded GPS board
market  for  tracking  applications,  thus  securing a strong  position  through
partnerships with key customers.  In the tracking market,  new applications such
as safety, loss prevention,  and emergency assistance systems continue to emerge
as a result  of the  increased  availability  of  smaller-size  and  lower-power
boards.   Trimble's  MTT  business  unit  provides  key   technology  for  these
applications.  Competitors are Motorola, Inc.; Japan Radio Corporation; Rockwell
International Corporation; and others.

         Trimble supplies GPS boards,  chipsets, and licenses technology to some
of the leading automotive electronics suppliers,  including Philips Car Systems,
Pioneer  Electronics,  Magneti Marelli, VDO Car Communication (a division of the
Mannesmann  Group),  and  Blaupunkt (a wholly owned  subsidiary  of Robert Bosch
GMBH).  Trimble is also part of the reference  design for Intel's  initiative to
develop  in-car  Pentium  processor-based  computing,  and  Microsoft's  Auto PC
platform.

         Timing.  The growth and  expansion of data and  wireless  communication
networks have increased the need for GPS timing  products.  Trimble's MTT market
provides technically advanced timing products to major infrastructure  providers
who require reliable, precise synchronization of wireless network infrastructure
in this market,  such as Nortel and other system  integrators.  By accessing the
cesium  clocks on board the GPS  satellites,  a GPS receiver can provide  atomic
clock  accuracy at a fraction of the cost of traditional  methods  involving the
use of  rubidium.  Such  timing  products  range from smart  antennas  and a GPS
receiver  combined  with an antenna in one  enclosure,  to a time and  frequency
output device.

         In the Timing  market,  the  Company  faces  competition  from  Hewlett
Packard;  Datum;  Odetics; and others.  Trimble remains the cost and performance
leader in this market.

         Mobile  Positioning.  The Company is an established leader in providing
tracking and communications  products in the public safety,  long-haul trucking,
and fleet  management.  These  products  typically  include GPS,  combined  with
conventional  radios,  cellular,  or satellite  communications  and  application
software for use in the vehicles and at a base station.  The Company's  software
generally addresses the need for map displays,  communications control,  vehicle
monitoring,  and messaging. These products are used in a variety of fleets, such




as transit buses, police cars, fire trucks, ambulances,  trucking, and ships. In
some  instances,  the Company  provides  additional  services  such as training,
installation,  custom  features,  and program  management.  More  recently,  the
Company  has  introduced   similar  products  for  trunked  radio  and  cellular
communications-products  that are addressing  productivity and security needs in
the commercial fleet markets.

         In some instances,  Mobile Positioning markets its products directly to
end-users,  but the large  majority of its products are sold through  resellers.
Direct sales to end-users  are focused on  opportunities  in which the Company's
standard products closely match the customer's requirements. Public sector sales
often  require  significant  customization,  and  the  Company  uses  integrator
partners  such as  E-Systems,  IBM, and Motorola to interface  directly with the
end-user.  Other  tracking  and  communication  products  are sold  through  OEM
integrators and value-added  resellers,  some of whom address the  international
market.

         The public sector customers are highly dependent on government  funding
for fleet  modernization.  Capital  equipment  funding for U.S.  public  transit
operators comes primarily from congressional appropriations under the Intermodal
Surface  Transportation  Efficiency  Act.  Public  safety  organizations  depend
largely on local  government  funding.  Failure of the  funding  authorities  to
appropriate  funds for  these  purposes  could  have  substantial  impact on the
Company's future revenue.

     * Because  the  availability  of GPS is still new,  its use and  subsequent
benefits  have not been  understood by the broad vehicle  tracking  market.  The
Company must therefore devote considerable  resources to communicating these GPS
benefits and to educating the market.  This market education  requirement  could
result in a delay in market development and growth.

         Air Transport  Systems.  The Company  believes that GPS has significant
advantages  in  terms  of  accuracy  and  coverage  over  current   primary  and
supplemental  systems for air  transportation.  During 1994, the U.S. Government
issued  statements  to the  International  Civil  Aviation  Organization  (ICAO)
guaranteeing  the GPS  signal  for a  minimum  of 10  years.  In  addition,  GPS
technology faces competition from more mature and established  technologies that
are currently in widespread  use and have in place the  infrastructure  required
for administering these systems.

         The Company has  recognized  the  potential of GPS for aviation and, in
addition to airborne  navigation and flight  management  units, is also pursuing
GPS technology in flight trajectory truth systems, tracking systems, sensors and
other  aviation  applications.  During 1995,  the Company began an alliance with
Honeywell  Incorporated,  a major  supplier  of aviation  equipment,  to produce
GPS-based equipment for the commercial air transport market.

         During 1994, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) adopted a policy
establishing GPS as the future standard for aviation  navigation,  and initiated
the Wide  Area  Augmented  System  (WAAS)  program  to allow  the use of GPS for
primary navigation and precision  approaches by 1998. This followed the December
1992 FAA publication of certification  procedures that allow the use of GPS as a
supplemental  source of  navigation  information  for aircraft  operating  under
Instrument  Flight  Rules  (IFR).  In 1995,  the FAA  published  procedures  for
approving GPS as a primary means of navigation for oceanic flights.

         The  Company  was  the  first  to  certify  its  equipment   under  the
regulations as discussed above. The Company also has certified equipment that is
used in conjunction with other FAA certified  navigation  systems  incorporating
Omega and LORAN-C capabilities.  Currently, the Company believes it has received
FAA Certification for the Technical Standard Order C-129, covering more products
than any competitor.



     *  Currently,  the primary  FAA-required  navigation  system is the VOR/DME
system,  a ground-based  transmitter  network.  The Company believes GPS has the
potential  to replace  VOR/DME as the primary FAA and  ICAO-required  navigation
system.  The range for VOR/DME is limited to fifty to one hundred  fifty  miles,
line  of  sight  from a  transmitter.  This  leaves  large  areas  of the  world
uncovered,  including  significant  portions of the  airspace  within the United
States. Though VOR/DME accuracy is adequate for two-dimensional  navigation, GPS
provides even greater accuracy while also providing precise timing information.

         Competition   in  the  Air   Transport   Systems   market   comes  from
manufacturers  of GPS products,  as well as  traditional  navigation  and flight
management system manufacturers. Competing manufacturers of GPS products include
Rockwell  Collins,  AlliedSignal  Aerospace  (through its Electronics & Avionics
Systems Division), Universal Navigation Corporation, Canadian Marconi Company (a
subsidiary  of  the  General  Electric  Company  plc),   Northstar  Avionics  (a
subsidiary of Canadian Marconi), and IIMorrow, Inc. (a division of United Parcel
Service of America,  Inc.).  Traditional navigation and flight management system
manufacturers include Honeywell  Incorporated,  AlliedSignal  Aerospace (through
its Air Transport Avionics  Division) and Smiths Industries.  Competition in the
flight  trajectory truth system is from Ashtech,  Inc. (now part of Magellan via
Orbital Sciences Corp), and in the tracking system from ARNAV.

         Military  Aerospace  Systems.  The  Company  has  been  developing  GPS
receivers for military  applications  since 1986. Its approach to the market has
been as a commercial manufacturer of GPS electronics,  modified and enhanced for
military use. The Military  Aerospace  industry market designs and  manufactures
GPS  equipment  capable of utilizing  the civilian C/A code, as well as the P(Y)
code reserved for users  authorized by the United States  Department of Defense.
These Precise  Positioning  Service receivers provide  authorized users with GPS
equipment that removes the effects of Selective  Availability  (allowing  higher
accuracy),  and includes  anti-spoofing  protection and additional immunity from
jamming signals.  The Company sells equipment to the United States Department of
Defense, aerospace prime contractors, and foreign military organizations.

         Applications  of GPS  in  military  markets  include  ground  vehicles,
handheld units,  military aircraft,  missiles,  unmanned air vehicles,  and navy
vessels.   Military  GPS  equipment   efficiently  provides  accurate  position,
velocity, and timing information to and from battlefield management systems that
coordinate and control the deployment of equipment and personnel.

         The Company's Military and Advanced Systems strategy is to build on its
advanced   position  in  GPS   technology  as  the   foundation  for  developing
partnerships  with major military  manufacturers  and to offer complete airborne
and  ground-based  time-and-positioning  solutions  for military  and  aerospace
applications.  In these markets,  Trimble competes,  partners,  and subcontracts
with a number of companies,  some of which have substantially  greater financial
and marketing resources, as well as substantial experience and resources devoted
to military sales.  Interstate Electronics (subsidiary of Figgie International),
Magnavox  (subsidiary  of Hughes),  Raytheon,  Litton  Industries,  and Rockwell
International  Corp.,  as well as a number of  European  companies,  manufacture
products that are competitive with the Company's military products.

     * Military sales are subject to various uncertainties, including the timing
and  availability of funding for U.S. and foreign  military  contracts,  and the
competitive  nature  of  government  contracting  in  general.  There  can be no
assurance that the Company will be awarded future U.S.  military  contracts.  In
addition,  the U.S.  government retains the right to impose  restrictions on the
sale of GPS products to foreign military organizations at any time.



Discontinued Market - General Aviation

         On October 2,  1998,  the  Company  adopted a plan to  discontinue  its
General  Aviation  division.  The decision to discontinue  the General  Aviation
division  was one of the  strategies  focused  on by the  Company  to return the
business to profitability.  Accordingly,  the General Aviation division is being
reported  as a  discontinued  operation  for  all  periods  presented  in  these
financial  statements.  Net assets of the  discontinued  operation at October 2,
1998, were written off and consisted primarily of inventory, property, plant and
equipment, and intangible assets.

         The Company plans to dispose of the discontinued  operations  through a
closure of the division. The assets of Terra Corporation, which were acquired in
1996 by Trimble, are included in the discontinued operation.

Business Unit Products

         The following is a list of the Company's principal products,  organized
by its business units:

Precision Positioning Group

Land Surveying Products

         4000 Series.  Historically one of the Company's most successful product
lines,  the 4000 series GPS  receivers  and their  associated  GPS  antennas are
instruments  that provide  position  information with precisions as good as 5mm.
The  Company  offers  survey  grade 4000  series GPS  receivers  that use the L1
frequency (i.e., single frequency  receivers) and both the L1 and L2 frequencies
(i.e.,  dual  frequency  receivers)  broadcast by the Navstar  satellites.  Dual
frequency  receivers  offer  users  greater  productivity  and better  accuracy,
especially  over longer  distances.  The 4000 GPS  receiver is  available in two
configurations  for high-end  control and geodetic  research  applications.  The
products differ from one another in the specific functions that they provide the
user.  The  systems  can be used in  either  a  real-time  mode  (positions  are
generated virtually  instantaneously) or in a postprocessing mode (raw satellite
data are collected and stored for subsequent processing on a computer, utilizing
specialized software).

         GPS Total Station.  In 1994,  Trimble  introduced the GPS Total Station
surveying system.  This complete surveying system consists of two or more survey
grade GPS receivers,  GPS antennas,  radio modems for transmitting  data between
the GPS receivers,  a TSC1 data  collector  running  Trimble  Survey  Controller
software for managing the  real-time  GPS survey and storing  data,  plus office
processing  software.  One receiver is used as a base station and the other as a
"rover" that the user carries around in order to survey individual  points.  The
system  incorporates   advanced  features  that  make  Real-time  Kinematic  GPS
surveying  practical as an everyday surveying  technique.  The GPS Total Station
4800,  introduced in 1997, is a highly compact system that integrates all of its
rover components onto a single  lightweight pole,  thereby  eliminating the need
for a backpack and any cables  strung  between the surveyor and the survey pole.
The GPS Total Station 4700, introduced in 1998, is a small, lightweight, modular
system with  integrated  radio and separated GPS and radio antenna,  that offers
logistical  advantages over the fully integrated GPS Total Station 4800. The GPS
Total Station 4700 and 4800 are fully  compatible,  and customers  often mix the
systems for complete  versatility in the field. The system's  advanced  handheld
data collector, the TSC1, is designed and manufactured by the Company.



         TTS 500 Total Station.  In 1998,  Trimble  introduced the TTS 500 as an
extension to the GPS Total  Station.  The  revolutionary  TTS 500 total  station
consists of a single  optomechanical  surveying  instrument  with  reflectorless
technology and software. Unlike traditional surveying instruments, which require
a target,  the TTS 500  utilizes  reflectorless  technology  to make  millimeter
measurements  off  non-cooperative  targets.  This extends the user's ability to
survey in areas where GPS  signals  are  obstructed,  or in  locations  that are
difficult  or  dangerous  to  reach.   As  with  the  GPS  Total  Station,   the
reflectorless   technology  means  a  single  user  can  survey.   Reflectorless
technology removes the need for a second person to hold the prism target that is
required by traditional conventional surveying instruments.  In the field, users
can seamlessly interchange between the TTS 500 and the GPS Total Station 4700 or
4800, using the TSC1 data collector running Trimble Survey Controller software.

         GPSurvey, Trimble Survey Office and Trimble Survey Controller. GPSurvey
and Trimble  Survey  Office are  PC-based  office  software  suites that provide
surveyors with the tools they need for project  planning and processing of their
GPS surveying projects.  GPSurvey  postprocesses data collected in the field and
provides the user with  finished  data sets and reports.  GPSurvey also includes
network adjustment capabilities. Trimble Survey Office manages data collected by
real-time GPS and conventional optical survey methods, and reduces the data into
finished  data sets.  Both  Trimble  Survey  Office  and  GPSurvey  provide  the
functionality to export data to third-party CAD, design,  and GIS packages.  The
Trimble Survey Office software also imports and converts design data from design
packages  into a suitable  format for  transfer  to  Trimble  Survey  Controller
software  running  on the  TSC1.  This  data is used for  construction  and road
stakeout. Trimble Survey Controller software runs on the TSC1 data collector and
is used to control and manage  survey and  stakeout  tasks in the field.  All of
these  products are sold as part of the land survey  product  systems.  The TSC1
with  Trimble   Survey   Controller  is  also  available  as  a  controller  for
conventional surveying instruments from leading manufacturers.

         TRIMTALK and TRIMMARK Radios. These radio modems are used for real-time
GPS applications.  They provide broadcast and receive functions for VHF, UHF and
900 MHz  spread  spectrum  data  transmission,  and they  operate  at baud rates
sufficient to carry the data needed for real-time GPS survey applications. These
products are sold as part of survey product systems.

Marine Surveying Products

         NT300D.  This  product  combines the  graphics  display and  navigation
features of a marine GPS receiver  with the sub-meter  positioning  accuracy and
performance  of a marine  survey grade DGPS  receiver.  The unit features 12 GPS
channels and 2 MSK channels for  reception of DGPS  correction  data from Marine
Radiobeacons.  The  NT300D  is ideal  for many  marine  surveying  applications,
providing-in one product-the ability to both navigate and position.

         MS750.  This  product  brings the  latest in  Real-time  Kinematic  GPS
technology   to  the   marine   environment.   With  the  fast,   reliable   OTF
initializations  and rapid position  updates,  the product is ideally suited for
the control  and docking of  high-speed  ferries  and the  positioning  of large
marine structures, such as bridge spans for marine construction.

         4000RSi/DSi.  The 4000 series products provide  sub-meter  accuracy and
are suited to marine survey  applications that do not require the performance of
the MS750 series  products.  The 4000 series GPS sensors address a broad segment
of the marine survey  market,  and provide  customers with a choice of price and
performance  in GPS sensors.  The 4000 series  products also integrate well with
total solutions, such as Hydro and Target: Structures products, discussed below.

         DSM.  These  products  are  combined  MSK beacon and  differential  GPS
sensors and reference  stations targeted mainly to value-added  resellers.  They




provide  sub-meter  GPS data in the form of a "black  box." The DSM  allows  for
comprehensive custom solutions developed by third parties.

         Hydro. This line of software programs provides total solutions for many
marine survey applications.  It provides the capability to integrate the best of
Trimble designed and built GPS sensors with additional equipment,  such as depth
sounders,  to provide  customers  with highly  customizable  solutions to a wide
range of marine survey and construction  challenges.  The newest program in this
line is HydroPro, which is a Windows 95 and Windows NT software suite.

         Target: Structures.  This Windows and Windows NT based program provides
for precise  positioning  of large  mobile  offshore  structures  or  platforms.
Utilizing  real-time GPS receivers such as the MS750,  this innovative  software
enables  barge and  crane  operators  to  efficiently  and  safely  guide  large
structures to any target location for marine construction.

         Beacon Control System. The 4000 series products form the hardware basis
of Trimble's  DGPS MSK  Reference  Station and Integrity  Monitoring  offerings,
which comply with  internationally  accepted Radio  Technical  Committee  Marine
(RTCM) standards for broadcast on radio beacon frequencies. Trimble equipment is
in use in more than 30 countries,  broadcasting  DGPS corrections and monitoring
their integrity.  The Beacon Control Software is a Windows-based program that is
often  provided as part of the complete  system.  The software  allows  complete
control of all hardware components, providing updates and status information.

Mapping and GIS Products

         Geoexplorer II. The GeoExplorer II is a self-contained  handheld system
providing a few meters of accuracy for mapping and GPS/GIS data  collection at a
reduced cost.

         Pathfinder  Pro  Family.   The  GPS  Pathfinder  Pro  XR/XRS   system's
integrated  real-time  positioning  capabilities  allow  the  user  to  collect,
relocate and update  geographic  information with an accuracy of better than one
meter.   When  combined  with   Trimble's   handheld   Asset   Surveyor  or  pen
computer-based  ASPEN  software,  the Pro XR/XRS  offers a  complete  system for
real-time mapping and GPS/GIS data collection.

         Pathfinder  Office.  The  GPS  positions  and  descriptive  information
collected by each of these systems are  downloaded to a personal  computer using
Trimble's  Pathfinder  Office software,  where the information can be processed,
edited, and plotted-or output into standard GIS, CAD and database formats.

         Pathfinder  Card.  The GPS  Pathfinder  Card is a GPS  receiver,  in an
industry-standard  PC Card format,  that is capable of  collecting  data with an
accuracy of 1 to 3 meters.

         Pathfinder Tools Software  Development Kit. Trimble's  Pathfinder Tools
SDK is a powerful  software  development kit (SDK) designed to integrate Trimble
GPS receivers with custom mapping and GIS applications. It includes an extensive
library of software  components,  including  ActiveX  controls and  programmable
automation objects that can be integrated using standard  development  languages
such as Microsoft Visual Basic and Visual C++.

Mining, Construction & Agriculture Products

         MS750.  The rugged MS750 is designed  specifically  for dynamic machine
guidance  and  control  applications.   Centimeter-level  position  updates  are
computed twenty times per second,  ensuring the response and accuracy  necessary
for precise dynamic applications on moving equipment.



         Eurocard  DSM.  The  Eurocard  DSM  is  based  on  Trimble's   advanced
low-power,  low-noise,  high-accuracy  chip technology.  Advanced  carrier-aided
filtering  techniques  applied to exceptionally  low-noise C/A code measurements
are used to generate  real-time,  sub-meter  differential  (DGPS) positions at a
maximum rate of 10 Hz, even under challenging conditions.

         BenchGuide.  The Trimble  BenchGuide  system  provides  mining  machine
operators with precision GPS-based guidance in locating correct bench or terrain
elevations  without  using  survey  stakes.  It can be used with  Trimble  radio
modems,  and  it  provides  accurate,  low-latency  GPS  positions  in  a  local
coordinate system.  BenchGuide provides numerous benefits over traditional bench
elevation systems. It is  maintenance-free  and operates in bad weather or under
dusty conditions that limit the range of other systems.

         TRIMCOMM 900. The rugged  TRIMCOMM 900 is a high-speed  data radio link
for real-time  differential and Real-time Kinematic GPS solutions,  and is ideal
for machine guidance applications. It provides a versatile means of establishing
a wireless  broadcast  network,  supporting  up to four  repeaters  for extended
coverage.  A dual  port  TRIMCOMM  900 makes it  possible  to  maintain  two-way
communications throughout the coverage area, allowing real-time machine position
and office design information updates.

         TrimFlight.  TrimFlight is a sub-meter guidance,  logging,  and mapping
system for  aircraft  that  provides  assurance  of proper  application  of farm
chemicals when used in crop spraying.  TrimFlight  eliminates the need for human
flaggers, and it generates reports and maps providing flight information and the
exact  location  of  application.  TrimFlight's  computer  interface  allows for
integration to other  applications,  such as photogrammetry  and remote sensing.
TrimFlight data is compatible with most major GIS software packages.

         AgGPS 122. The AgGPS 122 is a combined MSK beacon and  differential GPS
receiver  for  sub-meter  agricultural  positioning  applications.   The  system
integrates with other devices such as harvest yield monitors.

         AgGPS 132. The AgGPS 132 is a combined MSK beacon and  differential GPS
receiver plus an L-band satellite  differential receiver, all in one system. The
system  integrates with other devices,  such as harvest yield monitors,  and can
provide sub-meter positions that can be output to yield monitors,  variable-rate
planters,  application  controllers  and field  computers.  A Parallel  Swathing
Option further enhances productivity,  especially in low-visibility  conditions,
and reduces operator fatigue.

Mobile and Timing Technologies Products

Automotive Products

         ACE II GPS Module. The newest miniature board product is the ACE II GPS
Module. This powerful 8-channel architecture,  with the popular Core Module form
factor, is designed for applications requiring high performance at low cost. ACE
II GPS delivers fast GPS signal acquisition and low power consumption, making it
ideal for mobile and battery-powered applications.

         Lassen-SK8.  The Lassen-SK8 board,  based on the Sierra GPS technology,
is used in the automotive and embedded  markets.  Just  two-thirds the size of a
business  card,  this miniature  8-channel GPS board provides high  performance,
fast  acquisition and  reacquisition  time, low power  consumption and two-meter
accuracy.



         Sierra GPS Chipset.  The Sierra GPS Chipset  features  state-of-the-art
performance,  small  size,  low  power  consumption  and low cost.  The  chipset
consists of two ASICs, fully developed software and unmatched technical support.
The two ASICs are  composed of Trimble's  GPS DSP ASIC and RF/IF  down-converter
chip.

         SveeSix.  SVeeSix is a family of GPS boards and assemblies designed for
high-performance  embedded GPS  applications  for tracking.  The family includes
SVeeSix and Sveesix-CM3.

Mobile Positioning Products

         The  Company  offers a line of  products  designed  to meet many of the
needs of customers  who need to monitor and track mobile  assets using  wireless
communications.   These  products  include  GPS  receivers,  and  GPS  receivers
integrated with other  technologies  such as dead  reckoning,  industry-specific
applications  processors,  mobile radio modems,  cellular telephones,  satellite
communications,  mobile data terminals,  communications  control  software,  and
automatic vehicle location (AVL) display software.

         MTT  Antennas.  Trimble  offers a variety of miniature GPS antennas for
mobile or  vehicle  applications.  These  antennas  include  the  Miniature  GPS
Antenna, a compact,  active micropatch antenna with a 5-meter cable and magnetic
mount; the Hard-mount Antenna, a compact,  hard mount, active micropatch antenna
with  single-hole  0.75"  threaded  mount  and TNC  connector;  and the  Rooftop
Antenna,  consisting  of the Bullet II HE antenna  with  23-meter  cable and SMB
adapter.  These  antennas are widely used for vehicle  tracking,  car navigation
systems, and harsh timing environments.

         MTT Starter Kits.  Trimble  offers Starter Kits for developers who want
to evaluate and  integrate  GPS  receivers  and  antennas.  The kits contain all
components required to evaluate the receiver's features and to begin integration
into the  user's  application.  Generally,  a  starter  kit will  include  a GPS
receiver, a GPS antenna, documentation, and required cables and software.

         GPS  Receivers.  The  Company's  product  line  includes the Placer 450
family (receivers  configurable for fleet tracking  applications) and the Placer
455 a GPS receiver  integrated  with a gyroscope  and an odometer  interface for
precise position information.

         Integrated GPS and Cellular Phone  Products.  The Company offers a line
of GPS/cellular products known as GPS Cellular Messenger, targeted at high-value
cargo security, driver compliance, and fleet asset management applications.

         Public  Sector  Services.  In some public safety  sectors,  the Company
provides  certain  services   including   training,   equipment   installations,
integration of third-party radios, and computers and program  management.  Also,
the Company provides AVL subsystems,  consisting of in-vehicle hardware and base
station communications and display software.

         Galaxy Inmarsat-C/GPS. Galaxy is the first system to combine Inmarsat-C
with GPS to provide  rapid  digital  global  communication  with precise  global
positioning.  Inmarsat-C  provides  worldwide,  two-way  store-and-forward  text
communication  via  Packet  Switched  Data  Network  (PSDN) or  Public  Switched
Telephone Network, and fax delivery of inbound messages.  Galaxy is designed for
use by truck,  rail and other  land  applications,  as well as  merchant  ships,
commercial  fishing  boats,  yachts and other vessels  requiring  cost-effective
two-way  communication  links plus precise  position  information for emergency,
safety, navigation and tracking needs.




Timing Products 

         MTT Timing  Products.  The  newest  generation  of GPS  synchronization
devices is the Company's  Thunderbolt GPS disciplined clock. This clock combines
an  8-channel  GPS  receiver,  control  circuitry  and a  high-quality  ovenized
oscillator  on a single  board.  This  level of  integration  provides  superior
performance   to   precise   timing   applications,   such  as   CDMA   wireless
infrastructure, Enhanced 911 (E911) positioning, and wireless local loop.

         Smart Antennas.  Trimble's family of smart antennas  includes  Palisade
and  AcutimeII.  Smart  antennas  combine a GPS  receiver  and an antenna in one
package.  They provide OEMs and system  integrators with a "plug-in" GPS module,
allowing them to quickly and easily add GPS  capability to their product  lines.
AcutimeII   offers   integrators  a   stand-alone   GPS  time  source  with  one
microsecond-level  accuracy at a fraction of the cost of other time sources with
similar performance.  Palisade, based on Trimble's Sierra GPS technology,  is an
8-channel  receiver  designed to provide accurate  synchronization  for wireless
voice and data networks.

Commercial Air Transport Products

         Trimble 8100. This product family is an IFR-certified  C129-A1 aviation
navigation  system and provides  GPS  position,  velocity and course data,  plus
flight  management  information  for the business,  commercial and air transport
markets. It incorporates an electronically  replaceable navigation database. The
system is capable of extensive  interface with other compatible aircraft systems
to drive flight and other instruments.  The Trimble 8100 is approved for Primary
Oceanic Navigation and nonprecision IFR Approaches.

         Honeywell/Trimble  HT9100/HT9000.  These  products  are  developed  and
marketed  in  partnership  with  Honeywell  Incorporated  and are  true  GPS FMS
systems,  that enable air  transport  customers to upgrade  existing  analog air
transport and commercial aircraft to modern GPS navigation.  Used by many of the
world's leading  airlines,  these products are in continuous  service around the
world on a daily basis.  The HT9100 is uniquely  capable of  interfacing to both
analog and digital Flight  Instruments  and Autopilot  Systems.  The system also
meets the requirement of TSO C-129 for GPS  Navigation,  as well as, Oceanic and
Remote Primary Means Operations to FAA notice 8110.60.

Military Aerospace Systems Products

         ForceTM  GPS Module  Series.  The Force  series of GPS modules has been
developed for embedded integration into high-performance land, sea, aircraft and
missile  applications.  A variety  of  standard  and  custom  form  factors  are
available,  including VME and SEM. Both Standard  Positioning  Service (SPS) and
Precise  Positioning  Service  (PPS) models are  available,  with the PPS models
correcting for Selective  Availability (SA) and using Anti-Spoof (A-S) augmented
with  Receiver  Autonomous   Integrity  Monitoring  (RAIM)  to  protect  against
satellite or system  anomalies  and signal  spoofing.  The newest models in this
family are designed in accordance  with the GPS Joint  Program  Office (GPS JPO)
GPS  Receiver   Application  Module  (GRAM)  Guidelines  for  military  avionics
platforms.

         TA-1. This 12-channel,  all-in-view,  Precise Positioning Service (PPS)
receiver is currently under review by the Federal  Aviation  Administration  for
certification  under FAA TSO  C-129a.  It has  state-of-the-art  technology  and
shares a common  architecture  with other Trimble GPS PPS  receivers.  The TA-12
receiver was  designed  and  developed  for  military  and  commercial  aviation
applications  requiring a robust GPS receiver for  integration  with existing or
new Flight Management Systems that required IFR certified  operations and/or GPS
capabilities.



         Cargo Utility GPS Receiver (CUGR).  Introduced in 1997, this product is
a  Dzus-mount  (P)Y GPS  navigational  system for  worldwide  military  aviation
operations.  It provides U.S.  military  helicopter  pilots Precise  Positioning
Service GPS navigation  capabilities,  and meets the  performance  standards for
Instrument Flight Rules for en route, terminal and non-precision approach phases
of flight.

         TRIMPACK and Centurion.  These are portable,  ruggedized,  handheld GPS
products  that are  approximately  the size of a pair of  binoculars  (120 cubic
inches).    Position    information   is   displayed   on   a   four-line,    20
character-per-line,  backlit LCD screen.  Troops  deployed in  Operation  Desert
Storm used TRIMPACK units to determine their location in the featureless desert.
The  Centurion  is  an  upgraded  PPS  receiver  that  provides  full  Selective
Availability and Anti-Spoof performance.

         TANS Series.  The Trimble Advanced  Navigation  System (TANS) series of
products includes a ruggedized  sensor consisting of the basic GPS receiver,  an
antenna,  and a digital  interface to transmit GPS  information to various other
devices; a further ruggedized version with enhanced tolerance for vibration; and
a version that is upgradable to PPS. The TANS series has been sold  primarily to
the military as a remote mounted GPS navigation  sensor and for vehicles piloted
from a remote station.

Sales and Marketing

         The Company  currently  has nine  regional  sales offices in the United
States and six in Europe, as well as offices in Australia, Canada, China, Japan,
Mexico, New Zealand, Russia and Singapore. The Company has substantial variation
in the needs of its sales and distribution channels, which are rapidly changing.

         Domestic. The Company sells its products in the United States primarily
through dealers,  distributors and authorized representatives,  supplemented and
supported by the  Company's  direct  sales  force.  The Company has also pursued
alliances and OEM relationships with established  foreign and domestic companies
to assist it in penetrating certain markets.

         International.  Trimble markets to end-users  through a network of more
than 100 dealers and distributors in more than 85 countries.  Distributors carry
one or more product  lines and are  generally  limited to selling  either in one
country or in a portion  of a country.  Trimble  occasionally  grants  exclusive
rights to market certain products within specified countries.

         Sales  to  unaffiliated  customers  in  foreign  locations  represented
approximately 46%, 46%, and 47% of Trimble's total revenue in fiscal years 1998,
1997  and  1996,  respectively.   Sales  to  unaffiliated  customers  in  Europe
represented  25%,  22%,  and 21% of net  revenue in such  periods,  and sales to
unaffiliated  customers in the Far East  represented  13%, 15%, and 19% of total
revenue in such periods, respectively.

         Support.  The Company's  general terms and  conditions  for sale of its
products  include a one-year  warranty.  Air Transport  products,  however,  are
generally  sold with a basic three year warranty  period with an additional  two
year warranty sold with some units,  while select military  programs may require
extended  warranty  periods.  The  Company  supports  its  products  on a  board
replacement  level from locations in the United Kingdom,  Singapore,  Japan, and
New  Zealand,  as well as  Sunnyvale,  California.  The  Company's  dealers  and
distributors also provide  factory-trained  third-party  maintenance,  including
warranty  and  nonwarranty   repairs.   The  Company   reimburses   dealers  and
distributors for all authorized warranty repairs they perform.  The Company does
not derive a significant portion of its revenues from support activities.



Competition

     * In the markets  currently being addressed by the Company,  competition is
intense.  Within  each  of its  markets,  the  Company  has  encountered  direct
competition  from both  foreign and  domestic  GPS  suppliers,  and expects that
competition will continue to intensify.  Indirect  competition is also beginning
to emerge, particularly from semiconductor and consumer electronic manufacturers
that are  anticipating  the  emergence of  high-volume  consumer-orientated  GPS
applications.  Specific competitors in each of the markets the Company currently
addresses are mentioned in the section  "Industry  Segments." Due to competitive
pressure,   prices  of  certain  of  the   Company's   products   have  declined
substantially since their introduction,  and increased  competition is likely to
result  in  further  price  reduction  and loss of  market  share,  which  could
adversely affect the Company's net revenue.

         A number  of  these  markets  are  also  served  primarily  by  non-GPS
technologies,  many of which are currently more accepted and less expensive than
GPS-based  systems.  The success of GPS-based  systems  against these  competing
technologies  depends  in part on  whether  GPS  systems  can offer  significant
improvements in  productivity,  accuracy,  and  reliability in a  cost-effective
manner, as well as continued market education about such products.

         The  principal  competitive  factors in the  markets  that the  Company
addresses include ease of use, physical characteristics (including size, weight,
and power consumption),  product features (including  differential GPS), product
performance,   product  reliability,  price,  size  of  installed  base,  vendor
reputation  and  financial  resources.  The Company  believes  that its products
currently  compete  favorably  with  other  products  on most  of the  foregoing
factors,  though the Company may be at a competitive  disadvantage against other
companies having greater financial, marketing, service and support resources.

     * The  Company  believes  that its ability to compete  successfully  in the
future against  existing and additional  competitors  will depend largely on its
ability to provide  systems and  products  having  significantly  differentiated
features and improved  cost-benefit  ratios over those provided by  competitors.
There can be no  assurances  that the  Company  will be able to  implement  this
strategy  successfully,  or that the  Company's  competitors,  many of whom have
substantially greater resources than the Company, will not apply those resources
to compete  successfully against the Company on the basis of systems and product
features as well as cost-benefit ratios of their products.

Research and Development

         The Company's  leadership  position in commercial GPS technology is the
result, in large part, of its strong commitment to research and development. The
Company invests  heavily in developing GPS  technology,  including the design of
proprietary  software  and  integrated  circuits  for GPS  receivers.  Moreover,
Trimble develops substantial systems expertise and user interfaces for a variety
of  applications.  Below is a table of  Trimble's  expenditures  on research and
development over the last three years.



                              January 1,        January 2,      December 31,
Years ended                      1999              1998             1996
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(In thousands)

Research and development         $ 44,826          $ 37,097          $ 32,716


         Often a new product is developed  initially for an individual  customer
who is willing to  purchase  development-stage  products.  The  Company has used
feedback  from such initial  customers  as a primary  source of  information  in
designing and refining its  products-and  in defining,  with greater  precision,
customer needs in emerging market areas. During 1996, the Company established an
advanced  technology  laboratory  where it  devotes a portion  of its  corporate
research and  development  expenditures  to advance core GPS  technology and its
integration into synergistic  technologies such as communications,  sensors, and
computing  technologies.  These  technological  advances are sometimes supported
financially through strategic alliances and partnerships.

     * The Company expects that a significant portion of future revenues will be
derived from sales of newly  introduced  products.  Consequently,  the Company's
future  success  depends in part on its  ability  to  continue  to  develop  and
manufacture new competitive products with timely market  introduction.  Advances
in product technology will require continued substantial  investment in research
and  development in order to maintain and enhance the Company's  market position
and achieve high gross profit margins.  Development and manufacturing  schedules
for technology products are difficult to predict,  and there can be no assurance
that the Company will achieve timely initial customer sales of new products. The
timely  availability  of these  products  in  volume,  and their  acceptance  by
customers,  are  important to the future  success of the  Company.  In addition,
certain of the  Company's  products  are  subject to  governmental  and  similar
certifications  before  they can be sold.  For  example,  FAA  certification  is
required for all  aviation  products.  An  inability or delay in obtaining  such
certifications could have an adverse effect on the Company's operating results.

Manufacturing

     The  Company  seeks to be a  low-cost  producer  and to serve the growth in
demand for  GPS-based  products  and  systems  through  flexible  automation  of
assembly lines, semiconductor  integration,  and the design of products around a
common core of receivers.
 
     The Company's  manufacturing  operations  consist primarily of assembly and
testing of products, material and procurement management,  quality assurance and
manufacturing  engineering.  The Company  operates surface mount technolgy (SMT)
assembly equipment in its manufacturing facility.
 
     The  Company  maintains  quality  control   procedures  for  its  products,
including  testing  during  design,  prototype,  and pilot stages of production,
inspection of incoming raw materials and subassemblies,  and testing of finished
products using automated test equipment in strife chambers.
  



     The Company has historically  manufactured its products in relatively small
quantities.  However, the Company must successfully  transition to higher volume
manufacturing.  The  Company  is  currently  negotiating  to  commence  contract
manufacturing with respect to certain of its products.

     The  Company  takes a modular  and  upgradable  approach  to its  products,
building  around a common core of GPS  receivers  with  customized  software and
hardware  systems to analyze and  present  position  data.  The  Company's  core
receiver  technology has evolved since the development of its first GPS receiver
product in 1984,  as the  Company has worked to reduce the size,  weight,  power
consumption and cost of the basic GPS receiver. In this process, the Company has
designed its own semi-custom,  single-chip GPS processor. When possible, though,
the Company attempts to utilize standard parts and components, including RAM and
ROM devices that are available from multiple vendors.
    
Backlog

         The Company believes that due to the volume of products  delivered from
shelf inventories and the shortening of product delivery  schedules,  backlog is
not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects.  Therefore, the Company
believes that backlog  information  is not material to an  understanding  of its
business.

Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses

         The Company  currently  holds 215 U.S.  patents and 18 related  foreign
patents that expire at various  dates no earlier than 2005. It also has over 180
U.S. and foreign patent  applications  pending.  The Company currently  licenses
certain  peripheral   aspects  of  its  technology  from  Spectrum   Information
Technologies and GeoResearch.

         Although the Company  believes that its patents and trademarks may have
value,  there can be no  assurance  that those  patents and  trademarks,  or any
additional  patents and  trademarks  that may be  obtained  in the future,  will
provide  meaningful  protection from competition.  The Company actively develops
and  protects  its  intellectual   property  through  a  program  of  patenting,
enforcement, and licensing.

         The Company does not believe that any of its products  infringe  patent
or other proprietary rights of third parties, but it cannot be certain that they
do  not  do  so.  (See  Note  15  to  Consolidated   Financial  Statements.)  If
infringement is alleged, legal defense costs could be material, and there can be
no  assurance  that  the  necessary  licenses  could  be  obtained  on  terms or
conditions that would not have a material adverse effect on the Company.

         In the second  quarter of 1997,  the Company  expanded a prior  license
agreement  with Pioneer  Electronic  Corporation  for certain of the  technology
contained in its TANS product for  inclusion in in-vehicle  navigation  products
sold in Japan and received a $2,222,000  licensing fee in consideration  for the
expansion of the original license.

         The  Company   expects   that  it  will  enter  into  other   licensing
arrangements relating to its technologies.

         "Trimble" with the sextant logo,  "TrimbleNavigation,"  "GeoExplorer,"
"Flightmate,"  "GPS Total  Station,"  "Scout GPS," and "Aspen" are trademarks of
Trimble Navigation Limited, registered in the United States and other countries.
Additional  trademarks are pending.  Trimble Navigation Limited acknowledges the
trademarks  of other  organizations  for their  respective  products or services
mentioned in this document.



Employees

         As of January 1, 1999,  the  Company  employed  1,291  persons:  346 in
research  and  product  development,   346  in  sales  and  marketing,   423  in
manufacturing,  and 176 in administration and finance. Of these, 73 were located
in Europe, 173 in New Zealand, 16 in Japan, 12 in Singapore, 2 in Australia, and
1,015 in the United  States.  The Company also currently  employs  temporary and
contract  personnel.  Use of temporary and contract personnel has decreased over
the last year, and is not included in the above headcount  numbers.  Competition
in  recruiting  personnel is intense.  The Company  believes  that its continued
ability  to  attract  and  retain  highly  skilled  management,  marketing,  and
technical  personnel is essential to its future growth and success.  None of the
Company's  employees  is  represented  by a labor  union,  and the  Company  has
experienced no work stoppages.

         The Company's success depends in part on the continued contribution and
long-term  effectiveness  of its other  executive  officers  and key  technical,
sales,  marketing,  support,  research  and  development,   manufacturing,   and
administrative personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace.




Executive Officers of the Registrant

The names,  ages, and positions of the Company's  executive officers as of March
26, 1999 are as follows:

               Name                    Age   Position                
- -----------------------------------    ---   ----------------------------------

Steven W. Berglund...............      47    President, Chief Executive Officer
Bradford W. Parkinson............      64    Current Director, served as 
                                             President and Cheif Executive 
                                             Officer from August 1998 to March

Mary Ellen P. Genovese...........      39    Vice President, Finance, Chief 
                                             Financial Officer and Corporate 
                                             Controller
Charles E. Armiger, Jr...........      44    Vice President, Worldwide Sales
David M. Hall....................      50    Group Vice President, Mobile and  
                                             Timing  Technologies
Patrick J. Hehir.................      37    Senior Vice President, Chief 
                                             Manufacturing Officer
John E. Huey.....................      49    Treasurer
Ronald C. Hyatt..................      58    Group Vice President, 
                                             Precision Positioning
Bruce E. Peetz...................      47    Vice President, Advance Technology
                                             and Systems

         All officers serve at the  discretion of the Board of Directors.  There
are no family  relationships  between any of the directors or executive officers
of the Company.

 Steven W.  Berglund  joined  Trimble as President  and Chief  Executive
Officer in March 1999. Mr. Berglund has a diverse  background with experience in
engineering,  manufacturing,  finance  and  global  operations.  Most  recently,
Berglund was president of Spectra Precision, Inc. Spectra Precision, with global
sales  of  approximately  $200  million,  develops  and  manufactures  surveying
instruments,  laser based construction alignment  instruments,  and construction
machine control systems.  Spectra  Precision is a subsidiary of  Spectra-Physics
AB. During his fourteen years within Spectra-Physics, which was an early Silicon
Valley pioneer in the development of laser systems,  Mr. Berglund held a variety
of positions that included 4 years based in Europe.  Prior to Spectra Precision,
Mr. Berglund spent a number of years in the early 1980's at Varian Associates in
Palo Alto where he held a number of planning and manufacturing  roles. Varian is
a technology  company  specializing in microwave  communications,  semiconductor
manufacturing   equipment,   analytical  instruments,   and  medical  diagnostic
equipment.  Mr. Berglund began his career as a process engineer at Eastman Kodak
in  Rochester,  New York. He attended the  University of Oslo and  University of
Minnesota where he received a B.S. in chemical  engineering in 1974. He received
his MBA from the University of Rochester in 1977.

     Bradford W.  Parkinson  has been a member of  Trimble's  Board of Directors
since  1984 and has  served as a  consultant  to the  Company  since  1982.  Dr.
Parkinson is currently a professor at Stanford  University  and holds the Edward
C. Wells Endowed Chair in the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics. He was
on leave of absence from Stanford  while serving as Trimble's  President and CEO
from August 1998 to March 1999. Prior to joining  Trimble,  Dr. Parkinson served




as an Air Force colonel. He created and ran the NavStar GPS Joint Program Office
from 1972 through  1978,  during  which time he received the Defense  Department
Superior Performance Award as the best program director in the Air Force. As the
program director, he led the definition,  development,  launch, and test of GPS,
including five types of user  equipment.  After retiring from the Air Force,  he
became a professor of mechanical  engineering  at Colorado  State  University in
1978 for one year.  Beginning in 1979,  Parkinson served as group vice president
for  Rockwell  International.  There  he  directed  business  development  and a
300-person advanced engineering  organization.  From 1980 to 1984 he was a group
vice  president  and general  manager for  Intermetrics,  where he directed five
divisions. He also was president of the industrial subsidiary,  Plantstar, which
sold  productivity  monitoring  equipment.  Dr.  Parkinson  is  a  distinguished
graduate of the U.S.  Naval Academy and has an M.S.  degree in  aeronautics  and
astronautics  from  Massachusetts  Institute of Technology  (MIT) and a Ph.D. in
aeronautics and  astronautics  from Stanford  University.  He is a distinguished
graduate  of  the  U.S.  Naval  War  College;  was  head  of the  department  of
astronautics  and  computer  science at the U.S. Air Force  Academy;  and was an
academic instructor for the USAF Test Pilot School.

          Mary Ellen P. Genovese  joined  Trimble as controller of manufacturing
operations  in  December  1992.  From 1994 to 1997 she served as  business  unit
controller  for software and  component  technologies,  and for the tracking and
communications  business unit. She was appointed corporate controller in October
1997 and vice  president of finance and corporate  controller in February  1998.
Currently, she is the interim chief financial officer. Prior to joining Trimble,
Mrs.  Genovese  was chief  financial  officer  and  president  for Minton Co., a
distributing  company to the commercial  building market,  from 1991 to 1992. In
her position as chief financial  officer she was responsible for the accounting,
management  reporting and bank and investor financing for the company.  In March
of 1992,  the board of  directors  asked her to assume the role of  president to
reorganize  the  company,   including  the  divestiture  of  the   manufacturing
operations.  Prior  to  1991,  she  worked  for 10  years  with  General  Signal
Corporation. She was appointed European financial controller in July 1990, where
she was responsible for the company's three European operations, Germany, France
and the United Kingdom.  From 1988 to 1990 she served as unit financial officer,
for General  Signal's  Semiconductor  Systems  Division.  She held several other
management  positions including  materials manager,  controller of manufacturing
operation and international  projects  controller for General Signal's Ultratech
Stepper  Division  from  1984 to  1988.  Mrs.  Genovese  is a  Certified  Public
Accountant  and received her B.S. in  accounting  from  Fairfield  University in
Connecticut in 1981.

     Charles  E.  Armiger,  Jr.  joined  Trimble  in  January  1989 as Sales and
Marketing Manager for aviation products.  From January 1991 to December 1993, he
served as Director of U.S. Domestic Sales. Mr. Armiger held the post of Director
of Sales for North  American  West from January 1993 to November  1994.  Then in
December 1994 he moved to Trimble's European office in Hook,  England,  to serve
as Director of Sales for Europe,  the Middle East and Africa. In September 1996,
he was appointed to serve as Vice  President for Commercial  Systems  Sales.  In
September  1998, Mr.  Armiger was appointed  Vice President of Worldwide  Sales.
Prior to joining  Trimble,  he was  Director  of Sales and  Marketing  for ARNAV
Systems,  Inc. He received a B.S.  degree in Business from the University of the
State of New York, Regents College, in 1996.

     David M. Hall joined  Trimble in February  1994 as Managing  Director,  OEM
products.  In November 1996 he was appointed Vice President and General  Manager
of  the  Software  and  Component   Technologies   business  unit,  focusing  on
application and operating  system  software,  component board level, and chipset
volume aspects of the GPS business. In November 1998 he was appointed Group Vice
President of the Mobile and Timing  Technologies  business unit, managing mobile
positioning and communications,  timing,  automotive,  military,  and commercial
aviation  businesses.   Previously,   he  worked  for  Raychem  Corporation  for
twenty-one years in a variety of positions and divisions.  He served as Director
of Sales  and  Marketing  for the  Automotive  Division,  National  Distribution
Manager  for the  Electronics  Sector,  and  Director of  Marketing  and Product




Management  for the  Interconnect  Systems  Division,  as well as District Sales
Manager,  Area Sales Manager, and Operations Manager. Mr. Hall received his B.S.
degree in Industrial  Technology in 1971 and his MBA in Marketing and Finance in
1973  from the  California  Polytechnic  State  University  in San Luis  Obispo,
California.

         Patrick  J.  Hehir  joined  Trimble  in  February  1999 as senior  vice
president and chief manufacturing  officer.  Prior to Trimble,  Hehir worked for
Dovatron  International  where he held several  positions  during his eight year
tenure including,  quality/program  manager,  director of operations,  executive
director of operations  and vice  president of worldwide  business  development.
Dovatron,  a $1 billion  international  manufacturing  company  with  offices in
Ireland,  Mexico,  Asia,  Eastern  Europe and the U.S.,  serves  clients such as
Hewlett-Packard,  Hughes Corporation,  I.B.M., and Lucent Technologies. Prior to
Dovatron,  he  worked  for  Western  Digital  in  several  positions  including,
process/quality  engineer,  quality  improvement  process  coordinator,   senior
quality  engineer  and quality  manager.  Hehir also held  process  engineering,
production and quality  positions at Pulse  Engineering in Ireland.  Hehir has a
broad  range  of  educational   qualifications   from  technical   colleges  and
universities  in Ireland and the United  Kingdom.  He  graduated  from  Galway's
Institute of Technology with an electronic  engineering  certificate in 1981. He
received a quality assurance  post-graduate diploma from the Galway's University
College in 1984. In 1987, Hehir received a production and operations  management
certificate from the United Kingdom's Institute of Industrial Engineering, and a
post-graduate   diploma  in  health,  safety  and  social  welfare  from  Cork's
University College in 1993. Hehir also served on Ireland's  technical  committee
for the development of the environmental system standard,  ISO 14000,  published
by the International Standards Organization.

         John E. Huey joined  Trimble in 1993 as Director  Corporate  Credit and
Collections, promoted to Assistant Treasurer in 1995 and Treasurer in 1996. Past
experience includes two years with ENTEX Information  Services,  five years with
National Refractories & Minerals Corporation (formerly Kaiser Refractories), and
thirteen years with Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Sales, Inc. He has held positions
in  Credit  Management,  Market  Research,  Inventory  Control,  Sales and as an
Assistant   Controller.   Mr.  Huey   received  his  B.A.   degree  in  Business
Administration in 1971 from Thiel College in Greenville, Pennsylvania and an MBA
in 1972 from West Virginia University in Morgantown, West Virginia.

     Ronald  C.  Hyatt   joined   Trimble  in  August   1983  as   Director   of
Instrumentation Products. In 1985, he was appointed Vice President for Surveying
and  Mapping   Products,   managing  the  marketing  and  application   software
development  aspects of the business  until  February  1993.  In January 1997 he
returned to the Company as Senior Vice  President of Trimble  Labs,  focusing on
next-generation  ASIC developments.  In November 1998, Mr. Hyatt was promoted to
Group Vice President of Precision  Positioning.  He is responsible  for managing
land survey, marine, marine survey, mapping/GIS, and mining,  construction,  and
agricultural  applications.  Prior to  joining  Trimble,  Mr.  Hyatt  worked for
Hewlett-Packard  from  1964  to  1983  in  various  engineering  and  management
positions,  focusing on precision frequency and time instrumentation.  Mr. Hyatt
received his B.S. degree in electrical engineering from Texas Tech University in
1962 and his M.S. degree in electrical  engineering from Stanford  University in
1963.

         Bruce E. Peetz joined  Trimble in June 1988 as Program  Manager for GPS
Systems.  From January 1990 to January 1994 he served as Development Manager for
commercial  dual-frequency  products,  and from January 1993 to December 1995 he
served as  Engineering  Manager for Surveying and Core  Engineering.  In January
1996 he was  appointed  General  Manager of the Land  Surveying  unit,  and from
February  1998  started the Advanced  Systems  division as General  Manager.  In
October  1998 he was named Vice  President of Advanced  Technology  and Systems,
consolidating  Systems and Trimble  Laboratories.  Prior to joining Trimble, Mr.
Peetz served in a variety of engineering and management  positions during eleven




years at Hewlett  Packard.  Mr. Peetz  received his BSEE from the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology (MIT) in 1973, and did graduate work at UCLA.

                 
Item 2.  Properties

         The  Company   currently  leases  and  occupies  sixteen  buildings  in
Sunnyvale, California, totaling approximately 396,000 square feet. The leases on
these buildings  expire at various dates through 2003. In addition,  the Company
leases and occupies three  buildings in Austin,  Texas,  totaling  approximately
50,600 square feet,  to  manufacture  GPS-based  aviation  products;  the leases
expire  at  various   dates   through   2001.   The   Company   also   leases  a
45,000-square-foot   facility  in  Christchurch,   New  Zealand,   for  software
development.  The Company's two largest international sales offices are those in
the United  Kingdom  (13,700  square feet) and Japan  (5,900  square  feet).  In
addition, the Company leases sales offices in Australia,  Brazil, China, France,
Germany,  Mexico, Spain, Singapore, and Russia, and in various cities throughout
the United States. The Company's  international  office leases expire at various
dates  through  2005.  Certain of the leases have renewal  options.  The Company
believes that its facilities are adequate to support its current and anticipated
near-term future operations.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

         The information with respect to legal proceedings required by this item
is  included  in  Part  II,  Item  8,  Note  15 to  the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements, hereof under the caption "Pending Matters."


Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

         Not applicable.






                                     PART II


Item 5.   Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

         The  Company's  Common  Stock is traded on the Nasdaq  National  Market
under the  symbol  TRMB.  The  following  table  sets  forth,  for the  quarters
indicated,  the range of high and low  closing  sales  prices for the  Company's
Common Stock on the Nasdaq National Market:

                                    High             Low      

                  1998:
                      Fourth        10 1/4           7
                      Third         16 3/8           9 1/4
                      Second        19 13/16         13 7/8
                      First         24 3/8           17 1/4

                  1997:
                      Fourth        24 5/16          18 1/8
                      Third         21 5/8           16 1/2
                      Second        19               10 7/8
                      First         14 3/4           11 1/4


         The Company had 1,664 shareholders of record as of March 15, 1999.

         The  Company's  stock price is subject to  significant  volatility.  If
revenues or earnings fail to meet the expectations of the investment  community,
there could be an immediate and significant  impact on the trading price for the
Company's  stock.  Due to stock  market  forces  that are beyond  the  Company's
control,  and due also to the nature of the Company's business,  such shortfalls
can be sudden.

         The  Company has never paid cash  dividends  on its Common  Stock.  The
Company  presently  intends to retain earnings to finance the development of the
Company's business,  and does not presently intend to declare any cash dividends
in the foreseeable  future.  Under the Company's current  $50,000,000  revolving
line of credit  agreement,  the  Company is  restricted  from  paying  dividends
without the lender's  consent.  Under the  Company's  Note  Purchase  Agreement,
pursuant to which the Company issued $30,000,000 of its subordinated  promissory
notes in June 1994, the Company is also  restricted from paying  dividends.  See
Notes 5 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8.







 Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

 HISTORICAL FINANCIAL REVIEW

 Summary Consolidated Statements of Operations Data






Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
         of Operations

Management Changes and Subsequent Events

     Charles R. Trimble, the Company's founder,  resigned as President and Chief
Executive  Officer in August of 1998. Mr. Trimble remains on the Company's Board
of  Directors  and  serves as a  consultant  to the  Company.  Dr.  Bradford  W.
Parkinson, a member of the Board of Directors since 1984 and a consultant to the
Company  since  1982,  assumed the role of  President  and CEO while the Company
conducted a search for a permanent replacement. On March 17, 1999, subsequent to
the financial  statement date Steven W. Berglund joined the Company as President
and CEO. Dr.  Robert S.  Cooper,  a member of the  Company's  Board of Directors
since 1989,  was appointed to serve as the Chairman of the Board of Directors in
August of 1998.

         During  the third  quarter  of  fiscal  1998,  the  Board of  Directors
performed  an  intensive  investigation  and  review  of each of the  individual
business lines of the Company. Under the direction of Dr. Parkinson, the Company
has undertaken  actions that focus on the review,  restructuring and elimination
of unprofitable  businesses,  the implementation of stronger cost controls,  the
reorganization   of  business  units  and  the   improvement  of   manufacturing
efficiencies.  As  part  of  the  changes  taken  to  strengthen  the  Company's
competitive position in the marketplace,  a decision was made to discontinue the
Company's  General  Aviation  Division,  located in Austin,  Texas. In the third
quarter of 1998, the Company  incurred a charge of $19.9 million  related to the
discontinued operation. (See Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements).

         In the third  quarter and  continuing  in the fourth  quarter of fiscal
1998,  Trimble  realigned  its  management  structure,   reduced  its  worldwide
workforce by  approximately  8 percent,  reduced its  facilities  and wrote down
certain  assets.  (See note 6 of the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements).  The
Company took steps to further strengthen and improve employee  relationships and
incentives by extending the period of exercisability for all current outstanding
employee stock options from five years and three months to ten years,  effective
as of  November  3, 1998.  The  Company is  evaluating  further  cost  reduction
programs to improve its overall cost structure.

         The  realignment of the management  structure is expected to strengthen
the  relationships  between the  Company's  businesses  and product lines and to
provide the Company  with a better  focus on the markets it serves.  The Company
realigned its Business Units,  consolidated its worldwide sales team and created
an international business development function.

         The Company's  restructuring  included renaming its Business Units. The
Commercial Systems Group has been renamed Precision Positioning Group (PPG). The
Software and  Component  Technologies  group has been renamed  Mobile and Timing
Technologies  (MTT). The Aerospace Group no longer exists as a separate unit and
the  General  Aviation  Division  has  been  discontinued.  (See  Note  3 of the
Consolidated  Financial  Statements).  Mobile  Positioning  products  previously
reported under the Commercial System Group are now managed by MTT. Air transport
systems and military systems products  previously managed by the Aerospace Group
are now managed by MTT. PPG continues to be  responsible  for the  management of
Land Surveying,  Mapping and GIS, Marine Surveying and Mining,  Construction and
Agriculture (previously referred to as Precise Positioning). MTT continues to be
responsible  for the  management  of  Automotive  and  Timing.  The  discussions
throughout  this document are based on the management  structure that existed at
the end of the year.


         
     The Board of Directors  has declared a dividend  distribution  of Preferred
shares Purchase Rights to shareholders of record on March 1, 1999.

     The Rights are designed to protect and maximize the value of your  interest
in the Company.  We believe that the Rights Plan, while not intending to prevent
a takeover,  will provide protection to you, our shareholders,  from the abusive
and coercive tactics that often occur in takeover attempts.

     The Rights contain  provisions to protect  shareholders  in the event of an
unsolicited  takeover attempt through such methods as a gradual  accumulation of
shares in of 15% or more of the outstanding  stock followed by a two-tier tender
offer or other tactics that do not treat all shareholders equally. These tactics
may  unfairly  pressure  shareholders,  deprive  them of the full value of their
shares,  or squeeze them out of their  investment  without  giving them any real
choice.  With over 2,000 companies  having  established  rights plans to protect
shareholders,  we  consider  the Rights Plan to be the best  available  means of
protecting  the  full  value  of  your  investment  in the  Company,  while  not
preventing a fair acquisition offer for the Company.

     The Rights will initially  trade with shares of the Company's  Common Stock
and have no  impact on the way in which you can  presently  trade the  Company's
shares. As explained in detail in the attached Summary of Rights, the Rights are
not exercisable until ten days after a person or group announces  acquisition of
15% or more of the Company's  outstanding  Common Stock or the commencement of a
tender  offer which would  result in  ownership of the person or group of 15% or
more of the outstanding stock.

         During fiscal year 1997,  and effective as of the Company's 1997 fiscal
year-end,  the Company  changed  from a calendar  fiscal  year-end and adopted a
52-53 week fiscal year ending on the Friday  nearest to December  31,  which for
fiscal 1998 was January 1, 1999.  The Company does not expect the effects of any
differences  due to the change of fiscal years to have a material  impact on the
Company's financial position,  results of operations, or cash flows. The Company
has not restated or adjusted its prior  financial  statements on this new fiscal
year basis. (See Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements).

RESULTS OF CONTINUING OPERATIONS

         In 1998,  the  Company's  annual  revenues from  continuing  operations
increased  slightly to $260.3  million from $258.9 million in 1997. In 1998, the
Company had a net loss from continuing  operations of $26.6 million,  or ($1.18)
diluted loss per share,  compared to net income from  continuing  operations  of
$18.5 million,  or $0.81 diluted earnings per share, in 1997. The total net loss
for fiscal  1998,  including  discontinued  operations,  was $53.4  million,  or
($2.38) diluted loss per share.



         The  following  table sets forth,  for the periods  indicated,  certain
financial data as a percentage of total revenue:



         Revenue. In 1998, total revenue increased to $260.3 million from $258.9
million in 1997, which  represents a percentage  increase of less than 1%. Total
revenue  increased in 1997 to $258.9 million from $221.9 million in 1996,  which
represents a  percentage  increase of 17%.  The  following  table breaks out the
Company's revenues by industry market:



Precision Positioning Group

         The Precision  Positioning  Group  revenues had a growth rate of 16% in
1998 over 1997. The 1998 increase compared to 1997 is primarily from revenues in
the land  surveying,  marine  surveying,  mapping and GIS  systems,  and mining,
construction, and agriculture markets. The increase in land surveying was due to
the continued strong customer acceptance of the Company's GPS Total Station 4800
and 4700  products.  Also,  the increase in marine  survey,  mapping and GIS and
mining,  construction  and  agriculture  reflects  increased  demand  for  these
products.

         In the fourth  quarter of 1998,  the FCC  suspended  the  processing of
certain  Real-time  Kinematic  product  line  license   applications  pending  a
resolution of certain frequency  interference  issues which it has reviewed with
the Company.  The FCC has recently  reinstated  the  processing of these license
applications,  based upon the Company  providing certain upgrades at its cost to
purchasers of earlier products, making certain product modifications intended to
decrease  the  likelihood  of any radio  frequency  interference  and  providing




guidance to users of its equipment in avoiding the interference with these users
of the frequency  spectrum and the agreement to help teach  customers to be good
radio citizens.

         The  Precision  Positioning  Group  revenues had a growth rate of 1% in
1997 over 1996.  The 1997  increase,  compared to 1996, was primarily in mapping
and GIS systems, as well as mining,  agriculture and construction  markets.  The
increase  in  mapping  and GIS  systems  market  came from  strong  sales of the
Pathfinder  product line, and mining,  construction,  and  agriculture  products
continued to grow from 1996.

Mobile and Timing Technologies

         The Mobile and Timing Technologies  revenues decreased 19% in 1998 from
1997. The 1998 decrease is primarily in automotive, commercial air transport and
military aerospace systems. The softness in the automotive market was due to the
financial  difficulties  of  a  major  customer  and  a  delay  in  new  product
introductions.  The  commercial  air  transport  decrease  was due to less  than
anticipated demand from Honeywell and the military aerospace system decrease was
due to the large dollar  shipment on the CUGR contract in the fourth  quarter of
1997, which was not repeated in 1998.

     * Military sales are highly dependent on contracts that are subject to
government approval and are,  therefore,  expected to continue to fluctuate from
period to period.  The Company  believes that  opportunities in this market have
been substantially reduced by cutbacks in U.S. and foreign military spending.

         The Mobile and Timing Technologies revenues had a growth rate of 44% in
1997 over 1996. The increase was primarily in the mobile positioning, commercial
air transport, and military aerospace systems.

         The Mobile and Timing  Technologies  increase in 1997 was due primarily
to the Company recognizing $1.8 million in revenues from a development agreement
in connection with an irrevocable  nonrefundable,  nonrecurring  engineering fee
recorded in the third quarter of 1997 and a  nonrecurring  one-time $2.2 million
technology  license  fee  recorded  in the second  quarter of 1997 from  Pioneer
Electronic  Corporation  in connection  with  expansion of its prior license for
in-car  navigation.  Mobile and Timing  Technologies  revenues also increased in
1997  compared to 1996 due to the  resumption  of  shipments in 1997 to American
Mobile Satellite Corporation (AMSC), a company based in Reston,  Virginia,  that
provides a variety of voice and data services via satellite.  In March 1995, the
Company  signed a large  contract  for the  supply  of  Galaxy/GPS  land  mobile
satellite terminals to AMSC. Late in 1995, AMSC requested that the Company cease

delivery,  due in part to delays in AMSC's  completion  of  software.  Shipments
under the original  contract were halted in the fourth  quarter of 1995, and the
contract was amended.  Mobile and Timing Technologies  revenues in 1997 included
$6,400,000 in sales to AMSC. A total of $4,200,000 for product revenues shutdown
fees and contract renegotiation fees was recognized in 1996.

         The increase in commercial air transport and military aerospace systems
in 1997 from 1996 was  primarily  due to shipments to the  government  under the
CUGR program, as well as strong sales for the Honeywell-Trimble product (HT9100)
and strong sales for military aerospace products.



Export Sales

     * Export sales from domestic operations,  as a percentage of total revenue,
were 34% in 1998, 28% in 1997, and 25% in 1996. Sales to unaffiliated  customers
in foreign locations, as a percentage of total revenue, were 46% in 1998, 46% in
1997,  and 47% in 1996.  The Company  anticipates  that export revenue and sales
made by its subsidiaries in locations  outside the U.S. will continue to account
for a  significant  portion of its  revenue.  For this  reason,  the  Company is
subject to the risks inherent in these sales,  including  unexpected  changes in
regulatory requirements,  exchange rates,  governmental approval, and tariffs or
other  barriers.  Even though the U.S.  government  announced on March 29, 1996,
that it would support and maintain the GPS system,  as well as eliminate the use
of Selective Availability (S/A)-a method of degrading GPS accuracy, there may be
a  reluctance  in certain  foreign  markets to  purchase  products  based on GPS
technology,  given the  control  of GPS by the U.S.  Government.  The  Company's
results of operations could be adversely  affected if the Company were unable to
continue to generate significant sales in locations outside the U.S.

         No single  customer,  including the U.S.  Government  and its agencies,
accounted for 10% or more of the Company's total revenues in 1998, 1997 or 1996.
It is possible, however, that in future periods the failure of one or more large
customers  to purchase  products in  quantities  anticipated  by the Company may
adversely affect the results of operations.

     * Gross Margin.  Gross margin varies due to a number of factors,  including
product mix, domestic versus international sales,  customer type, the effects of
production volumes and fixed  manufacturing costs on unit product costs, and new
product  start-up costs.  In 1998, the gross margin  percentage on product sales
was 48%,  compared  with 54% in 1997 and 53% in 1996.  The decrease in the gross
margin  percentages  primarily  reflects  increased labor costs from new product
introductions,  expediting  fees,  inventory  write-downs,  and unabsorbed fixed
overhead due to lower than expected  volumes.  The 1997 margins were enhanced by
the  positive  impact of  nonproduct  revenues of $2.2 million  recognized  from
Pioneer  Electronic  Corporation and from a development  agreement in connection
with an irrevocable nonrefundable, nonrecurring engineering fee of $1.8 million.
In 1996, the Company also recorded  nonrecurring fees from AMSC of $2.5 million;
however,  there can be no assurance that similar items will recur in the future.
In  addition,  because  of product  mix  changes  within and among the  industry
markets,  market  pressures  on  unit  selling  prices,   fluctuations  in  unit
manufacturing costs, and other factors,  positive future gross margins cannot be
assured.  While Precision  Positioning  segment  products have the highest gross
margins of all the Company's products,  their margins have decreased,  primarily
in response to competition.  The Company expects  competition to increase in its
Precision  Positioning  segment,  and it is therefore  likely that further price
erosion will occur, with consequent lower gross margin percentages.

     * The  Company  expects  that in the  future  a  higher  percentage  of its
business will be conducted  through  alliances with  strategic  partners such as
Honeywell and  Caterpillar.  As a result of volume pricing and the assumption of
certain  operating costs by the partner,  margins on this business are likely to
be lower than sales directly to end-users.



     Operating  Expenses.  The following table shows operating  expenses for the
periods  indicated.  It  should  be  read  in  conjunction  with  the  narrative
descriptions of those operating expenses below:

                                January 1,         January 2,     December 31,
Years ended                       1999               1998             1996
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
(In thousands)

Research and development        $ 44,826          $ 37,097          $ 32,716
Sales and marketing               61,227            56,457            60,358
General and administrative        32,403            26,592            28,452
Restructuring charges             10,280                 -             2,134
                            -------------     -------------    --------------
 Total                         $ 148,736         $ 120,146         $ 123,660
                            -------------     -------------    --------------

         Research and Development.  Research and development  spending increased
in absolute dollars during 1998, representing 17% of revenue,  compared with 14%
in 1997 and 15% in 1996. The higher  research and  development  expenses in 1998
are due to the Company receiving fewer funds from cost reimbursement projects in
1998 as compared with 1997.

         The dollar  increase  from 1996 to 1997 is due primarily to an increase
in personnel  and the related  expenses that  accompany  such an increase in the
number of  employees.  There was also an increase  in the number of  specialized
engineering consultants and temporary employees.

         The  increase  in research  and  development  is part of the  Company's
continuing aggressive development of future products.

     * Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses increased during 1998,
representing  24% of  revenue,  compared  with 22% in 1997 and 27% in 1996.  The
primary reason for the dollar and percentage  increases in expenses from 1997 to
1998 is an increase  in  personnel  and  related  expenses,  that  accompany  an
increase  in the number of  employees.  In  addition,  the  Company  experienced
increases in expenses  related to trade shows,  advertising,  and demo equipment
expenses.

         The decrease in sales and  marketing  expense in 1997  compared to 1996
was due to a decrease in personnel  because of the Company's 1996  restructuring
activities and advertising costs.

     * The Company's future growth will depend in part on the timely development
and continued  viability of the markets in which the Company currently competes,
and on the Company's ability to continue to identify and exploit new markets for
its products. In addition, the Company has encountered  significant  competition
in selected markets, and expects such competition to intensify as the market for
GPS applications  receives acceptance.  Several of the Company's competitors are
major corporations with substantially  greater financial,  technical,  marketing
and manufacturing resources.  Increased competition may result in reduced market
share and is likely to result in price reductions of GPS-based  products,  which
could adversely affect the Company's revenues and profitability.

         General  and  Administrative.   General  and  administrative   expenses
increased during 1998,  representing 12% of revenue,  compared with 10% in 1997;
they  remained  flat as a  percentage  of revenue  compared to 1996 at 12%.  The
increase  from 1997 to 1998 is due primarily to an increase in personnel and the




related  expenses,  that  accompany an increase in the number of  employees  and
consultants,  as well as an increase in outside  services  related to legal fees
associated with certain litigation matters during 1998.

         The 1997 decrease from 1996 in general and administrative  expenses was
due primarily to decreases in outside  services related to legal fees associated
with certain arbitration and litigation matters during 1996.

         Restructuring Charges. As noted in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements  during  the year  ended  January 1,  1999,  the  Company  recorded a
restructuring  charge of $10.3 million classified in operating  expenses.  These
charges  are a  result  of the  Company's  reorganization  to  improve  business
processes and to decrease  organizational  redundancies,  to improve  management
accountability and to improve the Company's focus on profitable operations. As a
result  of  the  reorganization,  the  Company  has  downsized  its  operations,
including  reducing  headcount  and  facilities  space  usage,  and canceled its
enterprise wide information  system project and certain research and development
projects.  The  impact of these  decisions  is that  significant  amounts of the
Company's fixed assets,  prepaid  expenses,  and purchased  technology have been
impaired  and certain  liabilities  incurred.  The Company has written  down the
related  assets to their  net  realizable  values  and made  provisions  for the
estimated liabilities.

     The elements of the charges in 1998 and the amounts remaining at January 1,
1999, on the balance sheet are as follows (in thousands):



         The cash  expenditures  associated with the remaining  obligations will
occur primarily in fiscal 1999.

         Nonoperating income (expense), net. Nonoperating income (expense), net,
includes  interest  income and  expense,  as well as gains and losses on foreign
currency transactions.

         Foreign exchange gains were $234,000 in 1998 and 1997,  compared with a
loss of $4,000 in 1996. The Company's policy is to hedge its exposure to foreign
currency  transactions  to  minimize  the effect of changes in foreign  currency
exchange rates on consolidated  results of operations.  Gains and losses arising
from foreign currency  forward  contracts offset gains and losses resulting from
the underlying hedged transactions.

         Interest income  decreased both in 1998 from 1997 and in 1997 from 1996
because of lower interest income received on cash and short-term investments due
to lower average balances for the year over the prior year.

         Interest expense decreased slightly in 1998 due to lower fees on unused
lines of credit.  Interest  expense  includes  interest on a $30.0  million note
issued in August 1995, and fees on unused lines of credit. (See Notes 5 and 7 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements for details of long-term debt and lines of
credit).




         Income Tax Provision. The Company's effective tax rates from continuing
operations  for  fiscal  years  1998,  1997  and  1996  are  (6%),  12%  and 5%,
respectively.  The  1998 and 1996  income  tax  rates  differ  from the  federal
statutory  rate of 35% due to foreign  taxes and the  inability  to realize  the
benefits of the net operating losses.  The 1997 income tax rate is less than the
federal  statutory rate primarily due to the realization of previously  reserved
deferred tax assets.

     Inflation. The effects of inflation on the Company's financial results have
not been significant to date.

LITIGATION

     * The Company is involved in a number of legal matters as discussed in Note
15 to the Consolidated  Financial Statements.  While the Company does not expect
to suffer  significant  adverse  effects from these  litigation  matters or from
unasserted claims, the nature of litigation is unpredictable and there can be no
assurance that it will not do so.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

     * At January 1, 1999,  the Company had cash and cash  equivalents  of $40.9
million and $16.3 million in short-term investments. The Company's cash and cash
equivalents  and short-term  investments  have been reduced from the prior year,
due  primarily  to  the  Company's  stock  repurchase  program  (see  additional
information  below)  and  acquisitions  of  capital  equipment.   The  Company's
long-term  debt  consisted  primarily of a $30.0 million note  obligation due in
2001, and the Company had no debt  outstanding  under its $50,000,000  unsecured
line of  credit.  The  Company  has an amount of  $150,000  outstanding  under a
separate  $5,000,000  line of credit.  The Company has relied  primarily on cash
provided by  operating  and  financing  activities  and net sales of  short-term
investments to fund capital expenditures, the repurchase of the Company's common
stock  (see  further  explanation   below),  and  other  investing   activities.
Management  believes that its cash, cash  equivalents and short-term  investment
balances, together with its existing credit line, will be sufficient to meet its
anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months.

     * In 1998, the cash provided in operating  activities was $7.0 million,  as
compared to cash used of $2.1 million in the corresponding  period in 1997. Cash
provided  by  operating  activities  in 1998 arose from  decreases  in  accounts
receivable and  inventories and increases in accrued  liabilities  offset by the
Company's  net loss net of non-cash  charges.  Inventory  related to  continuing
operations  as of January  1,  1999,  decreased  by $5.2  million  from the 1997
year-end  levels,  primarily  due to a focused  effort by the  Company to reduce
inventory  by  supply  chain  synchronization;  reduce  lead  and  cycle  times;
simplifying  product lines; and  implementing  tighter control over the material
forecasting  process.  The  Company's  ability to continue to generate cash from
operations  will depend in large part on revenues,  the rate of  collections  of
accounts receivable, and management of inventory levels.

         Cash provided by sales of common stock in 1998  represents the proceeds
from  purchases  made pursuant to the  Company's  stock option plan and employee
stock  purchase  plan,  and totaled $5.0 million for the year ending  January 1,
1999.

         In August  1997,  the Company  entered  into a  three-year  $50,000,000
unsecured  revolving  credit facility with four banks (the "Credit  Agreement").
This credit facility replaced the previous two-year  $30,000,000  unsecured line
that expired in August 1997. The Credit Agreement  enables the Company to borrow
up to $50,000,000,  provided that certain financial and other covenants are met.
Under a separate  agreement,  the Company has an additional  $5,000,000  line of
credit provided only by the lead bank under the Credit  Agreement for "Letter of




Credit"  purposes,  and  this is  also  subject  to the  covenants  in the  main
facility. The Credit Agreement provides for payment of a commitment fee of 0.25%
and  borrowings  to bear  interest at 1% over LIBOR if the total  funded debt to
EBITDA is less than or equal to 1.00 times; 0.3% and borrowings to bear interest
at 1.25%  over  LIBOR if the ratio is  greater  than 1.00 times and less than or
equal to 2.00 times; or 0.4% and borrowings to bear interest at 1.75% over LIBOR
if the ratio is  greater  than 2.00  times.  In  addition  to  borrowing  at the
specified  LIBOR rate,  the Company has the right to borrow with interest at the
higher of (i) one of the bank's  annual  prime rate and (ii) the  federal  funds
rate plus 0.5%.  To date,  the  Company  has not made any  borrowings  under the
lines.  The Company is restricted  from paying  dividends under the terms of the
Credit Agreement.

         As of  October  27,  1998,  the Agent and  Lenders  of the  $50,000,000
unsecured  revolving  credit facility  granted a limited waiver of the Company's
compliance with various loan covenants as of October 2, 1998, until December 15,
1998. The Agent and Lenders granted a second limited waiver (an extension of the
first limited  waiver) for the Company's  compliance with various loan covenants
which extended from January 1, 1999, until February 16, 1999. As of February 16,
1999, the Company,  the Agent and the Lenders agreed to new covenants which will
be tested by a compliance  document as of April 2, 1999, and for the life of the
loan which expires in August of 2000. The $50,000,000  revolving credit facility
was  modified  to  include  the  $5,000,000  line of credit for Letter of Credit
purposes to simplify  the entire  arrangement,  as less than  $150,000 was being
utilized under the separate facility as of January 1, 1999. To date, the Company
has not made any borrowings under the $50,000,000 revolving credit facility.

         The  Company  announced  in  February  1996  that  it  had  approved  a
discretionary  program whereby up to 600,000 shares of its common stock could be
repurchased  on the open market by the Company to offset the potential  dilutive
effects to  earnings  (loss) per share from the  issuance  of  additional  stock
options.  In 1998,  the Company  approved the  repurchase of an  additional  1.6
million  shares  under the  discretionary  program.  The Company  intends to use
existing cash, cash  equivalents and short-term  investments to finance any such
stock repurchases under this program. During 1996, the Company purchased 250,000
shares at a cost of $3.5 million.  During 1997,  the Company  purchased  139,500
shares at a cost of $1.8  million.  During  1998,  the  Company  purchased  1.08
million shares at a cost of $16.1 million.

     *  The  Company   presently   expects  1999  capital   expenditures  to  be
approximately  $10.0 million,  primarily for computer equipment,  software,  and
leasehold improvements associated with business expansion.

         The Company is continually evaluating potential external investments in
technologies  related to its business and, to date,  has made  relatively  small
strategic investments in a number of GPS-related technology companies. There can
be no assurance  that any such  outside  investments  made to date,  or that any
potential future investments, will be successful.

         The Company has evaluated the issues raised by the  introduction of the
Single  European  Currency  (Euro) for initial  implementation  as of January 1,
1999, and during the transition period through January 1, 2002. The Company does
not  currently  believe that the  introduction  of the Euro will have a material
effect on the Company's foreign exchange and hedging activities. The Company has
also assessed the potential  impact the Euro  conversion  will have in regard to
its internal systems accommodating  Euro-denominated  transactions.  The Company
will continue to evaluate the impact of the Euro  introduction  over time, based
on currently available  information.  The Company does not currently  anticipate
any adverse impact of the Euro conversion on the Company.



YEAR 2000 and GPS WEEK NUMBER ROLLOVER ISSUES

         Computers and software,  as well as other equipment that relies on only
two digits to identify or represent a year, may be unable to accurately  process
or  display  certain  information  at or after the Year 2000.  This is  commonly
referred to as the "Year 2000 issue." The Year 2000 issue may materially affect,
Trimble's  vendors,  suppliers,  internal systems,  products and customers.  The
Company  continues to address the Year 2000 issue to avoid what might  otherwise
be a  material  and  adverse  effect  on the  Company's  consolidated  financial
position, results of operations, or cash flows.

         Another date-related issue, known as the "GPS Week Number Roll-Over" or
"WNRO" issue,  could also materially affect various Trimble  products.  The WNRO
issue is unrelated to the Year 2000 issue and is unique to GPS  technology.  All
GPS satellites, which are operated by the U.S. government, broadcast time in the
form of a "GPS week number" and a time offset into each "GPS week." Week numbers
range from 0 to 1023.  Week 0 started on January 6, 1980, and week 1023 will end
on August 21,  1999,  at which time the week number  broadcast  by all U.S.  GPS
satellites  will roll  over,  back to 0. Among  other  potential  effects,  this
rollover may cause GPS  receivers and software that process data obtained by GPS
receivers  to   erroneously   interpret   high-week-number,   pre-WNRO  data  as
post-dating  later  low-week-number,  post-WNRO  data.  This may cause satellite
positions to be miscalculated  and produce gross position fix errors.  Receivers
that process and display calendar dates based on "weeks since 1980" may generate
date  calculation  errors.  The Company  continues  to address the WNRO issue to
avoid what might  otherwise  be a material and adverse  effect on the  Company's
future consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

         The Company  continues to assess the potential  impact of both the Year
2000 and WNRO issues on its vendors, suppliers,  internal systems, products, and
customers-and  has begun,  and in many cases  completed,  corrective  efforts in
these areas.

Year 2000 Remediation Plan 

         The Company's Board of Directors has adopted a comprehensive  Year 2000
Remediation Plan, the goal of which is to minimize business disruptions and risk
exposure  that  might  otherwise  arise  as a  consequence  of  moving  into the
twenty-first  century.  The plan focuses on achieving Year 2000 readiness across
the  Company's  entire  supply  chain,  and is  designed  to deal  with the most
critical systems first.  Additionally,  the Company's Year 2000 remediation plan
calls for the  development of  contingency  plans to address  potential  problem
areas with internal  systems,  and with  suppliers and other third  parties.  To
these ends, a Y2K Program  Management  Office has been established to manage and
coordinate  implementation  of the plan on a companywide  basis.  It is expected
that  assessment,  remediation,  and  contingency  planning  activities  will be
ongoing  throughout  1999,  with the  objective of  appropriately  resolving all
material Year 2000 issues before the 21st century rollover.

Information Technology and Other Systems 

     The Company continues to assess the potential impact of the Year 2000 issue
on its  internal  systems,  including  information  technology  (IT) and  non-IT
systems, and has begun corrective efforts in this area, as follows:

o        The Company has a plan to upgrade its existing MRP/ERP information 
         systems to be Year 2000 compliant.



o        Assessment  and   remediation   efforts  in  connection  with  the
         Company's  other IT and non-IT  systems will be undertaken as part
         of the Company's general Y2K Remediation Plan.

     *  The  Company  currently  plans  to  complete  renovation,   testing  and
implementation  of critical  systems,  or  successful  execution of  contingency
plans,  during the third quarter of 1999.  There can be no  assurance,  however,
that there will not be a delay in, or  increased  costs  associated  with,  such
renovation, testing, implementation or execution, and the Company's inability to
successfully  and timely  complete  these  tasks  could have a material  adverse
effect on future results of operations or financial condition.

Products

     * To address  and  minimize  the  anticipated  impact of both the Year 2000
issue and the WNRO issue on the  Company's  products,  the Company  continues to
assess the  anticipated  impact these issues may have on the  performance of its
products,  and to resolve  various related  performance  problems of its current
products.  In addition,  the Company has adopted a formal Year 2000 and GPS Week
Number Rollover Policy to:

o        Publish Year 2000- and WNRO-related product performance information 
         on the Company's public web site,

o        Respond to individual customer inquiries regarding the anticipated 
         performance of particular Company products,

o        Furnish upgrades to customers whose Trimble products are upgradable, 
         and

o        Provide information regarding available product alternatives to 
         customers with noncompliant products.

         Assessment of products,  resolution of certain  products' Year 2000 and
WNRO performance problems, and implementation of the Company's Year 2000 and GPS
Week Number Rollover  Policy,  are ongoing,  and as to many Company  products is
complete.

     * The Company does not  anticipate  that the Year 2000 and WNRO issues will
have a  material  adverse  effect  on sales of its  products.  The  Company  has
incurred-and  will  continue  to incur,  through  1999 and  thereafter-increased
expenses  associated  with Year 2000 and  WNRO-related  product  assessment  and
resolution  of  certain  products'  Year  2000  and WNRO  performance  problems,
implementation  of the Company's Year 2000 and GPS Week Number Rollover  Policy,
and  fulfillment  of Year 2000 and  WNRO-related  customer  support and warranty
obligations, in amounts that management believes has not had and will not have a
material  adverse  effect  on the  Company's  historical  or future  results  of
operations or financial condition.

Vendors and Suppliers

     * For its successful operation,  the Company materially relies on goods and
services  purchased  from certain  vendors.  If these vendors fail to adequately
address the Year 2000 issue such that their  delivery  of goods and  services to
the Company is materially  impaired,  it could have a material adverse impact on
the  Company's  operations  and financial  results.  The Company is preparing to
survey its principal  vendors to assess the effect the Year 2000 issue will have
on  their  ability  to  supply  their  goods  and  services   without   material
interruption,  and at this time the  Company  cannot  determine  or predict  the
outcome of this effort.  Contingency  plans will be developed  and executed with
respect to vendors who will not be Year 2000 ready in a timely manner where such
lack of readiness is expected to have a material adverse impact on the Company's




operations. However, because the Company cannot be certain that its vendors will
be able to supply goods and services without material interruption,  and because
the Company  cannot be certain that execution of its  contingency  plans will be
capable of  implementation or will result in a continuous and adequate supply of
such goods and  services,  the Company can give no assurance  that these matters
will not have a material  adverse  effect on the Company's  future  consolidated
financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

Customers

     * The Company has material  relationships with certain customers.  If those
customers  fail to achieve an adequate state of Year 2000 readiness in their own
operations,  or  if  their  Year  2000  readiness  efforts  consume  significant
resources,  their  ability to purchase the  Company's  products may be impaired.
This could adversely  affect demand for the Company's  products and,  therefore,
the Company's future  revenues.  The Company plans to assess the effect the Year
2000  issue  will  have on its  principal  customers,  and at this  time  cannot
determine the impact it will have.

Related Costs to the Company

     *  The  Company  currently  expects  that  the  total  cost  of  Year  2000
remediation  efforts will not exceed  approximately $1 million.  The Company has
been-and will be-expensing these costs as incurred. The total cost estimate does
not include  potential costs related to any customer or other claims or the cost
of internal software and hardware replaced in the normal course of business. The
total cost estimate is based on the current  assessment of the projects,  and is
subject to change as the projects progress.

Overall Impact on the Company

     * At the present time, and subject to the cost estimates above,  management
does not believe that the Year 2000 issue and WNRO matters  discussed above will
have a material adverse impact on the Company's  financial  condition or overall
trends in results of  operation.  However,  it is  uncertain  to what extent the
Company may be affected by such  matters;  therefore,  there can be no assurance
that these  matters  will not have a material  adverse  effect on the  Company's
future consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

CERTAIN OTHER RISK FACTORS

         The Company's  revenue has tended to fluctuate on a quarterly basis due
to the timing of shipments of products under contracts and the sale of licenses.
A  significant  portion of quarterly  revenues  occurs from orders  received and
immediately shipped to customers in the last few weeks and days of a quarter. If
orders are not  received,  or if shipments  were to be delayed a few days at the
end of a quarter, the operating results and reported earnings per share for that
quarter  could be  significantly  impacted.  Future  revenues  are  difficult to
predict, and projections are based primarily on historical models, which are not
necessarily accurate representations of the future.

     * The Company has a relatively  fixed cost structure in the short term, and
it is determined by the business  plans and  strategies  the Company  intends to
implement in the two segments it addresses. This effective leveraging means that
increases or decreases in revenues have more than a  proportional  impact on net
income or losses.  The Company  estimates that a change in product revenue of $1
million would change earnings per share by 2 to 3 cents.

     * The Mobile and Timing  Technologies  Business Unit relies on high volumes
and relatively low margin sales.  Mobile and Timing  Technologies  customers are
extremely  price-sensitive.  As costs decrease through  technological  advances,
these advances are typically passed on to the customer.  To compete,  Mobile and
Timing   Technologies   requires   high-volume   production  and   manufacturing
techniques.  Customers expect high quality standards with very low defect rates.
Compared to competitors,  which have far greater  resources in such  high-volume




manufacturing  and  associated  support  activities,  the Company is  relatively
inexperienced.

         The  Company's  stock price is subject to  significant  volatility.  If
revenues  and/or  earnings  fail  to meet  the  expectations  of the  investment
community,  there could be an immediate  and  significant  impact on the trading
price of the Company's stock.

         The  value  of  the  Company's  products  relies  substantially  on its
technical  innovation in fields in which there are many current patent  filings.
The  Company  recognizes  that as new  patents  are issued or are brought to the
Company's  attention by the holders of such patents, it may be necessary for the
Company to withdraw  products  from the market,  take a license from such patent
holders, or redesign its products.  The Company does not believe that any of its
products infringe any valid claim of any patents or other proprietary  rights of
third  parties,  but cannot be certain that they do not do so. In addition,  the
legal costs and engineering time required to safeguard  intellectual property or
to defend against  litigation could become a significant  expense of operations.
Such events could have a material  adverse  effect on the Company's  revenues or
profitability. (See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).

         The  Company  is   continuously   evaluating   alliances  and  external
investments in  technologies  related to its business,  and has already  entered
into alliances and made relatively small  investments in a number of GPS related
technology  companies.  Acquisitions  of companies,  divisions of companies,  or
products and  alliances  entail  numerous  risks,  including  (i) the  potential
inability  to  successfully  integrate  acquired  operations  and products or to
realize  anticipated  synergies,  economies  of  scale,  or  other  value;  (ii)
diversion of management's attention; and (iii) loss of key employees of acquired
operations.  Any such  problems  could  have a  material  adverse  effect on the
Company's  business,   financial  condition,  and  results  of  operations.   No
assurances can be given that the Company will not incur problems from current or
future alliances,  acquisitions,  or investments.  Furthermore,  there can be no
assurance  that  the  Company  will  realize  value  from  any  such  alliances,
acquisitions, or investments.

         Certain  risks are  inherent  in making  the types of changes in senior
management  that  occurred  during the third fiscal  quarter of 1998.  While the
Company  intends to name  permanent  replacements  for such positions as soon as
practicable,  there can be no assurance  that such changes in senior  management
and related  uncertainties will not adversely affect the Company's  consolidated
operating results and financial condition.

         The ability of the Company to maintain  its  competitive  technological
position will depend,  in a large part, on its ability to attract,  motivate and
retain highly qualified  development and managerial  personnel.  Competition for
qualified  employees in the Company's  industry is intense,  and there can be no
assurance  that the Company will be able to attract,  motivate and retain enough
qualified  employees  necessary  for the  future  continued  development  of the
Company's business and products.

         The Company has certain  products that are subject to governmental  and
similar  certifications  before they can be sold. For example, FAA certification
is required for all aviation  products.  Also,  the Company's  products that use
integrated  radio  communication   technology  require  an  end-user  to  obtain
licensing from The Federal  Communications  Commission (FCC) for  frequency-band
usage.  During the fourth  quarter of 1998,  the FCC  temporarily  suspended the
issuance of licenses for certain of the Company's  Real-time  Kinematic products
because of interference  with certain other users of similar radio  frequencies.
An  inability or delay in obtaining  such  certifications  or FCC's delays could
have an adverse  effect on the Company's  operating  results.  The Company's GPS
technology  is dependent on the use of radio  spectrums.  The  assignment of the
spectrums  is  controlled  by  a  worldwide   organization,   the  International




Telecomunications Union (ITU). Any reallocation of the radio spectrum could have
an adverse effect on the Company's operating results.

     Under the terms of the Company's subordinated promissory notes, the Company
is required to meet a minimum consolidated net worth requirement. The Company is
in the process of  obtaining a reduction  of this  minimum  requirement.  If the
Company is not  successful in obtaining a reduction in the minimum  consolidated
net worth  requirement and net worth falls below the minimum required level, the
Company  would be in default of its loan  covenants.  Such  events  could have a
material adverse effect on the Company's operations and liquidity.

         Information with respect to GPS Navstar satellite system is included in
Part I of this report, under the caption "Background," paragraph 6.

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

         In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, (SFAS 133) "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments  and Hedging  Activities."  The Standard will require the Company to
record all derivatives held on the balance sheet at fair value. Derivatives that
are not hedges must be adjusted to fair value through income.  If the derivative
is a hedge,  depending on the nature of the hedge,  changes in the fair value of
derivatives will either be offset against the change in fair value of the hedged
assets,  liabilities,  or firm commitments  through  earnings,  or recognized in
other comprehensive income until the value related to the ineffective portion of
a hedge, if any, will be immediately recognized in earnings. The Company expects
to adopt SFAS 133 as of the  beginning  of its fiscal  year 2000.  The effect of
adopting the Standard is currently being evaluated,  but is not expected to have
a material  adverse  effect on the  Company's  financial  position or results of
operations.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

         Following  is a  discussion  of the  Company's  exposure to market risk
related to changes in interest rates and foreign  currency  exchange rates.  The
Company uses certain derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. The
Company does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading
purposes.  All financial  instruments are used in accordance with board-approved
polices.

Market Interest Rate Risk

         Short-term Investments Owned by the Company. As of January 1, 1999, the
Company  had  short-term   investments  of  $16.3  million.   These   short-term
investments consist of highly liquid investments with original maturities at the
date of purchase between three and twelve months.  These investments are subject
to  interest  rate  risk and will  decrease  in value if market  interest  rates
increase.  A  hypothetical  10 percent  increase in market  interest  rates from
levels at  January  1,  1999,  would  cause the fair  value of these  short-term
investments  to decline by an  immaterial  amount.  Because  the Company has the
ability to hold these  investments  until  maturity the Company would not expect
the value of these  investments to be affected to any significant  degree by the
effect of a sudden change in market interest  rates.  Declines in interest rates
over time will, however, reduce the Company's interest income.

         Outstanding Debt of the Company. As of January 1, 1999, the Company had
outstanding  long-term  debt of  approximately  $30.0  million  of  subordinated
promissory  notes at a fixed  interest rate of 10 percent.  The interest rate of




this instrument is fixed.  However,  a hypothetical  10 percent  decrease in the
interest  rates would not have a material  impact on the  Company.  Increases in
interest rates could, however,  increase interest expense associated with future
borrowings of the Company,  if any. The Company does not currently hedge against
interest rate increases.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

         The Company hedges risks associated with foreign currency  transactions
in order to minimize the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on
earnings. The Company utilizes forward contracts to hedge trade and intercompany
receivables and payables. These contracts reduce the exposure to fluctuations in
exchange  rate  movements,  as the  gains and  losses  associated  with  foreign
currency  balances are  generally  offset with the gains and losses on the hedge
contracts.  All hedge  instruments  are marked to market through  earnings every
period.

         The Company  does not  anticipate  any material  adverse  effect on its
consolidated financial position utilizing the current hedging strategy.

         All  contracts  have a maturity of less than one year,  and the Company
does not defer  any gains and  losses,  as they are all  accounted  for  through
earnings every period.

         The following table provides  information  about the Company's  foreign
exchange forward contracts outstanding:



         The  hypothetical  changes and assumptions made above will be different
from what actually occurs in the future.  Furthermore,  the  computations do not
anticipate  actions  that may be taken by  management,  should the  hypothetical
market changes actually occur over time. As a result, actual earnings effects in
the future will differ from those quantified above.




Item 8.     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements




 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements




 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS




 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1 - Summary of significant accounting policies:

         Use of estimates. The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with  generally  accepted  accounting  principles  requires  management  to make
estimates  and  assumptions  that affect the amounts  reported in the  financial
statements  and  accompanying  notes.  Due  to  the  inherent  nature  of  those
estimates, actual results could differ from expectations.

         Basis of presentation. During fiscal year 1997, the Company changed its
fiscal year from a calendar  year ending on December 31 to an annual period that
varies  from 52 to 53,  weeks and that  always  ends on the  Friday  nearest  to
December 31, which for fiscal 1998 was January 1, 1999.

         The Company's  fiscal year will normally consist of four equal quarters
of 13 weeks  each,  or 52 weeks;  however,  due to the fact  that  there are not
exactly 52 weeks in a calendar  year and that  there is  slightly  more than one
additional  day per  year  (not  including  the  effects  of leap  year) in each
calendar  year as compared to a 52-week  fiscal  year,  the Company  will have a
fiscal year composed of 53 weeks in certain fiscal years,  as determined by when
Friday falls closest to December 31 in consecutive calendar years.

         In those  resulting  fiscal years that have 53 weeks,  the Company will
record  an  extra  week of  revenues,  costs  and  related  financial  activity.
Therefore,  the  financial  results of those fiscal  years,  and the  associated
quarter,  having the extra week, will not be exactly comparable to the prior and
subsequent  52-week  fiscal years,  and the associated  quarters  having only 13
weeks.  Thus,  due to the inherent  nature of adopting a 52-53 week fiscal year,
the  Company,  analysts,  shareholders,  investors  and others will have to make
appropriate  adjustments to any analysis  performed when comparing the Company's
activities  and  results in fiscal  years that  contain 53 weeks,  to those that
contain the standard 52 weeks.

         Principles of  consolidation.  The  consolidated  financial  statements
include  the  accounts  of Trimble  Navigation  Limited  (the  Company)  and its
wholly-owned   subsidiaries  after  elimination  of  all  material  intercompany
balances and transactions.

         Foreign currency  translation.  Assets and liabilities of the Company's
foreign  subsidiaries  are  translated  into U.S.  dollars at year-end  exchange
rates,  and revenues and expenses are  translated  at average  rates  prevailing
during the year. Local currencies are considered to be the functional currencies
for the Company's non-U.S. subsidiaries. Translation adjustments are deferred in
a separate component of shareholders' equity. Foreign currency transaction gains
and losses are included in results of operations as incurred.

         Forward foreign currency exchange contracts. The Company's policy is to
hedge its known exposure to foreign currency transactions to minimize the effect
of  changes  in  foreign  currency  exchange  rates on  consolidated  results of
operations. The Company enters into simple forward foreign exchange contracts to
either buy or sell currency if the net position  exceeds  $400,000.  The forward
foreign  exchange  contract  obligates  the  Company to  exchange  predetermined
amounts of specified foreign currencies at specified exchange rates on specified
dates,  or to make an equivalent  U.S. dollar payment equal to the value of such
exchange.  For contracts that are designated and effective as hedges,  discounts
or  premiums  (the  difference  between the spot  exchange  rate and the forward
exchange  rate at inception of the  contract) are accreted or amortized to other
operating  expenses over the contract  lives,  using the  straight-line  method,
while  realized and  unrealized  gains and losses  resulting from changes in the
spot  exchange  rate  (including  those  from  open,  matured,   and  terminated




contracts) are included in results of operations.  The related amounts due to or
from counterparties are included in other assets or other liabilities.  Contract
amounts are marked to market,  with changes in market value recorded in earnings
as foreign  exchange  gains or losses.  To date,  the Company  has entered  into
simple  forward  foreign  currency  exchange  contracts to offset the effects of
changes in exchange rates on foreign-denominated  intercompany  receivables.  At
January 1, 1999, the Company had forward foreign currency exchange  contracts to
sell  $3,394,000 of Japanese Yen,  $1,838,000 of European  Currency  units,  and
$444,000  of  German  Marks,  and to buy  $1,705,000  of  New  Zealand  dollars,
$1,096,000  of  British  Pound  Sterling,  and  $251,000  of  Japanese  Yen,  at
contracted rates that mature over the next five months.

         Cash and cash equivalents.  Cash and cash equivalents  include all cash
and highly liquid investments with original  maturities of three months or less.
The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents approximates fair value because
of the short maturity of those instruments.

         Short-term  investments.  The Company has classified all its short-term
investments as "available for sale."  Available-for-sale  securities are carried
at fair value, with the unrealized holding gains and losses, net of tax effects,
reported as a separate component of shareholders' equity. Fair value is based on
quoted market  prices.  The cost of debt  securities in this  classification  is
adjusted for  amortization  of premiums and  accretion of discounts to maturity.
Such  amortization,  as well as  interest,  dividends,  and  realized  gains and
losses,  is included in interest and investment  income.  The cost of securities
sold is based on the specific identification method.

         At January 1, 1999, the Company's short-term  investments  consisted of
municipal securities totaling $16,269,000 at cost, which had unrealized gains of
$19,000  and had  original  maturities  of less  than one year  from the date of
purchase.  At January 2, 1998,  the  Company's  short-term  investments  in U.S.
Treasury  securities  had a cost of  $53,171,000  and had  unrealized  gains  of
$8,000.

         Concentration of credit risk. In entering into forward foreign exchange
contracts,  the Company has assumed the risk that might arise from the  possible
inability  of  counterparties  to  meet  the  terms  of  their  contracts.   The
counterparties to these contracts are major multinational  commercial banks, and
the Company does not expect any losses as a result of counterparty defaults. The
Company is also exposed to credit risk in its accounts  receivable  and performs
ongoing  credit  evaluations  of its customers  and  generally  does not require
collateral. The expenses recorded for doubtful accounts receivable were $195,000
in 1998, $315,000 in 1997, and $1,159,000 in 1996.

     Inventories.  Inventories  are  stated  at the  lower of  standard  cost or
market. Standard costs approximate average actual costs.

         Revenue recognition.  The Company recognizes revenue from product sales
at the time of shipment,  except as to revenue  deferred  for extended  warranty
obligations.  Substantially  all technology  licenses and research  revenue have
consisted of initial  license fees and  royalties,  which were  recognized  when
earned, when the Company had no remaining obligations.

         Product warranty.  The Company provides for estimated warranty costs at
the time of sale.  The warranty  period is  generally  for one year from date of
shipment, except for air transport products, for which the period is generally a
basic three year warranty  period with an additional two year warranty sold with
some units. In addition,  select military programs may require extended warranty
periods.



         Advertising  costs.  The  Company  expenses  the  production  costs  of
advertising as incurred.  Advertising expenses were $6,490,000,  $6,328,000, and
$7,587,000 in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

         Stock  compensation.  In accordance with the provisions of Statement of
Financial  Accounting  Standards  (SFAS) No. 123,  "Accounting  for  Stock-Based
Compensation," the Company applies  Accounting  Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" (APB 25) and related  Interpretations
in accounting for its stock option plans and stock  purchase plan.  Accordingly,
it does not recognize  compensation  cost for stock options  granted at or above
market.  Note 11 to the Consolidated  Financial  Statements  describes the plans
operated  by the  Company,  and  contains a summary of the pro forma  effects to
reported net income  (loss) and earnings  (loss) per share for 1998,  1997,  and
1996 as if the Company had elected to recognize  compensation  cost based on the
fair value of the options granted at grant date, as prescribed by SFAS No. 123.

         Depreciation and  amortization.  Depreciation of property and equipment
owned or under  capitalized  leases is computed using the  straight-line  method
over the shorter of the estimated useful lives or the lease terms.  Useful lives
range from three years for  machinery  and equipment to five years for furniture
and fixtures.  Amortization  of intangibles is computed using the  straight-line
method over the estimated lives, generally periods of four years or less.

     Interest.  All  interest  costs  incurred  have been  charged  to  interest
expense.

         Net income  (loss) per share.  In 1997,  the Financial  Accounting  and
Standards Board issued  Statement No. 128,  "Earnings Per Share."  Statement 128
replaced the calculation of primary and fully diluted  earnings (loss) per share
with basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share. Unlike primary earnings (loss)
per share,  basic  earnings  (loss) per share  excludes any dilutive  effects of
options, warrants and convertible securities.  Diluted earnings (loss) per share
is very similar to the  previously  reported fully diluted  earnings  (loss) per
share. All earnings (loss) per share amounts for all periods have been presented
and, where appropriate, restated to conform to the Statement 128 requirements.

Note 2 - The Company, industry segment, geographic, and customer information:

         Effective  January 1, 1999, the Company adopted  Statement of Financial
Accounting  Standards  (SFAS)  No.  131,   "Disclosures  about  Segments  of  an
Enterprise  and Related  Information."  The  Statement  requires  the Company to
report segment  financial  information  consistent with the presentation made to
the Company's  management  for  decision-making  purposes.  Prior year financial
information   disclosures   have  been  restated  to  be  consistent   with  the
presentation required by SFAS 131 for the fiscal year ended January 1, 1999.

         The  Company  operates  in a single  industry  segment  as a leader  in
designing and developing  innovative  products  enabled by GPS  technology.  The
Company  provides  end-user and Original  Equipment  Manufacture  solutions  for
diverse  applications  including  surveying,  mapping,  marine  survey,  mining,
construction and agriculture, mobile positioning,  commercial avionics, military
systems,  automotive,  timing, and geographic information systems.  During 1998,
the Company  announced that it was  discontinuing  its  participation in General
Aviation. The Company sells its products through a direct sales force located in
fifteen  countries,   as  well  as  through  a  worldwide  network  of  dealers,
distributors and authorized representatives. Research and development activities
are  conducted  at  the  Company's  facilities  in  Sunnyvale,   California  and
Christchurch, New Zealand.  Manufacturing is performed in Sunnyvale,  California
and Austin, Texas.



     The Company  manages its industry  segment within two Business  Units:  the
Precision Positioning Group and the Mobile and Timing Technologies (MTT) Group.

         Each Business Unit is managed  separately because each Business Unit is
subject  to  different  distribution,   marketing,  production,  and  technology
strategies.  The Precision Positioning Group derives its revenues from GPS-based
land surveying,  mining,  construction and agriculture,  geographic  information
systems mapping,  and marine survey markets.  The Mobile and Timing Technologies
market  derives  its  revenues  from  GPS-based   automotive,   timing,   mobile
positioning technologies,  commercial aviation and military systems markets, and
from  development  of software  licenses  and other rights for the use of GPS to
third parties.  The Company  evaluates  these Business  Units'  performance  and
allocates  resources  based on profit  and loss from  operations  before  income
taxes.

         The accounting  policies applied by each of the markets are the same as
those used by the Company in general.

         The table on the following  page presents  revenues,  operating  income
(loss),  and identifiable  assets by the Company's  Business Units.  There is no
recognition of inter-Business  Unit sales or transfers.  Operating income (loss)
is net sales less operating  expenses,  excluding  general  corporate  expenses,
interest income (expense),  and income taxes. The identifiable  assets the Chief
Operating Decision Maker (CODM) views by industry market are accounts receivable
and inventory.  The Company does not report  depreciation  and  amortization  or
capital expenditures by industry markets to the CODM.





     (1) For the years ended  January 1, 1999 and  January 2, 1998,  the Company
determined the amount of the corporate allocations charged to its Business Units
based on a percentage of the Business Units' monthly inventory balance and gross
profit.   Allocation  percentages  were  determined  at  the  beginning  of  the
respective fiscal year.

     (2) The accounts  receivable  number  excludes cash in advance which is not
allocated between business unit segments.

         Following   are   reconciliations   corresponding   to  totals  in  the
accompanying consolidated financial statements (in thousands):






     (1) Includes approximately $10.3 million of restructuring charges.

     (2) For the years ended  January 1, 1999 and  January 2, 1998,  the Company
determined the amount of the corporate allocations charged to its Business Units
based on a percentage of the Business Units' monthly inventory balance and gross
profit which percentage was determined at the beginning of the respective fiscal
year. However, due to the lower than expected actual level of corporate expenses
and higher than expected  inventory  balances in the year ended January 2, 1998,
the Company overallocated corporate expenses to the Business Units. This results
in  a  negative   unallocated   corporate   expense   amount  as  shown  in  the
reconciliation  of operating  profit (loss) from  continuing  operations for the
reportable  segments  to the  amounts  reported in the  Company's  statement  of
operations.

     (3) Includes approximately $2.1 million of restructuring charges.

     (4)  Includes  cash in  advance  and  reserves  that are not  allocated  by
segment.

     (5) This is inventory  that is common  between the business unit  segments.
Parts can be used by either segment.

         The geographic  distribution of the Company's revenues and identifiable
assets are summarized in the table below in thousands.



(1) Sales attributed to countries based on the location of the customer.

         Transfers between U.S. and foreign  geographic areas are made at prices
based on total costs and  contributions  of the supplying  geographic  area. The
Company's  subsidiaries  in the Pacific Rim and Asia have  derived  revenue from
commissions  from domestic  operations in each of the periods  presented.  These
commission  revenues and expenses are excluded  from total revenue and operating
income (loss) in the preceding table.  Sales to unaffiliated  customers in Japan
are made by the Company's Japanese subsidiary.





         No  single  customer  accounted  for 10% or more of total  revenues  in
fiscal 1998, 1997 or 1996.

Note 3 - Discontinued Operations:

         On October 2,  1998,  the  Company  adopted a plan to  discontinue  its
General  Aviation  division.  The Company  anticipates that the division will be
disposed of by June 30,  1999.  Accordingly,  the General  Aviation  division is
being  reported as a discontinued  operation for all periods  presented in these
financial  statements.  Net assets of the  discontinued  operation at October 2,
1998, were written off and consisted  primarily of inventory,  property,  plant,
equipment, and intangible assets.

         The  estimated  loss on the disposal of the  discontinued  operation is
$19.9 million.  The estimate includes a write-off of net assets of $12.7 million
and a provision  of $7.2  million  for costs of  disposal,  including  severance
costs,  facility and certain other contractual costs, and anticipated  operating
losses through the estimated date of disposal.

     The net assets,  which have been  written off in fiscal  1998,  and the net
assets of discontinued operations for fiscal 1997 are summarized as follows:

                                               January 1,       January 2,
                                                  1999             1998
- -------------------------------------------------------------  --------------
(in thousands)

Inventory                                            $ 7,283         $ 5,388
Other current assets                                     451              48
Plant and equipment, net                               3,241           2,289
Other non-current assets                               1,754           2,200
Less write offs                                      (12,729)              -
                                                               --------------
                                             ================  ==============
   Net assets of discontinued operations                 $ -         $ 9,925
                                             ================  ==============

         The  provision of $7.2  million  consisted of $2.9 million of severance
costs,  $1.9 million of facility and certain other  contractual  costs, and $2.4
million of anticipated  operating  losses through the estimated date of disposal
of March 31, 1999.

         As of January 1, 1999,  the Company had incurred  expenses of $390,000.
The Company has a remaining provision of $6.7 million for the costs of disposal,
including  severance costs,  facility and certain other  contractual  costs, and
anticipated operating losses through the estimated date of disposal.

The net revenues of the discontinued  operation are not included in net revenues
of continuing  operations in the  accompanying  statements  of  operations.  The
operating results of the discontinued operation are summarized as follows:







Note 4 -  Balance sheet components:

                                             January 1,          January 2,
                                               1999                1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
 (In thousands)

 Inventories
        Raw materials                            $ 22,480            $ 28,477
        Work-in-process                             4,033               6,230
        Finished goods                             10,653               7,678
                                          ----------------    ----------------
                                         
                                                 $ 37,166            $ 42,385
                                          ================    ================

 Property and equipment
        Machinery and equipment                  $ 59,520            $ 51,350
        Furniture and fixtures                      5,763               4,514
        Leasehold improvements                      6,700               6,007
                                          ----------------    ----------------
                                                   71,983              61,871
        Less accumulated depreciation             (56,879)            (42,195)
                                          ----------------    ----------------
                                                 $ 15,104            $ 19,676
                                          ================    ================
Note 5 - Bank line of credit:

         In August  1997,  the Company  entered  into a  three-year  $50,000,000
unsecured  revolving  credit facility with four banks (the "Credit  Agreement").
This credit facility replaced the previous two-year  $30,000,000  unsecured line
that expired in August 1997. The Credit Agreement  enables the Company to borrow
up to $50,000,000,  provided that certain financial and other covenants are met.
Under a separate  agreement  the Company has an  additional  $5,000,000  line of
credit provided only by the lead bank under the Credit  Agreement for "Letter of
Credit"  purposes,  and  this is  also  subject  to the  covenants  in the  main
facility. The Credit Agreement provides for payment of a commitment fee of 0.25%
and  borrowings  to bear  interest at 1% over LIBOR if the total  funded debt to
EBITDA is less than or equal to 1.00 times, 0.3% and borrowings to bear interest
at 1.25%  over  LIBOR if the ratio is  greater  than 1.00 times and less than or
equal to 2.00 times, or 0.4% and borrowings to bear interest at 1.75% over LIBOR
if the ratio is  greater  than 2.00  times.  In  addition  to  borrowing  at the
specified  LIBOR rate,  the Company has the right to borrow with interest at the
higher of (i) one of the bank's  annual  prime rate and (ii) the  federal  funds
rate plus 0.5%.  To date,  the  Company  has not made any  borrowings  under the
lines. In addition,  the Company is restricted  from paying  dividends under the
terms of the Credit Agreement.

         As of  October  27,  1998,  the Agent and  Lenders  of the  $50,000,000
unsecured  revolving  credit facility  granted a limited waiver of the Company's
compliance  with various loan covenants as of October 2, 1998 until December 15,
1998. The Agent and Lenders granted a second limited waiver (an extension of the
first limited  waiver) for the Company's  compliance with various loan covenants
that extended from January 1, 1999 through February 16, 1999. As of February 16,
1999 the Company, the Agent and the Lenders agreed to new covenants that will be
tested by a  compliance  document  as of April 2, 1999,  and for the life of the
loan which expires in August of 2000. The $50,000,000  revolving credit facility
was  modified  to  include  the  $5,000,000  line of credit for Letter of Credit
purposes to simplify  the entire  arrangement  as less than  $150,000  was being
utilized under the separate facility as of January 1, 1999. To date, the Company
has not made any borrowings under the $50,000,000 revolving credit facility.

Note 6 - Restructuring:

         In the third and fourth  quarters of fiscal 1998, the Company  recorded
restructuring  charges totaling $10.3 million classified as operating  expenses.




These charges are a result of the Company's  reorganization  to improve business
processes and to decrease  organizational  redundancies,  to improve  management
accountability and to improve the Company's focus on profitable operations. As a
result  of  the  reorganization,  the  Company  has  downsized  its  operations,
including  reducing  headcount  and  facilities  space usage and  canceling  its
enterprise wide information  system project and certain research and development
projects.  The  impact of these  decisions  is that  significant  amounts of the
Company's fixed assets,  prepaid  expenses,  and purchased  technology have been
impaired  and certain  liabilities  incurred.  The Company has written  down the
related  assets to their  net  realizable  values  and made  provisions  for the
estimated liabilities.

     The elements of the charges in 1998 and the amounts remaining at January 1,
1999, on the balance sheet are as follows (in thousands):



         The cash  expenditures  associated with the remaining  obligations will
occur primarily in fiscal 1999.

Note 7 - Long-term debt and other noncurrent liabilities:

 Long-term debt consists of the following:
                                              January 1,       January 2,
                                                 1999             1998
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 (In thousands)

 Subordinated notes                              $ 29,703         $ 29,600
 Installment loan obligations                       2,776                -
 Other                                                549            1,141
                                             -------------    -------------
                                                   33,028           30,741
 Less current portion                               1,388               44
                                             -------------    -------------
 Noncurrent portion                              $ 31,640         $ 30,697
                                             =============    =============

         During June 1994,  the Company  issued  $30.0  million of  subordinated
promissory  notes bearing  interest at an annual rate of 10%, with principal due
on June 15, 2001.  Interest  payments are due monthly in arrears.  The notes are
subordinated to the Company's  senior debt, which is defined as all pre-existing
indebtedness  for borrowed  money and certain future  indebtedness  for borrowed
money (including,  subject to certain restrictions,  secured bank borrowings and
borrowed money for the acquisition of property and capital  equipment) and trade
debt  incurred in the ordinary  course of business.  If the Company  prepays any
portion of the  principal,  it is  required  to pay  additional  amounts if U.S.
Treasury  obligations of a similar maturity exceed a specified yield.  Under the
agreement, the Company is restricted from paying dividends.

         The issuance of the notes also included  warrants  entitling holders to
purchase  400,000  shares of common  stock at a price of $10.95 per share at any
time through June 15, 2001. The warrants are included in shareholders' equity at
their appraised fair value of $700,000 at the time of issue. The net proceeds of




the notes were $29,348,000 after issuance costs of $652,000. The notes are shown
under  noncurrent  liabilities,  net of appraised  fair value  attributed to the
warrants.  The value of the warrants and the issuance costs are being  amortized
and included in interest  expense,  using the interest rate method over the term
of the subordinated  promissory notes. The effective annual interest rate on the
notes is 11.5%.  Under the terms of the note,  the Company is required to meet a
minimum  consolidated  net worth  requirement.  The Company is in the process of
negotiating  a  reduction  of this  minimum  requirement.  If the company is not
successful  in  negotiating  a reduction in the minimum  consolidated  net worth
requirement  and the Company incurs future losses;  the  accumulated  losses may
cause the company to be in default of its loan covenants. Such events could have
a material adverse effect on the Company's profitability.

         Other  long-term  debt  represents  deferred rent  obligations,  rental
inducements on certain of the Company's leased facilities,  an installment loans
for a fixed asset purchase.  There are three  installment  loans for capitalized
software,  which in total,  have two annual  payments of  $1,388,000.  The first
installment  loan consists of two payments of  $129,480.00  due May 30, 1999 and
May  30,  2000.  The  second  installment  loan  consists  of  two  payments  of
$942,800.00  due May 30,  1999 and May 30,  2000.  The  third  installment  loan
consists of two payments of  315,912.00  due May 01, 1999 and May 01, 2000.  The
lease  agreements  provide for  scheduled  increases in lease  payments over the
terms of the leases.

Note 8 - Lease obligations and commitments:

         The  Company's  principal  facilities  in the United  States are leased
under  noncancelable  operating  leases that  expire at various  dates from 1999
through  2003.  The Company has options to renew  certain of these leases for an
additional five years. The Company's United Kingdom subsidiary leases a facility
under an operating lease that expires in 2015.


 Future minimum payments required under noncancelable operating leases
 are as follows:
                                                         Operating
                                                           Leases
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
 (In thousands)

 1999                                                         $ 4,991
 2000                                                           4,131
 2001                                                           1,752
 2002                                                           1,372
 2003                                                             690
 Thereafter                                                       905
                                                      ================
 Total                                                       $ 13,841
                                                      ================

     Rent expense under operating  leases was $6,287,000 in 1998,  $5,472,400 in
1997, and $6,004,800 in 1996.

Note 9 - Fair value of financial instruments:

         Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 107,  "Disclosures about
Fair  Value of  Financial  Instruments"  requires  disclosure  of the  following
information about the fair value of certain  financial  instruments for which it
is practicable  to estimate that value.  None of the financial  instruments  are
held or issued for trading purposes. The carrying amounts and fair values of the
Company's financial instruments are as follows:




                                                      January 1, 1999
                                              --------------------------------
                                                Carrying             Fair
 (In thousands)                                  Amount              Value
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Assets:
 Cash and cash equivalents (Note 1)               $ 40,865           $ 40,865
 Short-term investments (Note 1)                    16,269             16,269

 Liabilities:
 Forward foreign exchange contracts (Note 1)        $  281            $   281
 Subordinated notes (Note 7)                        29,703             30,167

         The fair value of the  subordinated  notes has been estimated  using an
estimate of the interest  rate the Company  would have had to pay on issuance of
notes with a similar maturity,  and discounting the cash flows at that rate. The
fair values do not give an  indication of the amount that the Company would have
to pay to extinguish any of this debt.

         The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is estimated based
on quoted  market  prices of  comparable  contracts,  and  these  contracts  are
restated to the fair value at the end of every month.

Note 10 - Income taxes:

         The  income tax  provision  (benefit)  consists  of the  following  (in
thousands):

                                       January, 1     January 2,    December 31,
 Years ended                             1999           1998           1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Federal:
      Current                              $ 233        $ 1,344       $ (2,557)
      Deferred                                 -              -          1,208
                                      -----------    -----------    -----------
                                             233          1,344         (1,349)
                                      -----------    -----------    -----------
 State:
      Current                                 20             10              5
      Deferred                                 -              -              -
                                      -----------    -----------    -----------
                                              20             10              5
                                      -----------    -----------    -----------
 Foreign:
      Current                              1,195          1,116          1,060
      Deferred                               (48)            26            (16)
                                      -----------    -----------    -----------
                                           1,147          1,142          1,044
                                      -----------    -----------    -----------
 Income tax  provision (benefit)         $ 1,400        $ 2,496         $ (300)
                                      ===========    ===========    ===========

         The domestic  income (loss) from  continuing  operations  before income
taxes  (including  royalty  income  subject  to foreign  withholding  taxes) was
approximately ($26,220,000), $18,800,000, and ($7,615,000) in fiscal years 1998,
1997 and 1996.

         The income tax provision  (benefit) differs from the amount computed by
applying the  statutory  federal  income tax rate to income  before  taxes.  The
sources and tax effects of the differences are as follows (in thousands):



                                         January, 1     January 2,  December 31,
 Years ended                               1999           1998          1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Expected tax from continuing operations
      at 35% in all years                 $ (8,827)     $ 7,356       $ (2,069)
 Tax account valuation adjustments               -       (4,100)        (1,630)
 Operating loss not utilized (utilized)      9,178       (1,410)         2,585
 Foreign withholding taxes                     467          403            170
 Foreign tax rate differential                 329          (28)           277
 Other                                         253          275            367
                                        -----------  -----------    -----------
 Income tax provision (benefit)            $ 1,400      $ 2,496         $ (300)
                                        ===========  ===========    ===========
     Effective tax rate                        (6%)         12%             5%
                                        ===========  ===========    ===========

         The   components  of  deferred  taxes  consist  of  the  following  (in
thousands):

                                                    January, 1     January 2,
                                                      1999           1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------


 Deferred tax liabilities:
      Goodwill                                            $ -          $ 866
      Other individually immaterial items                 178            290
                                                   -----------    -----------
      Total deferred tax liabilities                      178          1,156
                                                   -----------    -----------

 Deferred tax assets:
      Inventory valuation differences                  10,423          6,480
       Expenses not currently deductible                9,907          3,017
      Federal credit carryforwards                      7,252          6,316
       Depreciation                                     3,689          1,163
      State credit carryforwards                        3,138          2,099
      Federal net operating loss (NOL) carryforward     3,023              -
      Warranty                                          2,090          1,234
      Other individually immaterial items               2,660            825
                                                   -----------    -----------
      Total deferred tax assets                        42,182         21,134

      Valuation allowance                             (41,599)       (19,622)
                                                   -----------    -----------
      Total deferred tax assets                           583          1,512
                                                   -----------    -----------
 Total net deferred tax assets                          $ 405          $ 356
                                                   ===========    ===========

         The NOL and credit  carryforwards  listed  above expire in 1999 through
2018.

         The   valuation   allowance   decreased  by  $300   thousand  in  1997.
Approximately $7.2 million of the valuation allowance at January 1, 1999 relates
to the tax benefits of stock option  deductions which will be credited to equity
when realized.

Note 11 - Shareholders' equity:

         1993 Stock  Option  Plan.  In 1992,  the  Company's  Board of Directors
adopted the 1993 Stock  Option Plan (1993  Plan) to replace the  Company's  1983
Stock Option Plan,  which expired in January 1993.  The 1993 Plan, as amended to
date and approved by  shareholders,  provides for the granting of incentive  and
nonstatutory  stock  options  for up to  3,800,000  shares  of  Common  Stock to




employees, consultants and directors of the Company. Incentive stock options may
be granted  for  exercise  prices that are not less than 100% of the fair market
value of Common Stock on the date of grant.  All employee stock options  granted
have  120-month  terms,  and vest at a rate of 20% at the first  anniversary  of
grant,  and  monthly  thereafter  at an annual  rate of 20%,  with full  vesting
occurring at the fifth  anniversary of grant. The exercise price of nonstatutory
stock options issued under the 1993 Plan must be at least 85% of the fair market
value of Common  Stock on the date of grant.  As of January 1, 1999,  options to
purchase 2,867,658 shares were outstanding and 374,211 shares were available for
future grant under the 1993 Stock Option Plan.

         1990 Director Stock Option Plan. In December 1990, the Company  adopted
a Director Stock Option Plan under which the Company has reserved 380,000 shares
of Common Stock for options to be granted to nonemployee  directors.  At January
1, 1999,  options to purchase 158,333 shares were outstanding and 145,833 shares
were available for future grants under the Director Stock Option Plan.

     1992 Management  Discount Stock Option Plan. In 1992 the Company's Board of
Directors  approved the 1992  Management  Discount Stock Option Plan  ("Discount
Plan").  Under the  Discount  Plan,  300,000  nonstatutory  stock  options  were
reserved  for  grant  to  management  employees  at  exercise  prices  that  are
significantly discounted from the fair market value of Common Stock on the dates
of grant.  Options are generally  exercisable six months from the date of grant.
As of January 1, 1999,  there were 129,974  shares  available for future grants.
For accounting  purposes,  compensation  cost on these grants is measured by the
excess over the  discounted  exercise  prices of the fair market value of Common
Stock on the dates of option grant. Noncash compensation cost related to options
exercised  in 1998,  1997,  and 1996  amounted  to $0,  $275,000,  and  $48,744,
respectively. As of January 1, 1999, all outstanding options had been exercised.

         1988 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. In 1988, the Company  established an
employee  stock  purchase  plan under which an aggregate of 2,350,000  shares of
Common  Stock  have  been  reserved  for  issuance  to date as  approved  by the
shareholders.  The plan permits  full-time  employees  to purchase  Common Stock
through  payroll  deductions at 85% of the lower of the fair market value of the
Common Stock at the beginning or at the end of each six-month  offering  period.
In 1998,  332,154  shares were issued under the plan for  aggregate  proceeds of
$2,827,000.  At  January  1,  1999,  the  number of shares  reserved  for future
purchases was 402,842.

         As stated  in Note 1, the  Company  has  elected  to follow  APB 25 and
related  Interpretations  in accounting for its employee stock options and stock
purchase plans. The alternative  fair value  accounting  provided for under SFAS
123 requires use of option  pricing  models that were not  developed  for use in
valuing employee stock options.  Under APB 25, because the exercise price of the
Company's employee stock options equals the market price of the underlying stock
on date of grant, no compensation expense is recognized.

         Pro forma  information  regarding  net income and earnings per share is
required by SFAS 123 and has been determined as if the Company had accounted for
its employee stock options and purchases  under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan
using the fair value method of that Statement.  The fair value for these options
was estimated at the date of grant using a  Black-Scholes  option  pricing model
with the following weighted-average assumptions for 1998, 1997, and 1996:





         The  Black-Scholes  option  valuation  model was  developed  for use in
estimating  the fair value of traded  options that have no vesting  restrictions
and are fully  transferable.  In addition,  option  valuation models require the
input of highly  subjective  assumptions,  including  the  expected  stock price
volatility.  Because the Company's  employee stock options have  characteristics
significantly different from those of traded options, and because changes in the
subjective input assumptions can materially  affect the fair value estimate,  in
management's  opinion, the existing models do not necessarily provide a reliable
single measure of its employee stock options.

         For purposes of pro forma disclosures,  the estimated fair value of the
options is  amortized  to expense  over the  options'  vesting  period,  and the
estimated  fair value of purchases  under the Employee  Stock  Purchase  Plan is
expensed  in the year of  purchase.  The  Company's  pro forma  information  (in
thousands except for per share data) is as follows:



         Because the fair value  method is  applicable  only to options  granted
subsequent to December 31, 1994,  pro forma effects will not be fully  reflected
until 1998. Accordingly,  these figures are unlikely to be representative of the
effects on reported net income for future years.

         Exercise prices for options  outstanding as of January 1, 1999,  ranged
from $8.00 to $29.625. The weighted average remaining  contractual life of those
options is 7.59 years. In view of the wide range of exercise prices, the Company
considers it  appropriate  to provide the following  additional  information  in
respect of options outstanding:



         Activity  during 1998,  1997 and 1996 under the  combined  plans was as
follows:





         The  Company  took steps to further  strengthen  and  improve  employee
relationships and incentives by extending the period of  exercisability  for all
current  outstanding  employee stock options from five years and three months to
ten years effective as of November 3, 1998.

         During 1996,  under a program  approved by the Board of Directors,  all
employees,  with the exception of officers,  were offered an exchange  option to
replace the stock options  previously issued to them, with new stock options (at
an exchange ratio of 1 to 1, with a restarted  vesting period  commencing on the
date of exchange) at a new lower price.  Options on 825,456 shares were canceled
(reported  above as  cancellations)  and  replaced  (reported  above as  options
granted).

         401(k)  Plan.   Under  the  Company's   401(k)  Plan,   U.S.   employee
participants  may direct the investment of contributions to their accounts among
certain mutual funds and the Trimble  Navigation  Limited Common Stock Fund. The
Fund  purchased  48,302  shares of Common  Stock for an aggregate of $650,000 in
1998. The Company,  at its discretion,  matches individual  employee 401(k) Plan
contributions up to $100 per month. The Company's matching  contributions to the
401(k) Plan were $1,159,000 in 1998, $1,033,000 in 1997 and $1,031,000 in 1996.

         Profit-Sharing  Plan.  In 1995,  the  Company  introduced  an  employee
profit-sharing plan in which all employees,  excluding executives,  participate.
The plan  distributes to employees  approximately  5% of quarterly income before
taxes.  Payments  under the plan  during  1998,  1997,  and 1996 were  $138,000,
$549,000, and $43,000, respectively.

         Common shares reserved for future issuances. As of January 1, 1999, the
Company has  reserved  4,078,851  common  shares for issuance  upon  exercise of
options outstanding and options available for grant under the 1993 Stock Option,
1990 Director Stock Option, and 1992 Management Discount Stock Option plans, and
available for issuance under the 1988 Employee Stock Purchase plan.

Note 12 - Earnings Per Share:

         In February  1997,  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board issued
Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 128, "Earnings Per Share." The
Company  adopted this standard,  as required for its January 2, 1998,  Financial
Statements. For the years presented, the Company presents both basic and diluted
earnings (loss) per share.

         The following data show the amounts used in computing  earnings  (loss)
per share and the effect on the  weighted-average  number of shares of  dilutive
potential Common Stock.





         If the Company  had  reported  net income in 1998,  an  additional  387
common equivalent shares related to outstanding  options and warrants would have
been included in the calculation of diluted loss per share.

Note 13 - Comprehensive Income (Loss):

     The components of accumulated  other  comprehensive  income (loss),  net of
related tax at January 1, 1999 and January 2, 1998 were as follows:

                                                    Janaury 1,      January 2,
                                                       1999            1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(in thousands)

 Currency translation adjustments                         ($811)          ($556)
 Unrealized gain (loss) on short term investments            19               8
                                                    ============   =============
     Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)        ($792)          ($548)
                                                    ============   =============

Note 14 - Statement of cash flows data:





Note 15 - Litigation:

     Settled  Matters.  On May 8,  1998,  Satloc,  Inc. a Trimble  customer  and
competitor, filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District
of   Arizona,   action  No.  CIV  98-0837  PHX  PGR.   The   complaint   alleged
misappropriation  of  trade  secrets  and  confidential   business  information,
intentional  interference with contractual relations,  intentional  interference
with  prospective   contractual  relations,   unfair  competition,   and  unjust
enrichment, arising from Trimble's hiring of a former Satloc, Inc. sales person.
The complaint seeks injunctive  relief,  compensatory and punitive  damages,  an
accounting,  and attorney fees. Trimble has answered the complaint. In September
1998, Satloc, Inc. dismissed its claims with prejudice.

         In October 1995, an employee who was  terminated by the Company in 1992
filed a complaint against the Company, alleging that his incentive stock options
continued  to  vest  subsequent  to  his  termination.   He  sought  damages  of
approximately  $1,000,000.  The Company filed a general  denial in answer to the
complaint.  The trial was concluded on September 25, 1997, and the jury rendered
its verdict in favor of the Company on all causes of action. The judgment in the
Company's favor is now final and nonappealable.

     Pending Matters. On December 6, 1995, two shareholders filed a class action
lawsuit  against the Company and certain  directors and officers of the Company.
Subsequent to that date,  additional  lawsuits were filed by other shareholders.
The lawsuits were  subsequently  amended and  consolidated  into one  complaint,
which was filed on April 5, 1996. The amended  consolidated  complaint sought to
bring an action as a class action  consisting  of all persons who  purchased the
Common Stock of the Company during the period April 18, 1995,  through  December
5, 1995 (the "Class Period").  The plaintiffs alleged that the defendants sought
to induce the members of the Class to purchase the Company's Common Stock during
the Class Period at artificially  inflated prices. The plaintiffs seek recissory
or compensatory damages with interest thereon, as well as reasonable  attorneys'
fees and extraordinary  equitable and/or injunctive  relief. The Company filed a
motion to dismiss,  which was heard by the Court on August 16,  1996.  The court
rejected  the  plaintiffs'  lawsuit,  but allowed  thirty  days to resubmit  its
complaint.  On September 24, 1996, the plaintiffs filed an amended complaint. On
April 28, 1997,  the Court  granted in part,  and denied in part,  the Company's
motion to dismiss.  The Court further  granted the  plaintiffs  leave to replead
certain dismissed claims. On June 19, 1997, the plaintiffs filed a third amended
and  consolidated  complaint.  The Company has answered the complaint by denying
all  liability.  The Company does not believe that it is possible to predict the
outcome  of  this  litigation.   The  parties  have  executed  a  Memorandum  of
Understanding  with respect to settlement of the  litigation  and anticipate the
negotiation  and  execution  of a  definitive  agreement  in the near term.  The
settlement will be subject to approval by the court.

         On November 12, 1998, the Company brought suit in district court in San
Jose,  California against Silicon RF Technology,  Inc. (SiRF) for alleged patent
infringement  of three Trimble  patents.  SiRF has a counter claim. No action by
the Court has taken place yet.

         On January 31,  1997,  counsel for one Philip M. Clegg wrote to Trimble
asserting  that a license under  Clegg's U.S.  Patent No.  4,807,131,  which was
issued  February  21,  1989,  would be  required  by Trimble  because of a joint
venture Trimble had entered into with Caterpillar Corporation concerning the use
of Trimble GPS products in combination with earth moving equipment.  To date, no
infringement  action has been initiated on behalf of Mr. Clegg. The Company does
not  believe  that there will be any  adverse  consequences  to the Company as a
result of this inquiry.



     Other  Matters.  Western  Atlas,  a  Houston  based  supplier  to  the  oil
exploration business, has accused Trimble and other GPS manufactures,  suppliers
and users of infringing  two U.S.  Patents owned by it, namely U.S.  Patent Nos.
5,014,066 and 5,619,212. Western Atlas contends that the foregoing patents cover
certain aspects of GPS receiver  design.  Lawsuits for infringement of these two
patents  are  currently  pending in federal  district  court in  Houston,  Texas
against Garmin  International  Inc. and Rockwell  International  Corp.  Although
Trimble has not been sued by Western Atlas on the foregoing patents, Trimble has
instructed its counsel  thoroughly to investigate the  infringement  threat.  At
present  Trimble  does not expect this threat to have  adverse  consequences  on
Trimble's business.

         The  Company  is also a  party  to  other  disputes  incidental  to its
business. The Company believes the ultimate liability of the Company as a result
of such  disputes,  if any,  would  not be  material  to its  overall  financial
position, results of operations, or liquidity.

Note 16 - Selected quarterly financial data (unaudited):




         Significant  quarterly  items include the  following:  (i) in the third
quarter of 1998 the Company recorded a$2,453,000  restructuring  charge, (ii) in
the fourth  quarter of 1998 the  Company  recorded  a  $7,827,000  restructuring
charge,  (iii) in the second  quarter of 1997 the  Company  recorded  revenue of
$2,222,000  from a  technology  license;  (iv) in the third  quarter of 1997 the
Company  recorded  revenue  of  $1,800,000  from  a  development   agreement  in
connection with an irrevocable nonrefundable nonrecurring engineering fee.






                REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Board of Directors and Shareholders Trimble Navigation Limited

         We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Trimble
Navigation  Limited as of January 1, 1999 and  January 2, 1998,  and the related
consolidated statements of operations,  shareholders' equity, and cash flows for
each of the three  years in the period  ended  January 1, 1999.  Our audits also
included the  financial  statement  schedule  listed in the index at Item 14(a).
These financial  statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's
management.  Our  responsibility  is to express  an  opinion on these  financial
statements and schedule based on our audits.

         We conducted our audits in accordance with generally  accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

         In our opinion, the financial statements and schedule referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
Trimble  Navigation  Limited  at January  1, 1999 and  January 2, 1998,  and the
consolidated  results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended January 1, 1999 in conformity with generally  accepted
accounting  principles.  Also, in our opinion,  the related financial  statement
schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as
a whole,  presents  fairly in all material  respects the  information  set forth
therein.




                                                ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Palo Alto, California
January 26, 1999






Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting Financial 
         Disclosure

         Not applicable.


                                    PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

         The section titled  "Nominees" and the section titled  "Compliance with
Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act" in the Company's Proxy Statement for its 1999
annual meeting of  shareholders  to be held on June 2, 1999,  (Proxy  Statement)
with respect to directors of the Company and  compliance  of the  directors  and
executive  officers  of the  Company  with  Section  16(a) of the  Exchange  Act
required by this item are incorporated herein by reference.

         The information  with respect to the executive  officers of the Company
required by this item is included in Part I hereof under the caption  "Executive
Officers of the Registrant."

Item 11. Executive Compensation

         The following  sections of the Proxy Statement are incorporated  herein
by reference: "Compensation of Executive Officers," "Compensation of Directors,"
"Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation," and "Compensation
Committee Report" and "Company Performance."

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

         The section titled "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management" of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

         The section titled "Certain  Relationships and Related Transactions" of
the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.



                                     PART IV

Item 14.          Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on 
                  form 8-K

(a)      1.       Financial Statements

                  The following  consolidated  financial  statements required by
this item are  included in Part II Item 8 hereof  under the  caption  "Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data."

                                                                  Page In This
                                                                  Annual Report
                                                                  On Form 10-K

                  Consolidated Balance Sheets at January 1,
                  1999 and January 2, 1998....................           44

                  Consolidated Statements of Operations for
                  each of the three fiscal years in the period
                  ended January 1, 1999........................          45

                  Consolidated Statement of Shareholders'
                  Equity for the three fiscal years
                  ended January 1, 1999........................          46

                  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for
                  each of the three fiscal years in the period
                  ended January 1, 1999........................          47

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements           48-65

         2.       Financial Statement Schedules

                  The following financial statement schedule is filed as part of
this report:

                                                                 Page In This
                                                                 Annual Report
                                                                 On Form 10-K

                  Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying
                  Accounts...........................                 S-1

         All other  schedules  have been omitted as they are either not required
or not applicable,  or the required  information is included in the consolidated
financial statements or the notes thereto.





         3.       Exhibits

Exhibit
Number 

3.1       Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company filed 
          June 25, 1986. (18)

3.2       Certificate of Amendment of Articles of Incorporation of the Company 
          filed October 6, 1988. (18)

3.3       Certificate of Amendment of Articles of Incorporation of the Company 
          filed July 18, 1990. (18)

3.4       Certificate of Determination of the Company filed 
          February 19, 1999. (18)

3.8       Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company. (16)

4.1       Specimen copy of certificate for shares of Common Stock of the 
          Company. (1)

4.2       Preferred Shares Rights Agreement dated as of February 18, 1999. (17)

10.4      Form of Indemnification Agreement between the Company and its officers
          and directors. (1)

10.5      Loan Agreement dated December 21, 1984, between the Company and 
          certain lenders. (1)

10.6      Note Purchase Agreement dated July 7, 1986, between the Company and 
          certain purchasers. (1)

10.7      Form of Common Stock Purchase Agreement dated March 1989 between the 
          Company and certain investors. (1)

10.8*     Memorandum of Understanding  dated March 11, 1988, and License 
          Agreement dated September 5, 1988, between the Company and AEG 
          Aktiengesellschaft,  with Amendments No. 1, No. 2, and No. 3 thereto, 
          and Letter Agreement dated December 22, 1989, between Trimble and 
          Telefunken Systemtechnik GmbH. (1)

10.9      Note Purchase Agreement dated December 6, 1988, between the Company 
          and AEG Aktiengesellschaft. (1)

10.10     Master  Equipment Lease Agreement dated April 26, 1990,  between the 
          Company and MATSCO  Financial  Corporation, and schedule of lease 
          extensions. (1)

10.11*    Agreement dated February 6, 1989, between the Company and Pioneer 
          Electronic Corporation. (1)

10.15     International OEM Agreement dated May 30, 1989, between the Company 
          and Geotronics AB. (1)



10.16     Patent License Agreement dated January 18, 1990, between the Company 
          and the United States Navy.(1)

10.18    Asset Purchase Agreement dated April 19, 1990, between the Company;  
         TR Navigation  Corporation,  a subsidiary of the Company; and Tracor 
         Aerospace, Inc. (1)

10.19    Promissory  Note dated April 20,  1990,  for the  principal  amount of 
         $400,000  issued by TR  Navigation  Corporation  to DAC 
         International, Inc. (1)

10.20    Guarantee dated April 20, 1990, between the Company and DAC 
         International, Inc. (1)

10.21    Indemnification  Agreement dated April 20, 1990, between the Company; 
         TR Navigation Corporation,  a subsidiary of the Company; DAC 
         International, Inc.; and Banner Industries, Inc. (1)

10.22    Distributor Agreement dated April 20, 1990, between TR Navigation  
         Corporation,  a subsidiary of the Company, and DAC 
         International, Inc. (1)

10.23    Distributor Agreement dated December 6, 1989, between the Company 
         and DAC International, Inc. (1)

10.24    Lease  Agreement  dated April 26, 1990,  between the Company and NCNB 
         Texas National Bank,  Trustee for the Company's offices located at 
         2105 Donley Drive, Austin, Texas. (1)

10.32    1990 Director Stock Option Plan, as amended, and form of Outside 
         Director Non statutory Stock Option Agreement. (8)

10.35    Sublease  Agreement  dated  January 2, 1991,  between  the  Company,  
         Aetna  Insurance  Company,  and Poqet  Computer Corporation for 
         property located at 650 North Mary Avenue, Sunnyvale, California. (2)

10.36    Lease Agreement dated February 20, 1991, between the Company,  John 
         Arrillaga Separate Property Trust, and Richard T. Peery Separate 
         Property Trust for property located at 880 West Maude, Sunnyvale, 
         California. (2)

10.37    Share and Asset Purchase  Agreement dated February 22, 1991,  among 
         the Company and Datacom Group Limited and Datacom Software Research 
         Limited. (3)

10.38    License Agreement dated June 29, 1991, between the Company and 
         Avion Systems, Inc. (3)

10.40    Industrial Lease Agreement dated December 3, 1991,  between the 
         Company and Aetna Life Insurance Company for property located at 585 
         North Mary Avenue, Sunnyvale, California. (5)

10.41    Industrial Lease Agreement dated December 3, 1991,  between the 
         Company and Aetna Life Insurance Company for property located at 570 
         Maude Court, Sunnyvale, California. (5)



10.42    Industrial Lease Agreement dated December 3, 1991, between the Company
         and Aetna Life Insurance Company for property located at 580 Maude 
         Court, Sunnyvale, California. (5)

10.43    Industrial Lease Agreement dated December 3, 1991, between the Company 
         and Aetna Life Insurance Company for property located at 490 Potrero 
         Avenue, Sunnyvale, California. (5)

10.44    Master Lease Agreement dated September 18, 1991, between the Company 
         and United States Leasing Corporation. (5)

10.45    Equipment Financing Agreement dated May 15, 1991, between the Company 
         and Corestates Bank, N.A.(5)

10.46+   1992 Management Discount Stock Option and form of Nonstatutory Stock 
         Option Agreement (5).

10.48    Equipment Financing Agreement dated April 27, 1992, with AT&T Systems 
         Leasing Corporation. (7)

10.49**  Memorandum of Understanding dated December 24, 1992, between the 
         Company and Pioneer Electronics Corporation. (7)

10.51    Revolving Credit Agreement for $15,000,000 dated January 27, 1993, 
         with Barclays Business Credit, Inc. (7)

10.52    $30,000,000 Note and Warrant Purchase Agreement dated June 13, 1994, 
         with John Hancock Life Insurance Company. (9)

10.53    Revolving Credit  Agreement for $20,000,000 and $10,000,000,  dated 
         August 4, 1995, with the First National Bank of Boston and
         Mellon Bank N.A., respectively. (1)

10.54    Revolving Credit Agreement - First Amendment (12)

10.55    Revolving Credit Agreement - Second Amendment (12)

10.56    Revolving Credit Agreement - Third Amendment (13)

10.57    Revolving Credit Agreement - Fourth Amendment (14)

10.58    Revolving  Credit  Agreement for $50,000,000  dated August 27,
         1997,  with Fleet  National Bank,  Bank of Boston N.A.,  Sanwa
         Bank of California, and ABN Amro Bank N.V., respectively. (15)

10.59    1993 Stock Option Plan, as amended (16)

10.60    1988 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended (16)

10.61    Revolving Credit Agreement - Loan - Third Amendment (18)

10.62+   Employment Agreement between the Company and Bradford W. Parkinson 
         dated September 1, 1998. (18)



10.63+   Employment Agreement between the Comany and Robert S. Cooper dated
         September 1, 1998. (18)

10.64+   Consulting Agreement between the comapny and Bradford W. Parkinson 
         dated September 1, 1998. (18)

10.65+   Standby Consulting Agreement between the Comapny and Bradford W. 
         Parkinson dated September 1, 1998. (18)

10.66+   Consulting Agreement between the Comapny and Robert S. Cooper dated
         September 1, 1998. (18)

10.67+   Employment Agreement between the Company and Steven W. Berglund dated
         March 17, 1999. (18)

10.68+   Nonqualified deferred Compensation Plan of the Company effective 
         February 10, 1994. (18)

21.1     Subsidiaries of the Company. (17)

23.1     Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, independent auditors (see page 66).

24.1     Power of Attorney (included on page 75).

27.1     Financial Data Schedule (17)

*        Confidential treatment has been previously granted for certain portions
         of this exhibit pursuant to an order dated July 11, 1990.

**       Confidential treatment has been previously granted for certain portions
         of this exhibit pursuant to an order dated March 2, 1995.

+        Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement  required to be
         filed as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Item
         14(c) thereof.

(1)      Incorporated  by reference to  identically  numbered  exhibits filed in
         response to Item 16(a),  "Exhibits," of the  registrant's  Registration
         Statement  on Form S-1, as amended  (File No.  33-35333),  which became
         effective July 19, 1990.

(2)      Incorporated  by reference to  identically  numbered  exhibits filed in
         response to Item 14(a),  "Exhibits," of the registrant's  Annual Report
         on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1990.

(3)      Incorporated  by reference to  identically  numbered  exhibits filed in
         response  to Item 16,  "Exhibits  and Forms  8-K," of the  registrant's
         Report on 10-Q for the quarter ended  September 30, 1991, as amended on
         Form 8, filed February 11, 1992.

(4)      Incorporated  by reference to Exhibit No. 4.1 filed in response to Item
         8, "Exhibits," of the registrant's  Registration  Statement on Form S-8
         (File No. 33-45167), which became effective January 21, 1992.



(5)      Incorporated  by reference to  identically  numbered  exhibits filed in
         response to Item 16(a)  "Exhibits,"  of the  registrant's  Registration
         Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 33-45990), which was filed February 18,
         1992.

(6)      Incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibits  4.1,  4.2 and 4.3  filed  in
         response  to  Item  8,  "Exhibits,"  of the  registrant's  Registration
         Statement on Form S-8 (File No.  33-57522),  which was filed on January
         28, 1993.
   
(7)      Incorporated  by reference to  identically  numbered  exhibits filed in
         response to Item 14(a),  "Exhibits," of the registrant's  Annual Report
         on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992.

(8)      Incorporated  by reference to  identically  numbered  exhibits filed in
         response to Item 14(a),  "Exhibits," of the registrant's  Annual Report
         on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993.

(9)      Incorporated  by reference to  identically  numbered  exhibits filed 
         in response to Item 6A,  "Exhibits,"  of the  registrant's
         Annual Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1994.

(10)     Incorporated  by reference to  identically  numbered  exhibits filed in
         response to Item 14(a),  "Exhibits," of the registrant's  Annual Report
         on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.
     
(11)     Incorporated  by reference to  identically  numbered  exhibits filed in
         response to Item 14(a),  "Exhibits," of the registrant's  Annual Report
         on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995.

(12)     Incorporated  by reference to  identically  numbered exhibits filed in 
         response to Item 6A,  "Exhibits,"  of the  registrant's
         Annual Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1996.

(13)     Incorporated  by reference to  identically  numbered exhibits filed in 
         response to Item 6A,  "Exhibits," of the  registrant's
         Annual Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1996.

(14)     Incorporated  by reference to  identically  numbered exhibits filed in 
         response to Item 6A,  "Exhibits," of the  registrant's
         Annual Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997.

(15)     Incorporated  by reference to  identically  numbered exhibits filed in 
         response to Item 6A,  "Exhibits," of the  registrant's
         Annual Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1997.

(16)     Incorporated  by reference to  identically  numbered exhibits filed in 
         response to Item 6A,  "Exhibits," of the  registrant's
         Annual Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 3, 1998.



(17)     Incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  No. 1 to the  registrant's 
         Registration  Statement  on Form 8-A  which was filed on 
         February 18,1999.

(18)     Filed herewith.

         (b)      Reports on Form 8-K.

                  No reports on Form 8-K were filed by the registrant during the
fourth quarter ended January 1, 1999.





                                   SIGNATURES


         Pursuant to the  requirements  of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report on Form 10-K to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                              TRIMBLE NAVIGATION LIMITED



                             By:/s/ Steven W. Berglund 
                                Steven W. Berglund,
                                President and Chief
                                Executive Officer


                                March 26, 1999



                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

         Know all persons by these  presents,  that each person whose  signature
appears  below   constitutes   and  appoints   Bradford  W.   Parkinson  as  his
attorney-in-fact,  with  the  power  of  substitution,  for  him in any  and all
capacities,  to sign any amendments to this Report on Form 10-K, and to file the
same, with exhibits  thereto and other documents in connection  therewith,  with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that
said attorney-in-fact,  or his substitute or substitutes,  may do or cause to be
done by virtue hereof.





         Pursuant to the  requirements  of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,
this Annual Report on Form 10-K has been signed below by the  following  persons
on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:




  Signature                Capacity in which Signed                Date

/s/ Steven W. Berglund     President, Chief Executive            March 26, 1999
    Steven W. Berglund     Officer 

/s/ Mary Ellen Genoves     Vice President Finance,               March 26, 1999
    Mary Ellen Genovese    and Chief Financial Officer
                           (principal financial and principal
                           accounting officer)
                                                 
/s/ Bradford Parkinson     Director                              March 26, 1999
    Bradford W. Parkinson      

/s/ Robert S. Cooper       Director                              March 25, 1999
    Robert S. Cooper          


/s/ John B. Goodrich       Director                              March 26, 1999
    John B. Goodrich


/s/ William Hart           Director                              March 26, 1999
    William Hart


/s/ Charles R. Trimble     Director                              March 24, 1999
    Charles R. Trimble






                                   SCHEDULE II


                           TRIMBLE NAVIGATION LIMITED
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFIYING ACCOUNTS
                            (IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)








                                       S-1












                                INDEX TO EXHIBITS


                                                              SEQUENTIALLY
EXHIBIT                                                         NUMBERED
 NUMBER                     EXHIBIT                              PAGE

3.1      Restated Articles of Incorporation of the
         Company filed June 25, 1986.                           79-80

3.2      Certificate of Amendment of Articles of
         Incorporation of the  Company filed
         October 6, 1988.                                       81-82

3.3      Certificate of Amendment of Articles of
         Incorporation of the  Company filed July 17, 1990.        83

3.4      Certificate of Determination.                          84-88

10.61    Revolving Credit Agreement - Loan - Third Amendment   89-102


10.62    Employment Agreement between Registrant and
         Bradford W. Parkinson dated September 1, 1998.       103-111  

10.63    Employment Agreement between Registrant and
         Robert S. Cooper  dated September 1, 1998            113-121

10.64    Consulting Agreement between Registrant and
         Bradford W. Parkinson dated September 1, 1998.       120-126

10.65    Standby Consulting Agreement between Registrant and
         Bradford W. Parkinson dated September 1, 1998.       127-132

10.66    Consulting Agreement between Registrant and
         Robert S. Cooper  dated September 1, 1998            133-138

10.67    Emploment Agreement between Registrant and 
         Steven W. Berglund dated March 17, 1999.             139-142

10.68    Nonqualified Deferred Compesation Plan of the
         Company effective February 10, 1994.                 143-165 

21.1     Subsidiaries of the Company                              166

23.1     Consent of  Ernst & Young LLP,
         Independent Auditors                                     167

27.1     Financial Data Schedule for the years ended
         January 1, 1999 and January 2, 1998                      168






