
10-K
from10k030703.txt

                              UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

      (X) ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE SECURITIES
                              EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                    For the fiscal year ended January 3, 2003
                                 ---------------

                                       OR

          ( ) TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
           For the transition period from ___________to______________
                         Commission File Number: 0-18645

                           TRIMBLE NAVIGATION LIMITED
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

                                   California
                                   ----------
         (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)

                                   94-2802192
                                   ----------
                      (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

                   645 North Mary Avenue, Sunnyvale, CA 94085
                   ------------------------------------------
               (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (408) 481-8000

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: NONE

                    Securities registered pursuant to Section
                                12(g) of the Act:

                                  Common Stock
                         Preferred Share Purchase Rights
                                (Title of Class)

     Indicate  by check mark  whether the  registrant  (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

     The aggregate  market value of the Common Stock held by  non-affiliates  of
the  registrant,  based upon the last sale price of the Common Stock reported on
the Nasdaq National Market on June 28, 2002 was approximately $455 million.

     There were 29,350,366 shares of the registrant's Common Stock issued and
outstanding as of March 5, 2003.






                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Certain parts of Trimble  Navigation  Limited's Proxy Statement relating to
the  annual  meeting  of  stockholders  to be held on May 20,  2003 (the  "Proxy
Statement") are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.








                   SPECIAL NOTE ON FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking  statements within
the meaning of Section 27A of the  Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, which are subject to the "safe harbor" created
by those sections.  The forward-looking  statements  regarding future events and
the future results of Trimble Navigation Limited ("Trimble" or " The Company" or
"We" or "Our" or "Us") are based on current expectations,  estimates, forecasts,
and projections  about the industries in which Trimble  operates and the beliefs
and  assumptions  of the  management  of Trimble.  Discussions  containing  such
forward-looking statements may be found in "Management's Discussion and Analysis
of   Financial   Condition   and   Results  of   Operations."   In  some  cases,
forward-looking  statements  can be  identified  by  terminology  such as "may,"
"will,"  "should,"  "could,"  "predicts,"  "potential,"  "continue,"  "expects,"
"anticipates,"   "future,"  "intends,"  "plans,"  "believes,"  "estimates,"  and
similar expressions.  These forward-looking statements involve certain risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results, levels of activity,  performance,
achievements  and  events  to  differ  materially  from  those  implied  by such
forward-looking  statements,  but are not  limited  to those  discussed  in this
Report under the section  entitled  "Other Risk Factors" and  elsewhere,  and in
other reports Trimble files with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"),
specifically  the most recent reports on Form 8-K and Form 10-Q,  each as it may
be amended from time to time.  These  forward-looking  statements are made as of
the date of this  Annual  Report on Form 10-K.  We  reserve  the right to update
these  statements for any reason,  including the occurrence of material  events.
The risks and  uncertainties  under the  caption  "Management's  Discussion  and
Analysis  of  Financial   Condition   and  Results  of   Operations--Risks   and
Uncertainties"  contained  herein,  among other things,  should be considered in
evaluating our prospects and future financial performance.  We have attempted to
identify  forward-looking  statements  in this report by placing an asterisk (*)
before paragraphs containing such material.








                           TRIMBLE NAVIGATION LIMITED

                          2002 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT

                                
         PART I
Item 1   Business..............................................................5
Item 2   Properties...........................................................17
Item 3   Legal Proceedings....................................................17
Item 4   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders..................18

         PART II
Item 5   Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related
         Stockholder Matters..................................................19
Item 6   Selected Financial Data..............................................20
Item 7   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
         Results of Operations................................................23
Item 7A  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk...........52
Item 8   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data..........................56
Item 9   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
         Financial Disclosure.................................................94

         PART III
Item 10  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant...................94
Item 11  Executive Compensation...............................................94
Item 12  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
         Related Stockholder Matters..........................................94
Item 13  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.......................94
Item 14  Controls and Procedures..............................................94

         PART IV
Item 15  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K..95-108





                                   TRADEMARKS

     Trimble,  SiteVision,   GeoExplorer,  AgGPS,  Thunderbolt,   FirstGPS,  and
CrossCheck are trademarks of Trimble Navigation Limited registered in the United
States Patent and Trademark Office.  Spectra Precision,  Lassen,  Force, Galaxy,
EZ-Guide,  Placer,  Trimble  Toolbox and  Telvisant  are  trademarks  of Trimble
Navigation  Limited.  All other  trademarks are the property of their respective
owners.









                                     PART I


Item 1   Business Overview

     Trimble Navigation  Limited, a California  corporation  ("Trimble" or " the
Company" or "we" or "our" or "us"),  provides advanced  positioning products and
solutions to industrial,  commercial,  governmental  entities,  and professional
customers in a number of markets including surveying, construction, agriculture,
urban and resource management, military, transportation, and telecommunications.
Customer benefits  resulting from our products typically include cost savings or
avoidance,  improved quality,  higher  productivity,  and increased  efficiency.
Examples  of  our  products  and  solutions  include  guidance  for  earthmoving
operations,  surveying instrumentation,  fleet management for specialized trucks
such as concrete  mixers,  positioning  technology  for vehicle  navigation  and
telematics  products,  tractor  guidance  for  farming,  field  data  collection
equipment, and timing technology for synchronization of wireless networks.

     Our expertise is focused in  positioning,  communication,  and  information
technologies, which form the core of our products. Positioning technologies used
include the Global Positioning System (GPS), laser, optical, and inertial, while
communication  techniques  include both public  networks  such as cellular,  and
private  networks such as business band radio.  The unique nature of many of our
products  and  solutions  is created  through  information  technologies  - both
firmware that enables the positioning  solution and  applications  software that
allows the customer to make use of the positioning information.

     We design and market our own products.  Assembly and manufacturing for many
of our  products are  subcontracted  to third  parties.  We conduct our business
globally  with major  operations  in the United  States,  Sweden,  Germany,  New
Zealand,   and   the   Netherlands.   Products   are   sold   through   dealers,
representatives, partners, and other channels throughout the world. Products are
supported by sales offices in 22 countries.

     We began  operations in 1978 and  incorporated  in California in 1981.  Our
common  stock has been  publicly  traded on Nasdaq  since  1990 under the symbol
TRMB.


Technology Overview

     A major portion of our revenues is derived from applying GPS to terrestrial
applications.  GPS is a system of 24 orbiting  satellites and associated  ground
control that is funded and  maintained by the U. S.  Government and is available
worldwide free of charge. GPS positioning is based on a technique that precisely
measures  distances from four or more  satellites.  The satellites  continuously
transmit precisely timed radio signals using extremely accurate atomic clocks. A
GPS receiver  measures  distances from the satellites in view by determining the
travel time of a signal from the satellite to the receiver,  and then uses those
distances to compute its position. Under normal circumstances, a stand-alone GPS
receiver is able to calculate its position at any point on earth, in the earth's
atmosphere, or in lower earth orbit, to approximately 10 meters, 24 hours a day.
Much better  accuracies are possible  through a technique  called  "differential
GPS." In addition, GPS provides extremely accurate time measurement.

     The  usefulness of GPS is dependent  upon the locations of the receiver and
the GPS  satellites  that are above the horizon at any given time.  Reception of
GPS signals  requires  line-of-sight  visibility  between the satellites and the
receiver,  which can be blocked by  buildings,  hills,  and dense  foliage.  The
receiver must have a line of sight to at least four  satellites to determine its
latitude, longitude, altitude, and time. The accuracy of GPS may also be limited
by distortion of GPS signals from ionospheric and other atmospheric  conditions,
and intentional or inadvertent  signal  interference or Selective  Availability.
Selective  Availability,  which was the largest component of GPS distortion,  is
controlled by the U.S. Department of Defense and was deactivated on May 1, 2000.

     Our  GPS  products  are  based  on  proprietary  receiver  technology.  The
convergence of  positioning,  wireless,  and  information  technologies  enables
significant  new value to be added to positioning  systems,  thereby  creating a
more robust solution for the user. In addition,  recent developments in wireless
technology  and  deployments  of wireless  networks have enabled less  expensive
wireless communications.  These developments allow for the efficient transfer of
position data to locations away from the positioning field device,  allowing the
data to be accessed by more users and thereby increasing productivity.

     Our laser and optical  products  measure  distances  and angles  accurately
using light.  We generally  use  commercially  available  laser diodes to create
light beams for distance  measurement.  In addition,  our proprietary  precision
mechanics  and software  algorithms  in these  products  combine to give robust,
accurate  distance  and  angle  measurements  for  a  variety  of  agricultural,
surveying, and construction applications.



Business Strategy


     Our business  strategy  leverages our expertise in  positioning  to provide
solutions for our customers, built around several key initiatives:

o    Focus on attractive  markets - We focus on markets that offer potential for
     revenue growth, profitability, and market leadership.

o    Create innovative  solutions that provide significant  economic benefits to
     our customers - We seek to apply our technology to  applications  for which
     position  data has a high value.  We  anticipate  that further  advances in
     positioning, wireless, and information technologies will enable new classes
     of solutions to emerge that will create new opportunities.

o    Develop  distribution  channels  to best  access our markets - We utilize a
     range of  distribution  channels  to best  serve  the  needs of  individual
     markets. These channels can include independent dealers,  direct sales, OEM
     sales, and distribution  alliances with key partners.  In addition, we will
     continue to extend our international distribution.


Business Segments and Markets

     We are organized into four main operating segments encompassing our various
applications and product lines:  Engineering and Construction,  Field Solutions,
Component  Technologies,  and  Mobile  Solutions.  We also  operate  in  smaller
business  areas,  primarily  Military  and  Advanced  Systems,  and Tripod  Data
Systems,  which aggregate into the Portfolio Business segment.  Our segments are
distinguished  by the markets  they serve.  Each  division  is  responsible  for
product development,  marketing, sales, strategy,  financial performance, and is
headed by a general manager.

Segment Realignment

     In the first fiscal  quarter of 2002,  we realigned  two of our  reportable
segments.  The Agriculture  segment was combined with the Mapping and Geographic
Information Systems (GIS) business to form Field Solutions. Mapping and GIS were
previously part of Fleet and Asset Management.  The Mobile Positioning  business
that was part of Fleet and Asset Management is now Mobile Solutions.

     We began  breaking  out Mobile  Solutions as a separate  reporting  segment
during the first quarter of 2002 to address the growing importance of the mobile
asset management business and its impact on our profitability. At the same time,
we combined our GIS and  Agriculture  businesses to create a new segment  called
Field  Solutions  in  order to  recognize  the  synergies  and  similar  product
requirements between the two businesses.


Engineering and Construction

     We employ GPS, optical, lasers, communications,  and information technology
to  pursue  the  opportunities  in the  Engineering  and  Construction  industry
segment.  Products in this segment  increase  productivity  and accuracy for the
entire  construction  process  including the initial survey,  planning,  design,
earthmoving,  and  building  phases.  These  products  are aimed at making  each
individual  task more  efficient,  as well as speeding up the entire  process by
improving  information flow from one step to the next, and  facilitating  faster
redesign when needed.

     For example,  our GPS and robotic optical technology allows surveying tasks
to be completed faster and with a smaller crew. Similarly,  construction machine
guidance  products  allow the  operator  to  achieve  the  desired  landform  by
eliminating  stakeout and reducing  rework.  These steps in the operation can be
readily linked  together with data  collection  modules and software to minimize
the time and effort required to get the job done accurately.

     We sell and  distribute  our products  from this  segment  through a global
network of independent dealers and our sales staff. This channel is supplemented
by  relationships  that create  additional  channel breadth  including our joint
venture with Caterpillar and private branding arrangements with other companies.

     Competition  in this segment  comes from  companies  that provide  optical,
laser,  or GPS  positioning  products.  Our  principal  competitors  are  Topcon
Corporation and Leica  Geosystems.  Price points in this segment range from less
than $1,000 for certain  laser  systems to  approximately  $125,000  for a high-
precision, three-dimensional, machine control system.

Representative products sold in this segment include:

     5800 RTK Rover - This is an  integrated  unit that  allows the  surveyor to
make  centimeter-level  measurements or do  construction  stakeout with only one
person.  Wireless  technology  eliminates  cables that could  otherwise  snag on
foliage and  structures.  The rover weighs 3.5kg for an entire  system on a pole
including batteries.

     5600 Total Station - This optical total station series provides a choice of
increasing  levels of automation that allow the surveyor to choose a system that
will best suit his  work.  Depending  on the job,  these  configurations  enable
one-person  stakeout and survey. The included Attachable Control Unit (ACU) also
works  with the 5800 RTK  Rover  providing  complete  measurement  compatibility
regardless of the technology used.

     SiteVision(R) GPS System - SiteVision GPS is a machine-mounted, positioning
system that guides the  operator by comparing  the actual  position of the blade
with the digitized design that resides in a computer on the machine.  The use of
this  system  enables  faster  machine  speed,  eliminates  the need for placing
stakes,  and  lowers  the  number of passes  needed  to get the  desired  grade.
Applications include road construction and site preparation.

     Spectra  Precision(TM)  Laser GL 700 Series - This laser  product  provides
grade control  capability for heavy equipment on a construction  site. The level
surface of the laser light can be  precisely  controlled,  and  machines  with a
laser  receiver can be  controlled to establish a precise and uniform grade over
the desired area.  Applications include trenching,  pipe laying, machine control
grading, and road construction applications.


Field Solutions

     Our  Field  Solutions   division   addresses  the  two  business  areas  of
Agriculture and Geographical  Information  System (GIS).  Products and solutions
from the GIS business  area are  targeted at  collecting  feature and  attribute
information  in  the  field  to be  used  within  GIS  databases  and  providing
position-related  information  directly to a person  working in the field in the
mobile GIS market.  The manner in which information is presented or collected is
of key importance to the customer, as well as the applicability and value of the
information itself.

     In the agricultural  market, our products provide  navigation  guidance for
tractors and other farm equipment used in spraying,  planting,  cultivation, and
harvesting  applications.  The  benefits to the farmer  include  faster  machine
operation,  higher yields,  and lower consumption of chemicals.  We also provide
positioning   solutions   for  leveling   agricultural   fields  in   irrigation
applications  and  aligning  drainage  systems  to better  manage  water flow in
fields.

     Our distribution to the agricultural  market is through multiple  channels.
Revenue is generated  through  independent  dealers and through partners such as
CNH  Global.  Competitors  in  this  market  are  either  vertically  integrated
implement  companies  such  as  John  Deere,  or  agricultural   instrumentation
suppliers such as Raven, CSI Wireless, and Integrinautics.

     The other  principle  market  within  Field  Solutions is GIS. Our products
enable the efficient acquisition of features, attributes, and positions of fixed
infrastructure and natural resource assets. An example of the type of data being
collected  would  be  that of a  utility  company  performing  a  survey  of its
transmission  poles  including the age and condition of each telephone pole. Our
handheld unit enables this data to be collected and  automatically  stored while
confirming the location of the asset.  The collected data can then be downloaded
into a GIS  database.  This stored data could later be used to navigate  back to
any individual asset or item for maintenance or data update.

     Distribution  for GIS  applications  is  primarily  through  a  network  of
independent dealers and business partners, supported by an internal sales staff.
Competitors  in this market are  typically  either survey  instrument  companies
having GPS  technology  and/or  consumer GPS  companies.  Two examples are Leica
Geosystems and Garmin.

     Approximate  price points in this segment  range from $2,500 for a handheld
unit to $35,000 for a fully automated, farm equipment control system.

Representative products sold within this segment include:

     GeoExplorer(R)  CE Series - Combines a GPS  receiver  in a rugged  handheld
unit  running  Microsoft's  Windows CE  operating  system  that makes it easy to
collect and maintain data about objects in the field.

     AgGPS(R) Autopilot System - A GPS-enabled,  agricultural  navigation system
that  connects  to a  tractor's  steering  system and  automatically  steers the
tractor along a precise path to within three  centimeters or less.  This enables
both  higher  machine  productivity  and more  precise  application  of seed and
chemicals, thereby reducing costs to the farmer.

     AgGPS(R)  EZ-Guide(TM) System - A GPS-enabled,  manual guidance system that
provides the tractor operator with steering visual corrections  required to stay
on course to within 25  centimeters.  This system  reduces the overlap or gap in
spraying, fertilizing, and other field applications.


Component Technologies

     Our Component Technologies segment provides components for applications
that require embedded position or time, primarily based on GPS technology. Our
largest markets are in the telecommunications and automotive industries where we
supply modules, boards, custom integrated circuits and software, or single
application IP licenses to the customer according to the needs of the
application. Sales are made directly to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs)
and system integrators who incorporate our component into a sub-system or a
complete system-level product.

     In the telecommunication  infrastructure  market, we provide timing modules
that keep wireless  networks  synchronized and on frequency.  For example,  CDMA
cellular  telephone  networks  require  a high  level  of  both  short-term  and
long-term   frequency   stability  for  proper  operation   (synchronization  of
information/voice  flow to avoid dropped  calls).  Our timing modules meet these
needs at a much lower cost than the atomic standards or other specially prepared
components  that  would  otherwise  be  required.   Customers  include  wireless
infrastructure  companies  such  as  Nortel,  Samsung,  UTStarcom,  and  Grayson
Wireless.

     In the automotive  market, we provide a GPS component that is embedded into
in-vehicle  navigation  systems.  Our  focus  on  high  reliability,  continuous
improvement,  and low cost has earned us supplier awards and continuing business
in this market.  Customers include IVN system manufacturers and integrators such
as Siemens VDO Automotive AG, Blaupunkt, and Magnetti Marelli.

     * The declining size and power  requirements  for GPS  components,  coupled
with improving capabilities,  allow GPS to potentially be used in a new class of
applications  such as  position-aware  cellular  telephones  or  other  wireless
handheld  devices.  We expect our  strength  in GPS  technology  will expand our
participation in this market.

     Competitors  in  the   telecommunication   infrastructure   market  include
Symmetricom.  Competitors  in the  automotive  market  are  typically  component
companies with GPS capability including Japan Radio Corporation,  Motorola,  and
SiRF.

Representative products sold by this segment include:

     Thunderbolt(R)  GPS Disciplined  Clock - The Thunderbolt Clock is used as a
time source for the  synchronization  of wireless  networks.  By combining a GPS
receiver with a high-quality  quartz  oscillator,  the Thunderbolt  achieves the
performance of an atomic  standard with much higher  reliability  and much lower
price.

     FirstGPS(R)  Technology  - We license our FirstGPS  Technology,  which is a
host-based,  GPS system  available as two  integrated  circuits  and  associated
software.  The software  runs on a  customer's  existing  microprocessor  system
complementing  the work done by the  integrated  circuit to  generate  position,
velocity,  and time.  This  low-power  technology is  particularly  suitable for
small, mobile, battery-operated applications.

     Lassen(TM)  SQ  Module  - Our  new  Lassen  SQ  module  adds  complete  GPS
functionality  to a mobile  product  in a  postage  stamp-sized  footprint  with
ultra-low power  consumption,  consuming less than 100mW at 3.3V. This module is
designed  for  portable  handheld,  battery-powered  applications  such  as cell
phones, pagers, PDAs, digital cameras, and many others.


Mobile Solutions

     Our Mobile Solutions  segment  addresses the market for fleet management by
providing a bundled solution  including both hardware and software needed to run
the application.  In almost all cases, the software  solution is provided to the
user  through  Internet-enabled  access for a monthly  service  fee. The bundled
solution enables the fleet owner to dispatch,  track, and monitor the conditions
of vehicles in the fleet on a real-time basis. A  vehicle-mounted  unit consists
of a single module including a GPS receiver,  sensor  interface,  and a cellular
modem. Our solution includes the  communication  service from the vehicle to our
data center and access over the Internet to the application software,  relieving
the user of the need to maintain extensive computer operations.

     Our agreement with McNeilus Companies, Inc., a major manufacturer of trucks
for the ready mix  concrete and waste  management  industries,  facilitates  the
delivery  of a  complete  management  solution  when a new  fleet  is  acquired.
McNeilus'  sales team will market our solution,  which includes our  GPS-enabled
hardware and hosted software provided for a monthly service fee to its customers
as a retrofit for trucks already in the field, or as a factory-installed option.

     Our Mobile  Solutions  segment  maintains  multiple  distribution  channels
including  independent  dealers,  key accounts and  strategic  partners  such as
McNeilus.  Approximate  prices  for the  hardware  fall in the  range of $300 to
$3000,  while the monthly software service fees range from  approximately $20 to
approximately  $55,  depending on the customer service level.  Competition comes
largely from service-oriented  businesses such as @Road, @Track, Aether Systems,
and Minorplanet.

Representative products sold by this division include:

     Telvisant(TM)  System - Our fleet management  service  offering,  Telvisant
provides  different  levels of service that run from snapshots of fleet activity
to real-time fleet dispatch  capability.  Telvisant includes truck communication
service and computer  backbone support of the software.  Variations of Telvisant
are tailored for specific industry applications.

     CrossCheck(R)  Module - This  hardware,  mounted on the  vehicle,  provides
location and information  through its built-in cellular  interface.  This module
also includes GPS positioning,  sensor  interfaces for vehicle  conditions,  and
built-in intelligence for distributed decision-making.


Portfolio Business

     Our Portfolio  Business segment includes various operations that each equal
less than 10  percent  of our total  operating  revenue.  The  products  in this
segment are data collection  products as well as navigation modules and embedded
sensors that are used in avionics,  flight, and military  applications.  The two
most  significant  components in this segment are Tripod Data Systems (TDS), and
Military and Advanced Systems (MAS).

     TDS  designs and  markets  handheld  data  collectors  and data  collection
software for field use by surveyors and other  professionals.  Products are sold
directly,  through dealers, and other survey manufacturers.  Competitors in this
portion of the business are small and geographically diverse.

     Our MAS business  supplies GPS modules that use the  military's GPS Precise
Positioning  Service.   These  modules  are  most  often  used  in  aviation  or
ground-based  military  equipment.  Military  products are sold  directly by our
sales force to either the U.S.  Government or a contractor.  Sales are also made
to foreign governments,  with the sales of the encrypted components taking place
through the U.S.  Government.  Competitors in this market include Rockwell,  L3,
Raytheon, and Thales.

Representative products sold by this segment include:

     TDS Ranger(TM)  Series - The TDS Ranger device is a handheld data collector
supporting Microsoft's Windows CE operating system. Running TDS survey software,
this unit can control and collect  data from all major brands of optical and GPS
surveying  instruments.  The  operator  can also run his or her own  application
programs for the Microsoft Windows CE operating system on the platform.

     Force(TM) 5 Module - The Force 5 GPS Receiver  Application Module (GRAM) is
a  dual-frequency,  GPS module that is used in a variety of military  GPS signal
embedded airborne and ground applications.


Acquisitions and Joint Ventures


     The  markets in which we compete  require a wide  variety of  technologies,
products,  and  capabilities.  Through  acquisitions,   investments,  and  joint
development  agreements  or  alliances,  we are  able to  deliver  products  and
services to customers in target markets.  We employ the following  strategies to
satisfy  the  need for new or  enhanced  products  and  solutions:  develop  new
technologies and products  internally;  enter into joint ventures with strategic
partners;  resell another company's  product;  or acquire all or part of another
company.


Acquisitions


     * We have  acquired a number of companies in the past and we expect to make
acquisitions  in  the  future.   Mergers  and  acquisitions  of  high-technology
companies are inherently  risky.  No assurance can be given that our previous or
future  acquisitions will be successful or will not materially  adversely affect
our  financial  condition  or  operating  results.  The  risks  associated  with
acquisitions are more fully discussed in the "Risks and  Uncertainties"  section
contained in Part II, Item 7 of this Report.


     LeveLite - On August 15, 2002, we acquired LeveLite  Technology,  Inc. This
was a  strategic  acquisition  for  us,  as it not  only  extended  the  product
portfolio of our commercial  construction business in the entry-level market for
laser-levels,  but it also  strengthened  our  presence in certain  distribution
channels, such as the construction supply houses and power tool manufacturers.


Caterpillar Joint Venture

     On April 1, 2002, Trimble and Caterpillar  established and began operations
of a joint venture called  Caterpillar  Trimble  Control  Technologies,  LLC, in
which each company has a 50% ownership  stake and have equal voting rights.  The
purpose of this  joint  venture is to  develop  the next  generation  of machine
control products for the construction and mining markets.

     * Today,  we sell  construction  machine  control  products to  contractors
through our dealer channel,  for installation on bulldozers,  motorgraders,  and
excavators  that are already in the field (the  "after-market").  However,  both
companies believe that this "after-market"  solution will spur future demand for
a  machine  control  product  that  can be  integrated  into the  design  of new
Caterpillar  machines,  while  also still  being  available  for  "after-market"
installation.


Patents, Licenses and Intellectual Property

     We hold 582 U.S.  patents and 114 foreign  patents,  the  majority of which
cover GPS technology and  applications,  and over 100 of which cover optical and
laser technology and applications.

     We prefer to own the  intellectual  property used in our  products,  either
directly or though  subsidiaries.  Although this is not a significant  factor in
our business, from time to time we license technology from third parties.

     There  are 74  trademarks  registered  to  Trimble  and  its  subsidiaries.
Specifically,  "Trimble" with the sextant logo, "AgGPS", "GeoExplorer," and "GPS
Total  Station,"  are  examples  of  trademarks  of Trimble  Navigation  Limited
registered in the United States and other countries.  Additional  trademarks are
pending registration.

     Although we believe that our patents and trademarks  have value,  we cannot
be sure that  those  patents  and  trademarks,  or any  additional  patents  and
trademarks  that  may  be  obtained  in  the  future,  will  provide  meaningful
protection from  competition.  We actively  develop and protect our intellectual
property through a program of patenting, enforcement, and licensing.

     We do not  believe  that  any of our  products  infringe  patent  or  other
proprietary  rights of third parties,  but we cannot be certain that they do not
do so. (See Note 20 of the Notes to the Consolidated  Financial  Statements.) If
infringement is alleged, legal defense costs could be material, and there can be
no  assurance  that  the  necessary  licenses  could  be  obtained  on  terms or
conditions that would not have a material adverse effect on our profitability.


Sales and Marketing

     We currently  have  regional  sales  offices  throughout  North America and
Europe.  Offices serving the rest of the world include Australia,  China, Japan,
Philippines,  New Zealand,  Singapore,  and United Arab Emirates.  We tailor the
distribution channel to the needs of the product and regional market. Therefore,
we have a number of forms of sales channel solutions around the world.


North America

     We sell our  products  in the United  States and Canada  primarily  through
dealers,   distributors,   and  authorized  representatives.   This  channel  is
supplemented  and  supported  by our  employees  who  provide  additional  sales
support.  In some cases,  where third party  distribution  is not available,  we
utilize a direct sales force.  We also utilize  distribution  alliances  and OEM
relationships with other companies as a means to serve selected markets.


International

     We market to  end-users  through a network of dealers and  distributors  in
more than 85  countries.  Distributors  carry one or more product  lines and are
generally limited to selling either in one country or in a portion of a country.
We  occasionally  grant  exclusive  rights to  market  certain  products  within
specified countries.

     Sales  to  unaffiliated  customers  outside  the  United  States  comprised
approximately  49% in 2002, 50% in 2001, and 52% in 2000. During the 2002 fiscal
year, North and South America  represented 55%, and Europe,  the Middle East and
Africa  represented  32%, and Asia  represented  13%. In fiscal 2002, the United
States  comprised  approximately  51% and Germany  16% of sales to  unaffiliated
customers.


Support and Warranty

     The warranty  periods for our products are generally  between one and three
years from date of shipment.  Selected  military  programs may require  extended
warranty periods,  and certain products sold by our TDS subsidiary have a 90-day
warranty period. We support our GPS products through a circuit board replacement
program from locations in the United  Kingdom,  Germany,  Japan,  and the United
States.  The repair and  calibration of our non-GPS  products are available from
company-owned or authorized  facilities.  We reimburse  dealers and distributors
for all authorized warranty repairs they perform.

     While we  engage in  extensive  product  quality  programs  and  processes,
including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of component suppliers,
our warranty  obligation is affected by product  failure rates,  material usage,
and service  delivery  costs  incurred in correcting a product  failure.  Should
actual product failure rates,  material usage, or service  delivery costs differ
from the  estimates,  revisions to the  estimated  warranty  accrual and related
costs may be required.


Seasonality of Business

     * Our  revenues  are  affected by seasonal  buying  patterns in some of our
business  areas.  Over half of our total revenue comes from our  Engineering and
Construction  business,  which  has the  biggest  seasonal  impact  on our total
revenue. This business, and therefore our total revenue, is seasonally strongest
during the second quarter due to the start of the construction  buying season in
the northern  hemisphere  in spring.  Typically,  we expect the first and fourth
quarters to be the  seasonal  lows due to the lack of  construction  and farming
during the winter  months.  If other  factors  such as  economic  conditions  or
underlying growth in the business are removed, the historical variability in our
total  quarterly  revenue  from  seasonality  has  generally  been  less than 10
percent.


Working Capital

     Our  working  capital  needs  are  typically  for   inventories,   accounts
receivable,  and short-term debt. As the business is generally  dependent upon a
steady stream of new products,  some amount of working capital is devoted to the
ramp up and ramp down of product  volumes as new  products  get  introduced  and
older models are taken out of production.


Backlog

     In most of our markets,  the time between  order  placement and shipment is
short. Therefore, we believe that backlog is not a reliable indicator of present
or future business conditions.


Manufacturing

     Manufacturing  for most of our GPS products is  subcontracted  to Solectron
Corporation.   Solectron  is   responsible   for   substantially   all  material
procurement,  assembly,  and testing.  We continue to manage  product  design up
through pilot  production for the  subcontracted  products,  and we are directly
involved in qualifying  suppliers and key  components  used in all our products.
During  the fourth  quarter  of 2002,  Solectron  began  assembling  some of our
Component Technologies products in China. Our current contract with Solectron is
due to expire in August 2003.

     We  manufacture  laser and  optics-based  products at our plants in Dayton,
Ohio;  Danderyd,  Sweden; and Jena and  Kaiserslautern,  Germany.  Some of these
products or portions of these products are also  subcontracted  to third parties
for assembly.

     Most of the  components  used in our products are  standard  parts  readily
available from more than one supplier.  A few components are from sole suppliers
or are custom parts unique to our company.  While custom parts make our products
hard to imitate,  they also  represent a  manufacturing  risk due to the lack of
alternative   suppliers.   If  these  parts  became  unavailable,   redesign  or
modification of our products could be required. In addition, suppliers may cease
manufacturing common components,  replacing them with newer parts, which require
requalification.  These  risks  could  cause an  interruption  in our ability to
provide a steady stream of products to our customers.


Research and Development

     We  believe  that  our  competitive  position  is  maintained  through  the
development and  introduction of new products having improved  features,  better
performance,  smaller size and weight,  lower cost, or some combination of these
factors.  We invest  substantially  in the development of new products.  We also
make significant investment in the positioning,  communication,  and information
technologies  that  underlie our products  and will likely  provide  competitive
advantages.

     Recent  developments  have produced  small,  low-power,  OEM GPS receivers,
accurate and versatile  rotating lasers for  construction  use, and light weight
and compact GPS surveying rovers.

     Our research and  development  expenditure,  net of reimbursed  amounts was
$61.2 million for fiscal 2002,  $62.9 million for fiscal 2001, and $46.5 million
for fiscal 2000.

     * We expect to continue investing in research and development with the goal
of maintaining or improving our competitive position, as well as the goal of
entering new markets and satisfying new needs for positioning related solutions.
There can be no assurance that we will succeed in doing so.


Employment

     As of January 3, 2003,  we employed a total of 2,050  employees,  including
686 in sales and marketing, 631 in manufacturing, 505 in engineering, and 228 in
general and administrative  positions.  Of these employees,  607 were located in
Europe and in the  Middle  East  (primarily  in Germany  and  Sweden),  252 were
situated  in the Asia  Pacific  region  (primarily  in New  Zealand),  and 1,191
employed in the Americas (primarily in the United States).

     Our employees are not  represented by unions except for those in Sweden and
Germany.  We also employ temporary and contract  personnel that are not included
in the above  headcount  numbers.  We have not  experienced  work  stoppages  or
similar labor actions.


Available Information

     Our  Internet  address is  www.trimble.com.  Information  contained  on our
website is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K. We make  available  free
of charge on www.trimble.com,  our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports
on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed
or furnished  pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as
reasonably  practicable  after we  electronically  file such  material  with, or
furnish it to, the SEC.

     In addition, you may request a copy of these filings (excluding exhibits)
at no cost by writing or telephoning us at the following address or telephone
number:

         Trimble Navigation Limited
         645 North Mary Avenue, Sunnyvale, CA 94088
         Attention: Investor Relations
         Telephone: 408-481-8000

Executive Officers

     The names, ages, and positions of the Company's executive officers as of
March 5, 2003 are as follows:

Name                     Age  Position
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
Steven W. Berglund.......51   President and Chief Executive Officer
Mary Ellen P. Genovese...43   Chief Financial Officer
William C. Burgess.......56   Vice President, Human Resources
Joseph F. Denniston, Jr..42   Vice President, Operations
Bryn A. Fosburgh.........40   Vice President and General Manager,
                              Geomatics and Engineering
John E. Huey.............53   Treasurer
Irwin L. Kwatek..........63   Vice President and General Counsel
Michael W. Lesyna........42   Vice President and General Manager,
                              Mobile Solutions
Bruce E. Peetz...........51   Vice President, Advanced Technology and Systems
Christopher J. Shephard..40   Vice President and General Manager,
                              Construction Instruments
Anup V. Singh............32   Corporate Controller
Alan R. Townsend.........54   Vice President and General Manager,
                              Field Solutions
Dennis L. Workman........57   Vice President and General Manager,
                              Component Technologies


Steven W.  Berglund - Steven  Berglund  joined  Trimble as  president  and chief
executive  officer in March 1999.  Prior to joining  Trimble,  Mr.  Berglund was
president  of Spectra  Precision,  Inc., a pioneer in the  development  of laser
systems.  He  spent 14  years  at  Spectra  Precision  in a  variety  of  senior
leadership  positions.  In the early 1980s, Mr. Berglund spent a number of years
at Varian  Associates  in Palo  Alto,  where he held a variety of  planning  and
manufacturing  roles.  Mr.  Berglund  began his career as a process  engineer at
Eastman Kodak in Rochester, New York. He attended the University of Oslo and the
University  of  Minnesota  where he received a B.S. in chemical  engineering  in
1974. He later received his M.B.A.  from the University of Rochester in New York
in 1977.

Mary Ellen Genovese - Mary Ellen  Genovese,  chief financial  officer,  has been
responsible  for the overall  financial  activities of Trimble  since  September
2000. Ms.  Genovese was vice president of finance and corporate  controller from
1997 to September  2000. From 1994 to 1997, Ms. Genovese served as business unit
controller   for  Software  and   Component   Technologies,   and  Tracking  and
Communications.  She joined Trimble as controller of manufacturing operations in
December  1992.  Prior to joining  Trimble,  Ms.  Genovese  was chief  financial
officer  for Minton  Co., a  distributing  company  to the  commercial  building
market,  from 1991 to 1992.  Prior to 1991, she worked for 10 years with General
Signal Corp. in several management positions. Ms. Genovese is a certified public
accountant  and received her B.S. in  accounting  from  Fairfield  University in
Connecticut in 1981.

William C. Burgess - William  Burgess  joined  Trimble in August of 2000 as vice
president of Human Resources,  with global  responsibility  for Human Resources.
Prior to joining Trimble,  Mr. Burgess was vice president of Human Resources and
Management Information Systems for Sonoma West Holdings, Inc. From 1993 to 1997,
he served as vice president of Human Resources for Optical  Coating  Laboratory,
from 1990 to 1993, he established  and managed the human  resources  function at
Teknekron Communications Systems, and from 1985 to 1990 he was vice president of
Human Resources for a $25 billion,  35,000-employee segment of Asea Brown Boveri
(ABB),  a global  technology  company.  Mr.  Burgess  received  a B.S.  from the
University of Nebraska and an M.S. in organizational development from Pepperdine
University.

Joseph F. Denniston,  Jr. - Joseph Denniston joined Trimble as vice president of
operations in April 2001, responsible for worldwide manufacturing,  distribution
and logistics strategy. Prior to Trimble, Denniston worked for 3Com Corporation.
During  his  14-year  tenure,  he  served  as vice  president  of  supply  chain
management  for the  Americas and held  several  positions in test  engineering,
manufacturing engineering and operations.  Previously at Sentry Schlumberger, he
held several positions including production  engineering,  production management
and test engineering over six years. Mr. Denniston received a B.S. in electrical
engineering  technology from the Missouri Institute of Technology in 1981 and an
M.S. in computer science engineering from Santa Clara University in 1990.

Bryn A.  Fosburgh - Bryn  Fosburgh  was  appointed  vice  president  and general
manager of the Geomatics and Engineering  (G&E) business area in July 2002, with
responsibility  for all the  division-level  activities  associated with survey,
construction,  and infrastructure solutions. From October 1999 to July 2002, Mr.
Fosburgh  served as division  vice  president of survey and  infrastructure.  In
1997, Mr. Fosburgh was appointed  director of development for the Company's land
survey  business  unit  where he  oversaw  the  development  of field and office
software  that enabled the  interoperability  of Trimble  survey  products.  Mr.
Fosburgh  joined  Trimble in 1994 as technical  service  manager for  surveying,
mining,  and construction.  Prior to Trimble,  Mr. Fosburgh was a civil engineer
with the Wisconsin  Department of  Transportation  where he was  responsible for
coordinating the planning, data acquisition, and data analysis for statewide GPS
surveying  projects in support of transportation  improvement  projects.  He has
also held various engineering,  research and operational  positions for the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers and Defense Mapping Agency. Mr. Fosburgh received a B.S.
in geology from the  University of Wisconsin in Green Bay in 1985 and an M.S. in
civil engineering from Purdue University in 1989.

John E. Huey - John Huey joined Trimble in 1993 as director corporate credit and
collections,  and was promoted to assistant  treasurer in 1995 and  treasurer in
1996. Past experience includes two years with ENTEX Information  Services,  five
years with  National  Refractories  and Minerals  Corporation  (formerly  Kaiser
Refractories),  and thirteen years with Kaiser Aluminum and Chemical Sales, Inc.
He has held positions in credit management,  market research, inventory control,
sales,  and as an assistant  Controller.  Mr. Huey  received his B.A.  degree in
Business  Administration in 1971 from Thiel College in Greenville,  Pennsylvania
and an MBA in 1972 from West Virginia University in Morgantown, West Virginia.

Irwin L. Kwatek - Irwin Kwatek has served as vice president and general  counsel
of Trimble since November 2000.  Prior to joining  Trimble,  Mr. Kwatek was vice
president and general counsel of Tickets.com, a ticketing service provider, from
May 1999 to November 2000.  Prior to Tickets.com,  he was engaged in the private
practice  of law for more than six years.  During his  career,  he has served as
vice president and general counsel to several publicly held high-tech  companies
including   Emulex   Corporation,   Western  Digital   Corporation  and  General
Automation,  Inc. Mr. Kwatek received his B.B.A.  from Adelphi College in Garden
City, New York and an M.B.A.  from the  University of Michigan in Ann Arbor.  He
received his J.D. from Fordham University in New York City in 1968.

Michael W. Lesyna - Michael Lesyna has been vice  president and general  manager
of the Mobile  Solutions  business area since September 2000.  Prior to Trimble,
Mr.  Lesyna  spent six years at Booz  Allen &  Hamilton  where he most  recently
served as a principal in the operations  management group. Prior to Booz Allen &
Hamilton,  Mr. Lesyna held a variety of  engineering  positions at Allied Signal
Aerospace.  Mr.  Lesyna  received  his  M.B.A.,  as well as an M.S.  and B.S. in
mechanical engineering from Stanford University.

Bruce E. Peetz - Bruce Peetz has served as vice president of Advanced Technology
and  Systems  since 1998 and has been with  Trimble  for 15 years.  From 1996 to
1998,  Mr.  Peetz  served as general  manager of the Survey  Business.  Prior to
joining  Trimble,   Mr.  Peetz  was  a  research  and  development   manager  at
Hewlett-Packard  for 10  years.  Mr.  Peetz  received  his  B.S.  in  electrical
engineering   from   Massachusetts   Institute  of   Technology   in  Cambridge,
Massachusetts in 1973.

Anup V. Singh - Anup  Singh has served as  corporate  controller  since  joining
Trimble  in  December  2001.  Prior  to  joining  Trimble,  Mr.  Singh  was with
Excite@Home  from July 1999 to December 2001.  During his tenure at Excite@Home,
he held the  positions of senior  director of Corporate  Financial  Planning and
Analysis,  and  International  Controller.  Before  Excite@Home,  Mr. Singh also
worked for 3Com  Corporation  from December 1997 to July 1999, and Ernst & Young
LLP in San Jose, California and London,  England. Mr. Singh received his B.A. in
1991 and  M.A.  in 1995 in  economics  and  management  science  from  Cambridge
University in England.  He is also a chartered  accountant and was admitted as a
member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in 1994.

Christopher  J.  Shephard - Chris  Shephard was  appointed  vice  president  and
general manager of the Construction  Instruments (CI) business area in July 2002
after  serving as division  vice  president of operations  for  Engineering  and
Construction  since  Trimble's  acquisition of Spectra  Precision  Group in July
2000.  Prior to  Trimble,  Mr.  Shephard  served  from  1998 to 2000 as  Spectra
Precision's  chief  financial  officer.  Mr.  Shephard also worked for more than
eight  years at Booz  Allen &  Hamilton.  Prior to Booz  Allen &  Hamilton,  Mr.
Shephard spent three years at Copeland  Corporation,  a division of Emerson,  in
their  management-training  program.  Mr.  Shephard  received a B.A. in business
studies from Manchester Polytechnic in England in 1985 and an M.M. from the J.L.
Kellogg  Graduate  School of Management at  Northwestern  University,  Evanston,
Illinois in 1990.

Alan R.  Townsend - Alan  Townsend  has  served as vice  president  and  general
manager of the Field Solutions business area since November 2001. He also serves
as the managing director of Trimble Navigation New Zealand Ltd. for which he has
overall site responsibility. From 1995 to 2001, Mr. Townsend was general manager
of Mapping  and GIS.  Mr.  Townsend  joined  Trimble  in 1991 as the  manager of
Trimble  Navigation  New Zealand  Ltd.  Prior to Trimble,  Mr.  Townsend  held a
variety of technical and senior  management  roles within the Datacomm  group of
companies  in New Zealand  including  Managing  Director  of  Datacomm  Software
Research Ltd. from 1986 to 1991. In addition,  Mr.  Townsend is a director of IT
Capital Ltd., a venture  capital company based in Auckland,  New Zealand.  He is
also a fellow of the New Zealand Institute of Management and a past president of
the New Zealand Software Exporters Association. Mr. Townsend received a B.S.c in
economics from the University of Canterbury in 1970.

Dennis L.  Workman - Dennis  Workman  has served as vice  president  and general
manager of Trimble's Component  Technologies business area since September 1999.
From 1998 to 1999, Mr. Workman was senior director and chief  technical  officer
of the newly formed Mobile and Timing  Technologies  (MTT) business group,  also
serving as general manager of Trimble's Automotive and Timing group. In 1997, he
was director of engineering for Software & Component  Technologies.  Mr. Workman
joined Trimble in 1995 as director of the newly created Timing vertical  market.
Prior to Trimble, Mr. Workman held various  senior-level  technical positions at
Datum Inc.  During his 9-year tenure at Datum,  he held the position of CTO. Mr.
Workman  received a B.S. in  mathematics  and physics from St. Marys  College in
1967 and an M.S. in electrical  engineering from the Massachusetts  Institute of
Technology in 1969.


Item 2            Properties

     The following table sets forth the significant real property that we own or
lease:


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     In addition, we lease a number of smaller offices around the world
primarily for sales.

     * We believe that our facilities are adequate to support current and
near-term operations.


Item 3            Legal Proceedings

     In January  of 2001,  Philip M.  Clegg  instituted  a lawsuit in the United
States  District  Court for the  District  of Utah,  Central  Division,  against
Spectra-Physics  Laserplane,  Inc.,  Spectra Precision AB and Trimble Navigation
Limited. On January 29, 2003, we settled this patent  infringement  lawsuit with
Mr. Clegg whereby we have purchased a fully paid-up, non-exclusive license under
U.S. Patent No. 4,807,131 from Mr. Clegg.

     * In  November of 2001,  Qualcomm  Inc.  filed a lawsuit  against us in the
Superior Court of the State of California.  The complaint  alleges claims for an
unspecified amount of money damages arising out of Qualcomm's  perceived lack of
assurances  in early 1999 that our  products  purchased  by Qualcomm  would work
properly after a scheduled week number  rollover event that took place in August
of 1999.  Qualcomm is the only  customer to make a claim against us based on the
week number rollover event. In the opinion of management, the resolution of this
lawsuit  is not  expected  to have a  material  adverse  effect  on our  overall
financial position.

     * We are also a party to other  disputes  incidental  to our  business.  We
believe that our ultimate liability as a result of such disputes,  if any, would
not be material to our overall  financial  position,  results of operations,  or
liquidity.


Item 4      Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

     No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of 2002.





                                     PART II

Item 5     Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters


     Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq  National  Market under the symbol
"TRMB." The table below sets forth,  during the periods indicated,  the high and
low per share bid prices for our common stock as reported on the Nasdaq National
Market.

                                       2002                     2001
                                       ----                     ----
                                  High       Low          High       Low
                                  --------------------------------------
            First Quarter        $17.14    $11.76        $28.50    $16.50
            Second Quarter        18.50     14.97         21.25     12.75
            Third Quarter         15.00     10.28         19.80     13.06
            Fourth Quarter        14.47      8.02         18.41     12.89

     As of January 3, 2003, there were approximately 1,132 holders of record of
our common stock. We made no sales of unregistered securities during the
year-ended January 3, 2003.


Dividend Policy

     We have not declared or paid any cash  dividends on our common stock during
any period for which financial  information is provided in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. At this time, we intend to retain  future  earnings,  if any, to fund
the development and growth of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash
dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future.

     We are currently restricted from paying dividends and are limited as to the
amount of our common stock that we can repurchase  under the terms of our credit
facilities.  We are allowed to pay dividends and repurchase shares of our common
stock up to 25% of net income in the previous fiscal year.


Equity Compensation Plan Information

     The following  table sets forth, as of January 3, 2003, the total number of
securities  outstanding  under our stock  option  plans,  the  weighted  average
exercise  price of such options,  and the number of options  available for grant
under such plans.



Item 6.           Selected Financial Data


HISTORICAL FINANCIAL REVIEW


     The  following  selected  consolidated  financial  data  should  be read in
conjunction with  "Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial  Condition
and Results of Operations" and our consolidated financial statements and related
notes  appearing  elsewhere in this annual  report.  Historical  results are not
necessarily indicative of future results. In particular,  because the results of
operations and financial  condition  related to our acquisitions are included in
our  consolidated  statement of operations and balance sheet data  commencing on
those respective acquisition dates, comparisons of our results of operations and
financial  condition for periods prior to and  subsequent to those  acquisitions
are not indicative of future results.

     We have  significant  intangible  assets on our balance  sheet that include
goodwill  and  other  purchased  intangibles  related  to  acquisitions.  At the
beginning of fiscal 2002, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 141 ("SFAS 141"),  Business  Combinations,  and No. 142,  Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets ("SFAS 142").  Application of the non-amortization  provisions
of SFAS 142 significantly  reduced amortization expense of purchased intangibles
and goodwill to  approximately  $8.3 million for the fiscal year 2002 from $29.4
million in fiscal year 2001. We reclassified identifiable intangible assets with
indefinite  lives,  with a net book value of $73.6  million,  as defined by SFAS
142, to goodwill at the date of adoption.

     For  comparative  purposes,  the pro forma  adjusted  net  income per share
excluding   amortization  of  goodwill,   distribution  channel,  and  assembled
workforce is as follows:









Summary Consolidated Statements of Operations Data






Other Operating Data:


Selected Consolidated Balance Sheet Data:

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(1)  EBITDA  consists of earnings from  continuing  operations  before  interest
     income, interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization.  Our
     EBITDA is presented  because it is a widely accepted  financial  indicator.
     EBITDA  is not a  measure  of  financial  performance  in  accordance  with
     generally  accepted  accounting  principles and should not be considered in
     isolation or as an  alternative to net income (loss) as an indicator of our
     performance  or to cash flows  from  operating  activities  as a measure of
     liquidity. Our EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures as
     defined by other companies.







     The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain
financial data as a percentage of total revenue:





Item 7. Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

     The  following   discussion   should  be  read  in  conjunction   with  the
consolidated   financial   statements  and  the  related  notes.  The  following
discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates
and beliefs.  Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in
the forward-looking statements.  Factors that could cause or contribute to these
differences  include,  but are not limited to, those  discussed  below and those
listed under "Risks and Uncertainties."


CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

     Our critical accounting estimates and the related assumptions are evaluated
periodically as conditions  warrant,  and changes to such estimates are recorded
as new information or changed  conditions  require revision.  Application of the
critical  accounting  policies  requires  management's  judgments,  often as the
result of the need to make estimates of matters that are  inherently  uncertain.
If actual  results  were to  differ  materially  from the  estimates  made,  the
reported  results  could be  materially  affected.  For a summary  of all of our
significant   accounting   policies,   including  critical  accounting  policies
discussed  below, see Note 1 - "Summary of Significant  Accounting  Policies" of
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


Revenue Recognition

     Our revenues are recorded in accordance  with the  Securities  and Exchange
Commission's   (SEC)  Staff   Accounting   Bulletin  (SAB)  No.  101,   "Revenue
Recognition."  Prior to  recognizing  revenue,  we require  the  following:  (i)
execution of a written  customer  order,  (ii) delivery of the product,  (iii) a
fixed or determinable fee, and (iv) probable  collectibility of the proceeds. We
recognize  revenue  from  product  sales when the  products  are  shipped to the
customer, title has transferred, and no significant obligations remain. We defer
revenue if there is  uncertainty  about customer  acceptance.  We reduce product
revenue for  estimated  customer  returns and for any  discounts  that may occur
under programs we have with our customers and partners.

     Our shipment terms are either FOB shipping point or FCA shipping point. FOB
(Free on  Board)  shipping  point  term  means  that  the  seller  fulfills  the
obligation  to deliver  when the goods have  passed  over the ship's rail at the
named  port of  shipment.  This  means  that the buyer has to bear all costs and
risks of loss of or damage to the goods from that point.  The FOB term  requires
the seller to clear the goods for export. FCA (Free Carrier) shipping point term
means that the seller  fulfills  the  obligation  to deliver  when the goods are
handed over, cleared for export, and into the charge of the carrier named by the
buyer at the named  place or point.  If no  precise  point is  indicated  by the
buyer,  the  seller may choose  within the place or range  stipulated  where the
carrier shall take the goods into carrier's charge.

     Our shipment  terms for domestic  orders are typically FOB shipping  point.
International  orders  fulfilled  from  our  European  distribution  center  are
typically shipped FCA shipping point. Other international orders are shipped FOB
destination,  and accordingly these  international  orders are not recognized as
revenue until the product is delivered and title has transferred.

     Revenues  from  purchased  extended  warranty  and support  agreements  are
deferred and recognized  ratably over the term of the  warranty/support  period.
Substantially  all  technology  licenses and research  revenue have consisted of
initial license fees and royalties,  which were recognized when earned, provided
we had no remaining obligations.

     Sales to distributors and resellers are recognized upon shipment  providing
that there is evidence of such an arrangement  through a distribution  agreement
or purchase order, title has transferred,  no remaining performance  obligations
exist,  the price and terms of the sale are fixed,  and  collection is probable.
Distributors and resellers do not have a right of return.

     Our  software  arrangements  consist  of a  license  fee and post  contract
customer support (PCS). We have established  vendor specific  objective evidence
(VSOE) of fair  value for our PCS  contracts  based on the price of the  renewal
rate.  The  remaining  value of the  software  arrangement  is  allocated to the
license fee using the residual  method,  which  revenue is primarily  recognized
when the software  has been  delivered  and there are no remaining  obligations.
Revenue from PCS is recognized ratably over the period of the PCS agreement.


Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

     We evaluate the collectibility of our trade accounts  receivable based on a
number of factors.  In circumstances where we are aware of a specific customer's
inability to meet its financial  obligations to us, a specific allowance for bad
debts is estimated and recorded which reduces the  recognized  receivable to the
estimated  amount we believe  will  ultimately  be  collected.  In  addition  to
specific  customer  identification  of potential bad debts, bad debt charges are
recorded based on our recent past loss history and an overall assessment of past
due trade accounts receivable amounts outstanding.


Inventory Valuation

     Our inventory is recorded at the lower of cost or market. We use a standard
cost  accounting  system to value  inventory and these  standards are reviewed a
minimum  of  once  a  year  and  multiple  times  a  year  in  our  most  active
manufacturing  plants.  We adjust the inventory  value for estimated  excess and
obsolete inventory based on management's  assessment of future demand and market
conditions. If actual future demand or market conditions are less favorable than
those projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required.


Deferred Taxes

     Deferred  taxes are  provided on a liability  method  whereby  deferred tax
assets  are  recognized  for  deductible  temporary   differences  and  deferred
liabilities  are  recognized  for  taxable  temporary   differences.   Temporary
differences  are the  differences  between  the  reported  amounts of assets and
liabilities and their tax bases.  Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation
allowance  when it is determined to be more likely than not that some portion or
all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.  In evaluating the need for
a valuation  allowance,  we consider  future taxable  income,  resolution of tax
uncertainties and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies.  If we determine
that we would not be able to realize all or part of our  deferred  tax assets in
the future, an adjustment to the carrying value of the deferred tax assets would
be charged to income in the period in which such determination was made.


Goodwill and Other Purchased Intangible Assets

     We have  significant  intangible  assets on our balance  sheet that include
goodwill  and  other  purchased  intangibles  related  to  acquisitions.  At the
beginning of fiscal 2002, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 141 ("SFAS 141"),  Business  Combinations,  and No. 142,  Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets ("SFAS 142").  Application of the non-amortization  provisions
of SFAS 142 significantly  reduced amortization expense of purchased intangibles
and goodwill to  approximately  $8.3 million for the fiscal year 2002 from $29.4
million in the prior year. We reclassified  identifiable  intangible assets with
indefinite lives and net book value of $73.6 million, as defined by SFAS 142, to
goodwill at the date of adoption.

     For comparative purposes, the pro forma adjusted net income per share
excluding amortization of goodwill, distribution channel, and assembled
workforce is as follows:

                                            January 3, December 28, December 29,
                                               2003        2001         2000
- ------------------------------------------ ------------ ------------ -----------
(In thousands)

Net income (loss)                           $ 10,324    $ (22,879)    $  14,185
  Add back SFAS 142 adjustments:
      Amortization of goodwill                               7,817        3,116
      Amortization of distribution channel                  11,230        5,176
      Amortization of assembled workforce                    1,834        1,225
                                                             -----        -----

Adjusted net income (loss)                  $ 10,324    $  (1,998)    $  23,702
                                            ========    ==========    =========

Weighted average shares outstanding
     Basic                                    28,573        24,727       23,601
     Diluted                                  29,052        24,727       25,976
Diluted net income (loss) per share         $   0.36    $   (0.93)    $    0.55
Pro forma adjusted diluted net income
 (loss) per share                           $   0.36    $   (0.08)    $    0.92
                                            ========    ==========    =========

     In assessing the  recoverability of goodwill and indefinite life intangible
assets, we must make assumptions about the estimated future cash flows and other
factors to determine  the fair value of these assets.  Assumptions  about future
revenue and cash flows require significant judgment because of the current state
of the economy, the fluctuation of actual revenue, and the timing of expenses.

     For goodwill, the annual impairment evaluation includes a comparison of the
carrying  value of the reporting  unit  (including  goodwill) to that  reporting
unit's fair value.  If the  reporting  unit's  estimated  fair value exceeds the
reporting unit's carrying value, no impairment of goodwill  exists.  If the fair
value of the reporting unit does not exceed the unit's carrying  value,  then an
additional  analysis is performed  to allocate  the fair value of the  reporting
unit to all of the assets and  liabilities of that unit as if that unit had been
acquired  in a  business  combination  and the  fair  value  of the unit was the
purchase  price.  If the excess of the fair value of the reporting unit over the
fair value of the identifiable  assets and liabilities is less than the carrying
value  of the  unit's  goodwill,  an  impairment  charge  is  recorded  for  the
difference.

     Similarly,  the impairment evaluation for indefinite life intangible assets
includes a comparison of the asset's  carrying  value to the asset's fair value.
When the carrying value exceeds fair value an impairment  charge is recorded for
the amount of the  difference.  An  intangible  asset is  determined  to have an
indefinite  useful  life  when  there  are no  legal,  regulatory,  contractual,
competitive,  economic or any other factors that may limit the period over which
the asset is expected to  contribute  directly or  indirectly to the future cash
flows of our company.  In each reporting  period, we also evaluate the remaining
useful life of an  intangible  asset that is not being  amortized  to  determine
whether events and circumstances  continue to support an indefinite useful life.
If an  intangible  asset that is not being  amortized  is  determined  to have a
finite useful life, the asset will be amortized prospectively over the estimated
remaining useful life and accounted for in the same manner as intangible  assets
subject to amortization.

     We tested goodwill for impairment using the process  prescribed in SFAS No.
142. The first step is a screen for potential impairment,  while the second step
measures the amount of the  impairment,  if any. No impairment  charge  resulted
from the impairment  tests.  For comparative  purposes that depict the effect of
adopting SFAS No. 141 and 142 above, we have included the pro forma adjusted net
income per share excluding  amortization of goodwill,  distribution channel, and
assembled workforce.


Accounting  for  the  Long-Lived   Assets  Including   Intangibles   Subject  to
Amortization

     We adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, "Accounting
for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived Assets," at the beginning of fiscal
2002.  The effect of  adopting  SFAS 144 did not have a  material  impact on our
financial position or results of operations.

     Depreciation  and  amortization of our long-lived  assets is provided using
accelerated and straight-line methods over their estimated useful lives. Changes
in  circumstances  such as the  passage of new laws or  changes in  regulations,
technological advances, changes to our business model, or changes in the capital
strategy  could  result  in the  actual  useful  lives  differing  from  initial
estimates.  In  those  cases  where  we  determine  that  the  useful  life of a
long-lived  asset should be revised,  we will  depreciate  the net book value in
excess of the estimated  residual value over its revised  remaining useful life.
Factors  such as changes in the planned use of  equipment,  customer  attrition,
contractual  amendments,  or mandated  regulatory  requirements  could result in
shortened useful lives.

     Long-lived  assets and asset groups are evaluated for  impairment  whenever
events or changes in  circumstances  indicate  that the carrying  amount of such
assets may not be recoverable.  The estimated  future cash flows are based upon,
among other things,  assumptions about expected future operating performance and
may differ from actual cash flows.  Long-lived  assets  evaluated for impairment
are grouped with other assets to the lowest  level for which  identifiable  cash
flows are largely  independent  of the cash flows of other  groups of assets and
liabilities.  If the sum of the  projected  undiscounted  cash flows  (excluding
interest)  is less than the  carrying  value of the  assets,  the assets will be
written  down  to  the  estimated   fair  value  in  the  period  in  which  the
determination is made.

Warranties

     We provide for the estimated cost of product warranties at the time revenue
is  recognized.  While we engage  in  extensive  product  quality  programs  and
processes,  including  actively  monitoring  and  evaluating  the quality of our
component  suppliers,  our warranty  obligation  is affected by product  failure
rates,  material  usage,  and service  delivery  costs  incurred in correcting a
product failure. Should actual product failure rates, material usage, or service
delivery  costs differ from our estimates,  revisions to the estimated  warranty
accrual and related costs may be required.


Stock Compensation

     As  permitted  by the  provisions  of  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting
Standards (SFAS) No. 148, "Accounting for Stock-Based  Compensation - Transition
and  Disclosure," and Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards ("SFAS 123")
No.  123,  "Accounting  for  Stock-Based   Compensation,"  we  apply  Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" (APB
25) and related  interpretations  in  accounting  for our stock option plans and
stock  purchase plan.  Accordingly,  we do not recognize  compensation  cost for
stock  options  granted at a price  equal to fair market  value.  Note 14 of the
Notes to the Consolidated  Financial  Statements describes the plans we operate,
and Note 1 of the Notes to the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  contains  a
summary of the pro forma  effects to  reported  net income  (loss) and  earnings
(loss)  per  share for  fiscal  2002,  2001,  and 2000 as if we had  elected  to
recognize  compensation  cost based on the fair value of the options  granted at
grant date, as prescribed by SFAS No. 123.


Investment in the Caterpillar  Trimble Control  Technologies LLC (CTCT or "Joint
Venture")

     We have adopted the equity method of accounting  for our  investment in the
Joint  Venture.  This  requires  that we record  our share of the Joint  Venture
profits or losses in a given fiscal  period.  During fiscal year 2002, the Joint
Venture  reported  a loss of $0.4  million  of which our share is $0.2  million,
which was recorded as a Non-operating  expense under the heading of "Expense for
affiliated  operations,  net," but which was  offset by the  amortization  of an
equal  amount of the original  deferred  gain on the sale of  technology  to the
Joint Venture.

     We have  elected  to treat  the cash  distribution  of $11.0  million  as a
deferred gain, being amortized to the extent that losses are  attributable  from
the Joint Venture under the equity method described above. When and if the Joint
Venture is profitable on a sustainable basis and future operating losses are not
anticipated, then we will recognize as a gain, the portion of the $11.0 million,
which is  un-amortized.  To the extent that it is possible that we will have any
future-funding  obligation  relating  to the Joint  Venture,  then the  relevant
amount of the $11.0  million  will be  deferred  until  such time,  the  funding
obligation no longer exists. Both our share of profits (losses) under the equity
method and the  amortization  of our $11.0  million  deferred  gain are recorded
under the heading of "Expense for affiliated  operations,  net" in Non-operating
income (expense).

     For further information, see `Recent Business Developments - Caterpillar
Joint Venture' section of Item 7 in this Report.


RECENT BUSINESS DEVELOPMENTS

Caterpillar Joint Venture

     On April 1, 2002,  Caterpillar  Trimble Control  Technologies  LLC, a Joint
Venture formed by Trimble and Caterpillar,  began operations. The Joint Venture,
50 percent  owned by Trimble  and 50 percent  owned by  Caterpillar,  with equal
voting rights, is developing and marketing next generation  advanced  electronic
guidance and control  products  for  earthmoving  machines in the  construction,
mining, and waste industries.  The Joint Venture is based in Dayton, Ohio. Under
the terms of the joint venture agreement,  Caterpillar contributed $11.0 million
cash plus selected  technology,  for a total contributed value of $14.5 million,
and we contributed selected existing machine control product technologies valued
at $25.5 million.  Additionally,  both companies have licensed patents and other
intellectual  property from their  portfolios to the Joint  Venture.  During the
first fiscal quarter of 2002, we received a special cash  distribution  of $11.0
million from the Joint Venture.

     During fiscal year 2002, we recorded approximately $4.0 million of expenses
under the heading of "Expense for affiliated  operations,  net" in Non-operating
income (expense) related to certain  transactions  between the Joint Venture and
us. This was  comprised  of  approximately  $4.9  million of  incremental  costs
incurred by us as a result of  purchasing  products  from the Joint Venture at a
higher  transfer  price  than  our  original   manufacturing  costs,  offset  by
approximately  $0.9 million of contract  manufacturing fees charged to the Joint
Venture  by us.  Due to the  nature of the  transfer  price  agreements  between
Trimble and the Joint Venture,  a related party,  the impact of these agreements
is classified under Non-operating income (expense).

     In addition,  during fiscal year 2002, we recorded lower operating expenses
of approximately $4.2 million due to the transfer of  employee-related  expenses
for  research  and  development  ($2.8  million),   and  sales,   marketing  and
administrative  functions  ($1.4 million) to the Joint Venture.  These employees
are devoted to the Joint  Venture and are primarily  engaged in developing  next
generation products and technology for that entity.


Acquisition of LeveLite Technology, Inc

     On August 15, 2002, we acquired LeveLite Technology,  Inc. ("LeveLite"),  a
California   corporation,   for  approximately  $5.7  million.   This  strategic
acquisition  complements our entry-level  construction  instrument product line.
The purchase price  consisted of 437,084 shares of our common stock.  The merger
agreement  provides  for Trimble to make  additional  earn-out  payments  not to
exceed $3.9 million (in common stock and cash payment) based on future  revenues
derived from existing product sales to a certain customer.  On January 22, 2003,
we issued the first earn-out  payment (stock and cash  combination)  with a fair
market  value of  approximately  $0.4  million,  related to the earn-out for the
quarter ended  January 3, 2003.  Also, if we receive any proceeds from a pending
litigation,  a portion will be paid to the former shareholders of LeveLite.  The
additional payments, if earned, will result in additional goodwill.





RESULTS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS EXCLUDING INFREQUENT, AND ACQUISITION RELATED
ADJUSTMENTS

     Income (loss) from continuing  operations  include  certain  infrequent and
acquisition-related  charges  that  management  believes are not  reflective  of
on-going operations.  The following table, which does not purport to present the
results  of  continuing   operations  in  accordance  with  generally   accepted
accounting principles,  reflects results of operations to exclude the effects of
such items as follows (in thousands):



RESULTS OF CONTINUING OPERATIONS

     Our annual  revenues  from  continuing  operations  decreased  from  $475.3
million in fiscal 2001 to $466.6  million in fiscal 2002.  In fiscal  2001,  our
annual  revenues from  continuing  operations  increased to $475.3  million from
$369.8 million in fiscal 2000. In fiscal 2002, we had net income from continuing
operations of $10.3 million, or $0.36 diluted earnings per share,  compared to a
net loss of $23.5  million,  or $0.95 loss per share,  in fiscal 2001, and a net
income from continuing  operations of $14.2 million,  or $0.55 diluted  earnings
per share,  in fiscal  2000.  The total net income  for fiscal  2002,  including
discontinued operations, was $10.3 million, or $0.36 diluted earnings per share,
compared  to a total net loss for 2001,  including  discontinued  operations  of
$22.9 million,  or $0.93 loss per share, and a total net income for fiscal 2000,
including  discontinued  operations of $14.2 million,  or $0.55 diluted earnings
per share. A summary of financial data by business segment is as follows.

     The following  table shows revenue and operating  income by segment for the
periods  indicated  and  should  be  read  in  conjunction  with  the  narrative
descriptions below.  Operating income by segment excludes unallocated  corporate
expenses,  which are comprised  primarily of general and  administrative  costs,
amortization of goodwill and other purchased intangibles, as well as other items
not controlled by the business segment.

     In the  first  fiscal  quarter  of fiscal  2002,  we  realigned  two of our
reportable segments and therefore the following table shows restated revenue and
operating income by segment to reflect this realignment. The Agriculture segment
was combined with the Mapping and GIS business to form Field Solutions.  Mapping
and  GIS  were  previously  part of  Fleet  and  Asset  Management.  The  Mobile
Positioning  business that was part of Fleet and Asset  Management is now Mobile
Solutions.

     We began  breaking  out Mobile  Solutions as a separate  reporting  segment
during the first quarter of 2002 to address the growing importance of the mobile
asset management business and its impact on our profitability. At the same time,
we combined our GIS and  Agriculture  businesses to create a new segment  called
Field  Solutions  in  order to  recognize  the  synergies  and  similar  product
requirements between the two businesses.



     A  reconciliation  of  our  consolidated   segment  operating  income  from
continuing  operations  to  consolidated  income (loss) before income taxes from
continuing operations follows:




Basis of Presentation

     We have a 52-53 week fiscal year,  ending on the Friday nearest to December
31,  which for fiscal 2002 was January 3, 2003.  Fiscal 2002 was a 53-week  year
and as a result,  we  recorded  an extra week of  revenues,  costs,  and related
financial activities.

     Therefore,  the  financial  results of fiscal  year 2002,  having the extra
week, will not be exactly  comparable to the prior and subsequent 52-week fiscal
years.  Thus,  due to the inherent  nature of adopting a 52-53 week fiscal year,
Trimble,  analysts,  shareholders,  investors  and  others  will  have  to  make
appropriate  adjustments to any analysis performed when comparing our activities
and results in fiscal  years that  contain 53 weeks,  to those that  contain the
standard 52 weeks. Fiscal years 2001 and 2000 were both comprised of 52-weeks.


Revenue

     In fiscal 2002,  total revenue  decreased by $8.7 million or 1.8% to $466.6
million  from $475.3  million in fiscal  2001.  The  decrease in fiscal 2002 was
primarily  due to the  reduction of revenue in Mobile  Solutions  and  Portfolio
Technologies.  Total revenue in fiscal 2001 increased by $105.5 million or 28.5%
to $475.3  million  from $369.8  million in fiscal  2000,  primarily  due to the
full-year revenue effect of the Spectra Precision Group, acquired in July 2000.





Engineering and Construction

Revenue

     Engineering  and  Construction  revenues  increased by $1.5 million or 0.5%
during fiscal 2002 as compared to fiscal 2001 due to the following:

o    Revenues increased due to the LeveLite acquisition by $3.6 million;

o    Strong performance by our machine control product offering as we continue
     to penetrate the after-market for machine guidance on earthmoving
     equipment;

o    Increased revenues were partially offset by a reduction in revenues in
     several other product areas due to continued difficult global economic
     conditions.


     Engineering and Construction revenues increased by $108.8 million or 56% in
fiscal 2001 over fiscal 2000 due to the following:

o    In fiscal 2001, we recorded a full year of revenues generated from the
     Spectra Precision Group compared to approximately half-year results in
     fiscal 2000, which accounted for approximately $85.0 million;

o    Strong demand for our land survey product line primarily due to the
     introduction of the Trimble Toolbox(TM) in the first fiscal quarter of
     2001;

o    Higher demand for GPS machine guidance equipment.


Operating Income

     Engineering and Construction operating income increased by $3.3 million or
6.4% in fiscal 2002 over fiscal 2001 due to the following:

o    A reduction of $4.2 million of operating expenses, due to the transfer of
     employee-related expenses to Caterpillar Trimble Control Technologies;

o    Higher revenues and lower operating expenses were partially offset by a
     reduction in gross margin as a result of product sales mix during fiscal
     2002.


     Engineering and Construction operating income increased by $7.7 million or
17% in fiscal 2001 over fiscal 2000 due to the following:

o    Fiscal 2001 included a full year of revenue from the Spectra Precision
     Group acquisition and the benefits of the consolidation of product lines in
     the Engineering and Construction business areas;

o    The worldwide cost reduction program, implemented as part of Trimble and
     the Spectra Precision Group integration, also favorably impacted operating
     income.


Field Solutions

Revenue

     Field Solutions experienced a revenue decline in fiscal 2002 of $1.3
million or 1.9% compared with fiscal 2001 due to the following:

o    Overall revenue decreased during the year due to the decline in the United
     States federal, state, and local government spending and a delay in the
     release of the new GeoExplorer(R) CE Series due to component supply issues;

o    This decrease was partially offset by the increased demand for both the
     manual and auto guidance product lines.


     Field Solutions revenue decreased by $2.1 million or 3% in fiscal 2001 over
fiscal 2000 due to the following:

o    Small  decrease in GIS  revenues  due to lower demand in the second half of
     fiscal 2001;

o    Significant decrease in price points in the Agriculture market on flat
     demand.


Operating Income

     Field Solutions operating income decreased by $1.3 million or 9.2% in
fiscal 2002 over fiscal 2001 due to the following:

o    Lower revenues primarily from the decrease in government spending described
     above;

o    Lower gross margin due to product sales mix, which was more weighted toward
     the relatively lower margin Agricultural business area.


     Field Solutions operating income decreased by $6.2 million or 31.2% in
fiscal 2001 over fiscal 2000 due to the following:

o    A product mix shift toward  lower-priced  products with a general reduction
     in prices;

o    Overall weak demand in the agricultural market in fiscal 2001;

o    The startup development, selling, and support costs associated with the
     ramp up of the Autopilot product line.


Mobile Solutions

Revenue

     Mobile Solutions revenues decreased by $5.3 million or 39% in fiscal 2002
over fiscal 2001 due to the following:

o    Revenue reduction of approximately $3 million in our satellite
     communications business as a result of our decision to discontinue the
     Galaxy(TM) Inmarsat-C product line in early 2001;

o    Slow  down in  system  integration  projects  due to  reduced  spending  at
     municipalities;

o    Reduced sales of wireless products of $0.9 million due to a transition from
     a sensor provider to a fully integrated service provider;

o    Sales of some product lines were down as a result of the economic slow down
     and the shift of technology from analog to digital.


     Mobile Solutions revenues decreased by $6.7 million or 33% in fiscal 2001
over fiscal 2000 due to the following:

o    A reduction of approximately $3.7 million in our GalaxyT Inmarsat-C line
     due to the announcement of our intention to discontinue certain of these
     product lines in early 2001, Mexico's satellite communications systems
     capacity limitations, and the general economic slow-down;

o    Sales of the CrossCheck and Placer(TM) receiver product lines were down by
     approximately $3.0 million as a result of the economic slow down.


Operating Loss


     Mobile Solutions operating loss increased by $1.9 million or 21% in fiscal
2002 over fiscal 2001 due to the following:

o    Lower revenues as described above;

o    Increased costs incurred in the development and marketing of a service
     platform to enable a range of asset management solutions.


     Mobile Solutions operating loss increased by $8.6 million in fiscal 2001
over fiscal 2000 due to the following:

o    Lower revenues as described above;

o    Decrease in margins due to the  sell-off of existing  Satcom  inventory  at
     reduced prices;

o    Significant costs incurred in the development of a service platform to
     enable a range of asset management solutions including an Internet
     delivered, cellular-based solution for vehicle fleet management.


Component Technologies

Revenue

     Component Technologies revenues increased by $1.7 million or 3% in fiscal
2002 over fiscal 2001 due to the following:

o    Timing revenue increased $4.6 million in fiscal 2002 over fiscal 2001 due
     to significant demand during the second half of fiscal 2002 from new and
     existing wireless infrastructure customers;

o    In-vehicle navigation revenue decreased $1.0 million in fiscal 2002 over
     fiscal 2001 as average selling prices declined by more than 9%;

o    License revenue  decreased $1.7 million in fiscal 2002 over fiscal 2001 due
     to an expired license contract.


     Component Technologies revenues decreased by $2.1 million or 4% in fiscal
2001 over fiscal 2000 due to the following:

o    Embedded  product  lines were down  approximately  $2.7  million due to the
     economic slowdown;

o    Timing product lines were down by $1.5 million due to reduced spending in
     the telecommunications market;

o    In-vehicle navigation sales increased by approximately $0.9 million. Volume
     grew by 29%, which was offset by a decrease of 19% in an average selling
     price of these products during the year.







Operating Income

     Component Technologies operating income increased by $0.4 million or 4% in
fiscal 2002 over fiscal 2001 due to the following factors:

o    Higher gross margins  resulting from higher revenues and favorable  product
     mix;

o    This increase was partially offset by higher operating expenses, primarily
     in research & development and marketing.


     Component Technologies operating income decreased by $4.0 million or 27% in
fiscal 2001 over fiscal 2000 due to the following:

o    Lower revenue as described  above;

o    Higher expenses primarily due to new product development and channel
     development.


Portfolio Technologies


Revenue

     Portfolio Technologies revenues decreased by $5.3 million or 17 % in fiscal
2002 over fiscal 2001 due to the following:

o    Reduction of $4.4 million due to the sale of our air transport product line
     to Honeywell in fiscal 2001;

o    Revenues from the military business declined by $1.1 million.


     Portfolio Technologies revenues increased by $7.7 million or 33% in fiscal
2001 over fiscal 2000 due to the following:

o    In fiscal 2001, Trimble  experienced a full year of revenues generated from
     the purchase of Tripod Data Systems as compared to one and one-half  months
     in fiscal 2000,  which  accounted  for an increase of  approximately  $12.2
     million;

o    The above increase was partially offset by a $4.5 million  reduction in our
     commercial  aviation  product line during fiscal 2001.  The sale of the air
     transport product line to Honeywell was completed in March 2001.


Operating Income

     Portfolio Technologies operating income increased by $1 million or 26% in
fiscal 2002 over fiscal 2001 due to the following:

o    Increased operating performance from Tripod Data Systems business.


     Portfolio Technologies operating income increased by $3.1 million or 318%
in fiscal 2001 over fiscal 2000 primarily due to the following:

o    An incremental  increase  resulting from a full years operating  results of
     Tripod Data Systems acquired on November 14, 2000.

International Revenues

     Sales  to  unaffiliated  customers  outside  the  United  States  comprised
approximately  49% in 2002, 50% in 2001, and 52% in 2000. During the 2002 fiscal
year,  North and South  America  represented  55%,  Europe,  the Middle East and
Africa  represented  32%, and Asia  represented  13%. In fiscal 2002, the United
States  comprised  approximately  51% and Germany  16% of sales to  unaffiliated
customers.  We anticipate that sales to international customers will continue to
account  for a  significant  portion of our  revenue.  For this  reason,  we are
subject to the risks  inherent  in these  foreign  sales,  including  unexpected
changes in  regulatory  requirements,  exchange  rates,  governmental  approval,
tariffs, or other barriers.  Even though the U.S. Government  announced on March
29, 1996,  that it supports and  maintains  the GPS system,  and on May 1, 2000,
stated that it has no intent to ever again use  Selective  Availability  (SA), a
method of degrading  GPS accuracy,  there may be  reluctance in certain  foreign
markets  to  purchase  such  products  given  the  control  of GPS  by the  U.S.
Government.  Our results of  operations  could be adversely  affected if we were
unable to continue to generate significant sales in locations outside the U.S.

     No single customer accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues in
fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000. It is possible, however, that in future periods the
failure of one or more large customers to purchase products in quantities
anticipated by us may adversely affect the results of operations.


Gross Margin

     Gross  margin  varies due to a number of  factors  including  product  mix,
international  sales mix,  customer type, the effects of production  volumes and
fixed manufacturing costs on unit product costs, and new product start-up costs.
Gross  margin as a  percentage  of total  revenues  was 50.2% in fiscal 2002 and
49.9% in fiscal 2001. The slight increase in gross margin  percentage for fiscal
2002, compared with fiscal 2001, was due partially to approximately $3.3 million
of  additional  charges  associated  with the  write-down of excess and obsolete
inventory in fiscal 2001, related to the  rationalization  and simplification of
product  lines,  and partially due to  inventories  in excess of our  forecasted
12-month demand.

     Because of  potential  product  mix changes  within and among the  industry
markets,  market  pressures  on  unit  selling  prices,   fluctuations  in  unit
manufacturing costs,  including increases in component prices and other factors,
current level gross margins  cannot be assured.  In addition,  should the global
economic conditions deteriorate further, gross margin could be further adversely
impacted.

Operating Expenses

     The following table shows operating expenses for the periods indicated and
should be read in conjunction with the narrative descriptions of those operating
expenses below:

                                       January 3,    December 28,   December 29,
Fiscal Years Ended                        2003           2001           2000
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(In thousands)

Research and development            $     61,232   $     62,881   $     46,520
Sales and marketing                       89,344        103,778         79,901
General and administrative                40,634         37,407         30,514
Restructuring charges                      1,099          3,599             --
Amortization of goodwill and other
  purchased intangible assets              8,300         29,389         13,407
                                    -------------- -------------  -------------
 Total                              $    200,609   $    237,054   $     170,342
                                    ============   =============  =============





Research and Development

     Research and development  spending  decreased by $1.6 million during fiscal
2002 and  represented  13% of  revenue,  consistent  with 13% in fiscal 2001 due
primarily to:

o    The transfer of employee-related expenses to the Caterpillar joint venture
     of approximately $2.8 million, partially offset by an increase in
     engineering expenses associated with the introduction of new products.


     Research and development  spending increased by $16.4 million during fiscal
2001, and  represented  13% of revenue,  consistent  with 13% in fiscal 2000 due
primarily to the following:

o    In fiscal 2001, we experienced a full year of operations of the Spectra
     Precision Group compared with half a year in fiscal 2000, which accounted
     for approximately $11.7 million of the increase;

o    The increase was also due to approximately $5.0 million related to a full
     year of operations of Tripod Data Systems in fiscal 2001 compared with one
     and one-half months for fiscal 2000, as well as the inclusion of Grid Data
     for approximately nine months in fiscal 2001.

     * We believe that the development and introduction of new products are
critical to the Company's future success and expects to continue its active
development of new products.


Sales and Marketing

     Sales and marketing expense decreased by $14.4 million in fiscal 2002 and
represents 19% of revenue, compared with 22% in fiscal 2001 due primarily to the
following:

o    During fiscal 2001, we sold off many of our direct sales offices, which
     decreased sales and marketing expenses by approximately $7.0 million for
     fiscal 2002;

o    A decrease in overall compensation, travel, advertising, promotional, and
     trade show expenses of approximately $7.4 million for fiscal 2002 compared
     to the corresponding period in fiscal 2001.


     Sales and marketing  expense  increased by $23.9 million in fiscal 2001 and
represents 22% of revenue,  consistent  with 22% in fiscal 2000 primarily due to
the following:

o    Inclusion of a full year of operations of the Spectra Precision Group as
     compared with half a year in fiscal 2000, which accounted for approximately
     $23.1 million of the increase.


     * Our  future  growth  will  depend in part on the timely  development  and
continued  viability of the markets in which we currently compete as well as our
ability to continue to identify and exploit new markets for our products.


General and Administrative

     General and administrative expense increased by $3.2 million in fiscal 2002
representing 9% of revenue, compared with 8% in fiscal 2001 primarily due to the
following:

o    Increase  in bad debt  provisions  related  to  customers  in an  uncertain
     economic environment;

o    Bad debt expenses for accounts written off during the year due to customer
     defaults.


     General and administrative expense increased by $6.9 million in fiscal 2001
representing 8% of revenue, consistent with 8% in fiscal 2000 due primarily to
the following:

o    In fiscal 2001, we experienced a full year of operations of the Spectra
     Precision Group as compared with half a year in fiscal 2000, which
     accounted for approximately $5.6 million of the increase;

o    The increase was also due to approximately $0.9 million related to a full
     year of operations of Tripod Data Systems in fiscal 2001, as compared with
     one and one-half months for fiscal 2000.


Restructuring Charges

     Restructuring charges of $1.1 million were recorded in fiscal 2002 and $3.6
million were  recorded in fiscal 2001,  which related to severance  costs.  As a
result of these  actions,  our  headcount  decreased in fiscal 2002 by 49 and in
fiscal 2001 by 207 individuals.  As of January 3, 2003, all of the restructuring
charges have been paid.


Amortization of Goodwill, Purchased and Other Intangible Assets:




     We adopted  SFAS No. 142 on January 1, 2002.  As a result,  goodwill  is no
longer amortized and intangible assets with indefinite lives with net book value
of $73.6 million were reclassified to goodwill.

     Amortization expense of goodwill, purchased and other intangibles decreased
in fiscal  2002 by  approximately  $21.1  million  representing  2% of  revenue,
compared with 6% in fiscal 2001.  The decrease was primarily due to the adoption
of FAS 142 that does not require the  amortization  of goodwill  and  intangible
assets with indefinite lives.

     Amortization expense of goodwill and other purchased  intangibles increased
in fiscal  2001 by  approximately  $16.0  million  representing  6% of  revenue,
compared  with  4% in  fiscal  2000.  The  increase  was  primarily  due  to the
acquisition  of the Spectra  Precision  Group in July 2000,  which resulted in a
year-  over-year  increase  of  approximately  $15.0  million  in  goodwill  and
intangibles amortization.







Non-operating Expense, Net

     The  following  table  shows  Non-operating  expenses,  net for the periods
indicated and should be read in conjunction  with the narrative  descriptions of
those expenses below:

                            January 3,      December 28,   December 29,
Fiscal Years Ended             2003            2001            2000
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(in thousands)

Interest income              $    659       $   1,118       $   4,478
Interest expense             (14,710)        (22,224)        (14,438)
Foreign exchange loss           (823)           (237)           (376)
Expenses for affiliated
   operations, net            (3,954)               -               -
Other expense                 (1,171)           (430)           (123)
                              ------            ----            ----
 Total                      $(19,999)       $(21,773)       $(10,459)
                            ========        ========        ========



     Non-operating expense, net decreased by $1.8 million during fiscal 2002 as
compared with fiscal 2001. The primary reasons for the decrease were as follows:

o    Decrease in net interest expense of $7.1 million due to significant
     repayment of debt balances during the year of approximately $52 million,
     combined with the effect of lower interest rates;

o    This was partially offset by expenses recorded for affiliated operations of
     $4.0 million as a result of transfer pricing effects on transactions
     between Trimble and CTCT, an increase in foreign exchange loss of $0.6
     million, and a write-down of minority investment of $1.5 million.


     Non-operating expense, net increased by $11.3 million during fiscal 2001 as
compared with fiscal 2000. The primary reasons for the increase were as follows:

o    Increase in interest expenses related to loans and credit facilities
     incurred primarily to finance the acquisition of the Spectra Precision
     Group accounted for approximately $7.8 million;

o    Decreased interest income resulting from the sale and maturities of
     short-term investments used to finance the acquisition of the Spectra
     Precision Group accounted for approximately $3.4 million.


Income Tax Provision

     Our effective income tax rates from continuing  operations for fiscal years
2002, 2001, and 2000 were 25%, (9%) and 10%,  respectively.  The fiscal 2002 and
2001  income  tax rates  differ  from the  federal  statutory  rate of 35%,  due
primarily  to foreign  taxes and the  inability  to realize  the  benefit of net
operating  losses.  The fiscal  2000  income  tax rate is less than the  federal
statutory  rate due primarily to the  realization of the benefits from prior net
operating losses and previously reserved deferred tax assets.


Litigation Matters

     * In November 2001,  Qualcomm Inc. filed a lawsuit  against  Trimble in the
Superior Court of the State of California.  The complaint  alleges claims for an
unspecified amount of money damages arising out of Qualcomm's  perceived lack of
assurances  in early 1999 that our  products  purchased  by Qualcomm  would work
properly after a scheduled week number  rollover event that took place in August
of 1999.  Qualcomm is the only  customer to make a claim against us based on the
week number rollover  event.  In our opinion,  the resolution of this lawsuit is
not  expected  to  have a  material  adverse  effect  on our  overall  financial
position.

     * We are also a party to other  disputes  incidental  to our  business.  We
believe that our ultimate liability as a result of such disputes,  if any, would
not be material to our overall  financial  position,  results of operations,  or
liquidity.


Off-balance Sheet Financings and Liabilities

     Other than lease commitments incurred in the normal course of business,  we
do not have any off-balance sheet financing  arrangements or liabilities.  We do
not  have  any  majority-owned   subsidiaries  that  are  not  included  in  the
consolidated financial statements. Additionally, we do not have any interest in,
or relationship with, any special purpose entities.


LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES


     In fiscal  2002,  our cash and cash  equivalents  decreased by $2.4 million
from fiscal 2001.  We repaid  $52.1  million of our debt  outstanding.  This was
financed by the issuance of common stock of approximately $21.4 million and cash
generated from operating activities of approximately $35.1 million. We also used
approximately $7.2 million for capital expenditures.

     At January 3, 2003, our debt mainly consisted of $67.6 million  outstanding
under senior secured credit facilities,  and $69.1 million outstanding under the
subordinated promissory note related to the acquisition of the Spectra Precision
Group. We have relied primarily on cash provided by operating activities to fund
capital expenditures and other investing activities.

     On March 20, 2002,  we used $21.4  million of net proceeds from our private
placement to retire accrued interest and principal under our  subordinated  note
with   Spectra-Physics   Holdings,   Inc.,  a  subsidiary  of  Thermo   Electron
Corporation,  reducing the  outstanding  principal  amount to $68.7 million.  In
addition,  we renegotiated the terms of the subordinated note. Under the revised
agreement,  the  maturity of the note was extended  until July 14, 2004,  at the
current  interest rate of  approximately  10.4% per year. In connection with the
amendment,  on March 20, 2002 we agreed to issue to Thermo  Electron a five-year
warrant to purchase  200,000  shares of our common stock at an exercise price of
$15.11.  Under the five-year  warrant,  the total number of warrants issued will
not exceed  376,233  shares.  On a  quarterly  basis  beginning  July 14,  2002,
Spectra-Physics'  warrant  became  exercisable  for an additional  250 shares of
common stock for every $1 million of principal  and interest  outstanding  until
the note is paid off in full.  These shares are  purchasable at a price equal to
the average of our stock's closing price for the five days immediately preceding
the last  trading day of each  quarter.  On July 14, 2002 an  additional  17,364
shares became  exercisable at an exercise price of $14.46 per share.  On October
14, 2002 an additional 17,824 shares became  exercisable at an exercise price of
$9.18. On January 14, 2003 an additional 18,284 shares became  exercisable at an
exercise price of $13.54.  These additional shares are exercisable over a 5-year
period.  The  approximate  fair  value  of the  warrants  of  $1.5  million  was
determined using the Black-Scholes pricing model with the following assumptions:
contractual life of 5-year period;  risk-free interest rate of 4%; volatility of
65%; and no dividends during the contractual  term. The value of the warrants is
amortized to interest expense over the term of the subordinated note.

     * In fiscal 2002, cash provided by operating  activities was $35.1 million,
as compared to $25.1  million in fiscal  2001.  The  increase of $10 million was
primarily  due to a one-time  special  cash  distribution  of $11  million  from
Caterpillar Trimble Control Technologies upon its formation in the first quarter
of fiscal 2002.  Trimble's  ability to continue to generate cash from operations
will  depend in large part on  revenues,  the rate of  collections  of  accounts
receivable, and profitability.  Both the inventory turns and accounts receivable
days sales  outstanding  metrics  were  similar at the end of fiscal 2002 to the
fiscal 2001 level.

     Cash flows used in investing activities were $5.8 million in fiscal 2002 as
compared to $11.4 million in fiscal 2001,  mostly due to  investment  activities
associated  with the  acquisition of an additional 25 percent equity interest in
Terrasat,  a German  Corporation,  and the acquisition in property and equipment
partially  offset by cash acquired through  LeveLite  acquisition.  Cash used in
investing  activities  in fiscal 2001  included  amounts  paid for the Grid Data
acquisition.

     Cash used in financing  activities  was $31.7  million in fiscal  2002,  as
compared to $23.5  million in fiscal 2001.  During  fiscal  2002,  we made $52.1
million of payments against our debt outstanding.  These payments were offset by
proceeds  from the issuance of common  stock to employees  pursuant to our stock
option  plan  and  employee  stock  purchase  plan of $4.1  million,  as well as
issuance of common stock under a private equity placement of $17 million.

     In July 2000, we obtained $200 million of senior, secured credit facilities
(the "Credit  Facilities")  from a syndicate of banks to support our acquisition
of  the  Spectra   Precision  Group,  the  Company's   ongoing  working  capital
requirements,  and to refinance  certain existing debt (see Note 10 of the Notes
to  the  to  the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements).  The  Credit  Facilities
consisted  of $100 million  available as a term loan and $100 million  available
under two  revolvers.  On January  14,  2003,  Trimble  executed  an Amended and
Restated Credit  Agreement,  which  restructured  the $100 million revolver into
four Tranches.  Tranches A and C belong to the $50 million U.S.  dollar revolver
and  Tranches  B and D  belong  to  the  $50  million  multi-currency  revolver.
Allocated to Tranche A is $12,500,000  with an expiration  date of July 14, 2003
and allocated to Tranche C is  $37,500,000  with an expiration  date of April 7,
2004.  Allocated to Tranche B is $1,500,000  with an expiration date of July 14,
2003 and allocated to Tranche D is $48,500,000  with an expiration date of April
7, 2004. As a result,  the $100 million  revolver will remain in effect  through
July 14,  2003 and be reduced to $86 million  for the period  starting  July 15,
2003 through April 7, 2004. As of January 3, 2003, outstanding balance under the
revolver was $35 million and under the term loan was $32.6 million.

     The Credit  Facilities  are secured by all material  assets of our company,
except for assets  that are  subject to foreign  tax  considerations.  Financial
covenants of the Credit Facilities  include leverage,  fixed charge, and minimum
net worth tests and all were amended during the third quarter of fiscal 2002. At
January 3, 2003,  and as of the date of this report,  we are in compliance  with
debt  covenants.  The amounts due under the revolver loans are paid as the loans
mature,  and the loan commitment fees are paid on a quarterly  basis.  Under the
five-year term loan portion of the Credit Facility,  we are due to make payments
(excluding  interest)  of  approximately  $24  million  in  fiscal  2003 and the
remaining $8.6 million in fiscal 2004.

     * We believe that our cash and cash  equivalents,  together with our credit
facilities,  will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for
at least the next twelve  months.  At January 3, 2003,  we had $28.7  million of
cash and cash  equivalents,  as well as access to $65  million of cash under the
terms of our revolver loans.

     Under the terms of the Credit Facilities,  we are currently restricted from
paying  dividends  and are limited as to the amount of our common  stock that we
can  repurchase.  We are allowed to pay dividends and  repurchase  shares of our
common  stock up to 25% of net  income  in the  previous  fiscal  year.  We have
obligations under non-cancelable operating leases for our office facilities (see
Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements).  In fiscal 2003,
the  payments  under these  non-cancelable  operating  leases are expected to be
approximately $12.1 million.

     * We expect fiscal 2003 capital expenditures to be approximately $8 million
to $11  million,  primarily  for computer  equipment,  software,  and  leasehold
improvements  associated with business expansion.  Decisions related to how much
cash is used for investing are  influenced by the expected  amount of cash to be
provided by operations.


     The following table summarizes our future repayment obligations  (excluding
interest):




     Our future minimum payments required under non-cancelable operating leases
are follows:

                                                    Operating
                                                  Lease Payments
(In thousands)
2003                                                 $   12,067
2004                                                      7,438
2005                                                      6,958
2006                                                      1,795
2007                                                      1,461
Thereafter                                                5,115
                                                          -----
Total                                                $   34,834
                                                     ==========


New Accounting Standards

     We adopted Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards  ("SFAS") No. 141,
Business  Combinations,  and SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,
at the beginning of fiscal 2002. Application of the non-amortization  provisions
of  SFAS  No.  142  significantly  reduced  amortization  expense  of  purchased
intangibles and goodwill to approximately  $8.3 million for the fiscal year 2002
from $29.4 million in the prior year. We  reclassified  identifiable  intangible
assets with indefinite lives with net book value of $73.6 million, as defined by
SFAS No.  142,  to  goodwill at the date of  adoption.  We tested  goodwill  for
impairment using the two-step process prescribed in SFAS No. 142. The first step
is a screen for potential impairment,  while the second step measures the amount
of the  impairment,  if any. No impairment  charge  resulted from the impairment
tests.


     In  October of 2001,  the FASB  issued  SFAS  No.144,  "Accounting  for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived  Assets," which amends accounting  guidance
on asset impairment and provides a single accounting model for long-lived assets
to be disposed of. Among other provisions, the new rules change the criteria for
classifying an asset as  held-for-sale.  The standard also broadens the scope of
businesses  to be  disposed  of  that  qualify  for  reporting  as  discontinued
operations,  and changes the timing of recognizing losses on such operations. We
adopted SFAS No. 144 at the  beginning  of fiscal  2002.  The effect of adopting
SFAS No. 144 did not have a material impact on our financial position or results
of operations.


     In July of 2002,  the FASB  issued  SFAS No.  146,  "Accounting  for  Costs
Associated  with  Exit or  Disposal  Activities."  SFAS No.  146  addresses  the
financial  accounting  and reporting  for  obligations  associated  with an exit
activity, including restructuring, or with a disposal of long-lived assets. Exit
activities  include,  but are not limited to,  eliminating  or reducing  product
lines,  terminating employees and contracts,  and relocating plant facilities or
personnel.  SFAS No. 146 specifies  that a company will record a liability for a
cost  associated  with an exit or disposal  activity only when that liability is
incurred  and can be measured at fair value.  Therefore,  commitment  to an exit
plan or a plan of disposal  expresses  only our  intended  future  actions  and,
therefore,  does not meet the  requirement  for  recognizing a liability and the
related expense.  SFAS No. 146 is effective  prospectively  for exit or disposal
activities  initiated after December 31, 2002, with earlier adoption encouraged.
We do not  anticipate  that the  adoption  of SFAS No.  146 will have a material
effect on our financial position or results of operations.

     In November of 2002,  the FASB issued FASB  Interpretation  ("FIN") No. 45,
"Guarantor's  Accounting and Disclosure  Requirements for Guarantees,  Including
Indirect  Guarantees  of  Indebtedness  of Others."  FIN No. 45 requires  that a
liability  be  recorded  in the  guarantor's  balance  sheet upon  issuance of a
guarantee.  In addition,  FIN No. 45 requires  disclosures  about the guarantees
that an entity has issued,  including a  roll-forward  of the  entity's  product
warranty  liabilities.  We will apply the  recognition  provisions of FIN No. 45
prospectively to guarantees issued after December 31, 2002.

     While we  engage  in  extensive  product  quality  programs  and  processes
including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of component suppliers,
our warranty  obligation is affected by product  failure rates,  material usage,
and service  delivery  costs  incurred in correcting a product  failure.  Should
actual product failure rates,  material usage, or service  delivery costs differ
from the  estimates,  revisions to the  estimated  warranty  accrual and related
costs may be required.

     Changes in our product warranty liability during the 12 months, ended
January 3, 2003 are as follows:


                                                  (in thousands)
                                                  --------------
                 Balance at December 28, 2001       $  6,827
                 Warranties accrued                    2,821
                 Warranty claims                     (3,254)
                                                     ------
                 Balance at January 3, 2003         $  6,394
                                                    ========


Our product warranty liability is classified as accrued warranty in the
accompanying balance sheet.


     In  November of 2002,  the EITF  reached a  consensus  on Issue No.  00-21,
"Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables." EITF Issue No. 00-21 provides
guidance  on how to account  for  arrangements  that  involve  the  delivery  or
performance of multiple  products,  services,  and/or rights to use assets.  The
provisions  of EITF Issue No. 00-21 will apply to revenue  arrangements  entered
into  in  fiscal  periods  beginning  after  June  15,  2003.  We are  currently
evaluating the effect that the adoption of EITF Issue No. 00-21 will have on our
results of operations and financial condition.

     In December of 2002, FASB issued FASB No. 148,  "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation  - Transition  and  Disclosure."  SFAS No. 148 amends FASB No. 123,
"Accounting for Stock-Based  Compensation,"  to provide  alternative  methods of
transition for an entity that changes to the fair value method of accounting for
stock-based  employee  compensation.  In  addition,  SFAS  No.  148  amends  the
disclosure  provisions  of SFAS No. 123 to require  expanded and more  prominent
disclosure  of the effects of an  entity's  accounting  policy  with  respect to
stock-based employee compensation. This disclosure is required in the summary of
significant accounting policies footnote or its equivalent in annual and interim
financial  statements.  SFAS No.  148 does not  amend  SFAS No.  123 to  require
companies to account for their stock-based  employee awards using the fair value
method.  As  discussed  in Note 1 of the  Notes  to the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements,  for purposes of pro forma  disclosures,  we amortized the estimated
fair value of the options to expense over the options'  vesting period,  and the
estimated  fair value of purchases  under the employee  stock  purchase  plan is
expensed  in  the  year  of  purchase  as  well  as  the  stock-based   employee
compensation cost, net of related tax effects,  that would have been included in
the  determination of net income if the fair value based method had been applied
to all awards.  The effects on pro forma disclosure of applying SFAS No. 123 are
not likely to be representative of the effects on pro forma disclosure of future
years.

     In January of 2003, the FASB issued FIN No. 46,  "Consolidation of Variable
Interest  Entities."  FIN No.  46  requires  a  variable  interest  entity to be
consolidated  by a company if that  company is subject to a majority of the risk
of loss from the variable interest entity's  activities or entitled to receive a
majority  of  the  entity's   residual   returns  or  both.  The   consolidation
requirements  of FIN No. 46 apply  immediately  to  variable  interest  entities
created after January 31, 2003. The  consolidation  requirements  apply to older
entities in the first  fiscal year or interim  period  beginning  after June 15,
2003. We are currently  evaluating the provisions of FIN No. 46, however,  we do
not believe as of January 3, 2003,  the Company has any  investments in variable
interest entities.



RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES

Our Inability to Accurately Predict Orders and Shipments May Affect Our Revenue,
Expenses and Earnings per Share.

     We  have  not  been  able in the  past to  consistently  predict  when  our
customers  will place  orders and request  shipments,  so that we cannot  always
accurately  plan our  manufacturing  requirements.  As a result,  if orders  and
shipments  differ from what we predict,  we may incur  additional  expenses  and
build excess inventory,  which may require additional accruals.  Any significant
change in our  customers'  purchasing  patterns  could have a  material  adverse
effect on our operating results and reported earnings per share for a particular
quarter.


     Our  Operating   Results  in  Each  Quarter  May  Be  Affected  by  Special
Conditions,  Such As Seasonality,  Late Quarter  Purchases,  and Other Potential
Issues.

     Due, in part, to the buying patterns of our customers, a significant
portion of our quarterly revenues occurs from orders received and immediately
shipped to customers in the last few weeks and days of each quarter, although
our operating expenses tend to remain fairly predictable. Engineering and
construction purchases tend to occur in early spring, and governmental agencies
tend to utilize funds available at the end of the government's fiscal year for
additional purchases at the end of our third fiscal quarter in September of each
year. Concentrations of orders sometimes also occur at the end of our other two
fiscal quarters. Additionally, a majority of our sales force earns commissions
on a quarterly basis, which may cause concentrations of orders at the end of any
fiscal quarter. If for any reason expected sales are deferred, orders are not
received, or shipments are delayed a few days at the end of a quarter, our
operating results and reported earnings per share for that quarter could be
significantly impacted.


We Are Dependent on a Sole Manufacturer and Assembler for Many of Our Products
and on Sole Suppliers of Critical Parts for Our Products.

     Since August 1999, we have been substantially dependent upon Solectron
Corporation as the exclusive manufacturing partner for many of our GPS products
previously manufactured out of our Sunnyvale facilities. Under the agreement
with Solectron, we provide to Solectron a twelve-month product forecast and
place purchase orders with Solectron sixty calendar days in advance of the
scheduled delivery of products to our customers. Although purchase orders placed
with Solectron are cancelable, the terms of the agreement would require us to
purchase from Solectron all material inventory not returnable or usable by other
Solectron customers. Accordingly, if we inaccurately forecast demand for our
products, we may be unable to obtain adequate manufacturing capacity from
Solectron to meet customers' delivery requirements or we may accumulate excess
inventories, if such inventories are not usable by other Solectron customers.

         Our current contract with Solectron expires in August of 2003.

     During the fourth quarter of 2002,  Solectron began  assembling some of our
Component Technology products in China. Although we believe that this initiative
in China  will bring  significant  cost  savings,  we cannot  predict  potential
effects that may result from this program.

     In  addition,  we rely on  sole  suppliers  for a  number  of our  critical
components.  We have  experienced  shortages of  components  in the past.  As an
example,  we were  affected by the  inability  of a display  supplier to provide
adequate  quantities  to meet our  requirements  in the  third  fiscal  calendar
quarter of 2002 that resulted in the deferral of $2.4 million in orders into the
fourth  quarter of 2002.  Our  current  reliance  on sole or a limited  group of
suppliers involves several risks,  including a potential  inability to obtain an
adequate  supply of required  components and reduced  control over pricing.  Any
inability to obtain  adequate  deliveries or any other  circumstance  that would
require  us to  seek  alternative  sources  of  supply  or to  manufacture  such
components  internally  could  significantly  delay  our  ability  to  ship  our
products,   which  could  damage  relationships  with  current  and  prospective
customers and could harm our reputation  and brand,  which could have a material
adverse effect on our business.


Our Annual and Quarterly Performance May Fluctuate.

     Our operating results have fluctuated and can be expected to continue to
fluctuate in the future on a quarterly and annual basis as a result of a number
of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Results in any period could be
affected by:

o    changes in market demand,

o    competitive market conditions,

o    market  acceptance  of existing or new  products,  especially in our Mobile
     Solutions business

o    fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates,

o    the cost and availability of components,

o    our ability to manufacture and ship products,

o    the mix of our customer base and sales channels,

o    the mix of products sold,

o    our ability to expand our sales and marketing organization effectively,

o    our ability to attract and retain key technical and managerial employees,

o    the timing of shipments of products  under  contracts and sale of licensing
     rights, and

o    general global economic conditions.


     In addition, demand for our products in any quarter or year may vary due to
the  seasonal  buying  patterns  of  our  customers  in  the   agricultural  and
engineering  and  construction  industries.  Due to the foregoing  factors,  our
operating  results in one or more future  periods are  expected to be subject to
significant   fluctuations.   The  price  of  our  common  stock  could  decline
substantially in the event such fluctuations result in our financial performance
being below the expectations of public market analysts and investors,  which are
based  primarily  on  historical  models  that  are  not  necessarily   accurate
representations of the future.


Our Gross Margin Is Subject to Fluctuation.

     Our gross margin is affected by a number of factors, including product mix,
product  pricing,  cost of  components,  foreign  currency  exchange  rates  and
manufacturing  costs. For example,  since our Engineering and Construction (E&C)
and Geographic  Information  Systems (GIS) products  generally have higher gross
margins than our Component  Technologies (CT) products,  absent other factors, a
shift  in  sales  toward  E&C  and GIS  products  would  lead to a gross  margin
improvement.  On the other hand, if market conditions in the highly  competitive
E&C and GIS market  segments  forced us to lower unit prices,  we would suffer a
decline in gross margin unless we were able to timely offset the price reduction
by a reduction in  production  costs or by sales of other  products  with higher
gross margins.  A decline in gross margin could  negatively  impact our earnings
per share.


Our  Business  is  Subject to  Disruptions  and  Uncertainties  Caused by War or
Terrorism.

     Acts of war or acts of terrorism  could have a material  adverse  impact on
our  business,  operating  results,  and  financial  condition.  The  threat  of
terrorism and war and heightened  security and military response to this threat,
or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruption to our economy and
create  further   uncertainties.   To  the  extent  that  such   disruptions  or
uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of orders, or the manufacture or
shipment  of our  products,  our  business,  operating  results,  and  financial
condition could be materially and adversely affected.


Our  Substantial  Indebtedness  Could  Materially  Restrict Our  Operations  and
Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition.

     We now have, and for the  foreseeable  future expect to have, a significant
level of indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could:

o    increase  our  vulnerability  to  general  adverse  economic  and  industry
     conditions;

o    limit our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures,
     research and development and other general corporate requirements, or to
     make certain investments that could benefit us;

o    require us to  dedicate a  substantial  portion of our cash flow to service
     interest and  principal  payments on our debt;

o    limit our  flexibility to react to changes in our business and the industry
     in which we operate; and

o    limit our ability to borrow additional funds.


Our Credit Agreement Contains Stringent Financial Covenants.

     Two of the  financial  covenants in our Credit  Agreement  with The Bank of
Nova Scotia and certain other banks, dated July 14, 2000 as amended (the "Credit
Agreement"),  minimum  fixed charge  coverage and maximum  leverage  ratio,  are
extremely sensitive to changes in earnings before interest,  taxes, depreciation
and amortization  ("EBITDA").  In turn,  EBITDA is highly correlated to revenues
and costs.  Due to  uncertainties  associated with the downturn in the worldwide
economy,  our future  revenues by quarter are more  difficult to forecast and we
have put in place various cost cutting measures,  including the consolidation of
service  functions  and centers,  offices,  and of redundant  product  lines and
reductions in staff.  If revenues  should decline at a faster pace than the rate
of these cost cutting measures,  on a quarter-to-quarter  basis we may not be in
compliance with the two above-mentioned  financial  covenants.  If we default on
one or more  covenants,  we will have to obtain  either  negotiated  waivers  or
amendments to the Credit Agreement.  If we were unable to obtain such waivers or
amendments,  the banks  would have the right to  accelerate  the  payment of our
outstanding obligations under the Credit Agreement,  which would have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition and viability as an operating company.
In addition,  a default under one of our debt instruments may also trigger cross
defaults  under our other debt  instruments.  An event of default under any debt
instrument,  if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us.
In September of 2002, we reached an agreement to ease our financial  covenants..
These revised  covenants  will remain in effect  through the term of the current
credit facility.  On January 14, 2003,  Trimble executed an Amended and Restated
Credit  Agreement,  which  restructured  the $100  million  revolver  into  four
Tranches.  Tranches  A & C belong  to the $50  million  US dollar  revolver  and
Tranches B & D belong to the $50 million multi-currency  revolver.  Allocated to
Tranche A is $12,500,000  with an expiration date of July 14, 2003 and allocated
to Tranche C is $37,500,000 with an expiration date of April 07, 2004. Allocated
to  Tranche  B is  $1,500,000  with an  expiration  date of July  14,  2003  and
allocated to Tranche D is $48,500,000 with an expiration date of April 07, 2004.
As a result,  the $100 million  revolver will remain in effect  through July 14,
2003 and be reduced to $86 million for the period starting July 15, 2003 through
April 7, 2004.


We Are Dependent on Key Customers.

     An  increasing  amount of our  revenue is  generated  from  large  original
equipment  manufacturers  such as Siemens VDO Automotive  AG, Nortel,  McNeilus,
Caterpillar,  CNH Global,  DeWalt, Hilti, and Blaupunkt.  A reduction or loss of
business  with  these  customers  could have a  material  adverse  effect on our
financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we
will be able to  continue  to  realize  value from  these  relationships  in the
future.


We Are Dependent on New Products.

     Our future revenue stream depends to a large degree on our ability to bring
new products to market on a timely basis.  We must continue to make  significant
investments  in  research  and  development  in order to continue to develop new
products,  enhance  existing  products  and achieve  market  acceptance  of such
products.  We may incur problems in the future in innovating and introducing new
products.  Our development stage products may not be successfully  completed or,
if developed, may not achieve significant customer acceptance. If we were unable
to successfully  define,  develop and introduce  competitive  new products,  and
enhance existing  products,  our future results of operations would be adversely
affected.  Development and manufacturing  schedules for technology  products are
difficult to predict, and we might not achieve timely initial customer shipments
of new products.  The timely  availability of these products in volume and their
acceptance  by customers  are  important to our future  success.  A delay in new
product  introductions  could  have  a  significant  impact  on our  results  of
operations.


We Face Risks of Entering Into and Maintaining Alliances.

     We believe that in certain  emerging markets our success will depend on our
ability to form and maintain  alliances with  established  system  providers and
industry  leaders.  Our  failure to form and  maintain  such  alliances,  or the
preemption  of  such  alliances  by  actions  of  other  competitors  or us will
adversely affect our ability to penetrate emerging markets. No assurances can be
given that we will not experience  problems from current or future  alliances or
that we will realize value from any such strategic alliances.




We Are  Dependent  on the  Availability  of  Allocated  Bands  Within  the Radio
Frequency Spectrum.

     Our GPS  technology  is dependent  on the use of the  Standard  Positioning
Service ("SPS")  provided by the U.S.  Government's  Global  Positioning  System
(GPS). The GPS SPS operates in radio frequency bands that are globally allocated
for radio  navigation  satellite  services.  International  allocations of radio
frequency  are  made by the  International  Telecommunications  Union  (ITU),  a
specialized  technical  agency of the  United  Nations.  These  allocations  are
further  governed by radio  regulations that have treaty status and which may be
subject  to   modification   every  two  to  three  years  by  the  World  Radio
Communication Conference.

     Any ITU  reallocation of radio frequency  bands,  including  frequency band
segmentation  or sharing of spectrum,  may materially  and adversely  affect the
utility and reliability of our products,  which would, in turn, cause a material
adverse  effect on our operating  results.  Many of our products use other radio
frequency  bands,  together  with  the  GPS  signal,  to  provide  enhanced  GPS
capabilities,   such  as  real-time   kinematics   precision.   The   continuing
availability of these non-GPS radio frequencies is essential to provide enhanced
GPS products to our precision survey markets. Any regulatory changes in spectrum
allocation or in allowable  operating  conditions  may  materially and adversely
affect the utility and reliability of our products,  which would, in turn, cause
a material adverse effect on our operating results.

     In addition,  unwanted  emissions from mobile satellite  services and other
equipment  operating in adjacent  frequency  bands or in-band from  licensed and
unlicensed   devices  may  materially  and  adversely  affect  the  utility  and
reliability of our products,  which could result in a material adverse effect on
our  operating  results.  The  FCC  continually  receives  proposals  for  novel
technologies and services, such as ultra-wideband  technologies,  which may seek
to operate in, or across,  the radio  frequency  bands currently used by the GPS
SPS and other public safety services.  Adverse  decisions by the FCC that result
in harmful interference to the delivery of the GPS SPS and other radio frequency
spectrum  also used in our  products may  materially  and  adversely  affect the
utility  and  reliability  of our  products,  which  could  result in a material
adverse effect on our business and financial condition.


We Are Subject to the Adverse Impact of Radio Frequency Congestion.

     We have  certain  real-time  kinematics  products,  such as our Land Survey
5700, that use integrated  radio  communication  technology  requiring access to
available radio frequencies  allocated by the FCC. In addition,  access to these
frequencies by state agencies is under management by state radio  communications
coordinators.  Some  bands  are  experiencing  congestion  that  excludes  their
availability for access by state agencies in some states, including the state of
California.  An inability to obtain access to these radio frequencies could have
an adverse effect on our operating results.


Many of Our Products Rely on the GPS Satellite System.

     The GPS satellites and their ground support systems are complex  electronic
systems subject to electronic and mechanical failures and possible sabotage. The
satellites were  originally  designed to have lives of 7.5 years and are subject
to damage by the hostile space  environment in which they operate.  However,  of
the current  deployment  of 28  satellites  in place,  some have already been in
operation  for 13 years.  To repair  damaged  or  malfunctioning  satellites  is
currently not economically  feasible. If a significant number of satellites were
to  become  inoperable,  there  could be a  substantial  delay  before  they are
replaced with new satellites.  A reduction in the number of operating satellites
may impair the  current  utility of the GPS system and the growth of current and
additional market opportunities.

     In addition, there can be no assurance that the U.S. Government will remain
committed to the operation and maintenance of GPS satellites over a long period,
or that the policies of the U.S.  Government  for the use of GPS without  charge
will remain unchanged. However, a 1996 Presidential Decision Directive marks the
first time in the  evolution  of GPS that access for civilian use free of direct
user fees is specifically  recognized and supported by Presidential  policy.  In
addition,   Presidential   policy  has  been   complemented   by   corresponding
legislation, signed into law. Because of ever-increasing commercial applications
of GPS, other U.S. Government agencies may become involved in the administration
or the regulation of the use of GPS signals.  Any of the foregoing factors could
affect the  willingness  of buyers of our products to select  GPS-based  systems
instead of products based on competing technologies.

     Any  resulting  change in  market  demand  for GPS  products  could  have a
material  adverse  effect  on  our  financial  results.  For  example,  European
governments  have  expressed  interest  in  building  an  independent  satellite
navigation system, known as Galileo. Depending on the as yet undetermined design
and operation of this system,  there may be  interference to the delivery of the
GPS SPS and may materially and adversely  affect the utility and  reliability of
our products,  which could result in a material  adverse  effect on our business
and operating results.


We Face Risks in Investing in and Integrating New Acquisitions.

     We are continuously evaluating external investments in technologies related
to our business,  and have made relatively small strategic equity investments in
a number of GPS-related and laser-related technology companies.  Acquisitions of
companies, divisions of companies, or products entail numerous risks, including:

o    potential inability to successfully integrate acquired operations and
     products or to realize cost savings or other anticipated benefits from
     integration;

o    diversion of management's attention;

o    loss of key employees of acquired operations;

o    the  difficulty of  assimilating  geographically  dispersed  operations and
     personnel of the acquired companies;

o    the potential disruption of our ongoing business;

o    unanticipated expenses related to such integration;

o    the correct assessment of the relative percentages of in-process research
     and development expense that can be immediately written off as compared to
     the amount which must be amortized over the appropriate life of the asset;

o    the impairment of  relationships  with employees and customers of either an
     acquired company or our own business;

o    the potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired business; and

o    inability to recover strategic investments in development stage entities.


     As a result of such  acquisitions,  we have significant assets that include
goodwill and other purchased intangibles. The testing of these intangibles under
established  accounting  guidelines for impairment  requires  significant use of
judgment  and  assumptions.   Changes  in  business   conditions  could  require
adjustments  to the valuation of these assets.  Any such problems in integration
or  adjustments  to the  value of the  assets  acquired  could  harm our  growth
strategy and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition
and compliance with debt covenants.



We Face Competition in Our Markets.

     Our  markets  are highly  competitive  and we expect  that both  direct and
indirect  competition  will  increase  in the future.  Our  overall  competitive
position  depends  on a number of  factors  including  the  price,  quality  and
performance of our products,  the level of customer service,  the development of
new technology and our ability to participate in emerging  markets.  Within each
of our markets,  we encounter  direct  competition  from other GPS,  optical and
laser  suppliers and  competition may intensify from various larger domestic and
international  competitors  and new  market  entrants,  some of which may be our
current customers.  The competition in the future, may, in some cases, result in
price  reductions,  reduced margins or loss of market share,  any of which could
materially and adversely  affect our business,  operating  results and financial
condition.  We believe  that our ability to compete  successfully  in the future
against  existing and additional  competitors will depend largely on our ability
to execute our  strategy  to provide  systems and  products  with  significantly
differentiated  features compared to currently available products. We may not be
able to  implement  this  strategy  successfully,  and our  products  may not be
competitive  with other  technologies  or products  that may be developed by our
competitors,  many of whom  have  significantly  greater  financial,  technical,
manufacturing, marketing, sales and other resources than we do.


We Are Dependent on Proprietary Technology.

     Our  future  success  and  competitive   position  is  dependent  upon  our
proprietary  technology,  and we rely on patent,  trade  secret,  trademark  and
copyright  law to  protect  our  intellectual  property.  The  patents  owned or
licensed by us may be  invalidated,  circumvented,  and  challenged.  The rights
granted under these patents may not provide competitive advantages to us. Any of
our pending or future patent  applications may not be issued within the scope of
the claims sought by us, if at all.

     Others  may  develop  technologies  that are  similar  or  superior  to our
technology,  duplicate our  technology or design around the patents owned by us.
In addition,  effective  copyright,  patent and trade secret  protection  may be
unavailable,  limited or not applied for in certain foreign countries. The steps
taken by us to protect our technology might not prevent the  misappropriation of
such technology.

     The value of our products relies  substantially on our technical innovation
in fields in which there are many current patent  filings.  We recognize that as
new patents are issued or are  brought to our  attention  by the holders of such
patents, it may be necessary for us to withdraw products from the market, take a
license from such patent  holders,  or redesign our products.  We do not believe
any of our products  currently  infringe patents or other proprietary  rights of
third  parties,  but we cannot be certain  they do not do so. In  addition,  the
legal costs and engineering time required to safeguard  intellectual property or
to defend against  litigation could become a significant  expense of operations.
Such  events  could  have  a  material   adverse   effect  on  our  revenues  or
profitability.


We Must Carefully Manage Our Future Growth.

     Growth in our sales or continued  expansion in the scope of our  operations
could  strain  our  current  management,  financial,   manufacturing  and  other
resources  and may require us to implement  and improve a variety of  operating,
financial  and other  systems,  procedures  and controls.  Specifically  we have
experienced  strain in our financial and order management system, as a result of
our acquisitions.  We are expanding our sales,  accounting,  manufacturing,  and
other information systems to meet these challenges. These systems, procedures or
controls may not be adequate to support our  operations and may not be designed,
implemented or improved in a cost  effective and timely  manner.  Any failure to
implement,  improve and expand such systems, procedures and controls in a timely
and efficient  manner could harm our growth  strategy and  adversely  affect our
financial condition and ability to achieve our business objectives.



We Are Dependent on Retaining and  Attracting  Highly  Skilled  Development  and
Managerial Personnel.

     Our ability to maintain our competitive technological position will depend,
in a large  part,  on our  ability  to  attract,  motivate,  and  retain  highly
qualified  development  and  managerial  personnel.  Competition  for  qualified
employees in our industry and location is intense, and there can be no assurance
that we will be able to attract,  motivate and retain enough qualified employees
necessary for the future continued development of our business and products.


We May Encounter Problems Associated With International Operations and Sales.

     Our  customers  are located  throughout  the world.  Sales to  unaffiliated
customers in foreign locations represented  approximately 49% of our revenues in
our fiscal  year 2002,  50% in our fiscal  year 2001 and 52% in our fiscal  year
2000.  In addition,  we have  significant  international  operations,  including
manufacturing facilities,  sales personnel and customer support operations.  Our
international sales organization  contains offices in 21 foreign countries.  Our
international  manufacturing facilities are in Sweden and Germany, and we have a
regional  fulfillment  center in the  Netherlands.  Our  international  presence
exposes us to risks not faced by wholly  domestic  companies.  Specifically,  we
have experienced issues relating to integration of foreign  operations,  greater
difficulty in accounts receivable collection, longer payment cycles and currency
fluctuations. Additionally, we face the following risks, among others:

o    unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;

o    tariffs and other trade barriers;

o    political, legal and economic instability in foreign markets, particularly
     in those markets in which we maintain manufacturing and research
     facilities;

o    difficulties in staffing and management;

o    language and cultural barriers; seasonal reductions in business activities
     in the summer months in Europe and some other countries;

o    war and acts of terrorism; and

o    potentially adverse tax consequences.


     Although we  implemented  a program to attempt to manage  foreign  exchange
risks through hedging and other strategies,  there can be no assurance that this
program will be successful and that currency exchange rate fluctuations will not
have a material  adverse  effect on our results of operations.  In addition,  in
certain foreign markets,  there may be reluctance to purchase  products based on
GPS technology, given the control of GPS by the U.S. Government.


We are exposed to fluctuations in Currency Exchange Rates.

     A  significant  portion of our  business  is  conducted  outside the United
States, and as such, we face exposure to adverse movements in non-U.S.  currency
exchange  rates.  These  exposures  may change over time as  business  practices
evolve and could have a material  adverse  impact on our  financial  results and
cash flows.  Compared  to fiscal  2001,  in fiscal  2002,  the US  currency  has
weakened against other currencies.

     Currently,  we hedge only those currency exposures  associated with certain
assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional  currencies and periodically
will hedge  anticipated  foreign  currency  cash flows.  The hedging  activities
undertaken by us are intended to offset the impact of currency  fluctuations  on
certain  nonfunctional  currency assets and  liabilities.  Our attempts to hedge
against these risks may not be successful  resulting in an adverse impact on our
net income.

     The affect of the movement in foreign exchange rates has been reflected in
the Cumulative Translation Adjustment included in the Accumulative Other
Comprehensive Loss under Shareholders' Equity on our Consolidated Balance Sheet
Statement located in this Report.


We Are Subject to the Impact of Governmental and Other Similar Certifications.

     We market  certain  products that are subject to  governmental  and similar
certifications  before  they can be sold.  For  example,  CE  certification  for
radiated  emissions is required  for most GPS  receiver and data  communications
products sold in the European Union. An inability to obtain such  certifications
in a timely manner could have an adverse effect on our operating results.  Also,
our products  that use  integrated  radio  communication  technology  require an
end-user to obtain  licensing from the Federal  Communications  Commission (FCC)
for  frequency-band  usage.  These are  secondary  licenses  that are subject to
certain  restrictions.  During the fourth quarter of 1998,  the FCC  temporarily
suspended  the  issuance of licenses  for  certain of our  real-time  kinematics
products  because of  interference  with  certain  other users of similar  radio
frequencies.  An inability or delay in obtaining such  certifications or changes
to the rules by the FCC could adversely affect our ability to bring our products
to market,  which  could  harm our  customer  relationships  and have a material
adverse effect on our business.


Our Stock Price May Be Volatile.

     The price of our common stock can be expected to fluctuate substantially as
it has in the past.  The price  could react to actual or  anticipated  quarterly
variations in results of operations,  announcements of technological innovations
or new  products by us or our  competitors,  developments  related to patents or
other  intellectual  property  rights,  developments  in our  relationship  with
customers,  suppliers,  or strategic  partners  and other events or factors.  In
addition, any shortfall or changes in revenue, gross margins, earnings, or other
financial  results  from  analysts'  expectations  could  cause the price of our
common stock to fluctuate significantly. Additionally, macro-economic factors as
well as market  climate  for the  high-technology  sector  could also impact the
trading price of our stock.


Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk

     We are exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates and
foreign currency exchange rates. We use certain derivative financial instruments
to manage these risks. We do not use derivative financial instruments for
speculative or trading purposes. All financial instruments are used in
accordance with policies approved by our board of directors.

Market Interest Rate Risk

     We are exposed to market risk due to the  possibility of changing  interest
rates under our senior  secured  credit  facilities.  Our credit  facilities are
comprised  of a  U.S.  dollar-only  revolver,  a  multi-currency  revolver  both
expiring  April 7, 2004,  and a  five-year  term loan  expiring  July 14,  2004.
Borrowings under the credit facility have interest  payments based on a floating
rate of LIBOR  plus a number  of basis  points  tied to a  formula  based on our
leverage  ratio.  As of  January  3, 2003,  our  senior  debt to EBITDA  (senior
leverage  ratio) was  approximately  1.41. At this leverage ratio our pricing on
the Credit  Facility  is LIBOR plus 125 basis  points.  The U.S.  dollar and the
multi-currency  revolvers run through April 2004 and have outstanding  principal
balances at January 3, 2003 of $25.0 million and $10.0 million, respectively. As
of January 3, 2003, we have borrowed  from the  Multi-Currency  revolver in U.S.
currency  only.  The term loan  expires on July 14, 2004 and has an  outstanding
principal  balance of $32.6 million at January 3, 2003.  The  three-month  LIBOR
effective  rate at January 3, 2003 was 1.38%.  A  hypothetical  10%  increase in
three-month LIBOR rates could result in approximately $93,000 annual increase in
interest expense on the existing principal balances.

     In addition,  we have a $1.8 million promissory note, of which $110,000 was
classified as a current liability at the end of fiscal 2002. The note is payable
in monthly installments,  bearing a variable interest rate of 5.4% as of January
3, 2003. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates would not have a material
impact on the results of our operations.

     * The  hypothetical  changes and  assumptions  made above will be different
from what actually occurs in the future.  Furthermore,  the  computations do not
anticipate  actions that may be taken by our management  should the hypothetical
market changes actually occur over time. As a result, actual earnings effects in
the future will differ from those quantified above.


Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

     We transact  business in various foreign  currencies and hedges  identified
risks  associated  with foreign  currency  transactions in order to minimize the
impact of changes in foreign  currency  exchange  rates on earnings.  We utilize
forward  contracts to hedge  certain  trade and  inter-company  receivables  and
payables.  These contracts  reduce the exposure to fluctuations in exchange rate
movements as the gains and losses  associated with foreign currency balances are
generally offset with the gains and losses on the hedge  contracts.  These hedge
instruments  are marked to market through  earnings  every period.  From time to
time, we may also utilize forward foreign exchange contracts  designated as cash
flow hedges of  operational  exposures  represented  by firm  backlog  orders to
specific  accounts over a specific period of time. We record changes in the fair
value of cash flow hedges in  accumulated,  other  comprehensive  income (loss),
until the firm  backlog  transaction  ships.  Upon  recognition  of revenue,  we
reclassify  the  gain  or  loss on the  cash  flow  hedge  to the  statement  of
operations.  For the fiscal  year ended  January 3, 2003,  we recorded a gain of
$57,000  reflecting  the net  change and ending  balance in  relation  to a firm
backlog hedge.  The critical terms of the cash flow hedging  instruments are the
same as the underlying forecasted transactions. The changes in fair value of the
derivatives  are intended to offset  changes in the expected  cash flow from the
forecasted  transactions.  All forward  contracts  have maturity of less than 12
months.

     * We do not  anticipate  any material  adverse  effect on our  consolidated
financial position utilizing our current hedging strategy.

     The following table provides information about our foreign exchange forward
contracts outstanding as of January 3, 2003:



                       Foreign Currency  Contract Value      Fair Value in
                            Amount            USD                 USD
Currency   Buy/Sell     (in thousands)   (in thousands)     (in thousands)

  CAD        Sell           1,630        $     1,033         $    1,039
  MXN        Sell           5,000                469                475
  JPY        Sell         751,668              6,259              6,302
  EUR        Buy          (6,200)            (6,348)            (6,024)
  EUR        Sell          14,939             14,652             15,534
  NZD        Buy          (2,017)              (967)            (1,060)
  SEK        Buy        (158,572)           (17,099)           (17,988)
  SEK        Sell          19,836              2,126              2,144
                                         $       125          $     422
                                         ===========          =========






     The following table provides information about our foreign exchange forward
contracts outstanding as of December 28, 2001:

                          Foreign Currency     Contract Value     Fair Value in
                               Amount               USD                USD
Currency      Buy/Sell     (in thousands)      (in thousands)    (in thousands)
  EURO          Sell             3,769          $    3,365        $    3,332
  EURO          Buy              (800)               (716)             (712)
STERLING        Buy              (298)               (423)             (433)
  YEN           Sell           225,000               1,903             1,714
  YEN           Buy           (44,000)               (363)             (335)
                                                $    3,766        $    3,566
                                                ==========        ==========








                             TRIMBLE NAVIGATION LTD
                          INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS







Item 8.           Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS


     *See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.





CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS


     *See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.





CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY


                                  Common stock
                                  and warrants
                            -------------------------



     *See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.





CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS


     *See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.






                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies:


Use of Estimates

     The  preparation  of financial  statements  in  conformity  with  generally
accepted  accounting  principles  requires  management  to  make  estimates  and
assumptions  that affect the amounts  reported in the financial  statements  and
accompanying  notes.  Due to the  inherent  nature  of those  estimates,  actual
results could differ from expectations.


Basis of Presentation

     Trimble  has a 52-53 week  fiscal  year,  ending on the  Friday  nearest to
December  31,  which for fiscal  2002 was  January 3,  2003.  Fiscal  2002 was a
53-week  year and as a  result,  the  Company  has  included  an  extra  week of
revenues, costs and related financial activities.

     Therefore, the financial results of those fiscal years (as this fiscal year
2002)  having  the extra week will not be  exactly  comparable  to the prior and
subsequent 52-week fiscal years.  Fiscal years 2001 and 2000 were both comprised
of 52 weeks.

     The consolidated  financial  statements  include the results of Trimble and
its subsidiaries.  Inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
Certain  amounts  from  prior  years  have been  reclassified  to conform to the
current year presentation. Accrued interest expense and Deferred gain on sale of
assets have been reclassified to Accrued  liability in the Consolidated  Balance
Sheet at December 28, 2001.  Certain previously  allocated  corporate charges to
the  Portfolio   Technologies   business  segment  have  been   reclassified  to
unallocated  corporate  charges  in fiscal  2001 and  fiscal  2000 to conform to
current year presentation.


Foreign Currency

     Assets and liabilities of the Company's foreign subsidiaries are translated
into U.S.  dollars at year-end  exchange  rates,  and  revenues and expenses are
translated at average rates  prevailing  during the year.  Local  currencies are
considered  to  be  the  functional   currencies  for  the  Company's   non-U.S.
subsidiaries.  Translation  adjustments are included in shareholders'  equity in
the consolidated  balance sheet caption  "Accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss)." Foreign currency  transaction  gains and losses are included in results
of  operations  as  incurred,  and have not been  significant  to the  Company's
operating  results in any fiscal year presented.  The effect of foreign currency
rate changes on cash and cash equivalents is not material.


Cash and Cash Equivalents

        Cash and cash equivalents include all cash and highly liquid investments
with insignificant interest rate risk and original maturities of three months or
less. The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents approximates fair value
because of the short maturity of those instruments.


Concentration of Risk

     In entering into forward foreign exchange contracts, Trimble has assumed
the risk that might arise from the possible inability of counter-parties to meet
the terms of their contracts. The counter-parties to these contracts are major
  multinational investment and commercial banks, and the Company does not expect
any losses as a result of counter-party defaults (see Note 6 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements). The Company is also exposed to credit risk
in the Company's trade receivables, which are derived from sales to end-user
customers in diversified industries as well as various resellers. Trimble
performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers' financial condition and
limits the amount of credit extended when deemed necessary but generally does
not require collateral.

     With the selection of Solectron Corporation in August 1999 as an exclusive
manufacturing partner for many of its GPS products, Trimble became substantially
dependent upon a sole supplier for the manufacture of many of its products. In
     addition, the Company relies on sole suppliers for a number of its critical
components.

     Many of Trimble's products use GPS as the positioning technology.  GPS is a
system of 24 orbiting satellites  established and funded by the U.S. Government,
which has been fully  operational  since March 1995. A significant  reduction in
the number of operating  satellites  would impair the current utility of the GPS
system  and the  growth of  current  and  additional  market  opportunities.  In
addition,  the U.S.  Government  may not remain  committed to the  operation and
maintenance  of GPS  satellites  over a long period,  and the policy of the U.S.
Government for the use of GPS without charge may change.


Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

     Trimble  maintains  allowances for doubtful  accounts for estimated  losses
resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments.

     Trimble evaluates the collectibility of its trade accounts receivable based
on a number  of  factors.  In  circumstances  where  the  Company  is aware of a
specific customer's inability to meet its financial  obligations to the Company,
a specific  allowance for bad debts is estimated and recorded  which reduces the
recognized  receivable to the estimated  amount Trimble believes will ultimately
be collected.  In addition to specific customer  identification of potential bad
debts,  bad debt charges are recorded  based on the  Company's  recent past loss
history and an overall assessment of past due trade accounts  receivable amounts
outstanding. The expenses recorded for doubtful accounts were approximately $5.4
million in fiscal 2002,  $5.1 million in fiscal 2001, and $1.2 million in fiscal
2000.


Inventories

     Inventories  are  stated  at the  lower of  standard  cost or  market  (net
realizable value).  Standard costs approximate average actual costs. The Company
uses a standard cost  accounting  system to value  inventory and these standards
are reviewed at a minimum of once a year and  multiple  times a year in the most
active  manufacturing  plants.  The Company provides for the inventory value for
estimated  excess and obsolete  inventory,  based on management's  assessment of
future  demand  and  market  conditions.  If  actual  future  demand  or  market
conditions  are less favorable  than those  projected by management,  additional
inventory write-downs may be required.


Intangible and Non-Current Assets

     Intangible  assets  include  goodwill,  assembled  workforce,  distribution
channels, patents, licenses,  technology, and trademarks,  which are capitalized
at  cost.   Intangible   assets  with  definite   lives  are  amortized  on  the
straight-line  basis.  Useful  lives  generally  range from 2 to 10 years,  with
weighted  average useful life of 5.5 years.  Prior to January 1, 2002,  goodwill
was amortized  over 20 years,  except for goodwill from the Grid Data  purchase,
which was amortized over 5 years.

     If facts and  circumstances  indicate that the goodwill,  other  intangible
assets or property and  equipment  may be impaired,  an evaluation of continuing
value would be performed.  If an evaluation  is required,  the estimated  future
undiscounted  cash flows associated with these assets would be compared to their
carrying  amount to determine if a write down to fair market value or discounted
cash flow value is required.  Trimble  performed an impairment  test of goodwill
upon transition to FAS No. 142 on January 1, 2002, and an annual impairment test
on  September  30,  2002,  and found no  impairment.  Trimble  will  continue to
evaluate  its  goodwill  for  impairment  on an annual  basis at the end of each
fiscal third quarter and whenever  events and changes in  circumstances  suggest
that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.

     Trimble  adopted SFAS No. 142 on January 1, 2002. As a result,  goodwill is
no  longer   amortized  and  intangible   assets  with  indefinite   lives  were
reclassified to goodwill.


Revenue Recognition

     Trimble's  revenues  are recorded in  accordance  with the  Securities  and
Exchange  Commission's  (SEC) Staff Accounting  Bulletin (SAB) No. 101, "Revenue
Recognition."  The Company  requires the  following:  (i) execution of a written
customer  order,   (ii)  delivery  of  the  product,   (iii)  fee  is  fixed  or
determinable,  and (iv) collectibility of the proceeds is probable.  The Company
recognizes  revenue  from  product  sales when the  products  are shipped to the
customer, title has transferred,  and no significant obligations remain. Trimble
defers  revenue if there is  uncertainty  about  customer  acceptance.  Deferred
revenue is included in accrued  liabilities on the  consolidated  balance sheet.
Trimble  reduces  product  revenue  for  estimated  customer  returns,  and  any
discount, which may occur under programs it has with its customers and partners.

     The Company's  shipment terms are either FOB shipping point or FCA shipping
point.  FOB (Free on Board) - shipping point term means that the seller fulfills
the obligation to deliver when the goods have passed over the ship's rail at the
named  port of  shipment.  This  means  that the buyer has to bear all costs and
risks of loss of or damage to the goods from that point.  The FOB term  requires
the seller to clear the goods for export. FCA (Free Carrier) shipping point term
means that the seller  fulfills  the  obligation  to deliver  when the goods are
handed over, cleared for export, and into the charge of the carrier named by the
buyer at the named  place or point.  If no  precise  point is  indicated  by the
buyer,  the  seller may choose  within the place or range  stipulated  where the
carrier shall take the goods into carrier's charge.

     The Company's shipment terms for domestic orders are typically FOB shipping
point.  International orders fulfilled from the European distribution center are
typically shipped FCA shipping point. Other international orders are shipped FOB
destination,  and accordingly these  international  orders are not recognized as
revenue until the product is delivered and title has transferred.

     Revenues  from  purchased  extended  warranty  and support  agreements  are
deferred and recognized  ratably over the term of the  warranty/support  period.
Substantially  all  technology  licenses and research  revenue have consisted of
initial license fees and royalties,  which were recognized when earned, provided
the Company has no remaining obligations.

     Sales to distributors and resellers are recognized upon shipment  providing
that there is evidence of the  arrangement  through a distribution  agreement or
purchase order,  title has  transferred,  no remaining  performance  obligations
exist,  the price and terms of the sale are fixed,  and  collection is probable.
Distributors and resellers do not have a right of return.

     Software  arrangements  consist of a license fee and post contract customer
support (PCS). Trimble has established vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE)
of fair value for its PCS contracts  based on the price of the renewal rate. The
remaining  value of the  software  arrangement  is  allocated to the license fee
using the residual method,  under which revenue is primarily recognized when the
software has been delivered and there are no remaining obligations. Revenue from
PCS is recognized ratably over the period of the PCS agreement.


Support and Warranty

     The warranty periods for the Company's  products are generally  between one
and three years from date of shipment.  Selected  military  programs may require
extended warranty  periods,  and certain products sold by Trimble's TDS business
have a 90-day  warranty  period.  Trimble  supports its GPS  products  through a
circuit board replacement program from locations in the United Kingdom, Germany,
Japan,  and the United States.  The repair and calibration of Trimble's  non-GPS
products are available from company-owned or authorized facilities. The Company
reimburses  dealers and  distributors  for all authorized  warranty repairs they
perform.

     While the  Company  engages  in  extensive  product  quality  programs  and
processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of component
suppliers,  its  warranty  obligation  is  affected  by product  failure  rates,
material  usage,  and service  delivery  costs  incurred in correcting a product
failure.  Should  actual  product  failure  rates,  material  usage,  or service
delivery  costs differ from the estimates,  revisions to the estimated  warranty
accrual and related costs may be required.

     Changes in the Company's product warranty liability during the 12 months,
ended January 3, 2003 are as follows:

                                                  (in thousands)
                                                 -----------------
                 Balance at December 28, 2001        $6,827
                 Warranties accrued                   2,821
                 Warranty claims                    (3,254)
                 Balance at January 3, 2003          $6,394


The Company's warranty liability is classified as accrued warranty in the
accompanying balance sheet.


Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others

     In November of 2002,  the FASB issued FIN No. 45,  "Guarantor's  Accounting
and Disclosure  Requirements for Guarantees,  Including  Indirect  Guarantees of
Indebtedness of Others." FIN No. 45 requires that a liability be recorded in the
guarantor's balance sheet upon issuance of a guarantee.  In addition, FIN No. 45
requires  disclosures about the guarantees that an entity has issued including a
roll-forward of the entity's  product warranty  liabilities.  Trimble will apply
the  recognition  provisions of FIN No. 45  prospectively  to guarantees  issued
after December 31, 2002.


Advertising Costs

     Trimble's expenses advertising costs as incurred. Advertising expenses were
approximately $6.3 million, $6.8 million, and $7.9 million in fiscal 2002, 2001,
and 2000, respectively.


Research and Development Costs

     Research  and  development  costs are  charged  to expense  when  incurred.
Trimble  received  third  party  funding of  approximately  $5.3  million,  $4.1
million, and $4.8 million in fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively.  Trimble
offsets research and development expenses with any third party funding received.

         The Company retains the rights to any technology developed.



Stock Compensation

     In  accordance  with the  provisions  of Statement of Financial  Accounting
Standards No. 123 ("SFAS 123"),  "Accounting for Stock-Based  Compensation"  and
"Statement of Financial Accounting  Standards No. 148 ("SFAS 148"),  "Accounting
for  Stock-Based  Compensation - Transition  and  Disclosure,"  Trimble  applies
Accounting  Principles  Board  Opinion No. 25,  "Accounting  for Stock Issued to
Employees"  ("APB 25") and related  interpretations  in accounting for its stock
option  plans  and  stock  purchase  plan.  Accordingly,  the  Company  does not
recognize compensation cost for stock options granted at fair market value. Note
14 of the Notes to the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  describes the plans
operated by Trimble.

     In December of 2002, the Financial  Accounting  Standards Board issued SFAS
No. 148, which amends SFAS No. 123, to provide alternative methods of transition
for  an  entity  that  changes  to the  fair  value  method  of  accounting  for
stock-based  employee  compensation.  In  addition,  SFAS  No.  148  amends  the
disclosure  provisions  of SFAS No. 123 to require  expanded and more  prominent
disclosure  of the effects of an  entity's  accounting  policy  with  respect to
stock-based employee compensation.

     For  purposes of pro forma  disclosures,  the  estimated  fair value of the
options is  amortized  to expense  over the  options'  vesting  period,  and the
estimated  fair value of purchases  under the employee  stock  purchase  plan is
expensed  in  the  year  of  purchase  as  well  as  the  stock-based   employee
compensation cost, net of related tax effects,  that would have been included in
the  determination of net income if the fair value based method had been applied
to all awards.  The effects on pro forma disclosure of applying SFAS No. 123 are
not likely to be representative of the effects on pro forma disclosure of future
years.

     Pro forma  information  regarding net income (loss) and earnings (loss) per
share is  required  by SFAS No. 123 and has been  determined  as if Trimble  had
accounted for its employee stock options and purchases  under the employee stock
purchase  plan using the fair value  method of SFAS  No.123.  The fair value for
these  options  was  estimated  at the  date  of  grant  using  a  Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following weighted-average  assumptions for fiscal
2002, 2001, and 2000:

                                         January 3,  December 28,   December 29,
                                            2003         2001           2000
                                        ----------- -------------  -------------
Expected dividend yield                       -            -               -
Expected stock price volatility          52.70%       69.59%          66.41%
Risk free interest rate                   3.13%        4.15%           6.21%
Expected life of options after vesting     1.18         1.20            1.22

     The  Black-Scholes   option  valuation  model  was  developed  for  use  in
estimating  the fair value of traded  options that have no vesting  restrictions
and are fully  transferable.  In addition,  option  valuation models require the
input of highly  subjective  assumptions  including  the  expected  stock  price
volatility.  Because  Trimble's  employee  stock  options  have  characteristics
significantly different from those of traded options, and because changes in the
subjective input assumptions can materially  affect the fair value estimate,  in
management's  opinion, the existing models do not necessarily provide a reliable
single measure of its employee stock options.




         Trimble's pro forma information is as follows:




Depreciation

     Depreciation of property and equipment owned or under capitalized leases is
computed using the straight-line method over the shorter of the estimated useful
lives or the lease terms.  Useful  lives  include a range from two to four years
for machinery and equipment,  four to five years for furniture and fixtures, and
four to five years for leasehold improvements.


Income Taxes

     Income taxes are accounted for under the liability  method whereby deferred
tax asset or liability account balances are calculated at the balance sheet date
using current tax laws and rates in effect for the year in which the differences
are  expected to affect  taxable  income.  A valuation  allowance is recorded to
reduce the  carrying  amounts of  deferred  tax assets if it is more likely than
not, that such assets will not be realized.


Earnings (Loss) Per Share

     Number of shares used in calculation of basic earnings per share represents
the weighted  average common shares  outstanding  during the period and excludes
any dilutive  effects of options,  warrants,  and  convertible  securities.  The
dilutive effects of options,  warrants,  and convertible securities are included
in diluted earnings per share.



New Accounting Standards

     Trimble  adopted SFAS No. 144, at the beginning of fiscal 2002.  The effect
of  adopting  SFAS  No.  144 did not have a  material  impact  on the  Company's
financial position or results of operations.

     Trimble  adopted  SFAS No. 141,  Business  Combinations,  and SFAS No. 142,
Goodwill  and  Other  Intangible  Assets  , at the  beginning  of  fiscal  2002.
Application  of the  non-amortization  provisions of SFAS No. 142  significantly
reduced   amortization   expense  of  purchased   intangibles  and  goodwill  to
approximately  $8.3  million for the fiscal year 2002 from $29.4  million in the
prior  year.  The  Company  reclassified  identifiable  intangible  assets  with
indefinite  lives with net book value of $73.6  million,  as defined by SFAS No.
142, to goodwill  at the date of  adoption.  The  Company  tested  goodwill  for
impairment using the two-step process prescribed in SFAS No. 142. The first step
is a screen for potential impairment,  while the second step measures the amount
of the  impairment,  if any. No impairment  charge  resulted from the impairment
tests.


     In  October of 2001,  the FASB  issued  SFAS  No.144,  "Accounting  for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived  Assets," which amends accounting  guidance
on asset impairment and provides a single accounting model for long-lived assets
to be disposed of. Among other provisions, the new rules change the criteria for
classifying an asset as  held-for-sale.  The standard also broadens the scope of
businesses  to be  disposed  of  that  qualify  for  reporting  as  discontinued
operations, and changes the timing of recognizing losses on such operations.

     In July of 2002,  the FASB  approved  SFAS No. 146,  "Accounting  for Costs
Associated  with  Exit or  Disposal  Activities."  SFAS No.  146  addresses  the
financial  accounting  and reporting  for  obligations  associated  with an exit
activity, including restructuring, or with a disposal of long-lived assets. Exit
activities  include,  but are not limited to,  eliminating  or reducing  product
lines,  terminating  employees and contracts and relocating  plant facilities or
personnel.  SFAS No. 146 specifies  that a company will record a liability for a
cost  associated  with an exit or disposal  activity only when that liability is
incurred  and can be measured at fair value.  Therefore,  commitment  to an exit
plan or a plan of disposal  expresses only management's  intended future actions
and,  therefore,  does not meet the  requirement for recognizing a liability and
the  related  expense.  SFAS  No.  146 is  effective  prospectively  for exit or
disposal  activities  initiated after December 31, 2002,  with earlier  adoption
encouraged.  The Company does not  anticipate  that the adoption of SFAS No. 146
will have a material effect on its financial position or results of operations.

     In November of 2002, the FASB issued FIN No. 45 "Guarantor's Accounting and
Disclosure  Requirements  for  Guarantees,   Including  Indirect  Guarantees  of
Indebtedness of Others." FIN No. 45 requires that a liability be recorded in the
guarantor's balance sheet upon issuance of a guarantee.  In addition, FIN No. 45
requires disclosures about the guarantees that an entity has issued, including a
roll-forward of the entity's  product warranty  liabilities.  Trimble will apply
the  recognition  provisions of FIN No. 45  prospectively  to guarantees  issued
after December 31, 2002.  The disclosure  provisions of FIN No. 45 are effective
for financial statements of Trimble's fiscal year 2002.

     In  November of 2002,  the EITF  reached a  consensus  on Issue No.  00-21,
"Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables." EITF Issue No. 00-21 provides
guidance  on how to account  for  arrangements  that  involve  the  delivery  or
performance  of multiple  products,  services  and/or rights to use assets.  The
provisions  of EITF Issue No. 00-21 will apply to revenue  arrangements  entered
into in fiscal  periods  beginning  after June 15,  2003.  Trimble is  currently
evaluating the effect that the adoption of EITF Issue No. 00-21 will have on its
results of operations and financial condition.

     In January of 2003, the FASB issued FIN No. 46,  "Consolidation of Variable
Interest  Entities."  FIN No.  46  requires  a  variable  interest  entity to be
consolidated  by a company if that  company is subject to a majority of the risk
of loss from the variable interest entity's  activities or entitled to receive a
majority  of  the  entity's   residual   returns  or  both.  The   consolidation
requirements  of FIN No. 46 apply  immediately  to  variable  interest  entities
created after January 31, 2003. The  consolidation  requirements  apply to older
entities in the first  fiscal year or interim  period  beginning  after June 15,
2003. The Company is currently evaluating the provisions of FIN No. 46, however,
it does not believe as at January 3, 2003,  that the Company has any  investment
in variable interest entities.

Note 2 - Acquisitions:

     The following is a summary of  acquisitions  made by Trimble  during fiscal
2002, 2001, and 2000, all of which were accounted for as purchases:


     The consolidated  financial statements include the results of operations of
acquired  companies  commencing on the date of  acquisition.  The total purchase
consideration  for each of the above  acquisitions  was  allocated to the assets
acquired and liabilities  assumed based on their estimated fair values as of the
date of acquisition. The Grid Data transaction was an asset purchase.




Allocation of Purchase Consideration

     The  following  is a  summary  of  purchase  price,  acquisition  costs and
purchase price allocation of the Spectra  Precision Group,  Tripod Data Systems,
Grid Data, and LeveLite acquisitions:




Spectra Precision Group

     Spectra Precision,  a group of wholly-owned  businesses,  formerly owned by
Thermo  Electron  Corporation,  collectively  known  as the  "Spectra  Precision
Group," was acquired on July 14, 2000.  The  acquisition  was  completed  for an
aggregate  purchase price,  excluding  acquisition and  restructuring  costs, of
approximately  $293.8 million.  Subsequently,  in March 2002, the purchase price
was adjusted by $1.1 million as a result of the completion of final negotiations
with Thermo Electron relating to certain assets and liabilities  acquired.  This
adjustment  subsequently  decreased the purchase price to  approximately  $292.7
million and goodwill to approximately  $118.6 million.  The acquisition included
100% of the stock of Spectra  Precision  Inc., a Delaware  corporation;  Spectra
Precision SRL, an Italian  corporation;  Spectra Physics Holdings GmbH, a German
corporation;   and  Spectra  Precision  BV,  a  Netherlands   corporation.   The
acquisition  also included  certain assets and liabilities of Spectra  Precision
AB, a Swedish corporation; including 100% of the shares of Spectra Precision SA,
a French corporation;  Spectra Precision  Scandinavia AB, a Swedish corporation;
Spectra Precision of Canada Ltd., a Canadian corporation;  and Spectra Precision
Handelsges GmbH, an Austrian corporation.


Spectra Precision Group Restructuring Activities

     At  the  time  the  Company  acquired  the  Spectra  Precision  Group,  the
management  formulated  a  restructuring  plan and provided  approximately  $9.0
million  for  costs to close  certain  duplicative  office  facilities,  combine
operations  including  redundant  domestic and foreign  legal  entities,  reduce
workforce in overlapping areas, and relocate certain employees. These costs were
accrued for as part of the  allocation  of the purchase  price.  Included in the
total cost was  approximately  $2.7  million  related to the  discontinuance  of
overlapping  product  lines,  which was  included  in the accrual for excess and
obsolete inventory. The facility consolidation and employee relocations resulted
primarily from combining  certain office  facilities and duplicative  functions,
including management functions, of the Spectra Precision Group.

     In fiscal 2002, the Company used approximately $1.9 million of the accrual,
which consisted of $1.5 million for legal and tax consulting  expenses  relating
to  consolidation  of legal entities and, $0.4 million for facilities and direct
sales office closures. As of January 3, 2003, the accrual was fully utilized.

     In fiscal  2001,  the Company had used  approximately  $3.3  million of the
accrual,  which consisted of $0.9 million for legal and tax consulting  expenses
relating  to  consolidation  of  legal  entities,  $1.3  million  for  severance
expenses,  $0.7 million for  facilities and direct sales office  closures,  $0.3
million for an underfunded  pension plan,  and other costs of $0.1 million.  The
Company revised its final estimates for costs to complete the remaining  planned
activities and accordingly  reduced its  restructuring  accrual by approximately
$1.1 million, with a corresponding adjustment to goodwill, in the fourth quarter
of fiscal 2001.


     The elements of the restructuring accrual, which are included in accrued
liabilities in the balance sheet, are as follows:


                                Employee Severance   Facility Closure,    Total
                                  and Relocation   Legal and Tax Expense
(In thousands)

Total accrual                       $ 1,945           $  4,370           $ 6,315
Amounts paid                        (1,685)            (1,610)           (3,295)
Revision to estimates                 (260)              (812)           (1,072)
Balance as of December 28, 2001     $     -           $  1,948           $ 1,948
Amounts paid                              -            (1,948)           (1,948)
Balance as of January 3, 2003       $     -           $      -           $     -


Tripod Data Systems

     Tripod Data Systems, Inc., an Oregon corporation, was purchased on November
14, 2000 for an aggregate final purchase price of  approximately  $15.0 million.
The purchase price consisted of 576,726 shares of Trimble's  common stock valued
at the average  closing  price for the five trading days  preceding  the closing
date.


Grid Data, Inc.

     On April 2, 2001,  Trimble acquired certain assets of Grid Data, an Arizona
corporation,  for  approximately  $3.5  million  in cash and the  assumption  of
certain liabilities. In addition, the purchase agreement provided for Trimble to
make earn-out payments based upon the completion of certain business milestones.
In June 2002,  Trimble  issued  268,352 in settlement of all earn-out  payments,
which  resulted in additional  goodwill of $4.8 million,  with a final  purchase
price of approximately $8.3 million.


LeveLite Technology, Inc.

     On  August  15,  2002,   Trimble   acquired   LeveLite   Technology,   Inc.
("LeveLite"),  a California  corporation,  for approximately $5.7 million.  This
strategic  acquisition  complements  our  entry-level   construction  instrument
product  line.  The purchase  price  consisted  of 437,084  shares of our common
stock.  The merger  agreement  provides for Trimble to make additional  earn-out
payments not to exceed $3.9 million (in common stock and cash payment)  based on
future revenues  derived from existing product sales to a certain  customer.  On
January 22, 2003,  Trimble  issued the first  earn-out  payment  (stock and cash
combination) with a fair market value of approximately $0.4 million,  related to
the earn-out for the quarter  ended January 3, 2003.  Also, if Trimble  receives
any  proceeds  from a pending  litigation,  a portion will be paid to the former
shareholders of LeveLite.  The additional  payments,  if earned,  will result in
additional goodwill.





Note 3 - Unaudited Pro Forma Information:

     The consolidated  statements of operations of Trimble presented  throughout
this report  include the operating  results of the acquired  companies  from the
date of the respective  acquisitions.  The following pro forma  information  for
fiscal 2002,  2001,  and 2000  presents net  revenue,  net loss from  continuing
operations,  and net loss for each of these periods as if the transactions  with
Spectra  Precision Group were  consummated on January 1, 2000. The following pro
forma information does not include Tripod Data Systems, Grid Data, and Levelite,
as these acquisitions were not material to the Company. This unaudited pro forma
data does not purport to represent  the Company's  actual  results of operations
had the Spectra  Precision  Group  acquisition  occurred on January 1, 2000, and
should not serve as a forecast of the Company's operating results for any future
periods.








Note 4 - Goodwill and Intangible Assets:

Goodwill and purchased intangible assets consisted of the following:

                                                      January 3,    December 28,
                                                         2003            2001
(In thousands) Intangible assets:
  Intangible assets with indefinite life:
      Distribution channel                            $        -       $ 73,363
      Assembled workforce                                      -         17,773
                                                          ------         ------
  Total intangible assets with indefinite life                 -         91,136
  Intangible assets with definite life:
     Existing technology                                  25,986         23,907
     Trade names, trademarks, patents, and
      other intellectual properties                       21,594         18,394
                                                          ------         ------
Total intangible assets with definite life                47,580         42,301
                                                          ------         ------
Total intangible assets                                   47,580       $133,437
Less accumulated amortization                            (24,342)      (33,185)
                                                         -------       -------
Total net intangible assets                          $    23,238       $100,252
                                                     ===========       ========
Goodwill:
    Goodwill, Spectra Precision acquisition*             185,277        116,001
    Goodwill, other acquisitions*                         20,656         14,710
                                                          ------         ------
Total goodwill                                           205,933        130,711
Less accumulated amortization *                                -       (10,659)
                                                          ------        -------
Total net goodwill                                    $  205,933      $ 120,052
                                                      ==========      =========
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


     *  Goodwill  as  of  January  3,  2003  includes  assembled  workforce  and
distribution channel amounts,  which were reclassified to goodwill in accordance
with SFAS  142.  Also,  January  3, 2003  amounts  are shown net of  accumulated
depreciation from December 28, 2001.


     The  intangible  asset  amortization  expense as of January 3, 2003 for the
five years following fiscal 2002 is projected as follows:

                        Year                (In thousands)
                        ----                --------------

                        2003                 $     7,126
                        2004                       7,084
                        2005                       5,327
                        2006                       1,892
                        2007                       1,116
                     Thereafter                      693
                                                     ---
                       Total                  $   23,238
                                              ==========



     Trimble  adopted SFAS No. 142 on January 1, 2002. As a result,  goodwill is
no  longer   amortized  and  intangible   assets  with  indefinite   lives  were
reclassified to goodwill.


     For  comparative  purposes,  the pro forma  adjusted  net  income per share
excluding   amortization  of  goodwill,   distribution  channel,  and  assembled
workforce is as follows:




Note 5 - Certain Balance Sheet Components:

         Inventories consisted of the following:

                                             January 3,        December 28,
                                                2003               2001
(in thousands)
Raw materials                             $   21,098           $   25,790
Work-in-process                                5,187                7,177
Finished goods                                34,859               18,843
                                              ------               ------
                                          $   61,144           $   51,810
                                          ==========           ==========


         Property and equipment consisted of the following:

                                              January 3,          December 28,
                                                 2003                 2001
(in thousands)
Machinery and equipment                      $  70,660            $  66,265
Furniture and fixtures                           6,538                6,367
Leasehold improvements                           6,451                5,882
Buildings                                        2,905                3,979
Land                                             1,391                1,657
                                                 -----                -----
                                                87,945               84,150
Less accumulated depreciation                 (65,908)             (56,608)
                                              --------             --------
                                             $  22,037            $  27,542
                                             =========            =========


Other current assets consisted of the following:

                                  January 3,             December 28,
                                     2003                    2001
(in thousands)
Notes receivable                $    1,685              $   2,130
Prepaid expenses                     5,495                  4,150
Other                                1,297                    256
                                     -----                    ---
                                $    8,477              $   6,536
                                ==========              =========



Other non-current assets consisted of the following:

                                          January 3,           December 28,
                                             2003                  2001
(in thousands)
Debt issuance costs, net                  $   2,493             $  3,046
Other investments                             1,381                2,737
Deposits                                      1,196                1,241
Demo inventory, net                           2,665                1,961
Receivables from employees                    1,223                  955
Other                                         3,128                  122
                                              -----                  ---
                                          $  12,086             $ 10,062
                                          =========             ========


Note 6 - Derivative Financial Instruments:

     Trimble  transacts  business  in  various  foreign  currencies  and  hedges
identified  risks  associated  with foreign  currency  transactions  in order to
minimize the impact of changes in foreign  currency  exchange rates on earnings.
Trimble  utilizes  forward  contracts to hedge certain  trade and  inter-company
receivables and payables. These contracts reduce the exposure to fluctuations in
exchange  rate  movements,  as the  gains and  losses  associated  with  foreign
currency  balances are  generally  offset with the gains and losses on the hedge
contracts.  These hedge  instruments are marked to market through earnings every
period.  From time to time,  Trimble may also utilize forward  foreign  exchange
contracts designated as cash flow hedges of operational exposures represented by
firm backlog orders to specific accounts over a specific period of time. Trimble
records  changes  in the fair  value of cash flow  hedges in  accumulated  other
comprehensive  income (loss),  until the firm backlog  transaction  ships.  Upon
recognition of revenue,  the Company  reclassifies  the gain or loss on the cash
flow hedge to the statement of operations.  For the fiscal year ended January 3,
2003,  Trimble  recorded a gain of $57,000  reflecting the net change and ending
balance in relation to a firm backlog hedge. The critical terms of the cash flow
hedging instruments are the same as the underlying forecasted transactions.  The
changes in fair value of the  derivatives  are intended to offset changes in the
expected cash flow from the forecasted transactions.  All forward contracts have
maturity  of less than 12  months.  As of  January  3,  2003,  the effect of all
outstanding  derivative  instruments  does not  have a  material  impact  on the
Company's financial position or results of operations.

     In July 2002,  Trimble  expanded its worldwide  hedging  program to include
inter-company  transactions among the former Spectra Precision Group entities in
order to minimize the impact of changes in foreign  exchange  rates on earnings.
The forward  foreign  currency  exchange  contracts  mature over the next twelve
months.  As of  January  3,  2003,  the  effect  of all  outstanding  derivative
instruments does not have a material impact on the Company's  financial position
or results of operations.




Note 7 - Disposition of Line of Business and Assets:

Disposition of Line of Business:

     On March  6,  2001,  the  Company  sold  certain  product  lines of its Air
Transport  Systems to  Honeywell  Inc. for  approximately  $4.5 million in cash.
Under the asset purchase  agreement,  Honeywell  International,  Inc.  purchased
product  lines that  included the HT 1000,  HT 9000,  HT 9100 and  Trimble's TNL
8100. As part of this sale, during the third quarter of fiscal 2001, the Company
also sold other product lines and discontinued its  manufacturing  operations in
Austin,  Texas. The Company also incurred  severance costs of approximately $1.7
million, which are included in restructuring charges, related to the termination
of employees associated with the product lines disposed of in fiscal 2001.

     At January 3,  2003,  the  Company  had an  accrual of  approximately  $1.1
million for related liabilities associated with the disposition of these product
lines and the discontinuance of its manufacturing operations.


Note 8 - The Company, Industry Segment, Geographic, and Customer Information:

     Trimble  is  a  designer  and  distributor  of  positioning   products  and
applications  enabled  by  GPS,  optical,  laser,  and  wireless  communications
technology.  The Company designs and markets products,  by delivering integrated
information  solutions such as collecting,  analyzing,  and displaying  position
data to its  end-users.  Trimble  offers an integrated  product line for diverse
applications in its targeted markets.

     To achieve distribution,  marketing,  production, and technology advantages
in  Trimble's  targeted  markets,  the  Company  manages its  operations  in the
following five segments:

o    Engineering  and  Construction  - Consists  of products  currently  used by
     survey and  construction  professionals  in the field for positioning  data
     collection,   field  computing,  data  management,  and  automated  machine
     guidance  and  control.  These  products  provide  solutions  for  numerous
     construction applications including surveying,  general construction,  site
     preparation and excavation,  road and runway construction,  and underground
     construction.

o    Field Solutions - Consists of products that provide  solutions in a variety
     of  agriculture  and fixed asset  applications,  primarily  in the areas of
     precise land leveling,  machine guidance,  yield monitoring,  variable-rate
     applications of fertilizers and chemicals,  and fixed asset data collection
     for a variety of  governmental  and private  entities.  This  segment is an
     aggregation of the Mapping and GIS operation and the Agriculture operation.
     Trimble has  aggregated  these business  operations  under a single general
     manager in order to continue  to  leverage  its  research  and  development
     activities due to the similarities of products across the segment.

o    Mobile  Solutions - Consists of products  that enable  end-users to monitor
     and  manage  their  mobile   assets  by   communicating   location-relevant
     information  from  the  field  to the  office.  Trimble  offers  a range of
     products  that address a number of sectors of this market  including  truck
     fleets, security, telematics, and public safety vehicles.

o    Component  Technologies  -  Currently,  Trimble  markets its GPS  component
     products through an extensive network of OEM relationships.  These products
     include  proprietary  chipsets,  modules,  and a  variety  of  intellectual
     property.  The applications into which end-users currently  incorporate the
     component products include:  timing applications for synchronizing wireless
     and computer  systems;  in-vehicle  navigation  and  telematics  (tracking)
     systems;  fleet management;  security systems; data collection systems; and
     wireless handheld consumer products.

o    Portfolio  Technologies - The various operations that comprise this segment
     were  aggregated on the basis that no single  operation  accounted for more
     than 10% of the total revenue.  These markets include the operations of the
     Military and Advanced Systems business and Tripod Data Systems.


     In the first fiscal  quarter of fiscal 2002,  Trimble  realigned two of its
reportable segments and therefore the following table shows restated revenue and
operating income by segment to reflect this realignment. The Agriculture segment
was combined with the Mapping and GIS business to form Field Solutions.  Mapping
and  GIS  were  previously  part of  Fleet  and  Asset  Management.  The  Mobile
Positioning  business that was part of Fleet and Asset  Management is now Mobile
Solutions.

     The Company  began  breaking out Mobile  Solutions as a separate  reporting
segment  during the first  quarter of 2002 to address the growing  importance of
the mobile asset management business and its impact on Trimble's  profitability.
At the same time,  the Company  combined its GIS and  Agriculture  businesses to
create a new segment called Field  Solutions in order to recognize the synergies
and similar product requirements between the two businesses.

     Trimble  evaluates  each  of  these  segment's  performance  and  allocates
resources based on profit and loss from operations before income taxes, and some
corporate allocations.

     The  accounting  policies  applied by each of the  segments are the same as
those used by Trimble in general.

     The  following  table  presents  revenues,  operating  income  (loss),  and
identifiable  assets  for  the  five  segments.  The  information  includes  the
operations of Spectra  Precision Group after July 14, 2000,  Tripod Data Systems
after November 14, 2000, Grid Data after April 2, 2001, and LeveLite Technology,
Inc.  after  August  15,  2002.  Operating  income  (loss) is net  revenue  less
operating expenses, excluding general corporate expenses, goodwill amortization,
restructuring  charges,  non-operating  income (expense),  and income taxes. The
identifiable  assets that  Trimble's  Chief  Operating  Decision  Maker views by
segment are accounts receivable and inventory.











(1)  In fiscal 2002 and 2001, Trimble did not allocate corporate expenses to its
     individual business segments. In fiscal 2000, the Company determined the
     amount of corporate allocations charged to each of its segments based on a
     percentage of the segments' monthly revenue, gross profit, and controllable
     spending (research and development, sales and marketing, and general and
     administrative).

(2)  As presented, accounts receivable excludes cash received in advance and
     allowances for doubtful accounts, which are not allocated between segments.






     The following are reconciliations corresponding to totals in the
accompanying consolidated financial statements:




                                                    January 3,     December 28,
                                                       2003            2001
                                                 --------------  ---------------
(in thousands)
Assets:
   Accounts receivable total for reportable
       segments                                     $  100,274        $  91,577
   Unallocated (1)                                    (20,629)         (19,897)
       Total                                        $   79,645        $  71,680
                                                    ==========        =========

   Inventory total for reportable segments          $   61,144        $  51,480
   Common inventory (2)
                                                             -              330
                                                             -              ---
       Total                                        $   61,144        $  51,810
                                                    ==========        =========


- ----------

(1) Includes cash in advance, other receivables, and accruals that are not
allocated by segment.

(2) Consists of common inventory that can be used by multiple segments.


The following table presents revenues by product groups.

                               January 3,       December 28,     December 29,
Fiscal Years Ended                2003              2001            2000
- ---------------------------- ---------------   -------------   -------------
(in thousands)

GPS products                     $269,835        $274,439        $274,215
Laser and optical products        182,650         186,948          93,879
Other                              14,117          13,905           1,704
                                   ------          ------           -----
Total revenue                    $466,602        $475,292        $369,798
                                 ========        ========        ========






     The geographic  distribution of Trimble's revenues and identifiable  assets
is summarized in the table below.  Other foreign  countries  include  Canada and
countries within South and Central America. Identifiable assets indicated in the
table below exclude  inter-company  receivables,  investments  in  subsidiaries,
goodwill, and intangibles assets.



(1) Sales attributed to countries based on the location of the customer.

     Transfers  between  U.S.  and foreign  geographic  areas are made at prices
based on total costs and  contributions  of the supplying  geographic  area. The
Company's  subsidiaries in Asia,  except for Japan,  which is a buy/sell entity,
have derived revenue from  commissions  from domestic  operations in each of the
periods  presented.  These  commission  revenues and expenses are excluded  from
total revenue and operating  income (loss) in the preceding  table. The Japanese
entity's revenue and expenses are included in total revenue and operating income
(loss) in the  preceding  table.  In fiscal 2002,  the United  States  comprised
approximately 51% and Germany 16% of sales to unaffiliated customers.

     No single customer accounted for 10% or more of Trimble's total revenues in
fiscal years 2002, 2001, and 2000.


Note 9 - Restructuring Charges:

     Restructuring charges of $1.1 million were recorded in fiscal 2002 and $3.6
million was recorded in fiscal 2001,  which  related to  severance  costs.  As a
result of these actions,  Trimble's headcount decreased in fiscal 2002 by 49 and
in  fiscal  2001  by  207  individuals.  As of  January  3,  2003,  all  of  the
restructuring charges have been paid.



Note 10 - Long-term Debt:

     Trimble's long-term debt consists of the following:

                                                     January 3,     December 28,
                                                        2003            2001
(In thousands)

Credit Facilities:
    Five-year term loan                             $ 32,600         $  61,300
    U.S. and multi-currency revolving
        credit facility                               35,000            40,000
    Subordinated note                                 69,136            84,000
Promissory notes and other                             1,789             5,265
                                                     138,525           190,565
                                                     -------           -------
Less Bank and other short-term borrowings              6,556            40,025
Less current portion of long-term debt                24,104            23,443
                                                      ------            ------
 Non-current portion                               $ 107,865        $  127,097
                                                   =========        ==========


     The following summarizes the future cash payment obligations (excluding
interest):



Credit Facilities

     In July of 2000,  Trimble  obtained $200 million of senior,  secured credit
facilities  (the "Credit  Facilities")  from a syndicate of banks to support the
acquisition  of  Spectra   Precision  Group  and  its  ongoing  working  capital
requirements and to refinance certain existing debt. At January 3, 2003, Trimble
has  approximately  $67.6  million  outstanding  under  the  Credit  Facilities,
comprised of $32.6 million under a $100 million five-year term loan, $25 million
under a $50 million U.S. dollar only revolving credit facility ("revolver"), and
$10 million under a $50 million multi-currency  revolver. The Company has access
to an additional $65 million of cash under the terms of the revolver loans.  The
Company has commitment  fees on the unused portion of 0.5% if the leverage ratio
(which is defined as all  outstanding  debt,  excluding the seller  subordinated
note,  over Earnings  before  Interest,  Taxes,  Depreciation  and  Amortization
(EBITDA),  as defined in the related  agreement) is 2.0 or greater and 0.375% if
the leverage ratio is less than 2.0.

     Pricing for any  borrowings  under the Credit  Facilities was fixed for the
first six months at LIBOR  plus 275 basis  points  and is  thereafter  tied to a
formula,  based on the leverage ratio.  The weighted average interest rate under
the Credit Facilities was 4.9% for the month of December ending January 3, 2003.

     The Credit Facilities are secured by all of the Company's  material assets,
except for assets  that are  subject to foreign  tax  considerations.  Financial
covenants of the Credit Facilities  include leverage,  fixed charge, and minimum
net worth tests,  all of which were amended during the third quarter of 2002. At
January 3, 2003,  Trimble  was in  compliance  with  these debt  covenants.  The
amounts due under the revolver loans are paid as the loans mature,  and the loan
commitment fees are paid on a quarterly basis.

     Two of the financial covenants, minimum fixed charge coverage and maximum
leverage ratios are sensitive to EBITDA. EBITDA is correlated to Trimble's
results of operations. Due to uncertainties associated with the downturn in the
worldwide economy and other factors, future revenues by quarter are difficult to
forecast. Cost cutting measures have been put in place by the management team;
however, if revenues should decline at a higher rate than cost cutting measures
on a quarter-to-quarter basis, Trimble may violate the two above-mentioned
financial covenants.


Subordinated Note

     In July of 2000, as part of the acquisition of Spectra Precision Group, the
Company issued  Spectra-Physics  Holdings USA, Inc., a subordinated  seller note
that had a stated two-year  maturity ($40 million was due in fiscal 2001 and $40
million in fiscal 2002). On March 20, 2002, the Company  renegotiated  the terms
of the subordinated note. Under the revised agreement, Spectra-Physics Holdings,
Inc., a subsidiary of Thermo  Electron,  extended the due date of the note until
July 14, 2004, at the current interest rate of approximately 10.4% per year.

     As of January 3, 2003 the principal  amount  outstanding was  approximately
$69.1  million.  To the extent that  interest and  principal due on the maturity
date becomes delinquent, an additional 4% interest rate per annum will apply.

     The Credit  Facilities allow Trimble to repay the subordinated  note at any
time (in part or in whole),  provided  that (a) Trimble's  leverage  ratio (Debt
(excluding  the seller  note)/EBITDA)  prior to such repayment is less than 1.0x
and (b) after giving effect to such repayment  Trimble would have (i) a leverage
ratio (Debt (excluding any remaining  portion of the subordinated  note)/EBITDA)
of less than 2.0x and (ii) cash and unused  availability  under the revolvers of
the Credit  Facilities  of at least $35  million.  The note,  by its  terms,  is
subordinated to the Credit Facilities.


Promissory Note

     The promissory note consists of a $1.8 million  liability  arising from the
purchase of a building for Trimble's Corvallis, Oregon site. The note is payable
in monthly  installments  through April 2015,  bearing a variable  interest rate
(5.4% as of January 3, 2003).


Weighted Average Cost of Debt

     The weighted average cost of debt is approximately 7.6% for fiscal 2002 and
8.0% for fiscal 2001.





Note 11 - Lease Obligations and Commitments:

     Trimble's  principal  facilities  in the United  States  are  leased  under
non-cancelable  operating  leases that expire at various dates through 2011. The
Company  has options to renew  certain of these  leases for an  additional  five
years.  Trimble  also leases  facilities  under  operating  leases in the United
Kingdom, Sweden, and Germany that expire in 2005.

Future minimum payments required under non-cancelable operating leases are as
follows:

                                                   Operating
                                                 Lease Payments
                 (In thousands)

                 2003                               $   12,067
                 2004                                    7,438
                 2005                                    6,958
                 2006                                    1,795
                 2007                                    1,461
                 Thereafter                              5,115
                                                         -----
                 Total                              $   34,834
                                                    ==========

     Rent expense under operating leases was $11.6 million in fiscal 2002, $13.1
million in fiscal 2001, and $10.6 million in fiscal 2000.


Note 12 - Fair Value of Financial Instruments:

     Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 107,  "Disclosures  about
Fair  Value of  Financial  Instruments"  requires  disclosure  of the  following
information about the fair value of certain  financial  instruments for which it
is currently practicable to estimate such value. None of the Company's financial
instruments are held or issued for trading  purposes.  The carrying  amounts and
fair values of Trimble's financial instruments are as follows:





     * See the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

     The fair value of the subordinated notes, bank borrowings, promissory note,
and the  long-term  commitment  have been  estimated  using an  estimate  of the
interest  rate  Trimble  would have had to pay on the  issuance  of notes with a
similar maturity and discounting the cash flows at that rate. The fair values do
not give an indication of the amount that Trimble would currently have to pay to
extinguish any of this debt.

     The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is estimated, based on
quoted market prices of comparable  contracts.  These  contracts are adjusted to
fair value at the end of every month.


Note 13 - Income Taxes:

         Trimble's income tax provision consists of the following:

                                January 3,       December 28,    December 29,
Fiscal Years Ended                 2003              2001            2000
(in thousands)

Federal:
      Current                  $      -         $      -        $   1, 408
      Deferred                        -                -                 -
                                      -                -             1,408
State:
      Current                       142               58               144
      Deferred                        -                -
                                    142               58               144
Foreign:
       Current                    2,052            2,729               931
       Deferred                   1,306            (887)             (908)
                                  3,358            1,842                23

Income tax provision           $  3,500        $   1,900        $    1,575


     The domestic (loss) income from continuing  operations  before income taxes
was  approximately  $3.3  million,  $(29.3)  million and $14.4 million in fiscal
years 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.


     The income tax provision  differs from the amount  computed by applying the
statutory  federal  income tax rate to income before taxes.  The sources and tax
effects of the differences are as follows:





The components of deferred taxes consist of the following:

                                                    January 3,      December 28,
                                                       2003             2001
(in thousands)
Deferred tax liabilities:
    Purchased intangibles                            $    381       $    6,933
    Depreciation and amortization                       2,258                -
    Other items                                          (78)              300
           Total deferred tax liabilities               2,561            7,233
Deferred tax assets:
   Inventory valuation differences                     12,069           11,741
   Expenses not currently deductible                    5,762            5,103
   Federal credit carry forwards                        8,172            7,300
   Deferred revenue                                     4,317              808
   State credit carry forwards                          6,215            5,377
   Warranty                                             2,374            2,596
   Depreciation and amortization                        3,184            6,091
   Federal net operating loss (NOL) carry forward       4,451            1,086
   Other items                                          1,827            1,147
Total deferred tax assets                              48,371           51,249
Valuation allowance                                  (47,878)         (50,974)
Total deferred tax assets                                 493              275
Total net deferred tax liabilities                  $ (2,068)        $ (6,958)

     The Company has $12.7 million  federal net operating  loss carry  forwards,
which expire  beginning in 2022. The total federal credit carry forwards of $8.2
million expire beginning in 2005. The Company has state research and development
credit carry forwards of approximately $6.2 million, which do not expire.

     Valuation  allowances  reduce the  deferred tax assets to that amount that,
based upon all available evidence,  is more likely than not to be realized.  The
valuation  allowance  decreased by $3.1  million in 2002 and  increased by $13.1
million in 2001.  Approximately  $12.1  million of the  valuation  allowance  at
January 3, 2003 relates to the tax benefits of stock  option  deductions,  which
will be credited to equity if and when realized.


Note 14 - Shareholder's Equity:

Common Stock

     On December 21, 2001,  Trimble  completed a private  placement of 1,783,337
shares of its common  stock at a price of $15.00 per share to certain  qualified
investors,  resulting in gross  proceeds of  approximately  $26.8 million to the
Company.  On January  15,  2002,  Trimble  had a second  closing of the  private
placement issuing 1,280,004 shares of common stock at $15.00 per share resulting
in gross proceeds of an additional $19.2 million.


2002 Stock Plan

     In 2002,  Trimble's  Board of Directors  adopted the 2002 Stock Plan ("2002
Plan"). The 2002 Plan approved by the shareholders  provides for the granting of
incentive and  non-statutory  stock options for up to 2,000,000  shares plus any
shares currently reserved but un-issued to employees, consultants, and directors
of Trimble.  Incentive  stock options may be granted at exercise prices that are
not less  than  100% of the fair  market  value of  Common  Stock on the date of
grant.  Employee stock options granted under the 2002 Plan have 120-month terms,
and  vest  at a rate of 20% at the  first  anniversary  of  grant,  and  monthly
thereafter  at an annual rate of 20%,  with full vesting  occurring at the fifth
anniversary  of the grant.  The exercise  price of  non-statutory  stock options
issued  under the 2002 Plan  must be at least  85% of the fair  market  value of
Common  Stock on the date of grant.  As of January 3, 2003,  options to purchase
782,715  shares were  outstanding  and 1,217,285 were available for future grant
under the 2002 Plan.


1993 Stock Option Plan

     In 1992,  Trimble's  Board of Directors  adopted the 1993 Stock Option Plan
("1993 Plan").  The 1993 Plan, as amended to date and approved by  shareholders,
provides for the granting of incentive and non-statutory stock options for up to
6,375,000  shares of Common Stock to  employees,  consultants,  and directors of
Trimble.  Incentive stock options may be granted at exercise prices that are not
less than 100% of the fair  market  value of Common  Stock on the date of grant.
Employee  stock options  granted under the 1993 Plan have 120-month  terms,  and
vest at a rate of 20% at the first anniversary of grant, and monthly  thereafter
at an annual rate of 20%, with full vesting  occurring at the fifth  anniversary
of grant.  The exercise  price of  non-statutory  stock options issued under the
1993 Plan must be at least 85% of the fair market  value of Common  Stock on the
date of grant. As of January 3, 2003,  options to purchase 4,009,585 shares were
outstanding,  and 606,955  shares were available for future grant under the 1993
Plan.


1990 Director Stock Option Plan

     In December 1990,  Trimble adopted a Director Stock Option Plan under which
an aggregate of 380,000  shares of Common Stock have been  reserved for issuance
to non-employee directors as approved by the shareholders to date. At January 3,
2003,  options to purchase  208,333 shares were  outstanding,  and 35,416 shares
were available for future grants under the Director Stock Option Plan.


1992 Management Discount Stock Option Plan

     In 1992, Trimble's Board of Directors approved the 1992 Management Discount
Stock  Option  Plan  ("Discount   Plan").   Under  the  Discount  Plan,  300,000
non-statutory  stock options were reserved for grant to management  employees at
exercise prices that may be significantly  discounted from the fair market value
of Common Stock on the dates of grant.  Options are  generally  exercisable  six
months  from the date of grant.  As of  January  3,  2003,  there were no shares
available for future grants. For accounting purposes, compensation cost on these
grants is measured by the excess over the discounted exercise prices of the fair
market  value of  Common  Stock on the  dates of  option  grant.  There  were no
discounted  options  granted in the plan in fiscal 2002,  2001,  and 2000. As of
January 3, 2003,  options to purchase 126,000 shares were outstanding  under the
1992 Management Discount Stock Option Plan.


1988 Employee Stock Purchase Plan

     In 1988, Trimble established an employee stock purchase plan under which an
aggregate  of 3,350,000  shares of Common  Stock have been  reserved for sale to
eligible  employees as approved by the  shareholders  to date.  The plan permits
full-time  employees to purchase Common Stock through payroll  deductions at 85%
of the lower of the fair market value of the Common Stock at the beginning or at
the end of each  six-month  offering  period.  In fiscal 2002 and 2001,  241,608
shares  and  208,154  shares,  respectively,  were  issued  under  the  plan for
aggregate   proceeds  to  the  Company  of  $2.9   million  and  $3.1   million,
respectively.  At  January 3, 2003,  the  number of shares  reserved  for future
purchases by eligible employees was 504,203.


SFAS 123 Disclosures

     As stated in Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated  Financial Statements,
Trimble has elected to follow APB 25 and related  interpretations  in accounting
for its employee stock options and stock purchase plans.  The  alternative  fair
value  accounting  provided for under SFAS 123  requires  use of option  pricing
models that were not developed for use in valuing employee stock options.  Under
APB 25,  because the exercise  price of Trimble's  employee stock options equals
the  market  price of the  underlying  stock on date of grant,  no  compensation
expense is recognized.


     For purposes of pro forma disclosure assumptions,  see the related SFAS 123
information in Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

     Exercise prices for options  outstanding as of January 3, 2003, ranged from
$8.00 to  $51.69.  The  weighted  average  remaining  contractual  life of those
options is 7.13  years.  In view of the wide range of exercise  prices,  Trimble
considers it  appropriate  to provide the following  additional  information  in
respect of options outstanding:





Activity during fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000, under the combined plans was as
follows:





Non-statutory Options

     On May 3, 1999,  Trimble entered into an agreement to grant a non-statutory
option to purchase up to 30,000  shares of common stock at an exercise  price of
$9.75 per share, with an expiration date of March 29, 2004.

     As of January 3, 2003, these non-statutory options have not been exercised.


Warrants

     On  December  21,  2001,  Trimble  granted  five-year  warrants to purchase
356,670 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $19.475 per share.  These
warrants  were  granted  to  investors  as part of a  private  placement  of the
Company's common stock.

     On January 15, 2002, in connection  with the second closing of the December
21, 2001 private  placement  of the  Company's  common  stock,  Trimble  granted
five-year  warrants to purchase an  additional  256,002  shares of common stock,
subject to certain adjustments, at an exercise price of $19.475 per share.

     On April 12, 2002,  the Company  issued to  Spectra-Physics  Holdings  USA,
Inc., a warrant to purchase up to 376,233 shares of Trimble's  common stock over
a fixed  period of time.  Initially,  Spectra-Physics'  warrant  entitles  it to
purchase  200,000 shares of common stock over a five-year  period at an exercise
price of $15.11  per  share.  On a  quarterly  basis  beginning  July 14,  2002,
Spectra-Physics'  warrant  became  exercisable  for an additional  250 shares of
common stock for every $1 million of principal  and interest  outstanding  until
the note is paid off in full.  These shares are  purchasable at a price equal to
the average of Trimble's  closing price for the five days immediately  preceding
the last  trading day of each  quarter.  On July 14, 2002 an  additional  17,364
shares became  exercisable at an exercise price of $14.46 per share.  On October
14, 2002 an additional 17,824 shares became  exercisable at an exercise price of
$9.18. On January 14, 2003, an additional 18,284 shares became exercisable at an
exercise price of $13.54.  The additional  shares are exercisable  over a 5-year
period.

     The  approximate  fair value of the warrants of $1.5 million was determined
using  the   Black-Scholes   pricing  model  with  the  following   assumptions:
contractual life of 5-year period,  risk-free interest rate of 4%; volatility of
65%; and no dividends during the contractual  term. The value of the warrants is
amortized to interest expense over the term of the subordinated note.



Common Stock Reserved for Future Issuances

     As of January 3, 2003,  Trimble had reserved  8,478,397  common  shares for
issuance upon exercise of options and warrants outstanding and options available
for grant under the 2002 Plan,  the 1993 Plan,  the 1990 Director  Plan, and the
1992  Management  Discount  Plan,  and  available  for  issuance  under the 1988
Employee Stock Purchase Plan.



Note 15 - Benefit Plans:


401(k) Plan

     Under  Trimble's  401(k)  Plan,  U.S.  employee   participants   (including
employees of certain subsidiaries) may direct the investment of contributions to
their  accounts among certain  mutual funds and the Trimble  Navigation  Limited
Common Stock Fund.  The Trimble Fund sold net 23,813  shares of Common Stock for
an aggregate of $291,565 in fiscal 2002.  Trimble,  at its  discretion,  matches
individual  employee 401(k) Plan contributions at a rate of fifty cents of every
dollar  that  the  employee  contributes  to  the  401(k)  Plan  up to 5% of the
employee's  annual  salary to an annual  maximum of $2,500.  Trimble's  matching
contributions  to the 401(k) Plan were $1.8 million in fiscal 2002, $1.7 million
in fiscal 2001, and $0.8 million in fiscal 2000.


Profit-Sharing Plan

     In 1995,  Trimble introduced an employee  profit-sharing  plan in which all
employees,  excluding executives and certain levels of management,  participate.
The plan distributes to employees approximately 5% of quarterly adjusted pre-tax
income.  Payments  under the plan during  fiscal  2002,  2001 and 2000 were $1.1
million, $0.9 million, and $2.1 million, respectively.


Defined Contribution Pension Plans

     Certain  of  the  Company's  European  subsidiaries  participate  in  state
sponsored  pension plans.  Contributions  are based on specified  percentages of
employee salaries.  For these plans,  Trimble contributed and charged to expense
approximately  $1.4 million for fiscal 2002,  $1.4 million for fiscal 2001,  and
$0.3 million for fiscal 2000.


Defined Benefit Pension Plan

     The  Swedish  and German  subsidiaries  have an  unfunded  defined  benefit
pension plan that covered substantially all of their full-time employees through
1993. Benefits are based on a percentage of eligible earnings. The employee must
have had a projected  period of  pensionable  service of at least 30 years as of
1993. If the period was shorter,  the pension benefits were reduced accordingly.
Active  employees  do not  accrue any future  benefits;  therefore,  there is no
service cost and the liability will only increase for interest cost.

Net periodic benefit costs in fiscal 2002 and 2001 were not material. The fair
value of the plan assets were as follows:

                                                 January 3,     December 28,
                                                   2003             2001
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
(in thousands)

Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year      $ 503        $ 465
Actual return on plan assets                           60           56
Employer contribution                                   -            -
Plan participants' contributions                       23           33
Benefits paid                                           -            -
Translation adjustment                                 76         (51)
                                                       --         ---
Fair value of plan assets at end of year            $ 662        $ 503
                                                    =====        =====



The defined benefit plan activity was as follows:

                                              January 3, 2003  December 28, 2001
(in thousands)
Change in benefit obligation:
  Benefit obligation at beginning of year         $ 4,706          $  4,811
   Interest cost                                      131               134
   Translation adjustment                           (237)             (312)
   Actuarial (gain) loss                              282                73
Benefit obligation at end of year                 $ 4,318           $ 4,706
                                                  -------           -------
Unrecognized prior service cost                         -                 -
Unrecognized net actuarial gain                         -                 -
Accrued pension costs (included in accrued
    liabilities)                                  $ 4,318           $ 4,706
                                                  =======           =======


     Actuarial assumptions used to determine the net periodic pension costs for
the year ended January 3, 2003 were as follows:

                                   Swedish Subsidiary     German Subsidiaries
                                 ---------------------- ----------------------
Discount rate                                5.5%                 6.25%
Rate of compensation increase                2.5%                  1.5%








Note 16 - Earnings Per Share:

     The following data show the amounts used in computing  earnings  (loss) per
share and the  effect  on the  weighted-average  number  of  shares of  dilutive
potential Common Stock.



     Due to the fact  that the  Company  reported  a net  loss in  fiscal  2001,
options and warrants were not included in the  computation of earnings per share
in fiscal  2001.  If the Company  had  reported  net income in 2001,  additional
938,000 common  equivalent  shares  related to outstanding  options and warrants
would have been included in the calculation of diluted loss per share.







Note 17 - Comprehensive Income (Loss):

The components of other comprehensive income (loss), net of related tax as
follows:




Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on the consolidated balance sheets
consists of unrealized gains on available for sale investments and foreign
currency translation adjustments.

The components of accumulated other comprehensive (loss), net of related tax as
follows:

                                                        January 3   December 28,
                                                          2003          2001
(in thousands)
Cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments   $ (1,032)      $  (18,729)
Unrealized gain-hedges of forecasted transactions             7                0
Net gain (loss) on interest rate swap                                      (203)
                                                              -
Net unrealized gain (loss) on investments                   (1)               16
                                                            ---               --
   Accumulated other comprehensive loss               $ (1,026)      $  (18,916)
                                                      =========     ============


Note 18 - Related-Party Transactions:

Related-Party Lease

     Trimble  currently leases office space in Ohio from an association of three
individuals,  one of whom is an  employee  of one of the U.S.  operating  units,
under a non-cancelable  operating lease arrangement expiring in 2011. The annual
rent is subject to adjustment  based on the terms of the lease. The Consolidated
Statements of Operations  include  expenses from this operating  lease of $0.345
million for fiscal 2002,  $0.345 million for fiscal 2001, and $0.172 million for
fiscal 2000.


Related-Party Notes Receivable

     Trimble has notes  receivable from officers and employees of  approximately
$1.2 million as of January 3, 2003 and  $955,000 as of December  28,  2001.  The
notes bear  interest from 4.49% to 6.62% and have an average  remaining  life of
2.89 years as of January 3, 2003.


Caterpillar Joint Venture

     On April 1, 2002,  Caterpillar  Trimble Control  Technologies LLC (CTCT, or
"Joint  Venture"),  a Joint  Venture  formed by Trimble  and  Caterpillar  began
operations.  The Joint Venture, 50 percent owned by Trimble and 50 percent owned
by  Caterpillar,  with equal voting  rights,  is developing  and marketing  next
generation  advanced  electronic  guidance and control  products for earthmoving
machines in the construction, mining, and waste industries. The Joint Venture is
based  in  Dayton,  Ohio.  Under  the  terms  of the  joint  venture  agreement,
Caterpillar contributed $11.0 million cash plus selected technology, for a total
contributed value of $14.5 million,  and Trimble  contributed  selected existing
machine control product technologies valued at $25.5 million. Additionally, both
companies  have  licensed  patents and other  intellectual  property  from their
portfolios  to the Joint  Venture.  During  the first  fiscal  quarter  of 2002,
Trimble  received a special cash  distribution  of $11.0  million from the Joint
Venture.

     Trimble has elected to treat the cash distribution of $11.0 million as a
deferred gain, being amortized to the extent that losses are attributable from
the Joint Venture under the equity method described above. When and if the Joint
Venture is profitable on a sustainable basis, and future operating losses are
not anticipated, then Trimble will recognize as a gain, the portion of the $11.0
million, which is un-amortized. To the extent that it is possible that the
Company will have any future-funding obligation relating to the Joint Venture,
then the relevant amount of the $11.0 million will be deferred until such a
time, as the funding obligation no longer exists. Both Trimble's share of
profits (losses) under the equity method and the amortization of our $11.0
million deferred gain are recorded under the heading of "Expense for affiliated
operations, net" in Non-operating income (expense).

     During fiscal year 2002,  Trimble  recorded  approximately  $4.0 million of
expenses  under the  heading of  "Expense  for  affiliated  operations,  net" in
Non-operating income (expense) related to certain transactions between the Joint
Venture  and  Trimble.  This was  comprised  of  approximately  $4.9  million of
incremental  costs  incurred by Trimble as a result of purchasing  products from
the Joint  Venture at a higher  transfer  price than its original  manufacturing
costs,  offset by  approximately  $0.9  million of contract  manufacturing  fees
charged to the Joint Venture by Trimble. Due to the nature of the transfer price
agreements between Trimble and the Joint Venture, a related party, the impact of
these agreements is classified under Non-operating income (expense).

     In addition,  during fiscal year 2002,  Trimble  recorded  lower  operating
expenses of  approximately  $4.2 million due to the transfer of employee related
expenses for research and development ($2.8 million), and sales, marketing,  and
administrative  functions  ($1.4 million) to the Joint Venture.  These employees
are devoted to the Joint  Venture and are primarily  engaged in developing  next
generation products and technology for that entity.

     Trimble has adopted the equity method of accounting  for its  investment in
the Joint Venture. This requires that the Company records its share of the Joint
Venture profits or losses in a given fiscal period. During fiscal year 2002, the
Joint Venture  reported a loss of $0.4 million of which  Trimble's share is $0.2
million,  which was  recorded as a  Non-operating  expense  under the heading of
"Expense  for  affiliated  operations,   net",  but  which  was  offset  by  the
amortization  of an equal  amount of the original  deferred  gain on the sale of
technology to the Joint Venture.



Note 19 - Statement of Cash Flow Data:

                                       January 3,    December 28,   December 29,
Fiscal Years Ended                        2003          2001            2000
(in thousands)
Supplemental disclosure of cash
   flow information:
Interest paid                           $  12,215      $ 17,363       $  9,037
Income taxes paid                        $  2,635        $  825       $  3,835







Note 20 - Litigation:

     In January  of 2001,  Philip M.  Clegg  instituted  a lawsuit in the United
States  District  Court for the  District  of Utah,  Central  Division,  against
Spectra-Physics  Laserplane,  Inc.,  Spectra Precision AB and Trimble Navigation
Limited.  On January  29,  2003,  Trimble  and Mr.  Clegg  settled  this  patent
infringement   lawsuit   whereby   Trimble  has   purchased  a  fully  paid  up,
non-exclusive license under U.S. Patent No. 4,807,131 from Mr. Clegg.

     In November of 2001,  Qualcomm Inc. filed a lawsuit  against Trimble in the
Superior Court of the State of California.  The complaint  alleges claims for an
unspecified amount of money damages arising out of Qualcomm's  perceived lack of
assurances in early 1999 that  Trimble's  products  purchased by Qualcomm  would
work properly  after a scheduled  week number  rollover event that took place in
August of 1999.  Qualcomm is the only customer to make a claim  against  Trimble
based on the week  number  rollover  event.  In the opinion of  management,  the
resolution of this lawsuit is not expected to have a material  adverse effect on
the Company's overall financial position.

     The Company is also a party to other  disputes  incidental to its business.
Trimble  believes that its ultimate  liability as a result of such disputes,  if
any,  would not be  material  to its  overall  financial  position,  results  of
operations, or liquidity.


Note 21 - Selected Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited):







     Significant quarterly items include the following: (i) in the first quarter
of 2002 a $0.3 million  charge or $0.01 per diluted share  relating to workforce
reduction (ii) in the second quarter of 2002 a $0.2 million charge, or $0.01 per
diluted  share  relating to work force  reduction  (iii) in the third quarter of
2002 a $0.2 million  charge,  or $0.01 per diluted share  relating to work force
reduction and a $0.2 million  gain,  or $0.01 per diluted share  relating to the
sale of an investment; (iv) in the fourth quarter of 2002 a $0.5 million charge,
or $0.02 per diluted share  relating to work force  reduction and a $1.5 million
charge, or $0.05 per diluted share relating to the write-down of an investment.



     Significant quarterly items include the following: (i) in the first quarter
of 2001 a $2.0  million  charge or $0.08 per diluted  share  relating to loss on
sale of Air Transport business and the exiting of certain product lines; (ii) in
the second  quarter of 2001 a $0.9 million  charge,  or $0.04 per diluted  share
relating  to work  force  reduction;  and $0.2  million  in  income or $0.01 per
diluted share relating to a gain on the sale of a minority investment;  (iii) in
the third  quarter of 2001 a $0.4  million  charge,  or $0.01 per diluted  share
relating  to work force  reduction;  (iv) in the  fourth  quarter of 2001 a $0.5
million charge,  or $0.02 per diluted share relating to work force reduction;  a
$0.1 million gain,  or $0.01 per diluted  share on sale of business;  and a $0.1
million  charge,  or $0.01 per diluted  share  relating to the  write-down of an
investment.







               REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


The Board of Directors and Shareholders, Trimble Navigation Limited

     We have audited the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets of Trimble
Navigation  Limited as of January 3, 2003 and December 28, 2001, and the related
consolidated statements of operations,  shareholders' equity, and cash flows for
each of the three  years in the period  ended  January 3, 2003.  Our audits also
included the financial  statement schedule listed in the index at Item 14(a)(2).
These financial  statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's
management.  Our  responsibility  is to express  an  opinion on these  financial
statements and schedule, based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance  with  auditing  standards  generally
accepted in the United States.  Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An
audit also includes  assessing the accounting  principles  used and  significant
estimates  made by  management,  as well as  evaluating  the  overall  financial
statement  presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable  basis
for our opinion.

     In our opinion,  the financial  statements  and schedule  referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
Trimble  Navigation  Limited at January 3, 2003 and December  28, 2001,  and the
consolidated  results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three
years in the period  ended  January  3,  2003,  in  conformity  with  accounting
principles  generally accepted in the United States.  Also, in our opinion,  the
related financial statement  schedule,  when considered in relation to the basic
consolidated  financial  statements  taken as a whole,  presents  fairly  in all
material respects the information set forth therein.



                                                            s/ Ernst & Young LLP


January 24, 2003
Palo Alto, California



                           TRIMBLE NAVIGATION LIMITED
                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Item 9    Changes in and  Disagreements  with  Accountants  on Accounting  and
          Financial Disclosure

          None

                                    PART III


Item 10   Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

     The information  required by this item,  insofar as it relates to Trimble's
directors,  will be contained  under the captions  "Election of  Directors"  and
"Section 16 Beneficial  Ownership  Reporting  Compliance" in the Proxy Statement
and is incorporated herein by reference.


Item 11  Executive Compensation

     The  information  required  by this  item  will be  contained  in the Proxy
Statement under the caption "Executive  Compensation" and is incorporated herein
by reference.


Item 12   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
          Related Stockholder Matters

     The information required by this item will be contained in the Proxy
Statement under the caption "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management Related Stockholder Matters" and is incorporated herein by reference.


Item 13   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

     The  information  required  by this  item  will be  contained  in the Proxy
Statement under the caption "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" and
is incorporated herein by reference.


Item 14   Controls and Procedures

     (a) Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures.

     Our chief  executive  officer and chief  financial  officer  evaluated  the
effectiveness  of our  disclosure  controls and  procedures  (as defined in Rule
13a-14(c) and 15(d)-14(c) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended)
within 90 days of the  filing of this Form  10-K (the  "Evaluation  Date")  and,
based  on that  evaluation,  concluded  that,  as of the  Evaluation  Date,  our
disclosure  controls and procedures are effective to timely alert  management to
material  information  relating to Trimble  during the period when our  periodic
reports are being prepared.

     (b) Changes in internal controls.

     Since the Evaluation Date,  there have not been any significant  changes to
our internal controls or in other factors that could significantly  affect these
controls,   including  any   corrective   actions  with  regard  to  significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses.

                                     PART IV

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on form 8-K

     (a) 1. Financial Statements

     The following  consolidated  financial statements required by this item are
included in Part II Item 8 hereof under the caption  "Financial  Statements  and
Supplementary Data."



     2.  Financial Statement Schedules


     The following financial statement schedule is filed as part of this report:



                                                                    Page in this
                                                                   Annual Report
                                                                    on Form 10-K

         Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts            S-1

     All other schedules have been omitted as they are either not required or
not applicable, or the required information is included in the consolidated
financial statements or the notes thereto.


    3.  Exhibits

    Exhibit
    Number

     3.1  Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company filed June 25, 1986.
          (6)

     3.2  Certificate of Amendment of Articles of  Incorporation  of the Company
          filed October 6, 1988. (6)

     3.3  Certificate of Amendment of Articles of  Incorporation  of the Company
          filed July 18, 1990. (6)

     3.4  Certificate of  Determination  of the Company filed February 19, 1999.
          (6)

     3.8  Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company. (15)

     4.1  Specimen  copy of  certificate  for  shares  of  Common  Stock  of the
          Company. (1)

     4.2  Preferred Shares Rights Agreement dated as of February 18, 1999. (5)

     4.3  First  Amended  and  Restated  Stock and  Warrant  Purchase  Agreement
          between and among the Company and the investors  thereto dated January
          14, 2002. (10)

     4.4  Form of Warrant to Purchase  Shares of Common Stock dated  January 14,
          2002. (11)

     4.5  Form of Warrant dated April 12, 2002. (12)

    10.4+ Form  of  Indemnification   Agreement  between  the  Company  and  its
          officers and directors. (1)

    10.32+ 1990  Director  Stock Option Plan,  as amended,  and form of Outside
          Director Non-statutory Stock Option Agreement. (4)

    10.35 Sublease Agreement dated January 2, 1991,  between the Company,  Aetna
          Insurance Company, and Poqet Computer Corporation for property located
          at 650 North Mary Avenue, Sunnyvale, California. (2)

    10.40 Industrial  Lease  Agreement  dated  December  3,  1991,  between  the
          Company and Aetna Life Insurance  Company for property  located at 585
          North Mary Avenue, Sunnyvale, California. (3)

    10.41 Industrial  Lease  Agreement  dated  December  3,  1991,  between  the
          Company and Aetna Life Insurance  Company for property  located at 570
          Maude Court, Sunnyvale, California. (3)

    10.42 Industrial  Lease  Agreement  dated  December  3,  1991,  between  the
          Company and Aetna Life Insurance  Company for property  located at 580
          Maude Court, Sunnyvale, California. (3)

    10.46+ 1992 Management Discount Stock Option and form of Nonstatutory Stock
          Option Agreement. (3)

    10.59+ 1993 Stock Option Plan, as amended May 11, 2000. (8)

    10.60+ 1988 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended May 11, 2000. (8)

    10.65+ Standby  Consulting  Agreement  between the Company and  Bradford W.
          Parkinson dated September 1, 1998. (6)

    10.66+ Standby  Consulting  Agreement  between  the  Company  and Robert S.
          Cooper dated September 1, 1998. (6)

    10.67+ Employment  Agreement  between the  Company and Steven W.  Berglund
          dated March 17, 1999. (6)

    10.68+ Nonqualified  deferred  Compensation  Plan of the Company  effective
          February 10, 1994. (6)

    10.70***Supply  Agreement  dated  August  10,  1999  by and  among  Trimble
          Navigation  Limited and Solectron  Corporation  and Solectron  Federal
          Systems, Inc. (7)

    10.77+ Australian  Addendum to the Trimble  Navigation  1988 Employee Stock
          Purchase Plan. (9)

    10.80 Amended  and  Restated  Subordinated  Promissory  Note dated March 20,
          2002. (13)

    10.81+ 2002 Stock Plan, including form of Option. (14)

    10.82 Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated January 14, 2003. (16)

    10.83 Letter dated May 8, 2002 exercising renewal option of the Supply
          Agreement dated August 10, 1999 by and among Trimble Navigation
          Limited and Solectron Corporation and Solectron Federal Systems, Inc.
          (16)

     21.1 Subsidiaries of the Company. (16)

     23.1 Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, independent auditors. (16)

     24.1 Power of Attorney included on signature page herein.

     99.1 Certification of CEO pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
          of 2002. (16)

     99.2 Certification of CFO pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
          of 2002. (16)

     ***  Confidential treatment has been granted for certain portions of this
          exhibit pursuant to an order dated effective October 5, 1999.

     +    Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be
          filed as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K pursuant to
          Item 14(c) thereof.

     (1)  Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits to the
          registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No.
          33-35333), which became effective July 19, 1990.

     (2)  Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits to the
          registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
          December 31, 1990.

     (3)  Incorporated  by reference  to  identically  numbered  exhibits to the
          registrant's  Registration  Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 33-45990),
          which was filed February 18, 1992.

     (4)  Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits to the
          registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
          December 31, 1993.

     (5)  Incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  No.  1 to  the  registrant's
          Registration  Statement  on Form 8-A,  which was filed on February 18,
          1999.

     (6)  Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits to the
          registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
          January 1, 1999.

     (7)  Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits to the
          registrant's Report on Form 8-K, which was filed on August 25, 1999.

     (8)  Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits to the
          registrant's registration statement on Form S-8 filed on June 1, 2000.

     (9)  Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits to the
          registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
          December 29, 2000.

     (10) Incorporated by reference to exhibit number 4.1 to the registrant's
          Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 16, 2002.

     (11) Incorporated by reference to exhibit number 4.2 to the registrant's
          Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 16, 2002.

     (12) Incorporated by reference to exhibit number 4.1 to the registrant's
          Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed on April 19, 2002.

     (13) Incorporated by reference to exhibit number 10.80 to the registrant's
          Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 29, 2002.

     (14) Incorporated by reference to exhibit number 10.82 to the registrant's
          Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 28, 2002.

     (15) Incorporated by reference to exhibit number 3.8 to the registrant's
          Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 27,
          2002.

     (16) Filed herewith.


     (b)  Reports on Form 8-K.

         On October 24, 2002, the Company filed a report on Form 8-K reporting
the Company's quarterly earnings for the third fiscal quarter of 2002.




                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report on Form 10-K to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                    TRIMBLE NAVIGATION LIMITED


                                    By: /s/ Steven W. Berglund
                                      ----------------------------------------
                                      Steven W. Berglund,
                                      President and Chief Executive Officer


                                      March 6, 2003


                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

     Know all  persons  by these  presents,  that each  person  whose  signature
appears   below   constitutes   and   appoints   Steven  W.   Berglund   as  his
attorney-in-fact,  with  the  power  of  substitution,  for  him in any  and all
capacities,  to sign any amendments to this Report on Form 10-K, and to file the
same, with exhibits  thereto and other documents in connection  therewith,  with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that
said attorney-in-fact,  or his substitute or substitutes,  may do or cause to be
done by virtue hereof.


     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
Annual  Report on Form 10-K has been signed  below by the  following  persons on
behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:


Signature                  Capacity in which Signed               Date

/s/ Steven W. Berglund     President, Chief Executive             March 6, 2003
- -----------------------    Officer, Director
Steven W. Berglund


/s/ Mary Ellen Genovese    Chief Financial Officer and Assistant  March 7, 2003
- ------------------------   Secretary (Principal Financial Officer)
Mary Ellen Genovese


/s/ Anup V. Singh          Corporate Controller                   March 7, 2003
- -------------------        (Principal Accounting Officer)
Anup V. Singh


/s/ Robert S. Cooper       Director                               March 4, 2003
- -----------------------
Robert S. Cooper


/s/ John B. Goodrich       Director                               March 7, 2003
- ----------------------
John B. Goodrich


/s/ William Hart          Director                                March 6, 2003
- ----------------
William Hart


/s/ Ulf J. Johansson      Director                                March 4, 2003
- ---------------------
Ulf J. Johansson


/s/ Bradford W. Parkinson Director                                March 4, 2003
- -------------------------
Bradford W. Parkinson






                                 CERTIFICATIONS
                    CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER


         I, Steven W. Berglund, certify that:

     1.   I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Trimble  Navigation
          Limited.

     2.   Based on my knowledge,  this Annual Report does not contain any untrue
          statement  of a  material  fact  or  omit to  state  a  material  fact
          necessary to make the statements  made, in light of the  circumstances
          under which such  statements were made, not misleading with respect to
          the period covered by this Annual Report;

     3.   Based on my knowledge,  the financial statements,  and other financial
          information  included in this  annual  report,  fairly  present in all
          material respects the financial  condition,  results of operations and
          cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods  presented in
          this Annual Report;

     4.   The registrant's  other certifying  officers and I are responsible for
          establishing  and maintaining  disclosure  controls and procedures (as
          defined in Exchange  Act Rules  13a-14 and 15d-14) for the  registrant
          and have:

          a)   Designed such  disclosure  controls and procedures to ensure that
               material  information  relating to the registrant,  including its
               consolidated  subsidiaries,  is made known to us by others within
               those  entities,  particularly  during  the  period in which this
               Annual Report is being prepared;

          b)   Evaluated  the  effectiveness  of  the  registrant's   disclosure
               controls and  procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the
               filing date of this Annual Report (the "Evaluation Date"); and

          c)   Presented  in  this  annual  report  our  conclusions  about  the
               effectiveness of the disclosure  controls and procedures based on
               our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

     5.   The registrant's other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based
          on our most recent  evaluation,  to the registrant's  auditors and the
          audit  committee  of  registrant's  board  of  directors  (or  persons
          performing the equivalent functions):

          a)   All  significant  deficiencies  in the  design  or  operation  of
               internal  controls which could adversely  affect the registrant's
               ability to record,  process,  summarize and report financial data
               and have  identified for the  registrant's  auditors any material
               weaknesses in internal controls; and

          b)   Any fraud,  whether or not material,  that involves management or
               other employees who have a significant  role in the  registrant's
               internal controls;

     6.   The  registrant's  other  certifying  officers and I have indicated in
          this Annual Report whether there were significant  changes in internal
          controls or in other factors that could significantly  affect internal
          controls  subsequent  to the  date  of  our  most  recent  evaluation,
          including   any   corrective   actions  with  regard  to   significant
          deficiencies and material weaknesses.

 Date:  March 6, 2003               /s/ Steven W. Berglund
                                    ----------------------

                                    Steven W. Berglund
                                    Chief Executive Officer








                    CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

         I, Mary Ellen Genovese, certify that:

     1.   I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Trimble  Navigation
          Limited.

     2.   Based on my knowledge,  this Annual Report does not contain any untrue
          statement  of a  material  fact  or  omit to  state  a  material  fact
          necessary to make the statements  made, in light of the  circumstances
          under which such  statements were made, not misleading with respect to
          the period covered by this Annual Report;

     3.   Based on my knowledge,  the financial statements,  and other financial
          information  included in this  annual  report,  fairly  present in all
          material respects the financial  condition,  results of operations and
          cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods  presented in
          this Annual Report;

     4.   The registrant's  other certifying  officers and I are responsible for
          establishing  and maintaining  disclosure  controls and procedures (as
          defined in Exchange  Act Rules  13a-14 and 15d-14) for the  registrant
          and have:

          a)   Designed such  disclosure  controls and procedures to ensure that
               material  information  relating to the registrant,  including its
               consolidated  subsidiaries,  is made known to us by others within
               those  entities,  particularly  during  the  period in which this
               Annual Report is being prepared;

          b)   Evaluated  the  effectiveness  of  the  registrant's   disclosure
               controls and  procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the
               filing date of this Annual Report (the "Evaluation Date"); and

          c)   Presented  in  this  annual  report  our  conclusions  about  the
               effectiveness of the disclosure  controls and procedures based on
               our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

     5.   The registrant's other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based
          on our most recent  evaluation,  to the registrant's  auditors and the
          audit  committee  of  registrant's  board  of  directors  (or  persons
          performing the equivalent functions):

          a)   All  significant  deficiencies  in the  design  or  operation  of
               internal  controls which could adversely  affect the registrant's
               ability to record,  process,  summarize and report financial data
               and have  identified for the  registrant's  auditors any material
               weaknesses in internal controls; and

          b)   Any fraud,  whether or not material,  that involves management or
               other employees who have a significant  role in the  registrant's
               internal controls;

     6.   The  registrant's  other  certifying  officers and I have indicated in
          this Annual Report whether there were significant  changes in internal
          controls or in other factors that could significantly  affect internal
          controls  subsequent  to the  date  of  our  most  recent  evaluation,
          including   any   corrective   actions  with  regard  to   significant
          deficiencies and material weaknesses.

Date:  March 7, 2003                /s/ Mary Ellen Genovese
                                    -----------------------

                                    Mary Ellen Genovese
                                    Chief Financial Officer










                                   SCHEDULE II

                           TRIMBLE NAVIGATION LIMITED
                        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                            (IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)


                                     January 3,  December 28,   December 29,
Allowance for doubtful accounts:        2003         2001          2000
                                    ---------------------------------------
Balance at beginning of period         $ 8,540    $ 6,538        $ 2,949
  Acquired allowance (1)                     -          -          4,445
  Bad debt expense                       5,443      5,077          1,198
  Write-offs, net of recoveries        (4,083)    (3,075)        (2,054)
                                    ----------- ---------- --------------
Balance at end of period                $9,900     $8,540         $6,538
                                    ----------- ---------- --------------

Inventory allowance:
Balance at beginning of period         $23,274    $19,285       $14, 109
  Acquired allowance  (2)                    -          -          7,672
  Additions to allowance                 3,901      7,242            188
  Write-offs, net of recoveries        (2,025)    (3,253)        (2,684)
                                    ----------- ---------- --------------
Balance at end of period               $25,150    $23,274        $19,285
                                    ----------- ---------- --------------


     (1)  Includes  $4,419,000  acquired  at  July  14,  2000  as  part  of  the
acquisition of Spectra Precision Group and $26,000 acquired at November 14, 2000
as part of the acquisition of Tripod Data Systems.

     (2)  Includes  $7,659,000  acquired  at  July  14,  2000  as  part  of  the
acquisition of Spectra Precision Group and $13,000 acquired at November 14, 2000
as part of the acquisition of Tripod Data Systems.



























































