10-K


form10-k.htm

TRIMBLE NAVIGATION 10-K 12-29-2006

Trimble Navigation 10-K 12-29-2006

UNITED
      STATES

SECURITIES
      AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington,
      D.C. 20549

FORM
      10-K

x

ANNUAL
      REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE SECURITIES

EXCHANGE
      ACT OF 1934

For
      the
      fiscal year ended

December
      29, 2006

OR

¨

TRANSITION
      REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE

SECURITIES
      EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For
      the
      transition period from ___________to______________

Commission
      File Number: 0-18645

TRIMBLE
      NAVIGATION LIMITED

(Exact
      name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

California

94-2802192

(State
                or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S.
                Employer Identification No.)

                Stewart Drive, Sunnyvale, CA


(Address
                of principal executive offices)

(Zip
                Code)

Registrant’s
      telephone number, including area code:

(408)
      481-8000

Securities
      registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title
              of each class

Name
                of each exchange on which stock registered

Common
                Stock

NASDAQ
                Global Select Market

Preferred
                Share Purchase Rights

NASDAQ
                Global Select Market

Securities
      registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE

Indicate
      by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined
      in
      Rule 405 of the Securities Act.

Yes

¨

No

x

Indicate
      by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
      Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act.

Yes

¨

No

x

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
      be
      filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
      the
      preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
      to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
      for
      the past 90 days.

Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate
      by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
      Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
      of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
      incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
      this
      Form 10-K.

¨

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
      accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer.

Large
                Accelerated Filer

x

Accelerated
                Filer

¨

Non-accelerated
                Filer

¨

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
      12b-2 of the Exchange Act).

Yes

¨

No

x

As
      of
      June 30, 2006, the aggregate market value of the

Common
      Stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant

was

approximately
      $2.5 billion based on the closing price as reported on the NASDAQ Global Select
      Market.

Indicate
      the number of share outstanding of each of the issuer’s classes of common stock,
      as of the latest practicable date.

Class

Outstanding
                at February 21, 2007

Common
                stock, no par value

59,099,854
                shares


DOCUMENTS
      INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Certain
      parts of Trimble Navigation Limited's Proxy Statement relating to the annual
      meeting of stockholders to be held on May 17, 2007 (the "Proxy Statement")
      are
      incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report on Form
      10-K.


SPECIAL
      NOTE ON FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This
      Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the
      meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E
      of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which are subject to the "safe harbor"
      created by those sections. The forward-looking statements

regarding
      future events and the future results of Trimble Navigation Limited (“Trimble” or
“The Company” or “We” or “Our” or “Us”) are based on current expectations,
      estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which Trimble
      operates and the beliefs and assumptions of the management of
      Trimble.

Discussions containing such forward-looking statements may be found in
      "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
      Operations." In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by
      terminology such as "may," "will," "should," "could," "predicts," "potential,"
      "continue," "expects," "anticipates," "future," "intends," "plans," "believes,"
      "estimates," and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve
      certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, levels of
      activity, performance, achievements and events to differ materially from those
      implied by such forward-looking statements,

but are
      not limited to those discussed in this Report under the section entitled “Other
      Risk Factors” and elsewhere, and in other reports Trimble files with the
      Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), specifically the most recent reports
      on Form 8-K and Form 10-Q, each as it may be amended from time to
      time.

These
      forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this Annual Report on
      Form 10-K. We reserve the right to update these statements for any reason,
      including the occurrence of material events. The risks and uncertainties under
      the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
      Results of Operations—Risks and Uncertainties" contained herein, among other
      things, should be considered in evaluating our prospects and future financial
      performance.

We have
      attempted to identify forward-looking statements in this report by placing
      an
      asterisk (*) before paragraphs containing such material.


TR

IMB

LE
      NAVIGATION LIMITED

      FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT

TABLE
      OF CONTENTS

PART
                I

Item

Business


Item
                1A

Risk
                Factors


Item
                1B

Unresolved
                Staff Comments


Item

Properties


Item

Legal
                Proceedings


Item

Submission
                of Matters to a Vote of Security
                Holders


PART
                II

Item

Market
                for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder
                Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities


Item

Selected
                Financial Data


Item

Management's
                Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
                Results of Operations


Item
                7A

Quantitative
                and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
                Risk


Item

Financial
                Statements and Supplementary Data


Item

Changes
                in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
                Financial Disclosure


Item
                9A

Controls
                and Procedures


Item
                9B

Other
                Information


PART
                III

Item

Directors
                and Executive Officers of the
                Registrant


Item

Executive
                Compensation


Item

Security
                Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
                and Related Stockholder Matters


Item

Certain
                Relationships and Related
                Transactions


Item

Principal
                Accountant Fees and Services


PART
                IV

Item

Exhibits,
                Financial Statement Schedules

78-83

TRADEMARKS

Trimble,
      the globe and triangle logo, EZ-Guide, GeoExplorer, AgGPS, Spectra Precision,
      Autopilot, Fieldport, Copernicus, Recon, TrimTrac, EZ-Steer, and Force, among
      others are trademarks of Trimble Navigation Limited and its subsidiaries. All
      other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


Table
            of Contents

PART
      I

Item

Bu

sine

ss

Trimble
      Navigation Limited, a California corporation (“Trimble” or “the Company” or “we”
or “our” or “us”), provides advanced positioning product solutions, typically to
      commercial and government users. The principle applications served include
      surveying, agriculture, machine guidance, construction alignment, asset and
      fleet management, and telecommunications infrastructure. Our products provide
      benefits that can include lower operational costs, and higher productivity.
      Examples of products include systems that guide agricultural and construction
      equipment, surveying instruments, systems that track fleets of vehicles, and
      data collection systems that enable the management of large amounts of
      geo-referenced information. In addition, we also manufacture components for
      in-vehicle navigation and telematics systems, and timing modules used in the
      synchronization of wireless networks.

Trimble
      products often combine knowledge of location or position together with a
      wireless link to provide a solution for a specific application. Position is
      provided through a number of technologies including the Global Positioning
      System (GPS) and systems that use laser or optical technologies to establish
      position. Wireless communication techniques include both public networks, such
      as cellular, and private networks, such as business band radio. Our products
      are
      augmented by our software; this includes embedded firmware that enables the
      positioning solution and applications software that allows the customer to
      make
      use of the positioning information.

We
      design
      and market our own products. Our manufacturing strategy includes a combination
      of in-house assembly and third party subcontractors. Our global operations
      include major development, manufacturing or logistics operations in the United
      States, Sweden, Germany, New Zealand, France, Canada, the Netherlands, and
      India. Products are sold through dealers, representatives, joint ventures,
      and
      other channels throughout the world. These channels are supported by our sales
      offices located in more than 15 countries.

We
      began
      operations in 1978 and incorporated in California in 1981. Our common stock
      has
      been publicly traded on NASDAQ since 1990 under the symbol TRMB.

On
      January 17, 2007, Trimble’s Board of Directors approved a 2-for-1 split of all
      outstanding shares of the Company’s Common Stock, payable February 22, 2007 to
      stockholders of record on February 8, 2007. All shares and per share information
      presented has been adjusted to reflect the stock split on a retroactive basis
      for all periods presented.

Technology
      Overview

A
      significant portion of our revenue is derived from applying Global Navigation
      Satellite System (GNSS) technology to terrestrial applications. The GNSS
      includes a network of 24 orbiting US based satellites and associated ground
      control that is funded and maintained by the U. S. Government and is available
      worldwide free of charge, a Russian satellite based system, and the future
      European Galileo system. GNSS positioning is based on a technique that precisely
      measures distances from four or more satellites. The satellites continuously
      transmit precisely timed radio signals using extremely accurate atomic clocks.
      A
      GNSS receiver measures distances from the satellites in view by determining
      the
      travel time of a signal from the satellite to the receiver, and then uses those
      distances to compute its position. Under normal circumstances, a stand-alone
      GNSS receiver is able to calculate its position at any point on earth, in the
      earth's atmosphere, or in lower earth orbit, to approximately 10 meters, 24
      hours a day. Much better accuracies are possible through a technique called
      “differential GNSS.” In addition to providing position, GNSS provides extremely
      accurate time measurement.

GNSS
      accuracy is dependent upon the locations of the receiver and the number of
      GNSS
      satellites that are above the horizon at any given time. Reception of GNSS
      signals requires line-of-sight visibility between the satellites and the
      receiver, which can be blocked by buildings, hills, and dense foliage. The
      receiver must have a line of sight to at least four satellites to determine
      its
      latitude, longitude, attitude (angular orientation), and time. The accuracy
      of
      GNSS may also be limited by distortion of GNSS signals from ionospheric and
      other atmospheric conditions.

Our
      GNSS
      products are based on proprietary receiver technology. Over time, the advances
      in positioning, wireless communication, and information technologies have
      enabled us to add more capability to our products and thereby deliver more
      value
      to our users. For example, the developments in wireless technology and
      deployments of next generation wireless networks have enabled less expensive
      wireless communications. These developments allow for the efficient transfer
      of
      position data to locations away from the positioning field device, allowing
      the
      data to be accessed by more users and thereby increasing productivity. This
      has
      allowed us to include a wireless link in many of our products and connect remote
      field operations to a central location.


Table
            of Contents

Our
      laser
      and optical products either measure distances and angles to provide a position
      in three dimensional space or they provide highly accurate laser references
      from
      which position can be established. The key element of these products is
      typically a laser, which is generally a commercially available laser diode
      and a
      complex mechanical assembly. These elements are augmented by software
      algorithms.

Business
      Strategy

Our
      business strategy is developed around an analysis of several key elements:

·

Attractive
                markets

-
                We focus on underserved markets that offer potential for revenue
                growth,
                profitability, and market leadership.

·

Innovative
                solutions that provide significant benefits to our customers

-
                We seek to apply our technology to applications in which position
                data is
                important and where we can create unique value by enabling enhanced
                productivity in the field or field to back office. We look for
                opportunities in which the rate of technological change is high and
                which
                have a requirement for the integration of multiple technologies into
                a
                solution.

·

Distribution
                channels to best access our markets

-
                We select distribution channels that best serve the needs of individual
                markets. These channels can include independent dealers, direct sales,
                joint ventures, OEM sales, and distribution alliances with key partners.
                We view international expansion as an important element of our strategy
                and seek to develop international channels.

Business
      Segments and Markets

We
      are
      organized into four reporting segments encompassing our various applications
      and
      product lines: Engineering and Construction, Field Solutions, Mobile Solutions
      and Advanced Devices. Our segments are distinguished by the markets they serve.
      Each segment consists of businesses which are responsible for product
      development, marketing, sales, strategy, and financial performance.

In
      the
      first quarter of 2006, Trimble combined the operating results of the former
      Components Technologies and Portfolio Technologies segments and included the
      combined operating results in the Advanced Devices segment. The change in
      presentation was made in recognition of the small size of each of the businesses
      relative to the total company. The presentation of prior period’s segment
      operating results has been conformed to the Company’s current segment
      presentation.

Engineering
      and Construction

Products
      in the Engineering and Construction segment improve productivity and accuracy
      throughout the entire construction process including the initial survey,
      planning, design, site preparation, and building phases. Our products are
      intended to both improve the productivity of each phase, as well as facilitate
      the entire process by improving information flow from one step to the next.

The
      product solutions typically include multiple technologies. The elements of
      these
      solutions may incorporate GPS, optical, laser, radio or cellular communications.

An
      example of the customer benefits provided by our product is our GPS and robotic
      optical surveying instruments which enable the surveyor to perform operations
      in
      the field faster, more reliably than conventional surveying instruments and
      with
      a smaller crew. Similarly, our construction machine guidance products allow
      the
      operator to achieve the desired landform while eliminating stakeout and reducing
      rework. These steps in the construction process can be readily linked together
      with data collection modules to minimize the time and effort required to
      maintain data accuracy throughout the entire construction process.

We
      sell
      and distribute our products in this segment through a global network of
      independent dealers that are supported by Trimble personnel. This channel is
      supplemented by relationships that create additional channel breadth including
      our joint ventures with Caterpillar, Nikon, and private branding arrangements
      with other companies.


Table
            of Contents

We
      also
      design and market handheld data collectors and data collection software for
      field use by surveyors, contractors, and other professionals. These products
      are
      sold directly, through dealers, and other survey manufacturers.

Competitors
      in this segment are typically companies that provide optical, laser, or GPS
      positioning products. Our principal competitors are Topcon Corporation and
      Leica
      Geosystems. Price points in this segment range from less than $1,000 for certain
      laser systems to approximately $125,000 for a high-precision, three-dimensional,
      machine control system.

Representative
      products sold in this segment include:

Trimble®
      S6 Total Station -

The
      Trimble S6 Total Station is a technologically advanced optical surveying system.
      Its advanced servo motors make the Trimble S6 fast, silent, and precise,
      allowing surveyors to measure points and collect data in the field efficiently
      and productively. The Trimble S6 offers unique new Trimble technologies that
      enable cable-free operation, longer battery life, and accuracy assurance, among
      many other features. Its detachable Trimble CU controller is utilized to
      effectively collect, display, and manage field data.

Trimble®
      VX™ Spatial Station

-
      Trimble VX Spatial Station is an advanced positioning system that combines
      optical, 3D scanning and video capabilities—Trimble VISION™ technology—to
      measure objects in 3D to produce 2D and 3D data sets for spatial imaging
      projects. The Trimble VX Spatial Station enables users to blend extremely
      accurate ground-based information with airborne data to provide comprehensive
      datasets for use in the geospatial information industry.

GCS
      family of Grade Control Systems -

Grade
      control systems meet construction contractors' needs with productivity-enhancing
      solutions for earthmoving, site prep and roadwork. The Trimble GCS family
      provides upgrade options that deliver earthmoving contractors the flexibility
      to
      select a system that meets their daily needs today, and later add on to meet
      their changing needs. For example, a single control system such as the GCS300
      can provide for low-cost point of entry into grade control, and over time can
      be
      upgraded to the GCS400 dual sensor system, or to the full 3D GCS900 Grade
      Control System.

Spectra
      Precision® Laser portable tools -

Our
      Spectra Precision Laser portfolio includes a broad range of laser based tools
      for the interior, drywall and ceilings, HVAC, and mechanical contractor.
      Designed to replace traditional methods of measurement and leveling for a wide
      range of interior construction applications, our laser tools are easy to learn
      and use. Our Spectra Precision Laser product portfolio includes rotating lasers
      for horizontal leveling and vertical alignment, as well as laser pointers and
      a
      laser based distance measuring devices. They are available through independent
      and national construction supply houses both in the US and in Europe.

Proliance®

-
      Proliance® allows infrastructure-intensive organizations to optimize the
      Plan-Build-Operate project lifecycle for complex capital projects, construction
      and real estate programs, and extensive facility portfolios. Proliance was
      designed for large building owner/operators, real estate developers and
      engineering-driven organizations managing $250M or more annually in new project
      construction or facility renovations.

Field
      Solutions

Our
      Field
      Solutions segment addresses the agriculture and geographic information system
      (GIS) markets.

Our
      agriculture products consist of manual and automated navigation guidance for
      tractors and other farm equipment used in spraying, planting, cultivation,
      and
      harvesting applications. The benefits to the farmer include faster machine
      operation, higher yields, and lower consumption of chemicals than conventional
      equipment. We also provide positioning solutions for leveling agricultural
      fields in irrigation applications and aligning drainage systems to better manage
      water flow in fields.

In
      2006,
      Field Solutions entered the agricultural flow controls market with the
      introduction of the AgGPS® EZ-Boom™ 2010 automated application control system.
      The new system is designed to help growers cut input costs and reduce operator
      fatigue by providing precise automatic control of field spraying applications.
      The

Ag

GPS
      EZ-Boom 2010 system provides both application flow control and automatic boom
      section control that integrates with the Trimble

Ag

GPS
      EZ-Guide® Plus and/or Field Manager™ display.  The combination of the

Ag

GPS
      EZ-Boom 2010 system and EZ-Guide Plus Field Manager display allows the user
      to
      consolidate guidance, flow control, and precision agriculture functions into
      one
      integrated package controlling up to 10 boom sections automatically with GPS
      guidance.


Table
            of Contents

We
      use
      multiple distribution channels to access the agricultural market, including
      independent dealers and partners such as CNH Global. Competitors in this market
      are either vertically integrated implement companies such as John Deere, or
      agricultural instrumentation suppliers such as Raven, CSI Wireless and Autofarm.

Our
      Mapping and GIS product line is centered on handheld data collectors that gather
      information in the field to be incorporated into GIS databases. Typically this
      information includes features, attributes, and positions of fixed infrastructure
      and natural resource assets. An example would be that of a utility company
      performing a survey of its transmission poles including the age and condition
      of
      each telephone pole. Our handheld unit enables this data to be collected and
      automatically stored while confirming the location of the asset. The data can
      then be downloaded into a GIS database. This stored data could later be used
      to
      navigate back to any individual asset or item for maintenance or data update.
      Our mobile GIS initiative goes one step further by allowing this information
      to
      be communicated from the field worker to the back-office GIS database through
      the combination of wireless technologies, as well as giving the field worker
      the
      ability to download information from the database. This capability provides
      significant advantages to users including improved productivity, accuracy and
      access to the information in the field.

Distribution
      for GIS products is primarily through a network of independent dealers and
      business partners, supported by Trimble personnel. Primary markets for our
      GIS
      products and solutions include both governmental and commercial users.
      Government users are most often municipal governments and natural resource
      agencies. Commercial users include utility companies. Competitors in this market
      are typically survey instrument companies utilizing GPS technology. Two examples
      are Topcon and Thales.

Approximate
      product price points in this segment range from $3,000 for a GIS handheld unit
      to $35,000 for a fully automated, farm equipment control system.

Representative
      products sold within this segment include:

AgGPS®
      EZ-Boom™ 2010

- The
      AgGPS EZ-Boom 2010 automated application control system is designed to help
      growers cut input costs and reduce operator fatigue by providing precise
      automatic control of field spraying applications.  It works with the
      Trimble AgGPS EZ-Guide Plus lightbar guidance system, AgGPS EZ-Steer® assisted
      steering system or the AgGPS Autopilot™ automated steering system.

AgGPS®
      Autopilot™

System

- A
      GPS-enabled, agricultural navigation system that connects to a tractor’s
      steering system and automatically steers the tractor along a precise path to
      within three centimeters or less. This enables both higher machine productivity
      and more precise application of seed and chemicals, thereby reducing costs
      to
      the farmer.

AgGPS®
      EZ-Steer®

System

- A
      value added assisted steering system, that when combined with the EZ-Guide
      Plus
      system, automatically steers agricultural vehicles along a path within 20
      centimeters or less. This system installs in less than thirty minutes and is
      designed to reduce gaps and overlaps in spraying, fertilizing, and other field
      applications as well as reduce operator fatigue.

GeoExplorer®


Series

-
      Combines a GPS receiver in a rugged handheld unit running industry standard
      Microsoft Windows Mobile version 5.0, making it easy to collect and maintain
      data about objects in the field. The GeoExplorer series features three models
      ranging in accuracy from subfoot to 1-3 meters —allowing the user to select the
      system most appropriate for their data collection and maintenance needs.

Spacient®
      Fieldport

®

Software

-
      Focuses on automating field service processes, operational efficiency and
      profitability for water and wastewater utility customers. Sales and distribution
      of Fieldport software solutions are direct to the customer. A Fieldport software
      installation involves a degree of integration and professional
      services.

Mobile
      Solutions

Our
      Mobile Solutions segment addresses solutions for vehicles and mobile
      workers by providing both hardware and software for managing mobile work,
      mobile workers and mobile assets. The software is provided in both a client
      server model or web based.  Our software is provided through our
      hosted platform for a monthly subscription service fee; or as a perpetual
      license with annual maintenance and support fees.


Table
            of Contents

Our
      vehicle solutions include an onboard computer consisting of a GPS receiver,
      business logic, sensor interface, and a cellular modem. Our solution includes
      the communication service to and from the vehicle to our data center and access
      over the Internet to the application software.

Our
      mobile worker solutions include a rugged PC and software.   The
      solutions will also include communication gateway for back office
      integration.

One
      element of our market strategy targets opportunities in specific vertical
      markets where we believe we can provide a unique value to the end-user by
      tailoring our solutions for a particular industry.  Sample markets include
      Ready Mix Concrete, Direct Store Delivery and Public Safety.  Our ready mix
      concrete solution combines a suite of sensors with our in-vehicle wireless
      platform providing fleets with updated vehicle status that requires no driver
      interaction - referred to as “auto-status.”

We
      also
      sell our vehicle solutions using a horizontal market strategy that
      focuses on providing turnkey solutions to a broad range of service fleets that
      span a large number of market segments. Here, we leverage our capabilities
      without the same level of customization. These solutions are sold to the general
      service fleets as well as transportation and distribution fleets both on a
      direct basis and through dealer channels.

Our
      enterprise strategy focuses on sales to large, enterprise accounts with more
      than 1,000 vehicles or routes. Here, in addition to a Trimble-hosted solution,
      we can also integrate our service directly into the customer’s IT
      infrastructure, giving them improved control of their information. In this
      market we sell directly to end-users. Sales cycles tend to be long due to field
      trials followed by an extensive decision-making process.

Approximate
      prices for hardware fall in the range of $400 to $4,000, while the monthly
      subscription service fees range from approximately $25 to approximately $55,
      depending on the customer service level.

We
      have
      also entered into new markets by acquisitions of Advanced Public Safety,
      Inc. (APS) and Visual Statement Inc. (VS).  APS provides mobile and
      handheld software products used by law enforcement, fire rescue and other public
      safety agencies.  VS provides desktop software and enterprise solutions for
      collision and crime incident analysis, reporting and workflow
      management.

Representative
      products sold in this segment include:

Trimble Fleet
      Productivity -

Our
      fleet productivity solution offerings are comprised of the TrimView and TrimWeb
      mobile platforms. The TrimWeb system provides different levels of service that
      run from snapshots of fleet activity to real-time fleet dispatch capability
      via
      access to the web based platform through a secure internet connection. The
      TrimWeb system includes truck communication service and computer backbone
      support of the service. TrimView is sold to fleets where system integration
      into
      back office applications are  required for more robust information
      flow.

Trimble
      Consumer Packaged Goods (CPG)-

This
      software solution operates in the Microsoft CE/Pocket or WinMobile PC
      environment and addresses the pre-sales, delivery, routes sales and full service
      vending functions performed by mobile workers.  Customers within the CPG
      market purchase a combination of both license software and handheld PCs. 
The software handles all communications from/to the mobile computer as well
      as
      from/to the host and any other ERP or decision support systems.

Trimble
      Public Safety -

We
      provide a suite of solutions for the public safety sector including our Pocket
      Citation System which is an electronic ticketing system enables law
      enforcement officers to issue traffic citations utilizing a mobile handheld
      device. This system scans the traffic offender’s driver’s license and
      automatically populates the appropriate information into the citation. We also
      provide a variation of  this solution which enables law enforcement
      officers to complete electronic traffic citations in under 30 seconds. Within
      this sector we also provide desktop software which enables accident
      investigators and other public safety professionals to reconstruct and simulate
      vehicle accidents.

Advanced
      Devices

In
      the
      first quarter of 2006, we began reporting a new segment called Advanced Devices
      that combines our previously reported Component Technologies and Portfolio
      segments. This was done in recognition of the small size of each of the
      businesses comprising the new segment, relative to the total company. Advanced
      Devices includes the product lines from our Component Technologies, Applanix,
      Trimble Outdoors, and Military and Advanced Systems (MAS) businesses. It is
      helpful to recognize that with the exception of Trimble Outdoors and Applanix
      these businesses share several characteristics: they are hardware centric,
      generally rely on OEM distribution, and have products that can be utilized
      in a
      number of different end-user markets.


Table
            of Contents

Within
      Component Technologies, we provide GPS-based components for applications that
      require embedded position or time to markets such as the telecommunications
      and
      automotive industries where we supply modules, boards, custom integrated
      circuits, or single application IP licenses to the customer according to the
      needs of the application. Sales are made directly to original equipment
      manufacturers (OEMs) and system integrators who incorporate our component into
      a
      sub-system or a complete system-level product. Component Technologies has
      developed GPS technologies which it is making available for license. These
      technologies can run on certain digital signal processors (DSP) or
      microprocessors removing the need for dedicated GPS baseband signal processor
      chips. Advanced Devices has an agreement with u-Nav Microelectronics to license
      Trimble GPS technology for u-Nav GPS chipsets. We also have a cooperative
      licensing deal with Nokia for Trimble's Global Navigation Satellite System
      (GNSS) patents related to designated wireless products and services involving
      location technologies, such as GPS, assisted GPS or Galileo. The licensing
      agreement is exclusive to Nokia for the wireless consumer product and service
      domain and includes sublicensing rights. In return, Trimble receives a
      non-exclusive license to Nokia’s location-based patents for use in Trimble's
      commercial products and services.

Our
      Applanix business develops, manufactures, sells and supports high-value,
      precision products that combine GPS with inertial sensors for accurate
      measurement of the position and attitude. Sales are made directly by our sales
      force to the end users or to systems integrators. Competitors include IGI in
      the
      airborne survey market, and iXsea and TSS in the marine survey
      market.

Our
      MAS
      business supplies GPS receivers and embedded modules that use the military’s GPS
      advanced capabilities. The modules are principally used in aircraft navigation
      and timing applications. Military products are sold directly to either the
      US
      Government or defense contractors. Sales are also made to authorized foreign
      end
      users. Competitors in this market include Rockwell Collins, L3, and Raytheon.

The
      Trimble Outdoors service utilizes GPS-enabled cell phones to provide information
      for outdoor recreational activities. Some of the recreational activities include
      hiking, biking, backpacking, boating, and water sports. Consumers purchase
      the
      Trimble Outdoors product through our wireless operator partners which include
      Sprint-Nextel, SouthernLINC Wireless and Boost Mobile. In 2005, Trimble entered
      into an agreement with Rodale Inc., owner of Backpacker Magazine, to bring
      high
      quality trip content to consumer GPS cell phones.

Representative
      products sold by this segment include:

Copernicus™

GPS Receiver

-Copernicus
      is Trimble’s first product built upon the uNav Microelectonics GPS chipset. It
      is a full-function GPS receiver in a surface mount package the size of a postage
      stamp.

TrimTrac®
      Locator

- Our
      TrimTrac product is a complete end user device that combines GPS functionality
      with global system for mobile communications (GSM) wireless communications.
      In
      2006, we added to the TrimTrac locator full quad-band GSM and general packet
      radio service (GPRS) support along with several important application level
      features. The device is suitable for high volume personal vehicle and commercial
      asset management applications that demand a low-cost locator.

Applanix
      POS/AV™

- An
      integrated GPS/inertial system for airborne surveying that measures aircraft
      position to an accuracy of a few centimeters and aircraft attitude (angular
      orientation) to an accuracy of 30 arc seconds or better. This system is
      typically interfaced to large format cameras and scanning lasers for producing
      geo-referenced topographic maps of the terrain.

Applanix
      DSS

™

322 Digital Sensor System

- A
      medium-format, digital aerial camera system with direct georeferencing
      capability designed for streamlined airborne digital image acquisition. Used
      for
      corridor surveys, photogrammetric mapping, GIS analysis and feature
      identification, and other airborne remote sensing applications requiring
      high-quality digital imagery.

Force™
      5 GS (GRAM-SAASM) Module

- A dual
      frequency, embedded GPS module that is used in a variety of military airborne
      applications.


Table
            of Contents

Trimble®
      Outdoors™ -

Trip
      planning and navigation software that works with GPS-enabled cell phones and
      conventional GPS receivers. This software enables consumers to research specific
      trips online as part of trip pre-planning. In addition, users are able to share
      outdoor and off-road experiences online with their friends and family.

Acquisitions
      and Joint Ventures

Our
      growth strategy is centered on developing and marketing innovative and complete
      value-added solutions to our existing customers, while also marketing them
      to
      new customers and geographic regions. In some cases, this has led to partnering
      with or acquiring companies that bring technologies, products or distribution
      capabilities that will allow us to establish a market beach head, penetrate
      a
      market more effectively, or develop solutions more quickly than if we had done
      so solely through internal development. Since 1999, this has led us to form
      two
      joint ventures and acquire twenty one companies. Most of these acquisitions
      have
      been small both in dollar terms and in number of people added to the Trimble
      employee base. No assurance can be given that our previous or future
      acquisitions will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our
      financial condition or operating results.

@Road,
      Inc.

On
      February 16, 2007, we acquired @Road, Inc. of Fremont, California. @Road, Inc.
      is a global provider of solutions designed to automate the management of mobile
      resources and to optimize the service delivery process for customers across
      a
      variety of industries. @Road will be reported within our Mobile Solutions
      business segment. This acquisition was the largest in acquisition value in
      the
      company’s history. It significantly increases our presence in the mobile
      resource management, or MRM, market which Trimble believes is a large and fast
      growing market.

*
      With
      the addition of @Road, Trimble’s TMS segment will be better able to service
      larger customers, with a broader and more robust solution set.

INPHO
      GmbH

On
      February 13, 2007, we acquired INPHO GmbH of Stuttgart, Germany. INPHO is a
      leader in photogrammetry and digital surface modeling for aerial surveying,
      mapping and remote sensing applications. INPHO will be reported within Trimble’s
      Engineering and Construction segment.

Spacient
      Technologies, Inc.

On
      November 21, 2006, we acquired privately-held Spacient Technologies, Inc. of
      Long Beach, California. Spacient is a leading provider of enterprise field
      service management and mobile mapping solutions for municipalities and
      utilities. Spacient’s performance is reported under our Field Solutions business
      segment.

Meridian
      Project Systems, Inc.

On
      November 7, 2006, we acquired privately-held Meridian Project Systems, Inc.
      of
      Folsom, California. Meridian provides enterprise project management and
      lifecycle software for optimizing the plan, build and operate lifecycle for
      real
      estate, construction and other physical infrastructure projects. Meridian’s
      performance is reported under our Engineering and Construction business segment.

XYZ
      Solutions, Inc.

On
      October 27, 2006, we acquired privately-held XYZ Solutions, Inc., of Alpharetta,
      Georgia. XYZ Solutions provides real-time, interactive 3D intelligence software
      to manage the spatial aspects of a construction project. XYZ Solutions’
performance is reported under our Engineering and Construction business
      segment.

Visual
      Statement, Inc.

On
      October 11, 2006, we acquired privately-held Visual Statement, Inc. of Kamloops,
      British Columbia, Canada. Visual Statement provides desktop software tools
      for
      crime and collision incident investigation, analysis, and reconstitution as
      well
      as state-wide enterprise solutions for reporting and analysis used by public
      safety agencies. Visual Statement’s performance is reported under our Mobile
      Solutions business segment.


Table
            of Contents

BitWyse
      Solutions, Inc.

On
      May 1,
      2006, we acquired the assets of privately-held BitWyse Solutions, Inc. of Salem,
      Massachusetts. BitWyse is a provider of engineering and construction information
      management software. BitWyse’s performance is reported under our Engineering and
      Construction business segment.

Eleven
      Technology, Inc.

On
      April
      28, 2006, we acquired privately-held Eleven Technology, Inc. of Cambridge,
      Massachusetts. Eleven is a mobile application software company with a leading
      position in the Consumer Packaged Goods industry. Eleven’s performance is
      reported under our Mobile Solutions business segment.

Quantm
      International, Inc.

On
      April
      5, 2006, we acquired privately-held Quantm International, Inc., a provider
      of
      transportation route optimization solutions used for planning highways,
      railways, pipelines and canals. Quantm’s performance is reported under our
      Engineering and Construction business segment.

XYZs
      of
      GPS, Inc.

On
      February 26, 2006, we acquired the assets of XYZs of GPS, Inc. of Dickerson,
      Maryland. XYZ develops real-time Global Navigation Satellite System or, GNSS,
      reference station, integrity monitoring and dynamic positioning software for
      meter, decimeter and centimeter applications. XYZs’ performance is reported
      under our Engineering and Construction business segment.

Patents,
      Licenses and Intellectual Property

We
      hold
      approximately 625 US patents and approximately 85 non-US patents, the majority
      of which cover GPS technology and other applications such as optical and laser
      technology.

We
      prefer
      to own the intellectual property used in our products, either directly or though
      subsidiaries. From time to time we license technology from third parties.

There
      are
      approximately 190 trademarks registered to Trimble and its subsidiaries
      including "Trimble," the globe and triangle logo, "AgGPS," "GeoExplorer," and
      "Recon," among others that are registered in the United States and other
      countries. Additional trademarks are pending registration.

Sales
      and Marketing

We
      tailor
      the distribution channel to the needs of our products and regional markets
      through a number of sales channel solutions around the world. We sell our
      products worldwide primarily through dealers, distributors, and authorized
      representatives, occasionally granting exclusive rights to market certain
      products within specific countries. This channel is supported and supplemented
      (where third party distribution is not available) by our regional sales offices
      throughout the world. We also utilize distribution alliances, OEM relationships
      and joint ventures with other companies as a means to serve selected markets.

During
      fiscal 2006, sales to customers in the United States represented 54%, Europe
      represented 25%, Asia Pacific represented 12% and other regions represented
      9%
      of our total revenues. During fiscal 2005, sales to customers in the United
      States represented 54%, Europe represented 25%, Asia Pacific represented 11%
      and
      other regions represented 10% of our total revenues.

Warranty

The

warranty

periods
      for our products are

generally between 90 days

and

three
      years.

Selected

military
      programs may require extended warranty periods

up to
      5.5 years

and
      certain Nikon products have a five-year warranty period. We support our GPS
      products through

a
      circuit
      board

replacement

program
      from locations in the United Kingdom, Germany, Japan

,
      and the
      United States. The repair and calibration of our non-GPS products are available
      from company-owned or authorized facilities. We reimburse dealers and
      distributors for all authorized warranty repairs they perform.


Table
            of Contents

While
      we
      engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively
      monitoring and evaluating the quality of component suppliers, our warranty
      obligation is affected by product failure rates, material usage, and service
      delivery costs incurred in correcting a product failure. Should actual product
      failure rates, material usage, or service delivery costs differ from the
      estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty accrual and related costs may
      be
      required.

Seasonality
      of Business

*

Our
      individual segment revenues may be affected by seasonal buying patterns.
      Typically the second fiscal quarter has been the strongest quarter for the
      Company driven by the construction buying season.

Backlog

In
      most
      of our markets, the time between order placement and shipment is short. Orders
      are generally placed by customers on an as-needed basis. In general, customers
      may cancel or reschedule orders without penalty. For these reasons, we do not
      believe that orders are an accurate measure of backlog and, therefore, we
      believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future revenues or
      material to an understanding of our business.

Manufacturing

Manufacturing
      of substantially all our GPS subsystems is subcontracted to Solectron
      Corporation. During fiscal 2006 we continued to utilize Solectron's Suzhou
      facilities in China for all of our Component Technologies products. During
      and 2004 we expanded our use of Solectron in Mexico for our Construction and
      Field Solutions products and handhelds, respectively. We continue to utilize
      Solectron California for our high-end GPS products and new product introduction
      services. Solectron is responsible for substantially all material procurement,
      assembly, and testing. We continue to manage product design through pilot
      production for the subcontracted products, and we are directly involved in
      qualifying suppliers and key components used in all our products. Our current
      contract with Solectron continues in effect until either party gives the other
      ninety days written notice.

We
      manufacture laser and optics-based products at our plants in Dayton, Ohio;
      Danderyd, Sweden; Jena and Kaiserslautern, Germany; and Toronto, Canada. Some
      of
      these products or portions of these products are also subcontracted to third
      parties for assembly.

Our
      design and manufacturing sites in Dayton, Ohio; Sunnyvale, California; Danderyd,
      Sweden; Jena and Kaiserslautern, Germany are registered to ISO9001:2000,
      covering the design, production, distribution, and servicing of all our
      products.

Research
      and Development

We
      believe that our competitive position is maintained through the development
      and
      introduction of new products that incorporate improved features, better
      performance, smaller size and weight, lower cost, or some combination of these
      factors. We invest substantially in the development of new products. We also
      make significant investment in the positioning, communication, and information
      technologies that underlie our products and will likely provide competitive
      advantages.

Our
      research and development expenditures, net of reimbursed amounts were $103.8
      million for fiscal 2006, $84.3 million for fiscal 2005, and $77.6 million for
      fiscal 2004.

*
      We
      expect to continue investing in research and development with the goal of
      maintaining or improving our competitive position, as well as the goal of
      entering new markets.

Employees

As
      of
      December 29, 2006, we employed 2,842 employees, including 25% in sales and
      marketing, 36% in manufacturing, 28% in engineering, and 11% in general and
      administrative positions. Approximately 41% of employees are in locations
      outside the United States.

Our
      employees are not represented by unions except for those in Sweden and some
      in
      Germany. We also employ temporary and contract personnel that are not included
      in the above headcount numbers. We have not experienced work stoppages or
      similar labor actions.


Table
            of Contents

Available
      Information

The
      Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
      reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports are available free
      of
      charge on the Company’s web site

through

www.trimble.com

/investors.html

,

as soon
      as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with
      or
      furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Information
      contained on our web site is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K.

In
      addition, you may request a copy of these filings (excluding exhibits) at no
      cost by writing or telephoning us at our principal executive offices at the
      following address or telephone number:

Trimble
      Navigation Limited

      Stewart Drive, Sunnyvale, CA 94085

Attention:
      Investor Relations Telephone: 408-481-8000

Executive
      Officers

The
      names, ages, and positions of the Company's executive officers as of February
      22, 2007 are as follows:

Name

Age

Position

Steven
                W. Berglund


President
                and Chief Executive Officer

Rajat
                Bahri


Chief
                Financial Officer

Rick
                Beyer


Vice
                President, Mobile Solutions

Joseph
                F. Denniston, Jr.


Vice
                President, Operations

Bryn
                A. Fosburgh


Vice
                President, Engineering and Construction

Mark
                A. Harrington


Vice
                President, Strategy and Business Development

Debi
                Hirshlag


Vice
                President, Human Resources

John
                E. Huey


Treasurer

Irwin
                L. Kwatek


Vice
                President and General Counsel

Michael
                W. Lesyna


Vice
                President, Business Transformation

Bruce
                E. Peetz


Vice
                President, Advanced Technology and Systems

Julie
                Shepard


Vice
                President, Finance

Alan
                R. Townsend


Vice
                President, Field Solutions

Dennis
                L. Workman


Vice
                President and Chief Technical Officer, Advanced
                Devices

Steven
      W. Berglund

- Steven
      Berglund has served as president and chief executive officer of Trimble since
      March 1999. Prior to joining Trimble, Mr. Berglund was president of Spectra
      Precision, a group within Spectra Physics AB, and a pioneer in the development
      of laser systems. He spent 14 years at Spectra Physics in a variety of senior
      leadership positions. In the early 1980s, Mr. Berglund spent a number of years
      at Varian Associates in Palo Alto, where he held a variety of planning and
      manufacturing roles. Mr. Berglund began his career as a process engineer at
      Eastman Kodak in Rochester, New York. He attended the University of Oslo and
      the
      University of Minnesota where he received a B.S. in chemical engineering. He
      later received his M.B.A. from the University of Rochester.

Rajat
      Bahri

- Rajat
      Bahri joined Trimble as Chief Financial Officer in January 2005. Prior to
      joining Trimble, Mr. Bahri served for more than 15 years in various capacities
      within the financial organization of several subsidiaries of Kraft Foods, Inc.
      and General Foods Corporation. Most recently, he served as the chief financial
      officer for Kraft Canada, Inc. From June 2000 to June 2001 he served as chief
      financial officer of Kraft Pizza Company. From 1997 to 2000, Mr. Bahri was
      Operations Controller for Kraft Jacobs Suchard Europe. Mr. Bahri holds a
      Bachelor of Commerce from the University of Delhi in 1985 and an M.B.A. from
      Duke University in 1987. In 2005, he was elected on the board of Simple
      Technologies, Inc., a publicly traded company.

Rick
      Beyer

- Rick
      Beyer joined Trimble in March 2004 as president of Trimble Mobile Solutions
      (TMS) and in May 2006, Mr. Beyer was appointed a Vice President of Trimble.
      Prior to joining Trimble, Mr. Beyer held senior executive positions within
      the
      wireless mobile solutions industry since 1987. Part of the original senior
      executive team that launched Qualcomm's OmniTRAC's mobile satellite
      communication solution, Mr. Beyer also held the positions of general manager
      at
      Rockwell Collins, on-board computing division, from 1994 to 1995; executive
      vice
      president of Norcom Networks from 1995 to 1999; president of Husky Technologies,
      now part of Itronix, from 1999 to 2000; and CEO of TracerNet, now Trimble Mobile
      Solutions, from 2002 to 2004. Mr. Beyer holds a B.A. from Olivet College and
      was
      Chairman of the Board at the college from 2000 to 2003. He was elected Trustee
      Emeritus in 2007. Rick also served as a member of the Council of Board Chairs
      for the Association of Governing Boards for Colleges and Universities from
      to 2005.


Table
            of Contents

Joseph
      F. Denniston, Jr

.

-
      Joseph
      Denniston joined Trimble as vice president of operations in April 2001,
      responsible for worldwide manufacturing, distribution and logistics. Prior
      to
      Trimble, Mr. Denniston worked for 3Com Corporation. During his 14-year tenure,
      he served as vice president of supply chain management for the Americas and
      held
      several positions in test engineering, manufacturing engineering and operations.
      Previously at Sentry Schlumberger for seven years, he held several positions
      including production engineering, production management and test engineering
      over six years. Mr. Denniston received a B.S. in electrical engineering
      technology from the Missouri Institute of Technology in 1981 and an M.S. in
      computer science engineering from Santa Clara University in 1990.

Bryn
      A. Fosburgh

-

Bryn
      Fosburgh joined Trimble in 1994 as a technical service manager for surveying,
      mining, and construction. In 1997, Mr. Fosburgh was appointed director of
      development for the Company’s land survey business unit where he oversaw the
      development of field and office software that enabled the interoperability
      of
      Trimble survey products. From October 1999 to July 2002, he served as division
      vice president of survey and infrastructure. From 2002 to 2005, Mr. Fosburgh
      served as vice president and general manager of Trimble's Geomatics and
      Engineering (G&E) business area, with responsibility for all the
      division-level activities associated with survey, construction, and
      infrastructure solutions. In January 2005, he was appointed vice president
      and
      general manager of the Engineering and Construction Division. Prior to Trimble,
      he was a civil engineer with the Wisconsin Department of Transportation
      responsible for coordinating the planning, data acquisition, and data analysis
      for statewide GPS surveying projects in support of transportation improvement
      projects. He has also held various engineering, research and operational
      positions for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and Defense Mapping Agency.
      Mr.
      Fosburgh received a B.S. in geology from the University of Wisconsin in Green
      Bay in 1985 and an M.S. in civil engineering from Purdue University in
      1989.

Mark
      A. Harrington -

Mark
      Harrington joined Trimble in January 2004 as vice president of strategy and
      business development. Prior to joining Trimble, Mr. Harrington served as vice
      president of finance at Finisar Corporation and chief financial officer for
      Cielo Communications, Inc., a photonics components manufacturer, from February
      1998 to September 2002, and Vixel Corporation, a photonics manufacturer, from
      April 2003 to December 2003. His experience also includes 11 years at
      Spectra-Physics where he served in a variety of roles including vice president
      of finance for Spectra-Physics Lasers, Inc. and vice president of finance for
      Spectra-Physics Analytical, Inc. Mr. Harrington began his career at Varian
      Associates, Inc. where he held a variety of management and individual positions
      in finance, operations and IT. Mr. Harrington received his B.S. in Business
      Administration from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln.

Debi
      Hirshlag

-

Debi
      Hirshlag joined Trimble in July 2005 as vice president of human resources.
      Prior
      to joining Trimble, Ms. Hirshlag served as vice president of human resources
      at
      Ariba Inc., a purchasing technology company from January 2003 to July 2004,
      and
      vice president of corporate services at Latitude Communications, a conferencing
      software provider from January 2001 to December 2002. In addition, she has
      held
      human resources positions at Seagate Technology, Inc., Pepsi-Cola and Amoco
      Corporation. Ms. Hirshlag received her B.S. in industrial management from
      Carnegie Mellon University and an M.A. in labor and industrial relations from
      the University of Illinois.

John
      E. Huey

-

John
      Huey
      joined Trimble in 1993 as director corporate credit and collections, and was
      promoted to assistant treasurer in 1995 and treasurer in 1996. Past experience
      includes two years with ENTEX Information Services, five years with National
      Refractories and Minerals Corporation (formerly Kaiser Refractories), and
      thirteen years with Kaiser Aluminum and Chemical Sales, Inc. He has held
      positions in credit management, market research, inventory control, sales,
      and
      as an assistant controller. Mr. Huey received his B.A. degree in Business
      Administration in 1971 from Thiel College in Greenville, Pennsylvania and an
      MBA
      in 1972 from West Virginia University in Morgantown, West Virginia.

Irwin
      L. Kwatek

-
      Irwin
      Kwatek has served as vice president and general counsel of Trimble since
      November 2000. Prior to joining Trimble, Mr. Kwatek was vice president and
      general counsel of Tickets.com, a ticketing service provider, from May 1999
      to
      November 2000. Prior to Tickets.com, he was engaged in the private practice
      of
      law for more than six years. During his career, he has served as vice president
      and general counsel to several publicly held high-tech companies including
      Emulex Corporation, Western Digital Corporation and General Automation, Inc.
      Mr.
      Kwatek received his B.B.A. from Adelphi College in Garden City, New York and
      an
      M.B.A. from the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. He received his J.D. from
      Fordham University in New York City in 1968.


Table
            of Contents

Michael
      W. Lesyna

-

Michael
      Lesyna joined Trimble in September 1999 as vice president of strategic
      marketing. In September 2000, he was appointed vice president and general
      manager of the Mobile Solutions Division. In July 2004, Lesyna was appointed
      vice president of Business Transformation. In this cross-divisional role he
      focuses on driving operational improvements based on the marketing, sales and
      distribution channel strategies of Trimble's business segments. The scope of
      his
      work includes tailored business prioritization as well as lean manufacturing
      and
      lean overhead principles. Prior to Trimble, Mr. Lesyna spent six years at Booz
      Allen & Hamilton where he most recently served as a principal in the
      operations management group. Prior to Booz Allen & Hamilton, Mr. Lesyna held
      a variety of engineering positions at Allied Signal Aerospace. Mr. Lesyna
      received his M.B.A., as well as an M.S. and B.S. in mechanical engineering
      from
      Stanford University.

Bruce
      E. Peetz

-
      Bruce
      Peetz has served as vice president of Advanced Technology and Systems since
      and has been with Trimble for 18 years. From 1996 to 1998, Mr. Peetz served
      as
      general manager of the Survey Business. Prior to joining Trimble, Mr. Peetz
      was
      a research and development manager at Hewlett-Packard for 10 years. Mr. Peetz
      received his B.S. in electrical engineering from Massachusetts Institute of
      Technology in Cambridge, Massachusetts in 1973.

Julie
      Shepard

-
      Julie
      Shepard joined Trimble in December of 2006 as vice president of
      finance.  Ms. Shepard brings with her over 20 years of experience in a
      broad range of finance roles. She is responsible for Trimble's
      worldwide finance operations including financial planning, accounting, external
      reporting, and compliance. Most recently, Ms. Shepard served as vice president
      of finance and corporate controller at Quantum Corporation, from 2004 to 2006,
      and vice president of finance at Nishan Systems, from 2000 to 2003. Ms. Shepard
      began her career at Price Waterhouse and is a Certified Public Accountant.
      She
      received a B.S from California State University where she majored in Accounting.

Alan
      R. Townsend

-

Alan
      Townsend has served as vice president and general manager of the Field Solutions
      business area since November 2001. From 1995 to 2001, Mr. Townsend was general
      manager of Mapping and GIS. Mr. Townsend joined Trimble in 1991 as the manager
      of Trimble Navigation New Zealand Ltd. Prior to Trimble, Mr. Townsend held
      a
      variety of technical and senior management roles within the Datacom Group of
      companies in New Zealand including managing director of Datacom Software
      Research Ltd. from 1986 to 1991. In addition, Mr. Townsend is a director of
      IT
      Capital Ltd., a venture capital company based in Auckland, New Zealand. He
      is
      also a fellow of the New Zealand Institute of Management and a past president
      of
      the New Zealand Software Exporters Association. Mr. Townsend received a B.S.c
      in
      economics from the University of Canterbury in 1970.

Dennis
      L. Workman

-

Dennis
      Workman has served as vice president and general manager of Trimble’s Component
      Technologies segment since September 1999. From 1998 to 1999, Mr. Workman was
      senior director and chief technical officer of the newly formed Mobile and
      Timing Technologies (MTT) business group, also serving as general manager of
      Trimble's Automotive and Timing group. In 1997, he was director of engineering
      for Software & Component Technologies. Mr. Workman joined Trimble in 1995 as
      director of the newly created Timing vertical market. Prior to Trimble, Mr.
      Workman held various senior-level technical positions at Datum Inc. During
      his
      nine year tenure at Datum, he held the position of CTO. Mr. Workman received
      a
      B.S. in mathematics and physics from St. Mary’s College in 1967 and an M.S. in
      electrical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in
      1969.

Item
              1A.

Risk
                F

acto

rs.

RISKS
      AND
      UNCERTAINTIES

You
      should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other
      information contained in this Form 10-K and in any other documents to which
      we
      refer you in this Form 10-K, before purchasing our securities. The risks and
      uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face.

Our
      Inability to Accurately Predict Orders and Shipments May Affect Our Revenue,
      Expenses and Earnings per Share

.

We
      have
      not been able in the past to consistently predict when our customers will place
      orders and request shipments so that we cannot always accurately plan our
      manufacturing requirements. As a result, if orders and shipments differ from
      what we predict, we may incur additional expenses and build excess inventory,
      which may require additional reserves and allowances. Any significant change
      in
      our customers’ purchasing patterns could have a material adverse effect on our
      operating results and reported earnings per share for a particular quarter.


Table
            of Contents

Our
      Operating Results in Each Quarter May Be Affected by Special Conditions, Such
      As
      Seasonality, Late Quarter Purchases, Weather, and Other Potential
      Issues.

Due
      in
      part to the buying patterns of our customers, a significant portion of our
      quarterly revenues occurs from orders received and immediately shipped to
      customers in the last few weeks and days of each quarter, although our operating
      expenses tend to remain fairly predictable. Engineering and construction
      purchases tend to occur in early spring, and governmental agencies tend to
      utilize funds available at the end of the government’s fiscal year for
      additional purchases at the end of our third fiscal quarter in September of
      each
      year. Concentrations of orders sometimes also occur at the end of our other
      two
      fiscal quarters. Additionally, a majority of our sales force earns commissions
      on a quarterly basis which may cause concentrations of orders at the end of
      any
      fiscal quarter. If for any reason expected sales are deferred, orders are not
      received, or shipments are delayed a few days at the end of a quarter, our
      operating results and reported earnings per share for that quarter could be
      significantly impacted.

We
      Are Dependent on a Specific Manufacturer and Assembler for Many of Our Products
      and on Specific Suppliers of Critical Parts for Our Products.

We
      are
      substantially dependent upon Solectron Corporation in California, China and
      Mexico as our preferred manufacturing partner for many of our GPS products
      previously manufactured out of our Sunnyvale facilities. Under the agreement
      with Solectron, we provide to Solectron a twelve-month product forecast and
      place purchase orders with Solectron at least thirty calendar days in advance
      of
      the scheduled delivery of products to our customers depending on production
      lead
      time. Although purchase orders placed with Solectron are cancelable, the terms
      of the agreement would require us to purchase from Solectron all inventory
      not
      returnable or usable by other Solectron customers. Accordingly, if we
      inaccurately forecast demand for our products, we may be unable to obtain
      adequate manufacturing capacity from Solectron to meet customers’ delivery
      requirements or we may accumulate excess inventories, if such inventories are
      not usable by other Solectron customers. Our current contract with Solectron
      continues in effect until either party gives the other ninety days written
      notice

.

In
      addition, we rely on specific suppliers for a number of our critical components.
      We have experienced shortages of components in the past. Our current reliance
      on
      specific or a limited group of suppliers involves several risks, including
      a
      potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components and
      reduced control over pricing. Any inability to obtain adequate deliveries or
      any
      other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply
      or to manufacture such components internally could significantly delay our
      ability to ship our products, which could damage relationships with current
      and
      prospective customers and could harm our reputation and brand, and could have
      a
      material adverse effect on our business.

Our
      Annual and Quarterly Performance May Fluctuate.

Our
      operating results have fluctuated and can be expected to continue to fluctuate
      in the future on a quarterly and annual basis as a result of a number of
      factors, many of which are beyond our control. Results in any period could
      be
      affected by:

·

changes
                in market demand,

·

competitive
                market conditions,

·

market
                acceptance of existing or new products,

·

fluctuations
                in foreign currency exchange rates,

·

the
                cost and availability of components,

·

our
                ability to manufacture and ship products,

·

the
                mix of our customer base and sales channels,

·

the
                mix of products sold,

·

our
                ability to expand our sales and marketing organization effectively,

·

our
                ability to attract and retain key technical and managerial employees,

·

the
                timing of shipments of products under contracts
                and

·

general
                global economic conditions.

In
      addition, demand for our products in any quarter or year may vary due to the
      seasonal buying patterns of our customers in the agricultural and engineering
      and construction industries. Due to the foregoing factors, our operating results
      in one or more future periods are expected to be subject to significant
      fluctuations. The price of our common stock could decline substantially in
      the
      event such fluctuations result in our financial performance being below the
      expectations of public market analysts and investors, which are based primarily
      on historical models that are not necessarily accurate representations of the
      future.


Table
            of Contents

Our
      Gross Margin Is Subject to Fluctuation.

Our
      gross
      margin is affected by a number of factors, including product mix, product
      pricing, cost of components, foreign currency exchange rates and manufacturing
      costs. For example, sales of Nikon-branded products generally have lower gross
      margins as compared to our GPS survey products. Absent other factors, a shift
      in
      sales towards Nikon-branded products would lead to a reduction in our overall
      gross margins. A decline in gross margin could potentially negatively impact
      our
      earnings per share.

Failure
      to Maintain Effective Internal Controls in Compliance With Section 404 of the
      Sarbanes-Oxley Act Could Have an Adverse Effect on our Business and Stock
      Price.

Section
      404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to include an internal control
      report of management in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. For fiscal 2004, 2005,
      and 2006 we satisfied the requirements of Section 404, which requires annual
      management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over
      financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors addressing these
      assessments.

A
      system
      of controls, however well designed and operated, cannot provide absolute
      assurance that the objectives of the system will be met. In addition, the design
      of a control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the
      likelihood of future events. Because of the inherent limitations of control
      systems, there is only reasonable assurance that our controls will succeed
      in
      achieving their stated goals under all potential future conditions.

We
      Are Dependent on New Products.

Our
      future revenue stream depends to a large degree on our ability to bring new
      products to market on a timely basis. We must continue to make significant
      investments in research and development in order to continue to develop new
      products, enhance existing products and achieve market acceptance of such
      products. We may incur problems in the future in innovating and introducing
      new
      products. Our development stage products may not be successfully completed
      or,
      if developed, may not achieve significant customer acceptance. If we were unable
      to successfully define, develop and introduce competitive new products, and
      enhance existing products, our future results of operations would be adversely
      affected. Development and manufacturing schedules for technology products are
      difficult to predict, and we might not achieve timely initial customer shipments
      of new products. The timely availability of these products in volume and their
      acceptance by customers are important to our future success. A delay in new
      product introductions could have a significant impact on our results of
      operations.

We
      Are Dependent on Proprietary Technology.

Our
      future success and competitive position is dependent upon our proprietary
      technology, and we rely on patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright law
      to
      protect our intellectual property. The patents owned or licensed by us may
      be
      invalidated, circumvented, and challenged. The rights granted under these
      patents may not provide competitive advantages to us. Any of our pending or
      future patent applications may not be issued within the scope of the claims
      sought by us, if at all.

Others
      may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology,
      duplicate our technology or design around the patents owned by us. In addition,
      effective copyright, patent and trade secret protection may be unavailable,
      limited or not applied for in certain countries. The steps taken by us to
      protect our technology might not prevent the misappropriation of such
      technology.

The
      value
      of our products relies substantially on our technical innovation in fields
      in
      which there are many current patent filings. We recognize that as new patents
      are issued or are brought to our attention by the holders of such patents,
      it
      may be necessary for us to withdraw products from the market, take a license
      from such patent holders, or redesign our products. We do not believe any of
      our
      products currently infringe patents or other proprietary rights of third
      parties, but we cannot be certain they do not do so. In addition, the legal
      costs and engineering time required to safeguard intellectual property or to
      defend against litigation could become a significant expense of operations.
      Such
      events could have a material adverse effect on our revenues or
      profitability.

Our
      Products May Contain Errors or Defects, which Could Result in Damage to Our
      Reputation, Lost Revenues, Diverted Development Resources and Increased Service
      Costs, Warranty Claims and Litigation.

Our
      devices are complex and must meet stringent requirements. We warrant that our
      products will be free of defect for various periods of time, depending on the
      product. In addition, certain of our contracts include epidemic failure clauses.
      If invoked, these clauses may entitle the customer to return or obtain credits
      for products and inventory, or to cancel outstanding purchase orders even if
      the
      products themselves are not defective.


Table
            of Contents

We
      must
      develop our products quickly to keep pace with the rapidly changing market,
      and
      we have a history of frequently introducing new products. Products and services
      as sophisticated as ours could contain undetected errors or defects, especially
      when first introduced or when new models or versions are released. In general,
      our products may not be free from errors or defects after commercial shipments
      have begun, which could result in damage to our reputation, lost revenues,
      diverted development resources, increased customer service and support costs
      and
      warranty claims and litigation which could harm our business, results of
      operations and financial condition.

We
      Are Dependent on the Availability of Allocated Bands within the Radio Frequency
      Spectrum.

Our
      GPS
      technology is dependent on the use of the Standard Positioning Service (“SPS”)
      provided by the US Government’s GPS. The GPS SPS operates in radio frequency
      bands that are globally allocated for radio navigation satellite services.
      International allocations of radio frequency are made by the International
      Telecommunications Union (“ITU”), a specialized technical agency of the United
      Nations. These allocations are further governed by radio regulations that have
      treaty status and which may be subject to modification every two to three years
      by the World Radio Communication Conference.

Any
      ITU
      reallocation of radio frequency bands, including frequency band segmentation
      or
      sharing of spectrum, may materially and adversely affect the utility and
      reliability of our products. Many of our products use other radio frequency
      bands, together with the GPS signal, to provide enhanced GPS capabilities,
      such
      as real-time kinematic precision. The continuing availability of these non-GPS
      radio frequencies is essential to provide enhanced GPS products to our precision
      survey and construction machine controls markets. Any regulatory changes in
      spectrum allocation or in allowable operating conditions may cause a material
      adverse effect on our operating results.

In
      addition, unwanted emissions from mobile satellite services and other equipment
      operating in adjacent frequency bands or in-band from licensed and unlicensed
      devices may materially and adversely affect the utility and reliability of
      our
      products. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) continually receives
      proposals for novel technologies and services, such as ultra-wideband
      technologies, which may seek to operate in, or across, the radio frequency
      bands
      currently used by the GPS SPS and other public safety services. Adverse
      decisions by the FCC that result in harmful interference to the delivery of
      the
      GPS SPS and other radio frequency spectrum also used in our products may result
      in a material adverse effect on our business and financial
      condition.

Many
      of Our Products Rely on GNSS technology, the GPS and other Satellite
      Systems

GNSS
      technology, GPS satellites and their ground support systems are complex
      electronic systems subject to electronic and mechanical failures and possible
      sabotage. The satellites currently in orbit were originally designed to have
      lives of 7.5 years and are subject to damage by the hostile space environment
      in
      which they operate. However, of the current deployment of 30 satellites in
      place, some have already been in operation for more than 12 years. To repair
      damaged or malfunctioning satellites is currently not economically feasible.
      If
      a significant number of satellites were to become inoperable, there could be
      a
      substantial delay before they are replaced with new satellites. A reduction
      in
      the number of operating satellites may impair the current utility of the GPS
      system and the growth of current and additional market opportunities.

In
      2004,
      a Presidential policy affirmed a 1996 Presidential Decision Directive that
      marked the first time in the evolution of GPS that access for civilian use
      was
      free of direct user fees. In addition, Presidential policy has been complemented
      by corresponding legislation, that was signed into law. However, there can
      be no
      assurance that the U.S. Government will remain committed to the operation and
      maintenance of GPS satellites over a long period, or that the policies of the
      U.S. Government for the use of GPS without charge will remain unchanged. Because
      of ever-increasing commercial applications of GPS, other U.S. Government
      agencies may become involved in the administration or the regulation of the
      use
      of GPS signals. Any of the foregoing factors could affect the willingness of
      buyers of our products to select GPS-based systems instead of products based
      on
      competing technologies.

Many
      of
      our products also use signals from systems that augment GPS, such as the Wide
      Area Augmentation System (WAAS) and National Differential GPS System (NDGPS).
      Many of these augmentation systems are operated by the federal government and
      rely on continued funding and maintenance of these systems. In addition, some
      of
      our products also use satellite signals from the Russian Glonass System. Any
      curtailment of the operating capability of these systems could result in
      decreased user capability thereby impacting our markets.


Table
            of Contents

The
      European governments have begun development of an independent satellite
      navigation system, known as Galileo. We have access to the preliminary signal
      design, which is subject to change. Although an operational Galileo system
      is
      several years away, if we are unable to develop a timely commercial product,
      it
      may have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results.

We
      may be Materially Affected by New Regulatory Requirements.

We
      are
      subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations
      that govern our operations, including the handling and disposal of non-hazardous
      and hazardous wastes, and emissions and discharges into the environment. Failure
      to comply with such laws and regulations could result in costs for corrective
      action, penalties, or the imposition of other liabilities.

In
      particular, under certain of these laws and regulations, a current or previous
      owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of remediating
      hazardous substances or petroleum products on or from its property, without
      regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused, the contamination,
      as well as incur liability to third parties impacted by such contamination.
      In
      addition, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement
      operations as we adjust to new and upcoming requirements relating to the
      materials composition of many of our products. The European Union (“EU”) adopted
      new directives to manage the use of hazardous materials and to facilitate the
      recycling of electrical and electronic equipment sold in the EU. One of these
      is
      the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and
      Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”) directive. The RoHS directive restricts the use of
      lead, mercury and certain other substances in electrical and electronic products
      placed on the market in the European Union after July 1, 2006.

China
      adopted the Management Measures on Electronic Information Product Pollution
      Control to manage toxic and hazardous substances in electronic information
      products in 2006. Also known as “China RoHS,” the new regulations will require
      labeling of products containing toxic or hazardous substances placed on the
      Chinese market after March 1, 2007. Similar laws and regulations have been
      or
      may be enacted in other regions, including in the United States and Japan.
      Other
      environmental regulations may require us to reengineer our products to utilize
      components which are more environmentally compatible and such reengineering
      and
      component substitution may result in additional costs to us. Although we do
      not
      anticipate any material adverse effects based on the nature of our operations
      and the effect of such laws, there is no assurance that such existing laws
      or
      future laws will not have a material adverse effect on our
      business.

Our
      Business is Subject to Disruptions and Uncertainties Caused by War or Terrorism.

Acts
      of
      war or acts of terrorism could have a material adverse impact on our business,
      operating results, and financial condition. The threat of terrorism and war
      and
      heightened security and military response to this threat, or any future acts
      of
      terrorism, may cause further disruption to our economy and create further
      uncertainties. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result
      in
      delays or cancellations of orders, or the manufacture or shipment of our
      products, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be
      materially and adversely affected.

We
      Are Exposed to Fluctuations in Currency Exchange Rates.

A
      significant portion of our business is conducted outside the U.S., and as such,
      we face exposure to movements in non-U.S. currency exchange rates. These
      exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have
      a
      material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. Fluctuation
      in
      currency impacts our operating results.

Currently,
      we hedge only those currency exposures associated with certain assets and
      liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies. The hedging activities
      undertaken by us are intended to offset the impact of currency fluctuations
      on
      certain non-functional currency assets and liabilities. Our attempts to hedge
      against these risks may not be successful resulting in an adverse impact on
      our
      net income.

We
      Face Risks in Investing in and Integrating New Acquisitions.

We
      have
      recently acquired a number of companies, including @Road, and intend to continue
      to acquire other companies. Acquisitions of companies entail numerous risks,
      including:


Table
            of Contents

·

potential
                inability to successfully integrate acquired operations and products
                or to
                realize cost savings or other anticipated benefits from integration;

·

diversion
                of management’s attention from on-going business concerns;

·

loss
                of key employees of acquired operations;

·

the
                difficulty of assimilating geographically dispersed operations and
                personnel of the acquired companies;

·

the
                potential disruption of our ongoing business;

·

unanticipated
                expenses related to such integration;

·

the
                correct assessment of the relative percentages of in-process research
                and
                development expense that can be immediately written off as compared
                to the
                amount which must be amortized over the appropriate life of the asset;

·

the
                impairment of relationships with employees and customers of either
                an
                acquired company or our own business;

·

the
                potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired business;

·

inability
                to recover strategic investments in development stage entities; and

·

insufficient
                revenues to offset increased expenses associated with
                acquisitions.

As
      a
      result of such acquisitions, we have significant assets that include goodwill
      and other purchased intangibles. The testing of these intangibles under
      established accounting guidelines for impairment requires significant use of
      judgment and assumptions. Changes in business conditions could require
      adjustments to the valuation of these assets. In addition, losses incurred
      by a
      company in which we have an investment may have a direct impact on our financial
      statements or could result in our having to write-down the value of such
      investment. Any such problems in integration or adjustments to the value of
      the
      assets acquired could harm our growth strategy and have a material adverse
      effect on our business, financial condition and compliance with debt
      covenants.

Our
      Debt Could Adversely Affect Our Cash Flow and Prevent Us from Fulfilling Our
      Obligations.

Upon
      consummation of the @Road acquisition, on February 20, 2007, we borrowed $250
      million under an amended credit agreement and term loan which has increased
      our
      outstanding indebtedness and interest expense. Our debt could have important
      consequences, such as:

·

requiring
                us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations and other
                capital resources to debt service, thereby reducing our ability to
                fund
                working capital, capital expenditures and other cash
                requirements;

·

increasing
                our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry
                conditions;

·

limiting
                our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes and opportunities
                in, our industry, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage;
                and

·

limiting
                our ability to incur additional debt on acceptable terms, if at
                all.

Additionally,
      if we were to default under our amended credit agreement and were unable to
      obtain a waiver for such a default, interest on the obligations would
      accrue at an increased rate and the lenders could accelerate our
      obligations under the amended credit agreement, however that acceleration
      will be automatic in the case of bankruptcy and insolvency events of
      default.  Additionally, our subsidiaries that have guaranteed the amended
      credit agreement could be required to pay the full amount of our
      obligations under the amended credit agreement.  Any such action on
      the part of the lenders against us could have a materially adverse impact on
      our
      business, financial condition, and results of operations.

We
      May Not Be Able to Enter Into or Maintain Important Alliances.

We
      believe that in certain business opportunities our success will depend on our
      ability to form and maintain alliances with industry participants, such as
      Caterpillar, Nikon, and CNH Global. Our failure to form and maintain such
      alliances, or the pre-emption of such alliances by actions of competitors or
      us,
      will adversely affect our ability to penetrate emerging markets. No assurances
      can be given that we will not experience problems from current or future
      alliances or that we will realize value from any such strategic
      alliances.

We
      Face Competition in Our Markets.

Our
      markets are highly competitive and we expect that both direct and indirect
      competition will increase in the future. Our overall competitive position
      depends on a number of factors including the price, quality and performance
      of
      our products, the level of customer service, the development of new technology
      and our ability to participate in emerging markets. Within each of our markets,
      we encounter direct competition from other GPS, optical and laser suppliers
      and
      competition may intensify from various larger U.S. and non-U.S. competitors
      and
      new market entrants, particularly from emerging markets such as China and India,
      some of which may be our current customers. The competition in the future may,
      in some cases, result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market
      share, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business,
      operating results and financial condition. We believe that our ability to
      compete successfully in the future against existing and additional competitors
      will depend largely on our ability to execute our strategy to provide systems
      and products with significantly differentiated features compared to currently
      available products. We may not be able to implement this strategy successfully,
      and our products may not be competitive with other technologies or products
      that
      may be developed by our competitors, many of whom have significantly greater
      financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, sales and other resources than
      we do.


Table
            of Contents

We
      Must Carefully Manage Our Future Growth.

Growth
      in
      our sales or continued expansion in the scope of our operations could strain
      our
      current management, financial, manufacturing and other resources, and may
      require us to implement and improve a variety of operating, financial and other
      systems, procedures, and controls. We have recently implemented a new enterprise
      resource planning software system and we may experience in our financial and
      order management processing as a result of new procedures. Problems associated
      with any improvement or expansion of these systems, procedures or controls
      may
      adversely affect our operations and these systems, procedures or controls may
      not be designed, implemented or improved in a cost-effective and timely manner.
      Any failure to implement, improve and expand such systems, procedures, and
      controls in a timely and efficient manner could harm our growth strategy and
      adversely affect our financial condition and ability to achieve our business
      objectives.

We
      Are Subject to the Impact of Governmental and Other Similar Certifications.

We
      market
      certain products that are subject to governmental and similar certifications
      before they can be sold. For example, CE certification for radiated emissions
      is
      required for most GPS receiver and data communications products sold in the
      European Union. An inability to obtain such certifications in a timely manner
      could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Also, some of our
      products that use integrated radio communication technology require product
      type
      certification and some products require an end user to obtain licensing from
      the
      FCC for frequency-band usage. These are secondary licenses that are subject
      to
      certain restrictions. An inability or delay in obtaining such certifications
      or
      changes to the rules by the FCC could adversely affect our ability to bring
      our
      products to market which could harm our customer relationships and have a
      material adverse effect on our business.

We
      Are Subject to the Adverse Impact of Radio Frequency
      Congestion.

We
      have
      certain products, such as GPS RTK systems, and surveying and mapping systems
      that use integrated radio communication technology requiring access to available
      radio frequencies allocated by the FCC (or the NTIA in the case of federal
      government users of this equipment) for which the end user is required to obtain
      a license in order to operate their equipment. In addition, access to these
      frequencies by state agencies is under management by state radio communications
      coordinators. Some bands are experiencing congestion that excludes their
      availability for access by state agencies in some states. To reduce congestion,
      the FCC announced that it will require migration of radio technology from
      wideband to narrowband operations in these bands. The rules require migration
      of
      users to narrowband channels by 2011. In the meantime congestion could cause
      FCC
      coordinators to restrict or refuse licenses. An inability to obtain access
      to
      these radio frequencies by end users could have an adverse effect on our
      operating results.

The
      Volatility of Our Stock Price Could Adversely Affect Your Investment in Our
      Common Stock.

The
      market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly
      volatile. During fiscal 2006, our stock price ranged from $17.51 to $26.18,
      on a
      post-split basis. We believe that a variety of factors could cause the price
      of
      our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including:

·

announcements
                and rumors of developments related to our business or the industry
                in
                which we compete;

·

quarterly
                fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results and order
                levels;

·

general
                conditions in the worldwide economy, including fluctuations in interest
                rates;

·

announcements
                of technological innovations;

·

acquisition
                announcements;

·

new
                products or product enhancements by us or our
                competitors;

·

developments
                in patents or other intellectual property rights and
                litigation;

·

developments
                in our relationships with our customers and suppliers;
                and

·

any
                significant acts of terrorism against the United
                States.


Table
            of Contents

In
      addition, in recent years the stock market in general and the markets for shares
      of "high-tech" companies in particular, have experienced extreme price
      fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of
      affected companies. Any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect
      the market price of our common stock, and the market price of our common stock
      may decline.

Provisions
      in Our Charter Documents and Under California Law Could Prevent or Delay a
      Change of Control, which Could Reduce the Market Price of Our Common
      Stock.

Certain
      provisions of our articles of incorporation, as amended and restated, our
      bylaws, as amended and restated, and the California General Corporation Law
      may
      be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and could discourage a third party
      from acquiring, or make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, control
      of us without approval of our board of directors. These provisions could also
      limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future
      for
      shares of our common stock. Certain provisions allow the board of directors
      to
      authorize the issuance of preferred stock with rights superior to those of
      the
      common stock.

We
      have
      adopted a Preferred Shares Rights Agreement, commonly known as a "poison pill."
      The provisions described above, our poison pill and provisions of the California
      General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from
      acquiring us.

Item
                1B.

Un

reso

lved
                Staff
                Comments.

None

Item
                2.

Pro

per

ties.

The
      following table sets forth the significant real property that we own or lease
      as
      of February 23, 2007:

Location

Segment(s)
                served

Size
                in Sq. Feet

Commitment

Sunnyvale,
                California

All

160,000

Leased,
                expiring 2012

                buildings

Huber
                Heights (Dayton), Ohio

Engineering
                & Construction

Field
                Solutions

Distribution

150,000

57,200

35,600

Owned,
                no encumbrances

Leased,
                expiring in 2011

Leased,
                month to month

Westminster,
                Colorado

Engineering
                & Construction, Field Solutions

76,000

Leased,
                expiring 2013

Corvallis,
                Oregon

Engineering
                & Construction

20,000

38,000

Owned,
                no encumbrances

Leased,
                expiring 2007

Richmond
                Hill, Canada

Advanced
                Devices

50,200

Leased,
                expiring 2007

Danderyd,
                Sweden

Engineering
                & Construction

93,900

Leased,
                expiring 2010

Christchurch,
                New Zealand

Engineering
                & Construction, Mobile Solutions, Field Solutions

65,000

Leased,
                expiring 2010

                buildings

Fremont,
                California (@Road)

Mobile
                Solutions

102,544

Leased,
                expiring 2010

                buildings

Chennai,
                India

(@Road)

Mobile
                Solutions

37,910

Leased,
                expiring 2009

In
      addition, we lease a number of smaller offices around the world primarily for
      sales and manufacturing functions. For financial information regarding
      obligations under leases, see Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
      Statements.

*
      We
      believe that our facilities are adequate to support current and near-term
      operations.

Item
              3.

Legal
                Proc

eedi

ngs.

From
      time
      to time, the Company is involved in litigation arising out of the ordinary
      course of its business. There are no known claims or pending litigation expected
      to have a material effect on our overall financial position, results of
      operations, or liquidity.


Table
            of Contents

Item
              4.

Su

bmiss

ion
                of Matters to a Vote of Security
                Holders.

No
      matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter
      of 2006.

PART
      II

Item
              5.

Ma

rke

t
                for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder
                Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
                Securities.

Our
      common stock is traded on the NASDAQ National Market under the symbol "TRMB."
      The table below sets forth, during the periods indicated, the high and low
      per
      share sale prices for our common stock as reported on the NASDAQ National
      Market.


Sales
                Price


Sales
                Price

Quarter
                Ended

High

Low

High

Low

First
                quarter

$

22.53

$

17.51

$

19.12

$

15.02

Second
                quarter

24.26

19.68

20.56

15.04

Third
                quarter

25.55

21.29

22.28

15.58

Fourth
                quarter

26.18

22.10

18.98

13.32

2-for-1
      Stock Split

On
      January 17, 2007, Trimble’s Board of Directors approved a 2-for-1 split of all
      outstanding shares of the Company’s Common Stock, payable February 22, 2007 to
      stockholders of record on February 8, 2007. All shares and per share information
      presented has been adjusted to reflect the stock split on a retroactive basis
      for all periods presented.

As
      of
      December 29, 2006, there were

approximately
      1,009 holders

of
      record of our common stock.

Dividend
      Policy

We
      have
      not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock during any period
      for which financial information is provided in this Annual Report on
      Form 10-K. At this time, we intend to retain future earnings, if any, to
      fund the development and growth of our business and do not anticipate paying
      any
      cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future.

Under
      the
      existing terms of our credit facility, we are allowed to pay dividends and
      repurchase shares of our common stock in any twelve (12) month period, in an
      aggregate amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of net income (plus to the extent
      deducted in determining net income for such period, non-cash expenses in respect
      of stock options) for the previous twelve month period.  Also, we are
      allowed to spend an additional $50 million to pay dividends and repurchase
      shares if we are in compliance with our fixed charge coverage ratio.


Table
            of Contents

Item
              6.

Selected
                Fin

anc

ial Data

The
      following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction
      with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
      Operations” and our consolidated financial statements and related notes
      appearing elsewhere in this annual report. Historical results are not
      necessarily indicative of future results. In particular, because the results
      of
      operations and financial condition related to our acquisitions are included
      in
      our Consolidated Statements of Income and Consolidated Balance Sheets data
      commencing on those respective acquisition dates, comparisons of our results
      of
      operations and financial condition for periods prior to and subsequent to those
      acquisitions are not indicative of future results.

As
                  of And For the Fiscal Years Ended

December
                  29,


December
                  30,


December
                  31,


January
                  2,


January
                  3,


(Dollar
                  in thousands, except per share data)

Revenue

$

940,150

$

774,913

$

668,808

$

540,903

$

466,602

Gross
                  margin

$

461,081

$

389,805

$

324,810

$

268,030

$

234,432

Gross
                  margin percentage


%


%


%


%


%

Income
                  from continuing operations

$

103,658

$

84,855

$

67,680

$

38,485

$

10,324

Net
                  income

$

103,658

$

84,855

$

67,680

$

38,485

$

10,324

Per
                  common share (1):

Net
                  income (1)

-
                  Basic

$

0.94

$

0.80

$

0.66

$

0.41

$

0.12

-
                  Diluted

$

0.89

$

0.75

$

0.62

$

0.38

$

0.12

Shares
                  used in calculating basic earnings per share (1)

110,044

106,432

102,326

95,010

85,720

Shares
                  used in calculating diluted earnings per share (1)

116,072

113,638

109,896

100,024

87,156

Cash
                  dividends per share

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

Total
                  assets

$

978,431

$

743,088

$

653,978

$

552,602

$

447,704

Non-current
                  portion of long term debt and other non-current
                  liabilities

$

28,000

$

19,474

$

38,226

$

85,880

$

114,051

(1)

2-for-1
                Stock Split - On January 17, 2007, Trimble’s Board of Directors approved a
                2-for-1 split of all outstanding shares of the Company’s Common Stock,
                payable February 22, 2007 to stockholders of record on February 8,
                2007.
                All shares and per share information presented has been adjusted
                to
                reflect the stock split on a retroactive basis for all periods presented.


Table
            of Contents

Item
              7.

Man

age

ment's
                Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
                Results of Operations

The
      following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated
      financial statements and the related notes. The following discussion contains
      forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Our
      actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the
      forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these
      differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and those
      listed under "Risks Factors."

EXECUTIVE
      LEVEL OVERVIEW

Trimble’s
      focus is on combining positioning technology with wireless communication and
      application capabilities to create system-level solutions that enhance
      productivity and accuracy for our customers. The majority of our markets are
      end-user markets, including engineering and construction firms, governmental
      organizations, public safety workers, farmers and companies who must manage
      fleets of mobile workers and assets. In our Advanced Devices segment, we also
      provide components to original equipment manufacturers to incorporate into
      their
      products. In the end user markets, we provide a system that includes a hardware
      platform that may contain software and customer support. Some examples of our
      solutions include products that automate and simplify the process of surveying
      land, products that automate the utilization of equipment such as tractors
      and
      bulldozers, products that enable a company to manage its mobile workforce and
      assets, and products that allow municipalities to manage their fixed assets.

Solutions
      targeted at the end-user make up a significant majority of our revenue. To
      create compelling products, we must attain an understanding of the end users’
needs and work flow, and how location-based technology can enable that end
      user
      to work faster, more efficiently and more accurately. We use this knowledge
      to
      create highly innovative products that change the way work is done by the
      end-user. With the exception of our TMS segment, our products are generally
      sold
      through a dealer channel, and it is crucial that we maintain a proficient
      global, third-party distribution channel.

During
      2006 we continued to execute our strategy with a series of actions that can
      be
      summarized in four categories.

Reinforcing
      our position in existing markets

Generally,
      we believe that our markets provide us with additional, substantial potential
      for substituting our technology for traditional methods. In 2006 we continued
      to
      develop new products and to strengthen our distribution channels to realize
      these opportunities. A number of new products such as Trimble S6, Trimble SPS700
      Robotic Construction Total Station and the enhanced Trimble GCS900 Grade Control
      System strengthened our competitive position and created new value for the
      user.

Extend
      our position in existing markets through new product
      categories

We
      are
      utilizing the strength of the Trimble brand in our markets to expand our
      revenues by bringing new products to existing users. A 2006 example was the
      introduction of the AgGPS EZ-Boom 2010 product. In order to create new
      categories of products on the construction site we acquired Quantm, Meridian,
      XYZ Solutions, and Bitwyse.

Bring
      existing technology to new markets

*
      We
      continue to reinforce our position in existing markets and positioned ourselves
      in newer markets that will serve as important sources of future growth. Our
      efforts in China, India, Russia, Korea and Eastern Europe all reflected
      improving financial results, with the promise of more in the future.

Entered
      completely new markets

In
      fiscal
      2006 we acquired Visual Statement, which provides desktop software tools for
      crime and collision incident investigation, analysis, and reconstitution as
      well
      as state-wide enterprise solutions for reporting and analysis used by public
      safety agencies, and Eleven Technology, Inc., which is a mobile application
      software company with a leading position in the Consumer Packaged Goods
      industry. In addition, we increased our reach with existing products in new
      markets, particularly emerging markets such as China and India.


Table
            of Contents

CRITICAL
      ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Our
      accounting policies are more fully described in Note 2 of the Notes to the
      Consolidated Financial Statements. The preparation of financial statements
      and
      related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
      in the United States requires us to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates
      that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and
      accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We consider the
      accounting polices described below to be our critical accounting polices. These
      critical accounting policies are impacted significantly by judgments,
      assumptions, and estimates used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial
      Statements, and actual results could differ materially from the amounts reported
      based on these policies.

Revenue
      Recognition

Our
      revenues are recorded in accordance with the Securities and Exchange
      Commission’s (SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 104, “Revenue
      Recognition” and in accordance with Statement of Position (SOP) No. 97-2,
“Software Revenue Recognition” and Statement of Position (SOP) No. 98-9,
“Modification of SOP 97-2”. The Company recognizes product revenue when
      persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee
      is
      fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. In instances
      where final acceptance of the product is specified by the customer or is
      uncertain, revenue is deferred until all acceptance criteria have been met.

Contracts
      and customer purchase orders are typically used to determine the existence
      of an
      arrangement. Shipping documents and customer acceptance, when applicable, are
      used to verify delivery. We assess whether the fee is fixed or determinable
      based on the payment terms associated with the transaction and whether the
      sales
      price is subject to refund or adjustment. We assess collectibility based
      primarily on the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit checks
      and analysis, as well as the customer’s payment history.

Our
      shipment terms for US orders, and international orders fulfilled from its
      European distribution center are typically FCA (Free Carrier) shipping point,
      except certain sales to US government agencies which are shipped FOB
      destination. FCA shipping point means that we fulfill the obligation and title
      has passed to the buyer upon delivery of the goods to the carrier named by
      the
      buyer at the named place or point. If no precise point is indicated by the
      buyer, we may choose within the place or range stipulated where the carrier
      will
      take the goods into carrier’s charge. FOB destination means revenue for orders
      are not recognized until the product is delivered and title has transferred
      to
      the buyer. We bear all costs and risks of loss or damage to the goods up to
      that
      point. Shipping and handling costs are included in the cost of goods
      sold.

Revenue
      to distributors and resellers is recognized upon delivery, assuming all other
      criteria for revenue recognition have been met. Distributors and resellers
      do
      not have a right of return.

Revenues
      from purchased extended warranty and support agreements are deferred and
      recognized ratably over the term of the warranty/support period.

We
      apply
      Statement of Position (SOP) No. 97-2, “Software Revenue Recognition” to products
      where the embedded software is more than incidental to the functionality of
      the
      hardware. This determination requires significant judgment including a
      consideration of factors such as marketing, research and development efforts
      and
      any postcustomer contract support relating to the embedded
      software.

In
      accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue 00-21, “Accounting for
      Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables,” when a non-software sale
      involves multiple elements the entire fee from the arrangement is allocated
      to
      each respective element based on its relative fair value and recognized when
      revenue recognition criteria for each element are met.

Our
      software arrangements generally consist of a perpetual license fee and post
      contract customer support (PCS). We have established vendor-specific objective
      evidence (VSOE) of fair value for our PCS contracts based on the renewal rate.
      The remaining value of the software arrangement is allocated to the license
      fee
      using the residual method, which revenue is primarily recognized when the
      software has been delivered and there are no remaining obligations. Revenue
      from
      PCS is recognized ratably over the term of the PCS agreement.

Allowance
      for Doubtful Accounts and Sales Returns

Our
      accounts receivable balance, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, was $172.0
      million as of December 29, 2006, compared with $145.1 million as of December
      30,
      2005. We evaluate the collectibility of our trade accounts receivable based
      on a
      number of factors such as age of the accounts receivable balances, credit
      quality, historical experience, and current economic conditions that may affect
      a customer’s ability to pay. In circumstances where we are aware of a specific
      customer’s inability to meet its financial obligations to us, a specific
      allowance for bad debts is estimated and recorded which reduces the recognized
      receivable to the estimated amount we believe will ultimately be collected.
      In
      addition to specific customer identification of potential bad debts, bad debt
      charges are recorded based on our recent past loss history and an overall
      assessment of past due trade accounts receivable amounts
      outstanding.


Table
            of Contents

A
      reserve
      for sales returns is established based on historical trends in product return
      rates experienced in the ordinary course of business. The reserve for sales
      returns as of December 29, 2006 and December 30, 2005 were $900,000 and $1.5
      million, respectively, for estimated future returns that were recorded as a
      reduction of our accounts receivable and revenue. If the actual future returns
      were to deviate from the historical data on which the reserve had been
      established, our revenue could be adversely affected.

Inventory
      Valuation

Our
      inventories, net balance was $112.6 million as of December 29, 2006 compared
      with $107.9 million as of December 30, 2005. Our inventory allowances as of
      December 29, 2006 were $28.6 million, compared with $23.2 million as of December
      30, 2005. Our inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, with costs
      primarily computed on a standard cost basis. Adjustments to reduce the cost
      of
      inventory to its net realizable value, if required, are made for estimated
      excess, obsolescence, or impaired inventory. Factors influencing these
      adjustments include decline in demand, technological changes, product life
      cycle
      and development plans, component cost trends, product pricing, physical
      deterioration, and quality issues. If actual factors are less favorable than
      those projected by us, additional inventory write-downs may be required.

Income
      Taxes

Income
      taxes are accounted for under the liability method whereby deferred tax assets
      or liability account balances are calculated at the balance sheet date using
      current tax laws and rates in effect for the year in which the differences
      are
      expected to affect taxable income. A valuation allowance is recorded to reduce
      the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not such
      assets will not be realized.

The
      company’s valuation allowance is attributable to, primarily, the California
      Research Credit and acquisition Net Operating Loss carryforwards. 
Valuation allowance amounts are offsets to related deferred tax assets.
      Management believes that it is more likely than not that the Company will not
      realize these deferred tax assets and, accordingly, a valuation allowance has
      been established for such amounts. When the tax credits are utilized and the
      valuation allowance is released, the benefit of the release of the valuation
      allowance will be accounted for as a credit to shareholder’s equity rather than
      as a reduction of the income tax provision

.

Annual
      Goodwill Impairment Test

Goodwill
      as of December 29, 2006 was $374.5 million, compared with $286.1 million as
      of
      December 30, 2005. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of
      goodwill is subjective and requires significant assumptions. If an evaluation
      is
      required, the estimated future undiscounted cash flows associated with these
      assets would be compared to their carrying amount to determine if a write-down
      to fair market value or discounted cash flow value is required.

We
      performed an annual impairment test of goodwill at the end of the third fiscal
      quarter of 2006 and 2005 and found there was no impairment of goodwill. We
      will
      continue to evaluate our goodwill for impairment on an annual basis at the
      end
      of each fiscal third quarter and whenever events and changes in circumstances

suggest
      that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The determination of the net
      carrying value of goodwill and the extent to which, if any, there is impairment
      are dependent on material estimates and judgments on our part, including the
      useful life over which the intangible assets are to be amortized, and the
      estimates of the value of future net cash flows, which are based upon further
      estimates of future revenues, expenses and operating income.

Accounting
      for Long-Lived Assets Including Intangibles Subject to
      Amortization

Depreciation
      and amortization of our long-lived assets is provided using straight-line
      methods over their estimated useful lives. Changes in circumstances such as
      technological advances, changes to our business model, or changes in the capital
      strategy could result in the actual useful lives differing from initial
      estimates. In those cases where we determine that the useful life of a
      long-lived asset should be revised, we will depreciate the net book value in
      excess of the estimated residual value over its revised remaining useful life.
      Factors such as changes in the planned use of equipment, customer attrition,
      contractual amendments, or mandated regulatory requirements could result in
      shortened useful lives.


Table
            of Contents

Long-lived
      assets and asset groups are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes
      in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be
      recoverable. The estimated future cash flows are based upon, among other things,
      assumptions about expected future operating performance and may differ from
      actual cash flows. Long-lived assets evaluated for impairment are grouped with
      other assets to the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely
      independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets and liabilities. If
      the
      sum of the projected undiscounted cash flows (excluding interest) is less than
      the carrying value of the assets, the assets will be written down to the
      estimated fair value in the period in which the determination is made.

Warranty
      Costs

The
      liability for product warranties was $8.6 million as of December 29, 2006,
      compared with $7.5 million as of December 30, 2005.

We
      accrue
      for warranty costs as part of cost of sales based on associated material product
      costs, technical support labor costs, and costs incurred by third parties
      performing work on our behalf. Our expected future cost is primarily estimated
      based upon historical trends in the volume of product returns within the
      warranty period and the cost to repair or replace the equipment. The products
      sold are generally covered by a warranty for periods ranging from 90 days to
      three years, and in some instances up to 5.5 years.

While
      we
      engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively
      monitoring and evaluating the quality of our component suppliers, our warranty
      obligation is affected by product failure rates, material usage, and service
      delivery costs incurred in correcting a product failure. Should actual product
      failure rates, material usage, or service delivery costs differ from our
      estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty accrual and related costs may
      be
      required.

Stock
      Compensation

We
      apply
      Standard of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123(R), “Share-Based
      Payment” (“SFAS 123(R)”) and related interpretations in accounting for our stock
      option plans and stock purchase plan for fiscal 2006. As a result, the Company’s
      financial statements for fiscal 2006 include stock-based compensation expenses
      that are not comparable to financial statements prior to fiscal 2006. Prior
      to
      fiscal 2006, we applied Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting
      for Stock Issued to Employees" (APB 25) and related interpretations in
      accounting for our stock option plans and stock purchase plan. Accordingly,
      we
      did not recognize compensation cost for stock options granted at a price equal
      to fair market value prior to fiscal 2006.

For
      options granted prior to October 1, 2005, the fair value for these options
      was
      estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
      For
      stock options granted on or after October 1, 2005, the fair value of each
      award is estimated on the date of grant using a binomial valuation model.
      Similar to the Black-Scholes model, the binomial model takes into account
      variables such as volatility, dividend yield rate, and risk free interest rate.
      In addition,

the
      binomial model incorporates actual option-pricing behavior. For these reasons,
      we believe that the binomial model provides a fair value that is more
      representative of actual experience and future expected experience than the
      value calculated using the Black-Scholes model.

Note
      of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements describes the plans we
      operate, and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
      contains a summary of the effects to reported net income and earnings per share
      for fiscal 2006, and pro forma net income and earnings per share for fiscal
      and 2004 as if we had elected to recognize compensation cost based on the fair
      value of the options granted at grant date.

RECENT
      BUSINESS DEVELOPMENTS

@Road,
      Inc.

On
      February 16, 2007, we acquired @Road, Inc. of Fremont, California. @Road, Inc.
      is a global provider of solutions designed to automate the management of mobile
      resources and to optimize the service delivery process for customers across
      a
      variety of industries. @Road will be reported within our Mobile Solutions
      business segment. This acquisition was the largest in acquisition value in
      the
      company’s history. It significantly increases our presence in the mobile
      resource management, or MRM, market which Trimble believes is a large and fast
      growing market.


Table
            of Contents

*
      With
      the addition of @Road, Trimble’s TMS segment will be better able to service
      larger customers, with a broader and more robust solution set.

INPHO
      GmbH

On
      February 13, 2007, we acquired INPHO GmbH of Stuttgart, Germany. INPHO is a
      leader in photogrammetry and digital surface modeling for aerial surveying,
      mapping and remote sensing applications. INPHO will be reported within Trimble’s
      Engineering and Construction segment.

Spacient
      Technologies, Inc.

On
      November 21, 2006, we acquired privately-held Spacient Technologies, Inc. of
      Long Beach, California. Spacient is a leading provider of enterprise field
      service management and mobile mapping solutions for municipalities and
      utilities. Spacient’s performance is reported under our Field Solutions business
      segment.

Meridian
      Project Systems, Inc.

On
      November 7, 2006, we acquired privately-held Meridian Project Systems, Inc.
      of
      Folsom, California. Meridian provides enterprise project management and
      lifecycle software for optimizing the plan, build and operate lifecycle for
      real
      estate, construction and other physical infrastructure projects. Meridian’s
      performance is reported under our Engineering and Construction business segment.

XYZ
      Solutions, Inc.

On
      October 27, 2006, we acquired privately-held XYZ Solutions, Inc., of Alpharetta,
      Georgia. XYZ Solutions provides real-time, interactive 3D intelligence software
      to manage the spatial aspects of a construction project. XYZ Solutions’
performance is reported under our Engineering and Construction business
      segment.

Visual
      Statement, Inc.

On
      October 11, 2006, we acquired privately-held Visual Statement, Inc. of Kamloops,
      British Columbia, Canada. Visual Statement provides desktop software tools
      for
      crime and collision incident investigation, analysis, and reconstitution as
      well
      as state-wide enterprise solutions for reporting and analysis used by public
      safety agencies. Visual Statement’s performance is reported under our Mobile
      Solutions business segment.

BitWyse
      Solutions, Inc.

On
      May 1,
      2006, we acquired the assets of privately-held BitWyse Solutions, Inc. of Salem,
      Massachusetts. BitWyse is a provider of engineering and construction information
      management software. BitWyse’s performance is reported under our Engineering and
      Construction business segment.

Eleven
      Technology, Inc.

On
      April
      28, 2006, we acquired privately-held Eleven Technology, Inc. of Cambridge,
      Massachusetts. Eleven is a mobile application software company with a leading
      position in the Consumer Packaged Goods industry. Eleven’s performance is
      reported under our Mobile Solutions business segment.

Quantm
      International, Inc.

On
      April
      5, 2006, we acquired privately-held Quantm International, Inc., a provider
      of
      transportation route optimization solutions used for planning highways,
      railways, pipelines and canals. Quantm’s performance is reported under our
      Engineering and Construction business segment.

XYZs
      of
      GPS, Inc.

On
      February 26, 2006, we acquired the assets of XYZs of GPS, Inc. of Dickerson,
      Maryland. XYZ develops real-time Global Navigation Satellite System or, GNSS,
      reference station, integrity monitoring and dynamic positioning software for
      meter, decimeter and centimeter applications. XYZs’ performance is reported
      under our Engineering and Construction business segment.


Table
            of Contents

RESULTS
      OF OPERATIONS

Overview

The
      following table is a summary of revenue, gross margin and operating income
      for
      the periods indicated and should be read in conjunction with the narrative
      descriptions below.

Fiscal
                  Years Ended

December
                  29,


December
                  30,


December
                  31,


(Dollars
                  in thousands)

Total
                  consolidated revenue

$

940,150

$

774,913

$

668,808

Gross
                  Margin

$

461,081

$

389,805

$

324,810

Gross
                  Margin %

49%
                  (1)


%


%

Total
                  consolidated operating income

$

135,365

$

124,944

$

85,625

Operating
                  Income %

14%
                  (1)


%


%

Basis
      of Presentation

We
      have a
      52-53 week fiscal year, ending on the Friday nearest to December 31, which
      for
      fiscal 2006 was December 29, 2006. Fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004 were 52-week
      years.

Revenue

In
      fiscal
      2006, total revenue increased by $165.3 million or 21% to $940.2 million from
      $774.9 million in fiscal 2005. The increase in fiscal 2006 was primarily due
      to
      stronger performances across all our operating segments. The Engineering and
      Construction, Field Solutions, Mobile Solutions and Advanced Devices segments
      increased 21%, 9%, 93%, and 13% respectively, compared to fiscal 2005. Revenue
      growth within these segments was driven by new product introductions, increased
      penetration of existing markets, and geographical expansion. Mobile Solutions
      growth in particular benefited from the prior year acquisitions. Overall, 2006
      acquisitions impacted total company revenue growth by approximately
      2%.

In
      fiscal
      2005, total revenue increased by $106.1 million or 16% to $774.9 million from
      $668.8 million in fiscal 2004. The increase in fiscal 2005 was primarily due
      to
      stronger performances across all our operating segments with the exception
      of
      Component Technologies. The Engineering and Construction, Field Solutions and
      Mobile Solutions segments increased 19%, 21% and 34%, respectively, compared
      to
      fiscal 2004. Revenue growth within these segments was driven by new product
      introductions and increased penetration of existing markets. Both the
      Engineering and Construction and Mobile Solutions operating segments also
      benefited from the impact of the Pacific Crest, Apache and MobileTech
      acquisitions.

*
      During
      the 2006 fiscal year, sales to customers in the United States represented 54%,
      Europe represented 25%, Asia Pacific represented 12% and other regions
      represented 9% of our total revenues. During the 2005 fiscal year, sales to
      customers in the United States represented 54%, Europe represented 25%, Asia
      Pacific represented 11% and other regions represented 10% of our total revenues.
      We anticipate that sales to international customers will continue to account
      for
      a major portion of our revenues.

*
      No
      single customer accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues in fiscal 2006,
      2005, and 2004. It is possible, however, that in future periods the failure
      of
      one or more large customers to purchase products in quantities anticipated
      by us
      may adversely affect the results of operations.

Gross
      Margin

Our
      gross
      margin varies due to a number of factors including product mix, pricing,
      distribution channel used, effects of production volumes, new product start-up
      costs, and foreign currency translations. In fiscal 2006, our gross margin
      increased by $71.3 million as compared to fiscal 2005 due to higher revenue
      and
      the success of higher margin products, including survey and machine control
      products and higher subscription revenues. The increase was partially offset
      by
      decreases due to the impact of the reclassification of the CTCT transactions
      of
      $18.1 million previously recorded in non-operating expenses, amortization of
      software-related purchased intangibles of $5.2 million and stock-based
      compensation expense of $1.2 million that were not included in gross margin
      during the same period in fiscal 2005. Gross margin as a percentage of total
      revenues was 49% in fiscal 2006 and 50% in fiscal 2005. The 1% decrease in
      the
      gross margin percentage was driven by a decrease of 3% due to the CTCT impact,
      amortization of purchased intangibles and stock-based compensation, offset
      by an
      increase of 2% due to higher margin products and subscription revenues.


Table
            of Contents

In
      fiscal
      2005, our gross margin increased by $65.0 million due to due to higher revenue
      and success of our market segmentation strategy, higher service revenues, cost
      reductions, and introduction of higher margin products. Gross margin as a
      percentage of total revenues was 50 % in fiscal 2005 and 49% in fiscal 2004.

*
      Because
      of potential product mix changes within and among the industry markets, market
      pressures on unit selling prices, fluctuations in unit manufacturing costs,
      including increases in component prices and other factors, current level gross
      margins cannot be assured.

Operating
      Income

Operating
      income increased by $10.4 million for fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005
      due
      to higher revenues and the success of higher margin products, offset by
      decreases due to the impact of the reclassification of the CTCT transactions
      previously recorded in non-operating expenses and stock-based compensation
      expense that was not included in operating income during the same period in
      fiscal 2005.

Operating
      income as a percentage of total revenue was 14% for fiscal 2006 compared to
      16%
      in fiscal 2005.

The
      2%
      decrease in operating income was due to a 4% CTCT transaction reclassification
      impact, amortization of purchased intangibles, increased acquisition
      expenses, and stock-based compensation impact, partially offset by 2%
      increase driven by gross margin expansion.

Operating
      income increased by $39.3 million for fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004.
      Operating income as a percentage of total revenue was 16% as compared to 13%
      in
      fiscal 2004. The increase was due to improvement in revenues along with gross
      margins and greater leverage of operating expenses. Operating expenses
      represented 34% of total revenue in fiscal 2005 as compared to 36% in fiscal
      2004.

Results
      by Segment

To
      achieve distribution, marketing, production, and technology advantages in our
      targeted markets, we manage our operations in the following four segments:
      Engineering and Construction, Field Solutions, Mobile Solutions, and Advanced
      Devices.

Operating
      income (loss) equals net revenue less cost of sales and operating expenses,
      excluding general corporate expenses, amortization of purchased intangibles,
      in-process research and development expenses, restructuring charges,
      non-operating income (expense), and income taxes.

In
      the
      first fiscal quarter of 2006, we combined the operating results of the former
      Component Technologies and Portfolio Technologies segments and included the
      combined operating results in the Advanced Devices segment. The change in
      presentation was made in recognition of the small size of each of the businesses
      relative to the total company. The presentation of prior period’s segment
      operating results has been changed to conform to our current segment
      presentation.


Table
              of Contents

The
      following table is a breakdown of revenue and operating income by segment for
      the periods indicated and should be read in conjunction with the narrative
      descriptions below.

A
      reconciliation of our consolidated segment operating income to consolidated
      income before income taxes follows:

Fiscal
                Years Ended

December
                29,


December
                30,


December
                31,


(In
                thousands)

Consolidated
                segment operating income

$

186,168

$

160,660

$

117,405

Unallocated
                corporate expense

(35,799

)

(27,483

)

(22,901

)

Restructuring
                charges

(278

)

(552

)

Amortization
                of purchased intangible assets

(13,074

)

(6,855

)

(8,327

)

In-process
                research and development

(1,930

)

(1,100

)

-

Non-operating
                income (expense), net

12,727

(156

)

(10,701

)

Consolidated
                income before income taxes

$

148,092

$

124,788

$

74,924

Engineering
      and Construction

Engineering
      and Construction revenues increased by $112.7 million or 21% while segment
      operating income increased by $18.2 million or 15% for fiscal 2006 as compared
      to fiscal 2005. The revenue growth was driven by the continued strength in
      survey products as well as increased sales of machine control products,
      aggressive marketing programs and geographic expansion. Segment operating income
      increased as a result of higher revenues and increased sales of higher margin
      products, partially offset by $5.7 million in expenses related to CTCT
      transactions, $4.0 million in stock-based compensation expense that were not
      present in the corresponding period of fiscal 2005.

Engineering
      and Construction revenues increased by $84.0 million or 19% while segment
      operating income increased by $38.5 million or 48% for fiscal 2005 as compared
      to fiscal 2004. The revenue growth was driven by the introduction of products
      such as the Trimble S6 and machine control products, and growth of existing
      products such as the Trimble R8 GPS System. Revenue growth was also attributed
      to the acquisitions for fiscal 2005. Segment operating income increased as
      a
      result of higher revenues and increased sales of higher margin products.

Field
      Solutions

Field
      Solutions revenues increased by approximately $11.4 million or 9% while segment
      operating income increased by $4.9 million or 15% for fiscal year 2006 as
      compared to fiscal 2005. Revenue increased primarily due growth in our GIS
      business. In GIS, growth was due to new products and a continuing shift to
      a
      higher value, differentiated distribution channel. The agricultural business
      remained stable as compared to the prior year due to a steady agricultural
      market. Operating income increased primarily due to strong operating leverage
      and increased revenue, partially offset by the inclusion of stock-based
      compensation that was not present in the corresponding periods of fiscal
      2005.

Field
      Solutions revenues increased by approximately $22.3 million or 21% while segment
      operating income increased by $7.4 million or 29% for fiscal year 2005 as
      compared to fiscal 2004. Revenue increased primarily due to successful new
      products such as the

Ag

GPS
      EZ-Guide system and

Ag

GPS
      EZ-Steer system in our agriculture product line and as a result of higher demand
      for both automated and manual guidance products into the agricultural market.
      Operating income increased primarily due to increased revenue and associated
      gross margins.


Table
            of Contents

Mobile
      Solutions

Mobile
      Solutions revenues increased by $29.4 million or 93% while segment operating
      income increased by $5.6 million or 183% for fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal
      2005. Revenue increased due to increased subscriber growth, an increase in
      recurring subscription revenues, the benefit of acquisitions, especially
      MobileTech, and entry into new vertical markets. Operating income increased
      primarily due to higher subscription revenue and associated gross margins,
      partially offset by the inclusion of stock-based compensation that was not
      present in fiscal 2005.

Mobile
      Solutions revenues increased by $8.0 million or 34% in fiscal 2005 over fiscal
      2004 due to increased subscriber growth, an increase in sales into the ready-mix
      suppliers, and increased sales from our dealer channel as we continue to develop
      and extend this channel. Operating loss decreased by $2.9 million or 49% in
      fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004 primarily attributable to an increase in
      revenues and increase in gross margins due higher recurring service revenue.

Advanced
      Devices

Advanced
      Devices revenues increased by $11.8 million or 13% while segment operating
      income decreased by $3.1 million or 24% for fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal
      2005. The increase in revenue was primarily due to stronger performance in
      our
      embedded and airborne products as well as licensing revenues associated with
      a
      Nokia intellectual property agreement signed in the third quarter of fiscal
      2006. Operating income decreased for fiscal 2006 due to sales of lower gross
      margin products, a reduction in revenue in our Military and Advanced Systems
      product line, increased costs related to the TrimTrac product line and inclusion
      of stock-based compensation that were not present in the corresponding periods
      of fiscal 2005, partially offset by stronger embedded and airborne product
      revenue and intellectual property licensing revenue.

Advanced
      Devices revenues decreased by $8.1 million or 8% while segment operating income
      decreased by $5.5 million or 30% for fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004.
      The
      decrease in revenue and operating income were primarily due to the decline
      in
      demand for our in-vehicle navigation products as a result of changes in buying
      strategies among certain automotive manufacturers, and softness in the timing
      business, which was offset by a stronger performance in our Applanix airborne
      business.

Research
      and Development, Sales and Marketing, and General and Administrative Expenses

The
      following table shows research and development (“R&D”), sales and marketing,
      and general and administrative (“G&A”) expenses in absolute dollars and as a
      percentage of total revenues for the fiscal years ended 2006, 2005 and 2004
      and
      should be read in conjunction with the narrative descriptions of those operating
      expenses below.

Fiscal
                Years Ended

December
                29,


December
                30,


December
                31,


(In
                thousands)

Research
                and development

$

103,840


%

$

84,276


%

$

77,558


%

Sales
                and marketing

143,623


%

120,215


%

108,054


%

General
                and administrative

68,416


%

52,137


%

44,694


%

315,879


%

$

256,628


%

$

230,306


%

Overall,
      R&D, sales and marketing, and G&A expenses increased by approximately
      $59.3 million in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005.

Research
      and development expenses increased by $19.6 million in fiscal 2006 compared
      to
      fiscal 2005 primarily due to the inclusion of expenses of $4.6 million from
      acquisitions not applicable in the prior year, $4.9 million increase in
      compensation related expenses, $2.6 million in stock-based compensation expense
      not present in fiscal 2005 and $2.3 million increase in R&D materials,
      primarily due to compliance with the European lead free initiative. All of
      our
      R&D costs have been expensed as incurred. Cost of software developed for
      external sale subsequent to reaching technical feasibility were not considered
      material and were expensed as incurred.


Table
            of Contents

Research
      and development expenses increased by $6.7 million in fiscal 2005 compared
      to
      fiscal 2004 primarily due to the inclusion of expenses from acquisitions not
      applicable in the prior year in the amount of $2.8 million and increase in
      compensation of $2.8 million.

*
      Overall
      research and development spending remained relatively constant at approximately
      11% of revenues. We expect to continue to devote resources to the development
      of
      new products and the enhancement of existing products. We believe that research
      and development is critical to our strategic product development objectives
      and
      that to leverage our leading technology and meet the changing requirements
      of
      our customers, we will need to fund investments in several development projects
      in parallel.

Sales
      and
      marketing expenses increased by $23.4 million in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal
      2005. The increase

was
      primarily due the inclusion of expenses from acquisitions not applicable in
      the
      prior period in the amount of $7.5 million, $8.0 million increase in
      compensation related expenses, $2.8 million in stock-based compensation expense
      not present in the third quarter of fiscal 2005, and $1.9 million in customer
      trade show expenses due to increased size and attendance at the shows. Spending
      overall remained relatively constant at approximately 15% of
      revenues.

Sales
      and
      marketing expenses increased by $12.2 million in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal
      2004, but decreased as a percent of total revenues. The increase was primarily
      due to advertising and promotion costs associated with the launch of new
      products of $5.4 million, the inclusion of expenses from acquisitions not
      applicable in the prior year of $1.5 million, increase in travel expenses of
      $1.4 million, and an increase in compensation of $1.7 million.

*
      We
      intend to continue to focus and expand our sales and marketing efforts across
      all the geographies and markets we serve in order to increase market awareness
      of our products and to better support our existing customers worldwide. Our
      future growth will depend in part on the timely development and continued
      viability of the markets in which we currently compete as well as our ability
      to
      continue to identify and exploit new markets for our products.

General
      and administrative expenses increased by $16.3 million in fiscal 2006 compared
      to fiscal 2005 primarily due to

the
      inclusion of expenses from acquisitions not applicable in the prior year of
      $4.3
      million, $3.9 million increase in compensation-related expenses, and $6.0
      million in stock-based compensation expense not present in fiscal 2005. Spending
      overall remained relatively constant at approximately 7% of
      revenues.

General
      and administrative expenses increased by $7.4 million in fiscal 2005 compared
      to
      fiscal 2004 primarily due to an increase in compensation expense of $5.9
      million, increase in rent expense of $1.0 million as we were making duplicate
      payments during our move to our new headquarters, the inclusion of expenses
      from
      acquisitions not applicable in the prior year of $1.8 million, and increase
      of
      $0.8 million in patent expense. This was partially offset by a decrease in
      bad
      debt expense of $1.7 million.

Other
      Operating Expenses

Restructuring
      Charges

There
      were no restructuring charges recorded in fiscal 2006. Restructuring charges
      of
      $0.3 million, and $0.6 million were recorded in fiscal years 2005 and 2004
      respectively.

The
      charges in fiscal 2005 were primarily related to office closure costs due to
      integration efforts of the Mensi acquisition. The charges in fiscal 2004 were
      primarily related to severance costs due to the realignment of Trimble Mobile
      Solutions Inc. As a result of the realignment, the headcount decreased by 36
      in
      fiscal 2004. As of December 29, 2006, an accrual balance of $0.1 million,
      related to the fiscal 2005 office closure, is expected to be paid over the
      next
      several years.

In-Process
      Research and Development

We
      recorded in-process research and development (IPR&D) expense of $1.9 million
      and $1.1 million related to acquisitions made in fiscal 2006 and 2005
      respectively. We did not record any IPR&D expense in fiscal 2004. At the
      date of each acquisition, the projects associated with the IPR&D efforts had
      not yet reached technological feasibility and the research and development
      in
      process had no alternative future uses. The value of the IPR&D was
      determined using a discounted cash flow model similar to the income approach,
      focusing on the income producing capabilities of the in-process technologies.
      Accordingly, the value assigned to these IPR&D amounts were charged to
      expense on the respective acquisition date of each of the acquired companies.


Table
            of Contents

Amortization
      of Purchased and Other Intangible Assets

Fiscal
                Years Ended

December
                29,


December
                30,


December
                31,


(in
                thousands)

Amortization
                of purchased intangibles included in cost of sales

$

5,168

$

-

$

-

Amortization
                of purchased intangibles included in operating expenses

7,906

$

6,855

$

8,327

Amortization
                of other intangible assets




Total
                amortization of purchased and other intangible assets

$

13,259

$

7,020

$

8,510

Total
      amortization expense of purchased and other intangible assets was $13.3 million
      in fiscal 2006, of which $5.4 million was recorded in cost of sales and $7.9
      million was recorded in operating expenses. Total amortization expense of
      purchased and other intangibles represented 1.4% of revenue in fiscal 2006,
      an
      increase of $6.2 million from fiscal 2005 when it represented 0.9% of revenue.
      The increase was primarily due to the acquisition of certain technology and
      patent intangibles as a result of acquisitions made in fiscal 2006 as well
      as
      fiscal 2005 acquisition intangibles that included a full year of amortization
      expense in fiscal 2006, but only partial year amortization expense in fiscal
      2005 due to the timing of the acquisitions.

Amortization
      expense of purchased and other intangibles represented 0.9% of revenue in fiscal
      2005, a decrease of $1.5 million from fiscal 2004 when it represented 1.3%
      of
      revenue. Although there were acquisitions in fiscal 2005, amortization expense
      decreased due to the fact our Spectra Precision Group intangibles were fully
      amortized in the second quarter of fiscal 2005.

Non-operating
      Expense, Net

The
      following table shows non-operating expense, net for the periods indicated
      and
      should be read in conjunction with the narrative descriptions of those expenses
      below:

Fiscal
                Years Ended

December
                29,


December
                30,


December
                31,


(in
                thousands)

Interest
                income

$

3,799

$


$


Interest
                expense

(558

)

(2,331

)

(3,888

)

Foreign
                exchange gain (loss)

1,719

1,022

(859

)

Income
                (expenses) for affiliated operations, net

6,989

(291

)

(7,590

)

Other
                income



1,200

Total
                non-operating income (expense), net

$

12,726

$

(156

)

$

(10,701

)

Non-operating
      income, net increased by $12.9 million during fiscal 2006 compared with fiscal
      2005. Of this increase, $4.7M was due to higher interest income and lower
      interest expense as a result of interest income earned on higher cash balances
      and debt repaid in fiscal 2005 and also a $0.7 million increase in foreign
      currency transaction gains. In addition, expenses for affiliated operations,
      net
      increased by $7.3 million due a $5.2 million increase in income from affiliated
      operations and the absence of $11.6 million of net transfer pricing expense
      with
      CTCT that was included in fiscal 2005, but is now included in operating income,
      partially offset by the recognition of a one-time deferred gain on the CTCT
      joint venture of $9.3 million in fiscal 2005.

Non-operating
      expense, net decreased by $10.5 million during fiscal 2005 as compared with
      fiscal 2004 primarily due to a decrease in net interest expense of $2.0 million
      as a result of the repayment of debt and interest earned on higher cash balances
      offset by a $0.9 million write-off of debt issuance costs relating to the 2003
      Credit Facility, an increase of $1.9 million in foreign currency transaction
      gain and a $7.3 million decrease in expenses for affiliated operations as a
      result of increased profits from our joint ventures and recognition of the
      remaining deferred gain from the Caterpillar joint venture. This was partially
      offset by a decrease in other income primarily due to the absence of a
      non-recurring gain in investments of approximately $1.0 million in fiscal year
      2004.


Table
            of Contents

Income
      Tax Provision

Our
      effective income tax rate for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 was 30%, 32%
      and
      10% respectively. The 2006 rate was less that the US federal statutory rate
      of
      35% primarily due to operations in foreign jurisdictions subject to an effective
      tax rate lower than the US and Extraterritorial Income Exclusion (ETI)
      deduction

.

The
      income tax rate was less that the US federal statutory rate, primarily due
      to
      the benefit from the repatriation of undistributed foreign subsidiary earnings
      provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. The 2004 income tax rate
      was
      less than the federal statutory rate primarily due to the realization of
      benefits from net operating losses and other previously reserved deferred tax
      assets.

Litigation
      Matters

*
      From
      time to time, we are involved in litigation arising out of the ordinary course
      of our business. There are no known claims or pending litigation that are
      expected to have a material effect on our overall financial position, results
      of
      operations, or liquidity.

OFF-BALANCE
      SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

Other
      than lease commitments incurred in the normal course of business (see
      Contractual Obligation table below), we do not have any off-balance sheet
      financing arrangements or liabilities, guarantee contracts, retained or
      contingent interests in transferred assets, or any obligation arising out of
      a
      material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity. We do not have any
      majority-owned subsidiaries that are not included in the consolidated financial
      statements. Additionally, we do not have any interest in, or relationship with,
      any special purpose entities.

LIQUIDITY
      AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

As
                of and for the Fiscal Year Ended

December
                29,


December
                30,


December
                31,


(dollars
                in thousands)

Cash
                and cash equivalents

$

129,621

$

73,853

$

71,872

As
                a percentage of total assets

13.2

%

9.9

%

11.0

%

Accounts
                receivable days sales outstanding (DSO)




Inventory
                turns per year




Total
                debt

$


$


$

38,996

Cash
                provided by operating activities

$

138,087

$

92,880

$

74,576

Cash
                used in investing activities

$

(116,432

)

$

(74,918

)

$

(25,133

)

Cash
                provided (used) by financing activities

$

34,162

$

(13,402

)

$

(24,159

)

Net
                increase in cash and cash equivalents

$

55,768

$

1,981

$

26,456

Cash
      and Cash Equivalents

Our
      financial condition further strengthened as cash and cash equivalents totaled
      $129.6 million at December 29, 2006, compared to $73.9 million at December
      30,
      2005. We essentially had no debt at December 29, 2006 and December 20,
      2005.

In
      fiscal
      2006, cash provided by operating activities was $138.1 million, compared to
      $92.9 million in cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2005. This
      increase of $45.2 million was primarily driven by a $22.8 million increase
      in
      net income before stock-based compensation expense and associated excess tax
      benefits, with the remainder due to working capital improvements in inventories
      and account receivables.

Our
      accounts receivable days of sales outstanding improved to 55 days at the end
      of
      fiscal 2006, from 66 days at the end of fiscal 2005. The decrease is primarily
      due to increased collection efforts and improvement in monitoring of outstanding
      receivables. In addition, in the first quarter of 2006, the Company established
      a dealer floor plan financing program in the U.S. and Canada through a
      non-recourse financing facility. Our accounts receivable days of sales
      outstanding is based upon the latest month revenues plus any uncollected
      accounts receivable from prior months’ revenues calculated into days. Our
      inventory turns were at 4.1 for fiscal 2006 as compared to 3.9 for fiscal 2005.
      Our inventory turnover is based on the total cost of sales for the fiscal period
      over the average inventory for the corresponding fiscal period.


Table
            of Contents

In
      fiscal
      2005, cash provided by operating activities was $92.9 million, as compared
      to
      $74.6 million in fiscal 2004. The increase of $18.3 million was

primarily
      driven by the $17.2 million increase in net income during fiscal 2005 compared
      to fiscal 2004.

Our
      ability to continue to generate cash from operations will depend in large part
      on profitability, the rate of collections of accounts receivable, our inventory
      turns, and our ability to manage other areas of working capital. Our accounts
      receivable days for sales outstanding increased from 63 days at the end of
      fiscal 2004 to 66 days at the end of fiscal 2005. The increase is due to
      acquisitions, delayed payments from some government contracts, and past due
      accounts from a couple of key customers. Our inventory turns was unchanged
      at
      4.0 at the end of fiscal 2005 and 2004.

Cash
      used
      in investing activities was $116.4 million in fiscal 2006, compared to $74.9
      million in fiscal 2005.

The
      $41.5
      million increase in spending was due to an increase of $48.5 million in cash
      used for acquisitions, partially offset by a decrease of $6.9 million in capital
      equipment spending.

Cash
      used
      in investing activities was $74.9 million in fiscal 2005 as compared to $25.1
      million in fiscal 2004.

The
      $49.8
      million increase was primarily due to an increase of $40.0 million in cash
      used
      for acquisitions and an increase of $10.6 million in investment in capital
      equipment

of
      which
      $6.6 million was related to the relocation of our Sunnyvale headquarters.

Cash
      provided from financing activities was $34.2 million for fiscal 2006 compared
      to
      cash used of $13.4 million in fiscal 2005. The $47.6 million improvement was
      primarily due to a $38.3 million decrease in repayment of net debt, $8.8 million
      in excess tax benefits relating to stock-based compensation upon the exercise
      of
      stock options which were not present in fiscal 2005 and a $2.1 million increase
      in proceeds received from issuance of common stock.

Cash
      used
      in financing activities was $13.4 million in fiscal 2005 as compared to $24.2
      million in fiscal 2004. The $10.8 million decrease was primarily due to a $12.9
      million decrease in repayment of net debt as we repaid our entire debt balance
      in the second fiscal quarter of 2005. This was partially offset by a $2.3
      million decrease in proceeds received from issuance of common stock and
      warrants.

*
      We
      believe that our cash and cash equivalents, together with our credit facilities
      ($200 million as of December 29, 2006), will be sufficient to meet our
      anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next twelve months.

*
      We
      anticipate that planned capital expenditures

primarily
      for computer equipment, software, manufacturing tools and test equipment, and
      leasehold improvements associated with business expansion

,
      will
      constitute a partial use of our cash resources.

Decisions related to how much cash is used for investing are influenced by
      the
      expected amount of cash to be provided by operations.

*
      Additionally, on February 16, 2007, we acquired @Road which was funded through
      cash of Trimble and a new debt financing arrangement.  Post acquisition
      expenditures will be funded through anticipated positive cash flow from
      operations.  The positive cash flow from operations is a result of our
      belief that we will be able to manage our assets efficiently and achieve our
      overall financial projections.

Debt

At
      the
      end of fiscal 2006, our total debt was comprised of government loans to foreign
      subsidiaries in amount of approximately $481,000 as compared with approximately
      $649,000 at the end of fiscal 2005.

On
      July
      28, 2005, we entered into a $200 million unsecured revolving credit agreement
      (“2005 Credit Facility”) with a syndicate of 10 banks with The Bank of Nova
      Scotia as the administrative agent. The 2005 Credit Facility replaces our $175
      million secured 2003 Credit Facility. The funds available under the new 2005
      Credit Facility may be used for our general corporate purposes and up to $25
      million of the 2005 Credit Facility may be used for letters of credit. We incur
      a commitment fee if the 2005 Credit Facility is not used. The commitment fee
      is
      not material to our results during all periods presented. At December 29, 2006
      and as of the date of this report, the Company has a zero balance outstanding
      and was in compliance with all financial debt covenants. For additional
      discussion of our debt, see Note 9 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial
      Statements.


Table
            of Contents

On
        February 16, 2007, the Company amended and restated its existing $200 million
        unsecured revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of 11 banks with The
        Bank
        of Nova Scotia as the administrative agent (the “2007 Credit Facility”). Under
        the 2007 Credit Facility, the Company exercised the accordion option in the
        existing credit agreement to increase the availability under the revolving
        credit line by $100,000,000, for an aggregate availability of up to
        $300,000,000, and extended the maturity date of the revolving credit line
        by 18
        months, from July 2010 to February 2012.  Up to $25 million of the
        availability under the revolving credit line may be used to issue letters
        of
        credit, and up to $20 million may be used for swing line loans. In addition,
        the
        Company incurred five-year term loan under the 2007 Credit Facility in an
        aggregate principal amount of $100,000,000, which will mature concurrently
        with
        the revolving credit line.  The term loan will be repaid in quarterly
        installments, with principal being amortized at the following annual rates:
        year
        1 at 10%, year 2 at 15%, year 3 at 15%, year 4 at 20%, year 5 at 20%, and
        the
        last quarterly payment to be made at maturity, together with a final payment
        of
        20%.  Under the existing facility, the Company was required to maintain a
        maximum leverage ratio of 2:75:1. The 2007 Credit Facility increased the
        maximum
        leverage ratio to 3.00:1.   The funds available under the new 2007
        Credit Facility may be used by the Company for acquisitions and general
        corporate purposes.

As
      of
      February 20, 2007, the Company

had
      $150

million
      drawn on the revolving credit line and $100 million in term loan
      outstanding.

CONTRACTUAL
      OBLIGATIONS

The
      following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 29, 2006:

(1)
      Excludes the impact of debt resulting from the @Road acquisition. See Note
      18 of
      the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further financial
      information.

Total
      debt consists of government loans to foreign subsidiaries.

(See
      Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
      financial information regarding long-term debt)

Other
      purchase obligations and commitments represent open non-cancelable purchase
      orders for material purchases with our vendors and a forecasted commitment
      with
      a supplier for outsourced services as described in Note 10 of the Notes to
      the
      Consolidated Financial Statements. Our pension obligation which is not included
      in the table above, and is included in “Accrued compensation and benefits” and
“Other non-current liabilities” on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, is disclosed
      at Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

EFFECT
      OF NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

The
      impact of recent accounting pronouncements is disclosed in Note 2 of the
      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


Table
            of Contents

Item
                7A.

Quant

itat

ive
                and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk

We
      are
      exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency
      exchange rates. We use certain derivative financial instruments to manage these
      risks. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
      All financial instruments are used in accordance with policies approved by
      our
      board of directors.

Market
      Interest Rate Risk

Our
      cash
      equivalents and short-term investments consisted primarily of money market
      funds
      and certificate of deposits for fiscal 2006 and 2005. The main objective of
      these investments was safety of principal and liquidity while maximizing return,
      without significantly increasing risk.

*
      Due to
      the short-term nature of our cash equivalents and short-term investments, we
      do
      not anticipate any material effect on our portfolio due to fluctuations in
      interest rates.

.

We
      may be
      exposed to market risk in the event we borrow against our 2005 Credit Facility.
      Borrowings under the 2005 Credit Facility have interest payments based on a
      floating rate of LIBOR plus a number of basis points tied to a formula based
      on
      our Leverage Ratio. The 2005 Credit Facility had outstanding principal balances
      of zero as of December 29, 2006.

Foreign
      Currency Exchange Rate Risk

We
      enter
      into foreign exchange forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of
      foreign currency fluctuations on certain trade and inter-company receivables
      and
      payables, primarily denominated in Australian, Canadian, Japanese, New Zealand,
      South African and Swedish currencies, the Euro, and the British pound. These
      contracts reduce the exposure to fluctuations in exchange rate movements as
      the
      gains and losses associated with foreign currency balances are generally offset
      with the gains and losses on the forward contracts. These instruments are marked
      to market through earnings every period and generally range from one to three
      months in original maturity. We do not enter into foreign exchange forward
      contract for trading purposes.

Foreign
      exchange forward contracts outstanding as of December 29, 2006 and December
      30,
      2005 are summarized as follows (in thousands):

December
                  29, 2006

December
                  30, 2005

Nominal
                  Amount

Fair
                  Value

Nominal
                  Amount

Fair
                  Value

Forward
                  contracts:

Purchased

$

(21,442

)

$


$

(14,426

)

$


Sold

$

38,579

$

(358

)

$

27,726

$


*
      We do
      not anticipate any material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
      position utilizing our current hedging strategy.


Table
            of Contents

TRIMBLE
      NAVIGATION LIMITED

INDEX
      TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Consolidated
                Balance Sheets at December 29, 2006 and December 30, 2005


Consolidated
                Statements of Income for each of the three fiscal years in the period
                ended December 29, 2006


Consolidated
                Statement of Shareholders' Equity for each of the three fiscal years
                in
                the period ended December 29, 2006


Consolidated
                Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three fiscal years in the
                period
                ended December 29, 2006


Notes
                to Consolidated Financial Statements


Reports
                of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting
                Firm



Table
            of Contents

Item
                8.

Fina

nc

ial
                Statements and Supplementary
                Data

CONSOLIDATED
      BALANCE SHEETS


Table
            of Contents

CONSOLIDATED
      STATEMENTS OF INCOME

Fiscal
                Years Ended

December
                29,


December
                30,


December
                31,


(in
                thousands, except per share amounts)

Revenue

(1)

$

940,150

$

774,913

$

668,808

Cost
                of sales

(1)

479,069

385,108

343,998

Gross
                margin

461,081

389,805

324,810

Operating
                expenses

Research
                and development

103,840

84,276

77,558

Sales
                and marketing

143,623

120,215

108,054

General
                and administrative

68,416

52,137

44,694

Restructuring
                charges

--



Amortization
                of purchased intangible assets

7,906

6,855

8,327

In-process
                research and development

1,930

1,100

-

Total
                operating expenses

325,715

264,861

239,185

Operating
                income

135,366

124,944

85,625

Non-operating
                income (expense), net

Interest
                income

3,799



Interest
                expense

(558

)

(2,331

)

(3,888

)

Foreign
                currency transaction gain (loss), net

1,719

1,022

(859

)

Income
                (expenses) for affiliated operations, net

6,989

(291

)

(7,590

)

Other
                income



1,200

Total
                non-operating income (expense), net

12,726

(156

)

(10,701

)

Income
                before taxes

148,092

124,788

74,924

Income
                tax provision

44,434

39,933

7,244

Net
                income

$

103,658

$

84,855

$

67,680

Basic
                earnings per share

$

0.94

$

0.80

$

0.66

Shares
                used in calculating basic earnings per share

110,044

106,432

102,326

Diluted
                earnings per share

$

0.89

$

0.75

$

0.62

Shares
                used in calculating diluted earnings per share

116,072

113,638

109,896

(1)
      Sales
      to related parties were $22.3 million, $9.1 million and $7.6 million in fiscal
      2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, while cost of sales to those related parties
      were $13.9 million, $4.0 million and $3.8 million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and
      2004,
      respectively. See Note 5 to these Consolidated Financial Statements for a
      discussion of related parties.

See
      accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


Table
            of Contents

CONSOLIDATED
      STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

See
      accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


Table
            of Contents

CONSOLIDATED
      STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

See
      accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


Table
            of Contents

NOTES
      TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE
      1: DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Trimble
      Navigation Limited (Trimble or the Company) began operations in 1978 and
      incorporated in California in 1981. Trimble provides positioning product
      solutions, most typically to commercial and government users. The principal
      applications served include surveying, construction, agriculture, urban and
      resource management, military, transportation and telecommunications. The
      Company’s products typically provide its customers benefits that can include
      lower costs, and higher productivity. Examples of products include systems
      that
      guide agricultural and construction equipment, surveying instruments, systems
      that track fleets of vehicles, and data collection systems that enable the
      management of large amounts of geo referenced information. In addition, the
      Company also manufactures components for in vehicle navigation and telematics
      systems, and timing modules used in the synchronization of wireless networks.

NOTE
      2:

ACCOUNTING
      POLICIES

Use
      of Estimates

The
      preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles
      generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and
      assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
      accompanying notes. Estimates are used for allowances for doubtful accounts,
      sales returns reserve, allowances for inventory valuation, warranty costs,
      investments, goodwill impairments, and income taxes among others. Management
      bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions
      believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on management’s
      best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the company in
      the
      future, actual results may differ materially from management’s
      estimates.

Basis
      of Presentation

Trimble
      has a 52-53 week fiscal year, ending on the Friday nearest to December 31.

Fiscal
      2006, a 52-week year, ended on December 29, 2006, fiscal 2005, a 52-week year,
      and fiscal 2004, a 52-week year, ended on December 30, 2005 and December 31,
      2004, respectively. Unless otherwise stated, all dates refer to its fiscal
      year.

These
      Consolidated Financial Statements include the results of Trimble and its
      subsidiaries. Inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
      Certain segment disclosures from prior years have been reclassified to conform
      to the current year presentation.

On
      January 17, 2007, Trimble’s Board of Directors approved a 2-for-1 split of all
      outstanding shares of the Company’s Common Stock, payable February 22, 2007 to
      stockholders of record on February 8, 2007. All shares and per share information
      presented has been adjusted to reflect the stock split on a retroactive basis
      for all periods presented.

Foreign
      Currency Translation

Assets
      and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries that operate in local currencies are
      translated to U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet
      date, with the resulting translation adjustments directly recorded to a separate
      component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Income and expense accounts
      are translated at average exchange rates during the year. Where the U.S. dollar
      is the functional currency, translation adjustments are recorded in foreign
      currency transaction adjustments, net of tax in accumulated other comprehensive
      income within the shareholders’ equity section of the consolidated balance
      sheets.

Cash
      and Cash Equivalents

Cash
      and
      cash equivalents include all cash and highly liquid investments with
      insignificant interest rate risk and maturities of three months or less at
      the
      date of purchase. The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents approximates
      fair value because of the short maturity of those instruments.


Table
            of Contents

Fair
      Value of Financial Instruments

The
      fair
      value of certain of the Company’s financial instruments, including cash and cash
      equivalents, and other accrued liabilities approximate cost because of their
      short maturities. The fair value of investments is determined using quoted
      market prices for those securities or similar financial instruments.

Concentration
      of Risk

Cash
      and
      cash equivalents are maintained with several financial institutions. Deposits
      held with banks may exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits.
      Generally, these deposits may be redeemed upon demand and are maintained with
      financial institutions of reputable credit and therefore bear minimal credit
      risk.

The
      Company is also exposed to credit risk in the Company’s trade receivables, which
      are derived from sales to end user customers in diversified industries as well
      as various resellers. Trimble performs ongoing credit evaluations of its
      customers’ financial condition and limits the amount of credit extended when
      deemed necessary but generally does not require collateral.

With
      the
      selection of Solectron Corporation in August 1999 as an exclusive manufacturing
      partner for many of its GPS products, Trimble became substantially dependent
      upon a sole supplier for the manufacture of many of its products. In addition,
      the Company relies on sole suppliers for a number of its critical components.

Allowance
      for Doubtful Accounts

Trimble
      maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from
      the inability of its customers to make required payments.

Trimble
      evaluates the collectibility of its trade accounts receivable based on a number
      of factors such as age of the accounts receivable balances, credit quality,
      historical experience, and current economic conditions that may affect a
      customer’s ability to pay. In circumstances where the Company is aware of a
      specific customer’s inability to meet its financial obligations to the Company,
      a specific allowance for bad debts is estimated and recorded which reduces
      the
      recognized receivable to the estimated amount Trimble believes will ultimately
      be collected. In addition to specific customer identification of potential
      bad
      debts, bad debt charges are recorded based on the Company’s recent past loss
      history and an overall assessment of past due trade accounts receivable amounts
      outstanding.

Inventories

Trimble’s
      inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, with costs primarily
      computed on a standard cost basis. Adjustments to reduce the cost of inventory
      to its net realizable value, if required, are made for estimated excess,
      obsolescence, or impaired balances. Factors influencing these adjustments
      include decline in demand, technological changes, product life cycle and
      development plans, component cost trends, product pricing, physical
      deterioration, and quality issues. If actual factors are less favorable than
      those projected by us, additional inventory write-downs may be
      required

Internal-Use
      Software Development Costs

The
      Company capitalizes material software development costs for internal use
      pursuant to Statement of Position No. 98-1, “Accounting for the Costs of
      Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use.”

Goodwill,
      Purchased Intangible Assets and Long-Lived Assets

Intangible
      assets include goodwill, distribution channels, patents, licenses, technology,
      acquired backlog and trademarks which are capitalized at acquisition cost.
      Intangible assets with definite lives are amortized on the straight-line basis.
      Useful lives generally range from three to seven years with weighted average
      useful life of 5.3 years.

If
      facts
      and circumstances indicate that intangible assets or property and equipment
      may
      be impaired, an evaluation of continuing value would be performed. The process
      of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective and requires
      significant assumptions If an evaluation is required, the estimated future
      undiscounted cash flows associated with these assets would be compared to their
      carrying amount to determine if a write-down to fair market value or discounted
      cash flow value is required.


Table
            of Contents

Trimble
      performed an annual impairment test of goodwill at the end of the third fiscal
      quarter of 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively, and concluded there was no
      impairment of goodwill. Trimble will continue to evaluate its goodwill for
      impairment on an annual basis at the end of each fiscal third quarter and
      whenever events and changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount
      may not be recoverable.

Revenue
      Recognition

Trimble’s
      revenues are recorded in accordance with the Securities and Exchange
      Commission’s (SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 104, “Revenue
      Recognition.” The Company recognizes product revenue when persuasive evidence of
      an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable,
      and collectibility is reasonably assured. In instances where final acceptance
      of
      the product is specified by the customer or is uncertain, revenue is deferred
      until all acceptance criteria have been met.

Contracts
      and customer purchase orders are typically used to determine the existence
      of an
      arrangement. Shipping documents and customer acceptance, when applicable, are
      used to verify delivery. The Company assesses whether the fee is fixed or
      determinable based on the payment terms associated with the transaction and
      whether the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment. The Company assesses
      collectibility based primarily on the creditworthiness of the customer as
      determined by credit checks and analysis, as well as the customer’s payment
      history.

Trimble’s
      shipment terms for US orders, and international orders fulfilled from its
      European distribution center are typically FCA (Free Carrier) shipping point,
      except certain sales to US government agencies which are shipped FOB
      destination. FCA shipping point means that we fulfill the obligation and title
      has passed to the buyer upon delivery of the goods to the carrier named by
      the
      buyer at the named place or point. If no precise point is indicated by the
      buyer, Trimble may choose within the place or range stipulated where the carrier
      will take the goods into carrier’s charge. FOB destination means revenue for
      orders are not recognized until the product is delivered and title has
      transferred to the buyer. We bear all costs and risks of loss or damage to
      the
      goods up to that point. Shipping and handling costs are included in the cost
      of
      goods sold.

Revenue
      to distributors and resellers is recognized upon delivery, assuming all other
      criteria for revenue recognition have been met. Distributors and resellers
      do
      not have a right of return.

Revenues
      from purchased extended warranty and support agreements are deferred and
      recognized ratably over the term of the warranty/support period.

The
      Company applies Statement of Position (SOP) No. 97-2, “Software Revenue
      Recognition” to products where the embedded software is more than incidental to
      the functionality of the hardware. This determination requires significant
      judgment including a consideration of factors such as the marketing, research
      and development efforts and any postcustomer contract support relating to the
      embedded software.

In
      accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue 00-21, “Accounting for
      Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables,” when a non-software sale
      involves multiple elements the entire fee from the arrangement is allocated
      to
      each respective element based on its relative fair value and recognized when
      revenue recognition criteria for each element are met.

Software
      revenue is recognized in accordance with Statement of Position (SOP) No. 97-2,
      “Software Revenue Recognition” and Statement of Position (SOP) No. 98-9,
“Modification of SOP 97-2.” Trimble’s software arrangements generally consist of
      a perpetual license fee and post contract customer support (PCS). Trimble has
      established vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value for its
      PCS
      contracts based on the renewal rate. The remaining value of the software
      arrangement is allocated to the license fee using the residual method, which
      revenue is primarily recognized when the software has been delivered and there
      are no remaining obligations. Revenue from PCS is recognized ratably over the
      term of the PCS agreement.

A
      reserve
      for sales returns is established based on historical trends in product return
      rates experienced in the ordinary course of business. The reserve for estimated
      future returns is recorded as a reduction of our accounts receivable and
      revenue. If the actual returns were to deviate from the historical data on
      which
      the sales reserve had been established, the Company’s revenue could be adversely
      affected.


Table
            of Contents

Warranty

The
      Company accrues for warranty costs as part of its cost of sales based on
      associated material product costs, technical support labor costs, and costs
      incurred by third parties performing work on the Company’s behalf. Trimble’s
      expected future cost is primarily estimated based upon historical trends in
      the
      volume of product returns within the warranty period and the cost to repair
      or
      replace the equipment. The products sold are generally covered by a warranty
      for
      periods ranging from 90 days to three years, and in some instances up to 5.5
      years.

While
      the
      Company engages in extensive product quality programs and processes, including
      actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of component suppliers, its
      warranty obligation is affected by product failure rates, material usage, and
      service delivery costs incurred in correcting a product failure. Should actual
      product failure rates, material usage, or service delivery costs differ from
      the
      estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty accrual and related costs may
      be
      required.

Changes
      in the Company’s product warranty liability during the 12 months ended December
      29, 2006 and December 30, 2005, are as follows:

Fiscal
                Years Ended

December
                29,


December
                30,


(In
                thousands)

Beginning
                balance

$

7,466

$

6,425

Warranties
                accrued

8,446

7,960

Warranty
                claims

(7,305

)

(6,919

)

Ending
                Balance

$

8,607

$

7,466

Guarantees,
      Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others

In
      the
      normal course of business to facilitate sales of its products, the Company
      indemnifies other parties, including customers, lessors, and parties to other
      transactions with the Company, with respect to certain matters. The Company
      has
      agreed to hold the other party harmless against losses arising from a breach
      of
      representations or covenants, or out of intellectual property infringement
      or
      other claims made against certain parties. These agreements may limit the time
      within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim.
      In addition, the Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its
      officers and directors, and the Company’s bylaws contain similar indemnification
      obligations to the Company’s agents.

It
      is not
      possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification
      agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the
      unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement.
      Historically, payments made by the Company under these agreements were not
      material and no liabilities have been recorded for these obligations on the
      Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 29, 2006 and December 30, 2005.

Advertising
      Costs

The
      Company expenses all advertising costs as incurred. Advertising expenses were
      approximately $16.1 million, $14.8 million, and $9.5 million, in fiscal 2006,
      2005, and 2004, respectively.

Research
      and Development Costs

Research
      and development costs are charged to expense as incurred. C

ost
      of
      software developed for external sale subsequent to reaching technical
      feasibility were not considered material and were expensed as incurred.

The
      Company received third party funding of approximately $7.8 million, $9.0
      million, and $7.7 million in fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004 respectively. The
      Company offsets research and development expenses with any third party funding
      received. The Company retains the rights to any technology developed under
      such
      arrangements.

Stock-Based
      Compensation

In
      December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Standard
      of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123(R), “Share-Based Payment”
(“SFAS 123(R)”). SFAS 123(R) requires employee stock options and rights to
      purchase shares under stock participation plans to be accounted for under the
      fair value method, and eliminates the ability to account for these instruments
      under the intrinsic value method prescribed by Accounting Principals Board
      (“APB”) Opinion No. 25, and allowed under the original provisions of SFAS 123.


Table
            of Contents

Trimble
      has adopted SFAS 123(R) using the modified prospective method. As a result,
      the
      Company’s financial statements for fiscal periods after December 30, 2005
      include stock-based compensation expenses that are not comparable to financial
      statements of fiscal periods prior to December 30, 2005. SFAS 123(R) requires
      stock-based compensation to be estimated using the fair value on the date of
      grant using an option-pricing model. The value of the portion of the award
      that
      is expected to vest is recognized as expense over the related employees’
requisite service periods in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income.
      Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), the Company accounted for stock-based
      compensation to employees and directors using the intrinsic value method in
      accordance with APB Opinion No. 25 as allowed under SFAS No. 123,
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation” (“SFAS 123”). Under the intrinsic
      value method, no stock-based compensation expense had been recognized in the
      Company’s Consolidated Statement of Income because the exercise price of the
      Company’s stock options granted to employees and directors equaled the fair
      market value of the underlying stock at the date of grant. Note 14 of the
      Consolidated Financial Statements describe the plans operated by Trimble.

The
      following table summarizes stock-based compensation expense, net of tax, related
      to employee stock-based compensation included in the Consolidated Statements
      of
      Income

in
      accordance with SFAS 123(R)

for
      the
      year ended December 29, 2006.

Year
                  Ended

December
                  29,


December
                  30,


December
                  31,


(in
                  thousands)

Cost
                  of sales

$

1,173

$

-

$

-

Research
                  & development

2,554

-

-

Sales
                  & marketing

2,814

-

-

General
                  & administrative

6,029

-

-

Stock-based
                  compensation expense included in operating expenses

11,397

-

-

Total
                  stock-based compensation

12,570

-

-

Tax
                  benefit

(1)

(1,185

)

-

-

Total
                  stock-based compensation, net of tax

$

11,385

$

-

$

-

Effect
                  of FAS 123(R) on basic earnings per share

$

0.10

$

-

$

-

Effect
                  of FAS 123(R) on diluted earnings per share

$

0.10

$

-

$

-

(1)
      Tax
      benefit related to US non-qualified options only as allowed by the applicable
      tax requirements using the statutory tax rate

for
      the
      year ended December 29, 2006.

The
      table
      below provides pro forma information

for
      the
      year ended December 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively,

as
      if
      Trimble had accounted for its employee stock options and purchases under the
      employee stock purchase plan in accordance with SFAS 123.


Table
            of Contents

Fiscal
                Years Ended

December
                30,


December
                31,


(in
                thousands, except per share amounts)

Net
                income - as reported

$

84,855

$

67,680

Stock-based
                compensation expense, net of tax

(1)

11,149

9,986

Net
                income - pro forma

$

73,706

$

57,694

Basic
                earnings per share - as reported

$

0.80

$

0.66

Basic
                earnings per share - pro forma

$

0.69

$

0.56

Diluted
                earnings per share - as reported

$

0.75

$

0.62

Diluted
                earnings per share - pro forma

$

0.65

$

0.52

(1)
      Includes compensation expense for employee stock purchase plan

for
      the
      year ended December 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively,

and
      reduction of tax benefits for stock-based compensation other than non-qualified
      stock options which were not included in the pro forma disclosure of Trimble’s
      fiscal 2005 and 2004 Form 10-K. Tax benefit relates to non-qualified options
      only as allowed by the applicable tax requirements using the statutory tax
      rate
      as of

December
      30, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively

.

Options

Stock
      option expense recognized during the period is based on the value of the portion
      of share-based payment awards that is expected to vest during the period. Stock
      option expense recognized in the Company’s Consolidated of Income for the year
      ended December 29, 2006 included compensation expense for stock options granted
      prior to, but not yet vested as of December 30, 2005 based on the grant date
      fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123 and
      compensation expense for the stock options granted subsequent to December 30,
      2005 based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the
      provisions of SFAS 123(R). In conjunction with the adoption of SFAS 123(R),
      the
      Company changed its method of attributing the value of stock option to expense
      from the accelerated multiple-option approach to the straight-line single option
      method. Compensation expense for all stock options granted on or prior to
      December 30, 2005 will continue to be recognized using the accelerated
      multiple-option approach while compensation expense for all stock options
      granted subsequent to December 30, 2005 will be recognized using the
      straight-line single-option method. SFAS 123(R) requires forfeitures to be
      estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods
      if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. In the Company’s pro forma
      information required under SFAS 123 for the periods prior to fiscal 2006, the
      Company accounted for forfeitures as they occurred.

For
      options granted prior to October 1, 2005, the fair value for these options
      was
      estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
      For
      stock options granted on or after October 1, 2005, the fair value of each
      award is estimated on the date of grant using a binomial valuation model.
      Similar to the Black-Scholes model, the binomial model takes into account
      variables such as volatility, dividend yield rate, and risk free interest rate.
      In addition,

the
      binomial model incorporates actual option-pricing behavior and changes in
      volatility over the option’s contractual term. For these reasons, the Company
      believes that the binomial model provides a fair value that is more
      representative of actual experience and future expected experience than the
      value calculated using the Black-Scholes model.

Under
      the
      binomial and Black-Scholes models, the estimated fair values of each employee
      stock option granted during fiscal years 2006, 2005, and 2004 were $8.04, $7.27
      and $6.93, respectively. The value of each option grant is estimated on the
      date
      of grant using the binomial model for options granted during and after the
      fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, and the Black-Scholes option pricing model for
      options granted during and prior to the third quarter of fiscal 2005, with
      the
      following assumptions:

December
                29,


December
                30,


December
                31,


Expected
                dividend yield

-

-

-

Expected
                stock price volatility

42%

47%

56%

Risk
                free interest rate

4.8%

4.3%

3.5%

Expected
                life of options after vesting

1.3
                years

1.7
                years

1.6
                years


Table
            of Contents

Expected
      Dividend Yield

-

The
      dividend yield assumption is based on the Company’s history and expectation of
      dividend payouts.

Expected
      Stock Price Volatility

-

The
      Company’s computation of expected volatility is based on a combination of
      implied volatilities from traded options on the Company’s stock and historical
      volatility. The Company used implied and historical volatility as the
      combination was more representative of future stock price trends than historical
      volatility alone.

Expected
      Risk Free Interest Rate

-

The
      risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect
      at
      the time of grant for the expected term of the option.

Expected
      Life Of Option

-

The
      Company’s expected term represents the period that the Company’s stock options
      are expected to be outstanding and was determined based on historical experience
      of similar stock options with consideration to the contractual terms of the
      stock options, vesting schedules and expectations of future employee
      behavior.

Employee
      Stock Purchase Plan

Under
      the
      Employee Stock Purchase Plan, rights to purchase shares are generally granted
      during the second and fourth quarter of each year. The fair value of rights
      granted under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan was estimated at the date of
      grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The estimated weighted
      average value of rights granted under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan during
      fiscal years 2006, 2005, and 2004 were $5.16, $4.94 and $3.66, respectively.
      The
      fair value of rights granted during 2006, 2005, and 2004 was estimated at the
      date of grant using the following assumptions:

Fiscal
                years ended

December
                29,


December
                30,


December
                31,


Expected
                dividend yield

-

-

-

Expected
                stock price volatility

35.5%

47%

46%

Risk
                free interest rate

4.8%

3.5%

1.7%

Expected
                life of purchase

0.6
                years

0.5
                years

0.5
                years

Expected
      Dividend Yield

-

The
      dividend yield assumption is based on the Company’s history and expectation of
      dividend payouts.

Expected
      Stock Price Volatility

-

The
      Company’s computation of expected volatility is based on implied volatilities
      from traded options on the Company’s stock. The Company used implied volatility
      because it is representative of future stock price trends during the purchase
      period.

Expected
      Risk Free Interest Rate

-

The
      risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect
      at
      the time of grant for the expected term of the purchase period.

Expected
      Life Of Purchase

-

The
      Company’s expected life of the purchase is based on the term of the offering
      period of the purchase plan.

Depreciation

Depreciation
      of property and equipment owned is computed using the straight-line method
      over
      the shorter of the estimated useful lives or the lease terms. Useful lives
      include a range from two to six years for machinery and equipment, five years
      for furniture and fixtures, two to five years for computer equipment and
      software, and the life of the lease for leasehold improvements.

The
      costs
      of repairs and maintenance are expensed when incurred, while expenditures for
      refurbishments and improvements that significantly add to the productive
      capacity or extend the useful life of an asset are capitalized.

Depreciation
      expense was $13.5 million in fiscal 2006, $10.7 million in fiscal 2005, and
      $8.9
      million in fiscal 2004.

Income
      Taxes

Income
      taxes are accounted for under the liability method whereby deferred tax asset
      or
      liability account balances are calculated at the balance sheet date using
      current tax laws and rates in effect for the year in which the differences
      are
      expected to affect taxable income. A valuation allowance is recorded to reduce
      the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that
      such assets will not be realized.


Table
            of Contents

Computation
      of Earnings Per Share

Number
      of
      shares used in calculation of basic earnings per share represents the weighted
      average common shares outstanding during the period and excludes any dilutive
      effects of options, warrants, and convertible securities. The dilutive effects
      of options, warrants, and convertible securities are included in diluted
      earnings per share.

New
      Accounting Pronouncements

In
      September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined
      Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements
      No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)." SFAS 158 requires companies to recognize the
      overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit post-retirement plan
      as an
      asset or liability in its balance sheet, recognize as a component of accumulated
      other comprehensive income, net of tax, amounts accumulated at the date of
      adoption due to delayed recognition of actuarial gains and losses, prior service
      costs and credits, and transition assets and obligations, and provide additional
      disclosures, effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2006. On
      December 29, 2006, Trimble adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions
      of
      SFAS 158. The effect of adopting these provisions of SFAS 158 on the Company’s
      financial condition at December 29, 2006 has been included in the accompanying
      consolidated financial statements. These provisions of SFAS 158 did not have
      an
      effect on the Company’s consolidated financial condition at December 30, 2005 or
      December 31, 2004. See Note 15 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
      for additional information.

SFAS
      also requires companies to measure the funded status of the plan as of the
      date
      of its fiscal year-end, with limited exceptions, effective for fiscal years
      ending after December 15, 2008. For Trimble, this provision of SFAS 158 will
      be
      effective for the fiscal year ended 2008.   The Company is currently
      evaluating this provision of SFAS 158 and its possible impacts on the Company’s
      financial statements.

In
      July
      2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in
      Income Taxes” (“FIN 48”). FIN 48 applies to all tax positions related to income
      taxes subject to SFAS 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes.”  Under FIN 48 a
      company would recognize the benefit from a tax position only if it is
      more-likely-than-not that the position would be sustained upon audit based
      solely on the technical merits of the tax position. FIN 48 clarifies how a
      company would measure the income tax benefits from the tax positions that are
      recognized, provides guidance as to the timing of the derecognition of
      previously recognized tax benefits and describes the methods for classifying
      and
      disclosing the liabilities within the financial statements for any unrecognized
      tax benefits.    FIN 48 also addresses when a company should record
      interest and penalties related to tax positions and how the interest and
      penalties may be classified within the income statement and presented in the
      balance sheet.  FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after
      December 15, 2006.  For Trimble, FIN 48 will be effective for the first
      quarter of fiscal 2007.  Differences between the amounts recognized in the
      statements of operations prior to and after the adoption of FIN 48 would be
      accounted for as a cumulative effect adjustment to the beginning balance of
      retained earnings.    The Company is currently evaluating FIN 48 and
      its possible impacts on the Company’s financial statements.   Upon
      adoption, there is a possibility that the cumulative effect would result in
      a
      charge or benefit to the beginning balance of retained earnings.

NOTE
      3: EARNINGS PER SHARE

The
      following data show the amounts used in computing earnings per share and the
      effect on the weighted-average number of shares of potentially dilutive common
      stock.


Table
            of Contents

NOTE
      4: BUSINESS COMBINATIONS

Acquisitions

The
      following is a summary of acquisitions made by Trimble during fiscal 2006,
      and 2004 all of which were accounted for as purchases:

Acquisition

Primary
                Service or Product

Operating
                Segment

Acquisition
                Date

Spacient
                Technologies, Inc.

Enterprise
                field service management and mobile mapping solutions

Field
                Solutions

November
                21, 2006

Meridian
                Project Systems, Inc.

Enterprise
                project management and lifecycle software

Engineering
                & Construction

November
                7, 2006

XYZ
                Solutions, Inc.

Real-time,
                interactive 3D intelligence software

Engineering
                & Construction

October
                27, 2006

Visual
                Statement, Inc.

Desktop
                software tools

Mobile
                Solutions

October
                11, 2006

Intransix

Mobile
                GPS applications

Advanced
                Devices

April
                21, 2006

BitWyse
                Solutions, Inc.

Engineering
                and construction information management software

Engineering
                & Construction

May
                1, 2006

Eleven
                Technology, Inc.

Mobile
                application software

Mobile
                Solutions

April
                28, 2006

Quantm
                International, Inc.

Transportation
                route optimization solution

Engineering
                & Construction

April
                5, 2006

XYZs
                of GPS, Inc

.

Real-time
                Global Navigation Satellite System

Engineering
                & Construction

February
                26, 2006

Advanced
                Public Safety, Inc.

Mobile
                and handheld software for public safety

Mobile
                Solutions

December
                30, 2005

MobileTech
                Solutions, Inc.

Field
                workforce automation solutions

Mobile
                Solutions

October
                25, 2005

Apache
                Technologies, Inc.

Laser
                detection technology

Engineering
                & Construction

April
                19, 2005

Pacific
                Crest Corporation

Wireless
                data communication systems

Engineering
                & Construction

January
                10, 2005

GeoNav
                GmbH

Customized
                field data collection solutions

Engineering
                and Construction

July
                5, 2004

TracerNET
                Corp.

Wireless
                fleet management solutions

Mobile
                Solutions

March
                5, 2004


Table
            of Contents

The
      Consolidated Financial Statements include the operating results of each business
      from the date of acquisition. Pro forma results of operations have not been
      presented because the effects of each of these acquisitions were not material
      to
      the Company’s results.

The
      total
      purchase consideration for each of the above acquisitions was allocated to
      the
      assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values
      as
      of the date of acquisition. The fair value of intangible assets acquired is
      generally determined based on the discount cash flow analysis performed by
      third-party experts. Acquisition costs directly related to the acquisitions
      were
      capitalized.

At
      the
      date of each acquisition, the projects associated with in-process research
      and
      development (IPR&D) efforts had not yet reached technological feasibility
      and the research and development in process had no alternative future uses.
      Accordingly, the value assigned to these IPR&D amounts were charged to
      expense on the respective acquisition date of each of the acquired companies.
      Trimble recorded IPR&D expense of $1.9 million and $1.1 million relating to
      acquisitions made in fiscal 2006 and 2005. We did not record any IPR&D
      expense in fiscal 2004.

The
      following table summarizes the Company’s business combinations completed during
      fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 (in thousands):

Fiscal
                Years Ended

December
                29,


December
                30,


December
                31,


Purchase
                price

$

114,442

$

63,830

$

12,246

Purchase
                price adjustments

4,964

1,595

1,167

Acquisition
                costs

2,127



Total
                purchase price

$

121,533

$

65,891

$

13,692

Purchase
                price allocation:

Fair
                value of net assets acquired

$

1,142

$

1,237

$

2,649

Identified
                intangible assets

52,471

21,171

2,117

In-Process
                Research & Development

1,930

1,100

-

Goodwill

65,990

42,383

8,926

Total

$

121,533

$

65,891

$

13,692

Certain
      acquisitions include additional earn-out cash payments based on future revenue
      derived from existing products. These earn-out payments are considered
      additional purchase price consideration. Earn-out cash payments made for fiscal
      2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 were $4.5 million, $1.6 million and $1.2
      million respectively. Earn-outs and changes in purchase price allocation
      estimates were recorded as purchase price adjustments and goodwill adjustments.
      Acquisitions made by Trimble have additional potential earn-out cash payments
      not to exceed approximately $73.3 million.

Intangible
      Assets

The
      following tables present details of the Company’s total intangible assets:


Table
            of Contents

Total
      intangible assets before accumulated amortization increased by $55.2 million
      primarily due to $52.5 million in intangible assets purchased in connection
      with
      acquisitions in fiscal 2006 and $2.4 million in foreign exchange rate
      translation impact on non-US currency denominated intangible assets. Accumulated
      amortization increased by $15.4 million primarily due to amortization expenses
      of $13.3 million and $2.1 million in foreign exchange rate translation impact
      on
      non-US currency denominated intangible assets.

The
      following table presents details of the amortization expense of purchased and
      other intangible assets as reported in the Consolidated Statements of Income:

Total
      amortization expense of intangible assets for fiscal 2006 increased by $6.2
      million primarily due to an increase in intangible assets purchased in
      connection with acquisitions in fiscal 2006.

The
      estimated future amortization expense of intangible assets as of December 29,
      2006, is as follows (in thousands):

Amortization
                Expense


$

17,805


15,916


12,919


10,721


6,470

Thereafter

3,341

Total

$

67,172

Goodwill

Goodwill
      consisted of the following:

As
                of

December
                29,


December
                30,


(In
                thousands)

Goodwill,
                Spectra Precision acquisition

$

209,693

$

196,676

Goodwill,
                other acquisitions

164,817

89,470

Goodwill

$

374,510

$

286,146

The
      increase in goodwill of approximately $88.4 million during fiscal 2006 was
      primarily due to $56.5 million in goodwill from acquisitions in fiscal 2006
      and
      $4.5 million in earn-out amounts recorded in fiscal 2006 related to the Apache,
      Mensi, XYZs of GPS, Mobile-Tech Solutions and Tracer-Net acquisitions. Goodwill
      also increased by $13.5 million due to the foreign exchange rate translation
      impact on non-US currency denominated goodwill assets. See Note 7 of the Notes
      to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding
      Trimble’s goodwill by operating segment.


Table
            of Contents

NOTE
      5: JOINT VENTURES

Caterpillar
      Trimble Control Technologies Joint Venture

On
      April
      1, 2002, Caterpillar Trimble Control Technologies LLC (“CTCT”), a joint venture
      formed by Trimble and Caterpillar began operations. The joint venture is 50%
      owned by Trimble and 50% owned by Caterpillar, with equal voting rights. The
      joint venture is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Under
      the
      equity method, Trimble’s share of profits and losses are included in expenses
      for affiliated operations, net in the non-operating income (expense), net
      section of the Consolidated Statements of Income. CTCT develops and markets
      advanced electronic guidance and control products for earth moving machines
      in
      the construction and mining industries.

During
      the first quarter of fiscal 2002, Trimble received a special cash distribution
      of $11.0 million from CTCT. Trimble had recorded the cash distribution of $11.0
      million as a deferred gain and amortized it to the extent that losses were
      attributable from CTCT under the equity method of accounting. Since the joint
      venture is now profitable on a sustainable basis and future operating losses
      are
      not anticipated, Trimble recognized the unamortized portion of the gain or
      $9.2
      million in fiscal 2005 as income in non operating income/expense.

Trimble
      acts as a contract manufacturer for CTCT. Products are manufactured based on
      orders received from CTCT and are sold at cost plus a mark up to CTCT. CTCT
      resells products to both Caterpillar and Trimble for sales through their
      respective distribution channels. Generally, Trimble sells products to the
      after
      market dealer channel, and Caterpillar sells products for factory and dealer
      installation. CTCT does not hold inventory in that the resale of products to
      Caterpillar and Trimble occur simultaneously when the products are purchased
      from Trimble.

Beginning
      in the first fiscal quarter of 2006, Trimble included the impact of certain
      transactions with CTCT in revenue and cost of sales. Revenue and cost of sales
      were recorded for the manufacturing of products that are sold to CTCT and then
      sold through the Caterpillar distribution channel. Cost of sales transactions
      also include the purchasing of products from CTCT at a higher price than
      Trimble's original manufacturing costs for products sold through the Trimble
      distribution channel. Prior to the first fiscal quarter of 2006, these
      transactions were included in income (expense) for affiliated operations, net
      in
      the non-operating income (expense), net section of the Consolidated Statements
      of Income. The change in presentation resulted from the Company’s assessment of
      CTCT’s advancement and ability to function as a stand-alone company. In
      addition, the Company’s exclusive manufacturing agreement with CTCT ended during
      fiscal 2005. As a result, during the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company
      deemed transactions between CTCT and Trimble to be arms-length and concluded
      they should be presented similarly to other vendor and customer relationships.
      The impact of this change in presentation was an $18.1 million decrease in
      gross
      margins for fiscal 2006. There was no impact on net income.

Trimble
      received reimbursement of employee-related costs from CTCT for Trimble employees
      dedicated to CTCT or performing work for CTCT totaling $13.5 million for fiscal
      2006 and $9.7 million for both fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004. The reimbursements
      were offset against operating expenses. Dividends received from CTCT amounted
      to
      $2.0 million in fiscal 2006 and $0 in fiscal 2005 and were recorded against
      long-term investments on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Fiscal
                Years Ended

December
                29,


December
                30,


December
                31,


(In
                millions)

CTCT
                incremental pricing effects, net

$

-

$

11.4

$

8.8

Trimble's
                50% share of CTCT's reported (gain) loss

(5.7

)

(2.0

)

0.5

Amortization
                of deferred gain

-

(9.2

)

(0.7

)

Total
                CTCT expense (gain) for affiliated operations, net

($5.7

)

$

0.2

$

8.6

The
      net
      outstanding balance due from CTCT was $0.3 million at December 29, 2006 and
      $0.2
      million at

December
      30, 2005 and was included in other receivables, net on the Consolidated Balance
      Sheets.


Table
            of Contents

Nikon-Trimble
      Joint Venture

On
      March
      28, 2003, Nikon-Trimble Co., Ltd (“Nikon-Trimble”), a joint venture was formed
      by Trimble and Nikon Corporation. The joint venture began operations in July
      2003 and is 50% owned by Trimble and 50% owned by Nikon, with equal voting
      rights. It focuses on the design and manufacture of surveying instruments
      including mechanical total stations and related products.

Nikon-Trimble
      is the distributor in Japan for Nikon and Trimble products. Trimble is the
      exclusive distributor outside of Japan for Nikon branded survey products. For
      products sold from Trimble to the Nikon-Trimble, revenue is recognized by
      Trimble on a sell-through basis from Nikon-Trimble to the end customer. Profits
      from these inter-company sales are eliminated.

The
      terms
      and conditions of the sales of products from Trimble to Nikon-Trimble are
      comparable with those of the standard distribution agreements which Trimble
      maintains with its dealer channel and margins earned are similar to those from
      third party dealers. Similarly, the purchases of product by Trimble from the
      Nikon-Trimble are made on terms comparable with the arrangements which Nikon
      maintained with its international distribution channel prior to the formation
      of
      the joint venture with Trimble.

Trimble
      uses the equity method of accounting for its investment in Nikon-Trimble, with
      50% share of profit or loss from this joint venture reported by Trimble in
      the
      non-operating income (expense), net section of the Consolidated Statements
      of
      Income under the heading of income (expense) for affiliated operations, net.
      Trimble reported a profit of approximately $1.3 million for fiscal 2006, a
      loss
      of $36,000 for fiscal 2005 and a profit of $1.1 million for fiscal 2004,
      respectively, as its proportionate share of the net income. In the second
      quarter of fiscal 2006, Trimble began recording its proportionate share of
      profit or loss in the joint venture one month in arrears.  The impact of
      this change was not material.

In
      fiscal
      2006 and 2005, dividends received from Nikon-Trimble, amounted to $257,000
      and
      $515,000, respectively, and were recorded against long-term investments on
      the
      Consolidated Balance Sheets.

At
      December 29, 2006, the net payable to Trimble by Nikon-Trimble, related to
      the
      purchase and sale of products from and to Nikon-Trimble, is $0.5 million and
      is
      recorded within accounts payable, net on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
      A

t
      December 30, 2005, the net payable by Trimble to Nikon-Trimble, related to
      the
      purchase and sale of products from and to Nikon-Trimble, was $2.0 million and
      was included in accounts payable on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The carrying
      amount of the investment was approximately $14.0 million at December 29, 2006
      and $12.9 million at December 30, 2005 and was recorded in other non-current
      assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

NOTE
      6: CERTAIN BALANCE SHEET COMPONENTS

The
      following tables provide details of selected balance sheet items (in thousands):

As
                  of

December
                  29,


December
                  30,


Inventories:

Raw
                  materials

$

66,853

$

52,199

Work-in-process

6,181

7,249

Finished
                  goods

39,518

48,403

Total

$

112,552

$

107,851

Property
                  and equipment, net:

Machinery
                  and equipment

$

79,238

$

72,273

Furniture
                  and fixtures

12,399

10,110

Leasehold
                  improvements

13,124

8,695

Buildings

5,689

5,707

Land

1,231

1,231

111,681

98,016

Less
                  accumulated depreciation

(63,683

)

(55,352

)

Total

$

47,998

$

42,664

Other
                  Non-Current Liabilities:

Deferred
                  compensation

$

5,887

$

3,231

Pension

6,616

5,529

Deferred
                  Rent

5,327

3,364

Other
                  long term liabilities

9,689

6,917

Total

$

27,519

$

19,041


Table
            of Contents

During
      the year, accumulated depreciation increased by $8.3 million primarily due
      to
      $13.5 million in depreciation expense and $2.1 million in foreign exchange
      translation rate impact, offset by the write-off of fully depreciated assets
      and
      disposals in the amount of $7.6 million.

Other
      non-current liabilities include deferred rent primarily as a result of the
      Sunnyvale, California lease, executed in fiscal 2005 and a new Westminster,
      Colorado lease, executed in fiscal 2006.

NOTE
      7: REPORTING SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

Trimble
      is a designer and distributor of positioning products and applications enabled
      by GPS, optical, laser, and wireless communications technology. The Company
      provides products for diverse applications in its targeted markets.

To
      achieve distribution, marketing, production, and technology advantages, the
      Company manages its operations in the following four segments:

·

Engineering
                and Construction — Consists of products currently used by survey and
                construction professionals in the field for positioning, data collection,
                field computing, data management, and machine guidance and control.
                The
                applications served include surveying, road, runway, construction,
                site
                preparation and building construction.

·

Field
                Solutions — Consists of products that provide solutions in a variety of
                agriculture and geographic information systems (GIS) applications.
                In
                agriculture these include precise land leveling and machine guidance
                systems. In GIS they include handheld devices and software that enable
                the
                collection of data on assets for a variety of governmental and private
                entities.

·

Mobile
                Solutions — Consists of products that enable end users to monitor and
                manage their mobile assets by communicating location and activity-relevant
                information from the field to the office. Trimble offers a range
                of
                products that address a number of sectors of this market including
                truck
                fleets, security, and public safety
                vehicles.

·

Advanced
                Devices — The various operations that comprise this segment were
                aggregated on the basis that no single operation accounted for more
                than
                10% of Trimble’s total revenue, operating income and assets. This segment
                is comprised of the Component Technologies, Military and Advanced
                Systems,
                Applanix and Trimble Outdoors
                businesses.

Trimble
      evaluates each of its segment's performance and allocates resources based on
      segment operating income from operations before income taxes, and some corporate
      allocations. Trimble and each of its segments employ the same accounting
      policies.

In
      the
      first quarter of 2006, Trimble combined the operating results of the former
      Components Technologies and Portfolio Technologies segments and included the
      combined operating results in the Advanced Devices segment. The change in
      presentation was made in recognition of the small size of each of the businesses
      relative to the total company. The presentation of prior period’s segment
      operating results has been changed to conform to the Company’s current segment
      presentation.

The
      following table presents revenues, operating income (loss), and identifiable
      assets for the four segments. Operating income (loss) is net revenue less
      operating expenses, excluding general corporate expenses, amortization
      in-process research and development expenses, restructuring charges,
      non-operating income (expense), and income taxes. The identifiable assets that
      Trimble's Chief Operating Decision Maker views by segment are accounts
      receivable and inventory.


Table
            of Contents

Fiscal
                  Years Ended

December
                  29,


December
                  30,


December
                  31,


(in
                  thousands)

Engineering
                  & Construction

Revenue

$

637,118

$

524,461

$

440,478

Operating
                  income before corporate allocations

136,157

117,993

79,505

Accounts
                  receivable

127,567

105,980

90,743

Inventories

82,827

80,590

65,116

Goodwill

296,597

229,176

238,801

Field
                  Solutions

Revenue

$

139,230

$

127,843

$

105,591

Operating
                  income before corporate allocations

37,377

32,527

25,151

Accounts
                  receivable

21,016

21,823

19,141

Inventories

10,946

11,790

7,016

Goodwill

1,517

-

-

Mobile
                  Solutions

Revenue

$

60,854

$

31,481

$

23,531

Operating
                  income (loss) before corporate allocations

2,550

(3,072

)

(5,997

)

Accounts
                  receivable

15,630

10,789

9,073

Inventories

1,666

1,983

5,735

Goodwill

63,430

44,118

7,660

Advanced
                  Devices

Revenue

$

102,948

$

91,128

$

99,208

Operating
                  income before corporate allocations

10,084

13,212

18,746

Accounts
                  receivable

16,474

14,033

17,660

Inventories

17,113

13,488

9,878

Goodwill

12,966

12,852

13,061

Total

Revenue

$

940,150

$

774,913

$

668,808

Operating
                  income before corporate allocations

186,168

160,660

117,405

Accounts
                  receivable

(1)

180,687

152,625

136,617

Inventories

112,552

107,851

87,745

Goodwill

374,510

286,146

259,522

(1)
        As
        presented, accounts receivable represents trade receivables, gross, which
        are
        specified between segments.

The
        following are reconciliations corresponding to totals in the accompanying
        Consolidated Financial Statements:

Fiscal
                  Years Ended

December
                  29,


December
                  30,


December
                  31,


(in
                  thousands)

Consolidated
                  segment operating income

$

186,168

$

160,660

$

117,405

Unallocated
                  corporate expense

(35,798

)

(27,483

)

(22,901

)

Restructuring
                  charges

(278

)

(552

)

Amortization
                  of purchased intangible assets

(13,074

)

(6,855

)

(8,327

)

In-process
                  research and development

(1,930

)

(1,100

)

-

Non-operating
                  expense, net

12,726

(156

)

(10,701

)

Consolidated
                  income before income taxes

$

148,092

$

124,788

$

74,924

As
                  of

December
                  29,


December
                  30,


(in
                  thousands)

Assets:

Accounts
                  receivable total for reportable segments

$

180,687

$

152,625

Unallocated

(1)

(8,679

)

(7,525

)

Accounts
                  receivable, net

$

172,008

$

145,100

(1)
        Includes trade-related accruals, allowances, and cash received in
        advance.


Table
            of Contents

The
        distribution of Trimble’s gross consolidated revenue by segment is summarized in
        the table below. Gross consolidated revenue includes external and internal
        sales. Total external consolidated revenue is reported net of eliminations
        of
        internal sales between segments.

The
        geographic distribution of Trimble’s revenues and identifiable assets is
        summarized in the tables below. Other foreign countries include Canada, and
        countries in South and Central America, the Middle East, and Africa. Revenue
        is
        defined as revenues from external customers. Identifiable assets indicated
        in
        the table below exclude inter-company receivables, investments in subsidiaries,
        goodwill, and intangibles assets.

(1)
        Revenue attributed to countries based on the location of the
        customer.

Transfers
        between US and non-US geographic areas are made at prices based on total
        costs
        and contributions of the supplying geographic area. The Company's subsidiaries
        in Asia have derived revenue from commissions from US operations in each
        of the
        periods presented. These commission revenues and expenses are excluded from
        total revenue and operating income (loss) in the preceding table. Other than
        the
        United States, no other country comprised more than 10% of sales to unaffiliated
        customers for any periods presented, except as disclosed above.

No
        single
        customer accounted for 10% or more of Trimble's total revenues in fiscal
        years
        2006, 2005, and 2004.

NOTE
        8: RESTRUCTURING CHARGES

There
        were no restructuring charges recorded in fiscal 2006. Restructuring charges
        of
        $0.3 million, and $0.6 million were recorded in fiscal years 2005 and 2004
        respectively. The charges in fiscal 2005 were primarily related to office
        closure costs due to integration efforts of the Mensi acquisition. The charges
        in fiscal 2004 were primarily related to severance costs due to the realignment
        of Trimble Mobile Solutions Inc. As a result of the realignment, the headcount
        decreased by 36 in fiscal 2004. As of December 29, 2006, an accrual balance
        of
        $0.1 million, related to the fiscal 2005 office closure, is expected to be
        paid
        over the next several years. The restructuring accrual is included in the
        Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets under the heading of “Accrued
        Liabilities”.


Table
            of Contents

NOTE
      9: LONG-TERM DEBT

Long-term
      debt consisted of the following:

The
      following summarizes the future cash payment obligations (excluding interest)
      as
      of December 29, 2006:

Total






                and

Beyond

(in
                thousands)

Promissory
                note and

other


-



-

-

Total
                contractual cash obligations

$


$

-

$


$


$

$

-

$

-

Credit
      Facilities

On
      July
      28, 2005, the Company entered into a $200 million unsecured revolving credit
      agreement (“2005 Credit Facility”) with a syndicate of 10 banks with The Bank of
      Nova Scotia as the administrative agent. The 2005 Credit Facility replaces
      the
      Company’s $175 million secured 2003 Credit Facility. The funds available under
      the new 2005 Credit Facility may be used by the Company for general corporate
      purposes and up to $25 million of the 2005 Credit Facility may be used for
      letters of credit.

The
      Company may borrow funds under the 2005 Credit Facility in U.S. Dollars or
      in
      certain other currencies, and will bear interest, at the Company's option,
      at
      either: (i) a base rate, based on the administrative agent's prime rate, plus
      a
      margin of between 0% and 0.125%, depending on the Company's leverage ratio
      as of
      its most recently ended fiscal quarter, or (ii) a reserve-adjusted rate based
      on
      LIBOR, EURIBOR, STIBOR or other agreed-upon rate, depending on the currency
      borrowed, plus a margin of between 0.625% and 1.125%, depending on the Company's
      leverage ratio as of the most recently ended fiscal quarter. The Company's
      obligations under the 2005 Credit Facility are guaranteed by certain of the
      Company's domestic subsidiaries.

The
      Credit Facility contains customary affirmative, negative and financial covenants
      including, among other requirements, negative covenants that restrict the
      Company's ability to dispose of assets, create liens, incur indebtedness,
      repurchase stock, pay dividends, make acquisitions, make investments, enter
      into
      mergers and consolidations and make capital expenditures, and financial
      covenants that require the maintenance of leverage and fixed charge coverage
      ratios. The 2005 Credit Facility contains events of default that include, among
      others, non-payment of principal, interest or fees, breach of covenants,
      inaccuracy of representations and warranties, cross defaults to certain other
      indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency events, material judgments, and events
      constituting a change of control. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance
      of an event of default, interest on the obligations will accrue at an increased
      rate and the lenders may accelerate the Company's obligations under the 2005
      Credit Facility, however that acceleration will be automatic in the case of
      bankruptcy and insolvency events of default. Trimble incurs a commitment fee
      if
      the 2005 Credit Facility is not used. The commitment fee is not material to
      the
      Company’s results during all periods presented.


Table
            of Contents

At
      December 29, 2006, the Company has a zero balance outstanding and was in
      compliance with all financial debt covenants.

Notes
      Payable

As
      of
      December 29, 2006, the Company had other notes payable totaling approximately
      $0.5 million consisting of government loans to foreign subsidiaries and loans
      assumed from acquisitions.

NOTE
      10: COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Operating
      Leases

On

January
      13, 2006,

Trimble
      entered into a lease agreement for the lease of real property located in
      Westminster, Colorado. The lease agreement has a seven year term, commencing
      June 1, 2006 and ending May 31, 2013.

On
      May
      13, 2005, Trimble entered into a lease agreement for the lease of real property
      located in Sunnyvale, California. The lease agreement has a seven year term,
      commencing January 1, 2006 and ending December 31, 2012.

Trimble's
      principal facilities in the United States are leased under various cancelable
      and non-cancelable operating leases that expire at various dates through 2013.

For
      tenant improvement allowances and rent holidays, Trimble records a deferred
      rent
      liability on the consolidated balance sheets and amortizes the deferred rent
      over the terms of the leases as reductions to rent expense on the consolidated
      statements of income.

The
      Company has options to renew certain of these leases for an additional five
      years.

Future
      minimum payments required under non-cancelable operating leases are as follows:

Operating

Lease
                Payments

(In
                thousands)


$

10,852


9,318


8,187


6,414


3,530

Thereafter

3,556

Total

$

41,857

Net
      rent
      expense under operating leases was $10.5 million in fiscal 2006, $12.6 million
      in fiscal 2005, and $10.9 million in fiscal 2004. Sublease income was $44,000,
      $39,000, and $38,000, for fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.

Purchase
      Commitments with a Supplier

Trimble
      entered into a significant supply agreement in fiscal 2004 that sets forth
      minimum purchase commitments for outsourced services. The term of the supply
      agreement is the earlier of four years from the initial product ship date,
      or
      when Trimble has paid for a cumulative total of 200,000 billable hours
      (approximately $10.4 million). Should Trimble not purchase and pay for 200,000
      hours, then Trimble will compensate the supplier for 20% of the shortfall.
      Thereafter, the contract continues in effect until terminated by either party
      with 30 days prior written notice to the other party. As of December 29, 2006,
      based on current hours earned to date the future obligation is approximately
      $380,000 which is expected to be paid over the next year. Trimble does not
      expect a shortfall based on current hours earned to date.


Table
            of Contents

NOTE
      11: FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The
      estimated fair values of financial instruments outstanding are as follows:

The
      fair
      value of the bank borrowings, and promissory notes have been estimated using
      an
      estimate of the interest rate Trimble would have had to pay on the issuance
      of
      notes with a similar maturity and discounting the cash flows at that rate.
      The
      fair values do not give an indication of the amount that Trimble would currently
      have to pay to extinguish any of this debt.

The
      fair
      value of forward foreign exchange contracts is estimated based on the difference
      between the market price and the carrying amount of comparable contracts. These
      contracts are adjusted to fair value at the end of every month

.

NOTE
      12: INCOME TAXES

The
      components of income before income taxes are as follows:

Fiscal
                Years Ended

December
                29,


December
                30,


December
                31,


(In
                thousands)

United
                States

$

123,800

99,500

70,000

Foreign

$

24,300

25,300

4,900

Total

$

148,100

$

124,800

74,900

Trimble's
      income tax provision consisted of the following:


Table
            of Contents

The
      income tax provision differs from the amount computed by applying the statutory
      US federal income tax rate to income before taxes. The sources and tax effects
      of the differences are as follows:

Fiscal
                Years Ended

December
                29,


December
                30,


December
                31,


(In
                thousands)

Expected
                tax from continuing operations at 35% in all years

$

51,832

$

43,677

$

26,223

Change
                in valuation allowance

-0-

-0-

(24,004

)

US
                State income taxes

(110

)


1,299

Export
                sales incentives

(4,138

)

(2,316

)

(1,176

)

NonForeign
                components

(7,682

)

3,684

5,134

US
                Federal research and development credit

(662

)

(895

)

(508

)

In
                process research & development

1,046

-0-

-0-

Stock
                option compensation

3.626

-0-

-0-

Benefit
                from repatriation legislation

(1,050

)

(6,445

)

-0-

Other

1,572

1,479


Income
                tax provision

$

44,434

$

39,933

$

7,244

Effective
                tax rate


%


%


%

The
      components of deferred taxes consist of the following:

The
      Company has $2.1 million of tax effected US federal net operating loss
      carryforwards from an acquisition. Utilization of the Company’s net operating
      loss carryforwards are subject to annual limitations provided by the Internal
      Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The Company has state research and development
      credit carryforwards of approximately $13.6 million which can be carried over
      indefinitely.


Table
            of Contents

The
      company’s valuation allowance is attributable to, primarily, the California
      Research Credit and acquisition Net Operating Loss carryforwards. 
Valuation allowance amounts are offsets to related deferred tax assets.
      Management believes that it is more likely than not that the Company will not
      realize these deferred tax assets and, accordingly, a valuation allowance has
      been established for such amounts. When the tax credits are utilized and the
      valuation allowance is released, the benefit of the release of the valuation
      allowance will be accounted for as a credit to shareholder’s equity rather than
      as a reduction of the income tax provision.

The
      American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act) provides for a special one-time
      elective dividends received deduction on the repatriation of certain foreign
      earnings to a U.S. taxpayer equal to 85% of the eligible distribution. During
      the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company repatriated $39.5 million, of which
      $24
      million qualified for the special one-time elective dividends received deduction
      and $15.5 million constituted earnings that do not qualify under the Act;
      previously taxed income and return of capital. The company recorded a $6.4
      million tax benefit from these foreign earnings in 2005. The $1.0 million tax
      benefit recorded in 2006 represents a true-up adjustment to the amount recorded
      in 2005.

In
      July
      2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in
      Income Taxes” (“FIN 48”). FIN 48 applies to all tax positions related to income
      taxes subject to SFAS 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes.”  Under FIN 48 a
      company would recognize the benefit from a tax position only if it is
      more-likely-than-not that the position would be sustained upon audit based
      solely on the technical merits of the tax position. FIN 48 clarifies how a
      company would measure the income tax benefits from the tax positions that are
      recognized, provides guidance as to the timing of the derecognition of
      previously recognized tax benefits and describes the methods for classifying
      and
      disclosing the liabilities within the financial statements for any unrecognized
      tax benefits.    FIN 48 also addresses when a company should record
      interest and penalties related to tax positions and how the interest and
      penalties may be classified within the income statement and presented in the
      balance sheet.  FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after
      December 15, 2006.  For Trimble, FIN 48 will be effective for the first
      quarter of fiscal 2007.  Differences between the amounts recognized in the
      statements of operations prior to and after the adoption of FIN 48 would be
      accounted for as a cumulative effect adjustment to the beginning balance of
      retained earnings.    The Company is currently evaluating FIN 48 and
      its possible impacts on the Company’s financial statements.   Upon
      adoption, there is a possibility that the cumulative effect would result in
      a
      charge or benefit to the beginning balance of retained earnings.

NOTE
      13: COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

The
      components of comprehensive income and related tax effects are as follows:

Fiscal
                Years Ended

December
                29,


December
                30,


December
                31,


(in
                thousands)

Net
                income

$

103,658

$

84,855

$

67,680

Foreign
                currency translation adjustments, net of tax of $(108) in 2006 and
                $308 in

21,709

(24,690

)

14,025

Net
                gain (loss) on hedging transactions

-

(106

)


Adjustment
                to initially apply SFAS 158, net of tax

(136

)

-

-

Net
                unrealized gain (loss) on investments


(34

)

(6

)

Total
                comprehensive income

$

125,234

$

60,025

$

81,805

The
      components of accumulated other comprehensive, net of related tax were as
      follows:

Fiscal
                Years Ended

December
                29,


December
                30,


(in
                thousands)

Accumulated
                foreign currency translation adjustments

$

41,214

$

19,504

Adjustment
                to initially apply FASB Statement No. 158, net of tax

(136

)

-

Accumulated
                net unrealized gain on foreign currency



Total
                accumulated other comprehensive income

$

41,111

$

19,534


Table
            of Contents

NOTE
      14: EMPLOYEE STOCK BENEFIT PLANS

Employee
      Stock Purchase Plan

The
      Company has an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“Purchase Plan”) under which an
      aggregate of 11,550,000 shares of Common Stock have been reserved for sale
      to
      eligible employees as approved by the shareholders to date. The plan permits
      full-time employees to purchase Common Stock through payroll deductions at
      85%
      of the lower of the fair market value of the Common Stock at the beginning
      or at
      the end of each offering period, which is generally six months. The Purchase
      Plan terminates on September 8, 2008. In fiscal 2006 and 2005, the shares issued
      under the Purchase Plan were 195,398 and 359,998 shares, respectively. At
      December 29, 2006, the number of shares reserved for future purchases by
      eligible employees was 1,440,274.

Restricted
      Stock Award

Trimble
      did not grant any restricted stock in fiscal 2006 or fiscal 2004. During the
      second quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company granted 40,000 shares of restricted
      common stock. The award vests 20% on June 30, 2005 and an additional 20% each
      June 30 thereafter. The Company recorded compensation expense in the
      Consolidated Statements of Income of $191,000 and $120,000 for fiscal 2006
      and
      2005, respectively.

      Stock Plan

In
      2002,
      Trimble’s Board of Directors adopted the 2002 Stock Plan (“2002 Plan”). The 2002
      Plan approved by the shareholders provides for the granting of incentive and
      non-statutory stock options for up to 12,000,000 shares plus any shares
      currently reserved but un-issued to employees, consultants, and directors of
      Trimble. Incentive stock options may be granted at exercise prices that are
      not
      less than 100% of the fair market value of Common Stock on the date of grant.
      Employee stock options granted under the 2002 Plan generally have 84-120 month
      terms, and vest at a rate of 20% at the first anniversary of grant and monthly
      thereafter at an annual rate of 20%, with full vesting occurring at the fifth
      anniversary of the grant. In certain instances, grants vest at a rate of 40%
      at
      the second anniversary of grant and monthly thereafter at an annual rate of
      20%
      with full vesting occurring at the fifth anniversary of the grant. The Company
      issues new shares for option exercises. As of December 29, 2006, options to
      purchase 8,038,610 shares were outstanding and 4,453,838 were available for
      future grant under the 2002 Plan.

      Stock Option Plan

In
      1992,
      Trimble's Board of Directors adopted the 1993 Stock Option Plan (“1993 Plan”).
      The 1993 Plan, as amended to date and approved by shareholders, provided for
      the
      granting of incentive and non-statutory stock options for up to 19,125,000
      shares of Common Stock to employees, consultants, and directors of Trimble.
      Incentive stock options may be granted at exercise prices that are not less
      than
      100% of the fair market value of Common Stock on the date of grant. Employee
      stock options granted under the 1993 Plan have 120-month terms, and vest at
      a
      rate of 20% at the first anniversary of grant, and monthly thereafter at an
      annual rate of 20%, with full vesting occurring at the fifth anniversary of
      grant. The Company issues new shares for option exercises. As of December 29,
      2006 options to purchase 2,692,736 shares were outstanding and no shares were
      available for future grant.

      Management Discount Stock Option Plan

In
      1992,
      Trimble's Board of Directors approved the 1992 Management Discount Stock Option
      Plan ("Discount Plan"). As of December 29, 2006, options to purchase 295,000
      shares were outstanding and no shares were available for future grant under
      the
      1992 Management Discount Stock Option Plan.

      Director Stock Option Plan

In
      December 1990, Trimble adopted a Director Stock Option Plan under which an
      aggregate of 1,140,000 shares of Common Stock have been reserved for issuance
      to
      non-employee directors as approved by the shareholders to date. At December
      29,
      2006, options to purchase 285,000 shares were outstanding, and no shares were
      available for future grants under the Director Stock Option Plan.

Options
      Outstanding and Exercisable


Table
            of Contents

Exercise
      prices for options outstanding as of December 29, 2006, ranged from $2.67 to
      $25.48. In view of the wide range of exercise prices, Trimble considers it
      appropriate to provide the following additional information with respect to
      options outstanding at December 29, 2006:

Options
                  Outstanding

Options
                  Exercisable

Range

Number

Outstanding

Weighted-
                  Average Exercise Price per Share

Weighted-
                  Average Remaining Contractual Life (Years)

Number

Exercisable

Weighted-
                  Average Exercise Price per Share

$ 
                  2.67 - 4.27

1,198,584

$

3.40

2.84

1,151,164

$

3.38

4.40 - 5.45

1,137,822

5.08

5.38

962,556

5.08

5.60 - 6.50

1,185,640

5.88

4.04

1,185,640

5.88

6.52 - 8.02

251,048

7.29

4.84

238,928

7.29

8.50

1,468,152

8.5

6.55

832,356

8.5

8.78 - 13.71

1,144,950

12.44

5.03

922,590

12.82

13.78

4,350

13.78

7.07


13.78

14.53

1,244,334

14.53

7.81

457,570

14.53

15.29 - 16.53

525,700

15.98

8.04

204,620

15.99

17.00 - 25.48

3,147,600

20.41

7.95

356,744

17.80

Total

11,308,180

$

12.04

6.18

6,312,768

$

8.35

Number
                Of Shares

Weighted-
                Average Exercise Price per Share

Weighted-
                Average Remaining Contractual Term (

in
                years

)

Aggregate
                Intrinsic Value

(in
                thousands)

Options
                Outstanding

11,308,180

$

12.04

6.2

$

150,669

Options
                Outstanding and Expected to Vest

10,977,900

11.84

6.1

148,469

Options
                Exercisable

6,312,768

8.35

5.1

107,456

Options
      outstanding and expected to vest are adjusted for expected forfeitures. The
      aggregate intrinsic value is the total pretax intrinsic value based on the
      Company’s closing stock price of $25.37 as of

December

,
      2006,
      which would have been received by the option holders had all option holders
      exercised their options as of that date.

As
      of
      December 29, 2006, the total unamortized stock option expense is $22.0 million
      with a weighted-average recognition period of 1.7 years.

Option
      Activity

Activity
      during fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, under the combined plans was as follows:


Table
            of Contents

Warrants

On
      April
      12, 2002, the Company issued to Spectra-Physics Holdings USA, Inc., a warrant
      to
      purchase up to 1,128,700 shares of Trimble’s Common Stock over a fixed period of
      time. Initially, Spectra-Physics’ warrant entitled it to purchase 600,000 shares
      of Common Stock over a five-year period at an exercise price of $5.04 per share.
      On a quarterly basis beginning July 14, 2002, Spectra-Physics’ warrant became
      exercisable for an additional 750 shares of Common Stock for every $1 million
      of
      principal and interest outstanding to Spectra-Physics until the obligation
      was
      paid off in full. These shares are purchasable at a price equal to the average
      of Trimble’s closing price for the five days immediately proceeding the last
      trading day of each quarter. On July 14, 2002 an additional 52,092 shares became
      exercisable at an exercise price of $4.82 per share. On October 14, 2002 an
      additional 53,472 shares became exercisable at an exercise price of $3.06.
      On
      January 14, 2003, an additional 54,852 shares became exercisable at an exercise
      price of $4.52. On April 14, 2003, an additional 28,624 shares became
      exercisable at an exercise price of $6.69. The approximate fair value of the
      warrants of $2.4 million was determined using the Black-Scholes pricing model
      with the following assumptions: contractual life of 5-year period, risk-free
      interest rate of 4%; volatility of 65%; and no dividends during the contractual
      term. The additional shares are exercisable over a 5-year period. No additional
      shares will be issuable under the warrant as the underlying obligation has
      been
      paid off in full. For fiscal 2006 and 2005, there were no shares exercised
      related to the warrants. As of December 29, 2006, there are 789,040 shares
      outstanding and exercisable under the warrants.

On
      December 21, 2001 and January 14, 2002, in connection with the first and second
      closing of the private placement of the Company’s Common Stock, Trimble granted
      five-year warrants to purchase an additional 1,838,016 shares of Common Stock,
      subject to certain adjustments, at an exercise price of $6.49 per share. As
      of
      December 29, 2006, there are 162,562 shares outstanding and exercisable under
      the warrants.

NOTE
      15: BENEFIT PLANS

401(k)
      Plan

Under
      Trimble’s 401(k) Plan, US employee participants (including employees of certain
      subsidiaries) may direct the investment of contributions to their accounts
      among
      certain mutual funds and the Trimble Navigation Limited Common Stock Fund.
      The
      Trimble Fund sold net 129,834 shares of Common Stock for an aggregate of $3.0
      million in fiscal 2006. Trimble, at its discretion, matches individual employee
      401(k) Plan contributions at a rate of fifty cents of every dollar that the
      employee contributes to the 401(k) Plan up to 5% of the employee’s annual salary
      to an annual maximum of $2,500. Trimble’s matching contributions to the 401(k)
      Plan were $2.5 million in fiscal 2006, $2.2 million in fiscal 2005, and $1.9
      million in fiscal 2004.

Defined
      Contribution Pension Plans

Certain
      of the Company’s European subsidiaries participate in state sponsored pension
      plans. Contributions are based on specified percentages of employee salaries.
      For these plans, Trimble contributed and charged to expense approximately $0.7
      million for fiscal 2006, $0.6 million for fiscal 2005, and $0.6 million for
      fiscal 2004.

Defined
      Benefit Pension Plan

Trimble
      provides defined benefit pension plans in Sweden, Germany, and the Netherlands.
      The largest of these plans is provided by the Swedish subsidiary which has
      an
      unfunded defined benefit pension plan that covered substantially all of its
      full-time employees through 1993. Benefits are based on a percentage of eligible
      earnings. The employee must have had a projected period of pensionable service
      of at least 30 years as of 1993. If the period was shorter, the pension benefits
      were reduced accordingly. Active employees do not accrue any future benefits;
      therefore, there is no service cost and the liability will only increase for
      interest cost.

On
      December 29, 2006, the Company adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions
      of SFAS158. SFAS 158 required the Company to recognize the funded status (i.e.,
      the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the projected benefit
      obligations) of its

pension
      plan in the December 29, 2006 Consolidated Balance Sheet, with a corresponding
      adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. The adjustment
      to accumulated other comprehensive income at adoption represents the net
      unrecognized actuarial losses and unrecognized transition obligation remaining
      from the initial adoption of SFAS 87, all of which were previously netted
      against the plan’s funded status in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets
      pursuant to the provisions of Statement 87. These amounts will be subsequently
      recognized as net periodic pension cost pursuant to the Company’s historical
      accounting policy for amortizing such amounts. Further, actuarial gains and
      losses that arise in subsequent periods and are not recognized as net periodic
      pension cost in the same periods will be recognized a component of other
      comprehensive income. Those amounts will be subsequently recognized as a
      component of net periodic pension cost on the same basis as the amounts
      recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income at adoption of SFAS
      158.


Table
            of Contents

The
      incremental effects of adopting the provisions of SFAS 158 on the Company’s
      consolidated balance sheet at December 29, 2006 are presented in the following
      table. The adoption of SFAS 158 had no effect on the Company’s consolidated
      statement of income for the year ended December 29, 2006, or for any prior
      period presented, and it will not effect the Company’s operating results in
      future periods. Had the Company not been required to adopt SFAS 158 at December
      29, 2006, it would have recognized an additional minimum liability pursuant
      to
      then provisions of SFAS 87. The effect of recognizing the additional minimum
      liability is included in table below in the column labeled “Prior to Application
      of SFAS 158.”

The
      changes in the benefit obligations and plan assets of the significant non-US
      defined benefit pension plans for fiscal 2006 and 2005 were as
      follows:


Table
            of Contents

(2)

In
                2006, the Company began incorporating the net effect of the projected
                benefit obligation and the plan assets of its defined benefit plan
                in the
                Netherlands in its Consolidated Balance Sheets. In prior years, the
                Company could not obtain the necessary information to include the
                net
                impact of this plan on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. As a result,
                the
                benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets at the beginning
                of year
                have been restated. The net effect of recording the benefit obligation
                in
                excess of plan assets of this plan to the Consolidated Statements
                of
                Income and the Consolidated Balance Sheets was not material

for both fiscal 2006 and fiscal
                2005.

The
      underfunded status of the plan of $6.8 million at December 29, 2006 is
      recognized in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets as a short-term
      and
      long-term accrued pension liability. No plan assets are expected to be returned
      to Trimble during the fiscal year-ended December 28, 2007.

Net
      periodic benefit costs in fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004 were not material.

Actuarial
      assumptions used to determine the net periodic pension costs for the year ended
      December 29, 2006 were as follows:

Swedish
                Subsidiary

German
                Subsidiaries

Netherlands
                Subsidiary

Discount
                rate

4.5%

4.3%

4.0%

Rate
                of compensation increase

2.0%

2.0%

2.0%

Measurement
                Date

12/29/06

12/29/06

12/29/06

Trimble’s
      accumulated benefits obligation was $7.5 million and $7.0 million for fiscal
      2006 and 2005, respectively.

Trimble’s
      plan assets are primarily located in our German subsidiaries and the Netherlands
      subsidiary. For German subsidiaries, for fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, the asset
      allocation of our total plan assets was approximately as follows: 89% local
      government bonds, 7% real estate and 4% equity securities. Long-term asset
      allocation and expected return on assets assumptions are derived from detailed
      annual studies conducted by Trimble’s asset management group and actuaries.
      Trimble’s asset management group limits allocation to equity securities and real
      estate to a maximum of 10% and 25%, respectively, with the remaining assets
      to
      be allocated to local government bonds. For the Netherlands subsidiary, 100%
      of
      the assets are invested in an insurance contract. While the asset allocation
      give appropriate consideration to recent performance and historical returns,
      the
      strategy is focused primarily on conservative and sustainable long-term returns.
      Based on historical returns, Trimble expects future return on assets to be
      approximately 4%.

Trimble
      expects to contribute approximately $500,000 to plan assets in fiscal year
      ended
      2007.

The
      following benefit payments, which reflect estimated future employee service,
      as
      appropriate, are expected to be paid:

Expected
                Benefit Payments

(In
                thousands)


$



$



$



$



$


2012-2016

$

3,040

Total

$

5,288


Table
            of Contents

NOTE
      16: STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW DATA

NOTE
      17: LITIGATION

From
      time
      to time, the Company is involved in litigation arising out of the ordinary
      course of its business. There are no known claims or pending litigation expected
      to have a material effect on the Company’s overall financial position, results
      of operations, or liquidity.

NOTE
      18: SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

Acquisition
      of @Road, Inc.

On
      February 16, 2007, we acquired @Road, Inc. of Fremont, California for a total
      purchase price of approximately $493.1

million.
      @Road, Inc. is a global provider of solutions designed to automate the
      management of mobile resources and to optimize the service delivery process
      for
      customers across a variety of industries. @Road will be reported within our
      Mobile Solutions business segment. This acquisition was the largest in
      acquisition value in the company’s history. It significantly increases our
      presence in the mobile resource management (MRM) market which Trimble believes
      is a large and fast growing market. With the addition of @Road, Trimble’s TMS
      segment will be better able to service larger customers, with a broader and
      more
      robust solution set.

Trimble
      elected to pay the $7.50 per share purchase consideration with $5.00 in cash
      and
      $2.50 in newly issued shares of Trimble common stock, payable to @Road
      stockholders. Pursuant to this election and the merger agreement, the stock
      portion of the merger consideration payable to @Road shareholders was 0.0447
      shares of Trimble common stock per share of @Road common stock or a total of
      2.9
      million shares valued at $164.4 million.

Amended
      and Restated Credit Facilities

On
      February 16, 2007, the Company amended and restated its existing $200 million
      unsecured revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of 11 banks with The
      Bank
      of Nova Scotia as the administrative agent (the “2007 Credit Facility”). Under
      the 2007 Credit Facility, the Company exercised the accordion option in the
      existing credit agreement to increase the availability under the revolving
      credit line by $100,000,000, for an aggregate availability of up to
      $300,000,000, and extended the maturity date of the revolving credit line by
      months, from July 2010 to February 2012.  Up to $25 million of the
      availability under the revolving credit line may be used to issue letters of
      credit, and up to $20 million may be used for swing line loans. In addition,
      the
      Company incurred five-year term loan under the 2007 Credit Facility in an
      aggregate principal amount of $100,000,000, which will mature concurrently
      with
      the revolving credit line.  The term loan will be repaid in quarterly
      installments, with principal being amortized at the following annual rates:
      year
      1 at 10%, year 2 at 15%, year 3 at 15%, year 4 at 20%, year 5 at 20%, and the
      last quarterly payment to be made at maturity, together with a final payment
      of
      20%.  Under the existing facility, the Company was required to maintain a
      maximum leverage ratio of 2:75:1. The 2007 Credit Facility increased the maximum
      leverage ratio to 3.00:1.   The funds available under the new 2007
      Credit Facility may be used by the Company for acquisitions and general
      corporate purposes.


Table
            of Contents

As
      of
      February 20, 2007, the Company

had
      $150

million
      drawn on the revolving credit line and $100 million in term loan
      outstanding.

2-for-1
      Stock Split

On
      January 17, 2007, Trimble’s Board of Directors approved a 2-for-1 split of all
      outstanding shares of the Company’s Common Stock, payable February 22, 2007 to
      stockholders of record on February 8, 2007. All shares and per share information
      presented has been adjusted to reflect the stock split on a retroactive basis
      for all periods presented.

NOTE
      19: SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

Fiscal
                period ended

March
                31,


June
                30,


September
                29,


December
                29,


(in
                thousands, except per share data)

Revenue

$

225,854

$

245,326

$

234,851

$

234,120

Gross
                margin

107,463

121,656

116,191

115,771

Net
                income

25,828

28,503

25,342

23,983

Basic
                net income per share

0.24

0.26

0.23

0.22

Diluted
                net income per share

0.23

0.25

0.22

0.21

Fiscal
                period ended

April
                1,


July
                1,


September
                30,


December
                30,


(in
                thousands, except per share data)

Revenue

$

195,383

$

204,225

$

188,484

$

186,821

Gross
                margin

97,807

102,407

97,292

92,299

Net
                income

17,439

23,787

20,236

23,393

Basic
                net income per share

0.17

0.23

0.19

0.22

Diluted
                net income per share

0.16

0.21

0.18

0.21

Trimble
      has a 52-53 week fiscal year, ending on the Friday nearest to December 31.
      As a
      result of the extra week, year-over-year results are not exactly comparable.
      Thus, due to the inherent nature of adopting a 52-53 week fiscal year, the
      Company, analysts, shareholders, investors, and others will have to make
      appropriate adjustments to any analysis performed when comparing our activities
      and results.

Significant
      quarterly items for fiscal 2006 include the following: (i) in the first quarter
      of 2006 a $2.6 million benefit, or a $0.03 per diluted share resulting from
      the
      settlement of foreign income tax audits; (ii) in the second quarter of 2006
      a
      $1.0 million charge, or $0.00 per diluted share relating to in-process research
      and development and a $2.2 million benefit, or a $0.02 per diluted share
      resulting from the settlement of foreign income tax audits; (iii) in the third
      quarter a $1.7 million benefit, or a $0.02 per diluted share resulting from
      the
      amendment of a federal income tax return; (iv) in the fourth quarter of 2006
      a
      $930,000 charge, or $0.00 per diluted share relating to in-process research
      and
      development and $1.8 million benefit, or a $0.02 per diluted share resulting
      from the settlement of foreign income tax audits.

Significant
      quarterly items for fiscal 2005 include the following: (i) in the first quarter
      of 2005 a $0.2 million charge, or less than $0.01 per diluted share relating
      to
      facilities closure; (ii) in the third quarter of 2005 a $0.9 million charge,
      or
      $0.02 per diluted share relating to a write-off of debt issuance costs; (iii)
      in
      the fourth quarter of 2005 a $1.1 million charge, or $0.02 per diluted share
      relating to in-process research and development and $9.2 million or $0.16 per
      diluted share related to deferred gain on joint venture.


Table
            of Contents

Report
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The
      Board of Directors and Shareholders of Trimble Navigation Limited

We
      have
      audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Trimble Navigation
      Limited as of December 29, 2006 and December 30, 2005, and the related
      consolidated statements of income, shareholder’s equity, and cash flows for each
      of the three years in the period ended December 29, 2006. Our audits also
      included the financial statement schedule listed in the index at Item 15(a)(2).
      These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s
      management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
      statements and schedule based on our audits.

We
      conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
      Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
      plan
      and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
      statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining,
      on a
      test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
      statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used
      and
      significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
      financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
      reasonable basis for our opinion.

In
      our
      opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
      material respects, the consolidated financial position of Trimble Navigation
      Limited at December 29, 2006 and December 30, 2005, and the consolidated results
      of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period
      ended December 29, 2006, in conformity with U.S generally accepted accounting
      principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule,
      when
      considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken
      as a
      whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth
      therein.

As
      discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, in fiscal 2006
      the
      Company changed its method of accounting for stock based compensation in
      accordance with guidance provided in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
      No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment”.

We
      also
      have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
      Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Trimble Navigation
      Limited’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 29, 2006,
      based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued
      by
      the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our
      report dated February 22, 2007, expressed an unqualified opinion
      thereon.

/s/
      Ernst
& Young LLP

San
      Jose,
      California

February
      22, 2007


Table
            of Contents

Report
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The
      Board of Directors and Shareholders of Trimble Navigation
      Limited

We
      have
      audited management’s assessment, included in the accompanying Management’s
      Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting at Item 9A, that Trimble
      Navigation Limited maintained effective internal control over financial
      reporting as of December 29, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal
      Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
      of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Trimble Navigation Limited’s
      management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
      financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
      control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion
      on
      management’s assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s
      internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We
      conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
      Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
      plan
      and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective
      internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
      respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
      over
      financial reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing and evaluating
      the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing
      such
      other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe
      that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A
      company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
      and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
      with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over
      financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain
      to
      the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
      reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
      provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
      permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
      accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
      being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
      of
      the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
      detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s
      assets that could have a material effect on the financial
      statements.

Because
      of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may
      not
      prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
      effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
      inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
      with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In
      our
      opinion, management’s assessment that Trimble Navigation Limited maintained
      effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 29, 2006,
      is
      fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the COSO criteria. Also,
      in
      our opinion, Trimble Navigation Limited maintained, in all material respects,
      effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 29, 2006,
      based on

the
      COSO
      criteria

.

We
      also
      have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
      Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Trimble
      Navigation Limited as of December 29, 2006 and December 30, 2005, and the
      related consolidated statements of income, shareholders’ equity, and cash flows
      for each of the three years in the period ended December 29, 2006, of Trimble
      Navigation Limited and our report dated February 22, 2007 expressed an
      unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/
      Ernst
& Young LLP

San
      Jose,
      California

February
      22, 2007


Table
            of Contents

Item
                9.

Cha

ng

es
                in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
                Financial Disclosure.

None

Item
                9A.

Con

tro

ls
                and
                Procedures.

(3)

Evaluation
                of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Trimble’s
      Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), after
      evaluating the effectiveness of the company’s “disclosure controls and
      procedures” (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities
      Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”)), as of December 29, 2006, have
      concluded that as of December 29, 2006, the company’s disclosure controls and
      procedures were effective and designed to provide reasonable assurance that
      material information relating to the company and its consolidated subsidiaries
      required to be included in the company’s periodic filings under the Exchange Act
      would be made known to them by others within those entities.

Inherent
      Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls

The
      company’s management, including the CEO and CFO, does not expect that our
      internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all error
      and
      all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can
      provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s
      objectives will be met. The design of any system of controls is based in part
      on
      certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be
      no
      assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under
      all
      potential future conditions.

(b)
      Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

The
      company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
      internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange
      Act Rule 13a-15(f). The company’s management, including the CEO and CFO,
      conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of its internal control over
      financial reporting based on the Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued
      by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based
      on the results of this evaluation, the company’s management concluded that its
      internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 29,
      2006.

Management’s
      assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting
      as of December 29, 2006 has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an
      independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which
      is included elsewhere herein.

Changes
      in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

During
      the quarter ended December 29, 2006, there were no changes in the company’s
      internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or
      are
      reasonably likely to materially affect, the company’s internal control over
      financial reporting.

Item
                9B.

Other
                Info

rm

ation.

None.


Table
            of Contents

PART
      III

Item
                10.

Di

recto

rs,
                Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.

The
      information required by this item, insofar as it relates to Trimble’s directors,
      will be contained under the captions “Election of Directors” and
“Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in the Proxy
      Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. The information required
      by
      this item relating to executive officers is set forth above in Item 1 Business
      Overview under the caption “Executive Officers.”

Code
      of Ethics

The
      Company’s Business Ethics and Conduct Policy applies to, among others, to the
      Company’s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Corporate
      Controller, and other finance organization employees. The Business Ethics and
      Conduct Policy is available on the Company’s website at www.trimble.com under
      the heading “Corporate Governance and Policies” on the Investor Information page
      of our website. A copy will be provided, without charge, to any shareholder
      who
      requests one by written request addressed to General Counsel, Trimble Navigation
      Limited, 935 Stewart Drive, Sunnyvale, CA 94085.

If
      any
      substantive amendments to the Business Ethics and Conduct Policy are made or
      any
      waivers are granted, including any implicit waiver, from a provision of the
      Business Ethics and Conduct Policy, to its Chief Executive Officer, Chief
      Financial Officer or Corporate Controller, the Company will disclose the nature
      of such amendment or waiver on the Company’s website at www.trimble.com or in a
      report on Form 8-K.

Item
                11.

Ex

ecuti

ve
                Compensation.

The
      information required by this item will be contained in the Proxy Statement
      under
      the caption “Executive Compensation” and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item
                12.

Se

curi

ty
                Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
                and Related Stockholder
                Matters.

The
      information required by this item will be contained in the Proxy Statement
      under
      the caption “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
      Related Stockholder Matters” and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item
              13.

Ce

rta

in
                Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
                Independence.

The
      information required by this item will be contained in the Proxy Statement
      under
      the caption “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
      Independence” and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item
              14.

Prin

cipa

l
                Accounting Fees and
                Services.

The
      information required by this item will be contained in the Proxy Statement
      under
      the caption “Principal Accounting Fees and Services” and is incorporated herein
      by reference.


Table
            of Contents

PART
      IV

Item
                15.

Exhibits,
                Fin

anc

ial Statement Schedules.

(a)

(1) 
                Financial Statements

The
      following consolidated financial statements required by this item are included
      in Part II Item 8 hereof under the caption “Financial Statements and
      Supplementary Data.”

Page
                  in this Annual Report

on
                  Form 10-K

Consolidated
                  Balance Sheets at December 29, 2006 and December 30, 2005


Consolidated
                  Statements of Income for each of the three fiscal years in the
                  period
                  ended December 29, 2006


Consolidated
                  Statement of Shareholders’ Equity for each of the three fiscal years in
                  the period ended December 29, 2006


Consolidated
                  Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three fiscal years in
                  the period
                  ended December 29, 2006


Notes
                  to Consolidated Financial Statements


Reports
                  of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


(4)

Financial
                Statement Schedules

The
      following financial statement schedule is filed as part of this report:

Page
                in this Annual

Report
                on

Form
                10-K

Schedule
                II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

S-1

All
      other
      schedules have been omitted as they are either not required or not applicable,
      or the required information is included in the consolidated financial statements
      or the notes thereto.

(5)

Exhibits

Exhibit

Number

2.1

Agreement
                and Plan of Merger, by and among Trimble Navigation Limited, Roadrunner
                Acquisition Corp. and @Road, Inc., dated as of December 10, 2006.
                (27)

2.2

Form
                of Voting Agreement, by and among Trimble Navigation Limited and
                certain
                stockholders of @Road, Inc., dated as of December 10, 2006.
                (28)

3.1

Restated
                Articles of Incorporation of the Company filed June 25, 1986.
                (5)

3.2

Certificate
                of Amendment of Articles of Incorporation of the Company filed October
                6,
                1988. (6)

3.3

Certificate
                of Amendment of Articles of Incorporation of the Company filed July
                18,
                1990. (7)

3.4

Certificate
                of Determination of the Company filed February 19, 1999.
                (8)

3.5

Certificate
                of Amendment of Articles of Incorporation of the Company filed May
                29,
                2003. (15)

3.6

Certificate
                of Amendment of Articles of Incorporation of the Company filed March
                4,
                2004. (19)

3.7

Bylaws
                of the Company (amended and restated through July 20, 2006).
                (18)

4.1

Specimen
                copy of certificate for shares of Common Stock of the Company.
                (1)

4.2

Preferred
                Shares Rights Agreement dated as of February 18, 1999.
                (4)

4.3

Agreement
                of Substitution and Amendment of Preferred Shares Rights Agreement
                dated
                September 10, 2004. (20)


Table
            of Contents

4.4

Form
                  of Warrant dated April 12, 2002. (13)

10.1+

Form
                  of Indemnification Agreement between the Company and its officers
                  and
                  directors. (26)

10.
                  2+

                  Director Stock Option Plan, as amended, and form of Outside Director
                  Non-statutory Stock Option Agreement. (3)

10.3+

                  Management Discount Stock Option and form of Non-statutory Stock
                  Option
                  Agreement. (2)

10.4+

                  Stock Option Plan, as amended October 24, 2003. (11)

10.5+

Trimble
                  Navigation 1988 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended January
                  17, 2007.
                  (31)

10.6+

Employment
                  Agreement between the Company and Steven W. Berglund dated March
                  17, 1999.
                  (9)

10.7+

Trimble
                  Navigation Limited Deferred Compensation Plan effective December
                  30, 2004,
                  as amended May 19, 2005. (10)

10.8+

Australian
                  Addendum to the Trimble Navigation Limited 1988 Employee Stock
                  Purchase
                  Plan. (12)

10.9+

Trimble
                  Navigation Limited 2002 Stock Plan (as amended and restated October
                  20,
                  2006), including forms of option agreements. (32)

10.10

Credit
                  Agreement dated July 28, 2005 among Trimble Navigation Limited,
                  The Bank
                  of Nova Scotia (Administrative Agent, Issuing Bank and Swing Line
                  Bank),
                  The Bank of New York and Harris Nesbitt (Co-Syndication Agents),
                  Bank of
                  America, N.A. and Wells Fargo Bank N.A. (Co-Documentation Agents),
                  The
                  Bank of Nova Scotia and BNY Capital Markets, Inc. (Joint Lead Arrangers),
                  and The Bank of Nova Scotia (Sole Book Runner). (14)

10.11+

Employment
                  Agreement between the Company and Rajat Bahri dated December 6,
                  2004.
                  (21)

10.12+

Board
                  of Directors Compensation Policy effective January 1, 2004.
                  (22)

10.13+

Form
                  of Change in Control severance agreement between the Company and
                  certain
                  Company officers. (16)

10.14+

Letter
                  of Assignment between the Company and Alan Townsend dated November
                  12,
                  2003. (23)

10.15+

Supplemental
                  agreement to Letter of Assignment between the Company and Alan
                  Townsend
                  dated January 19, 2004. (24)

10.16+

Trimble
                  Navigation Limited 2006 Management Incentive Plan Description.
                  (25)

10.17

Lease
                  dated May 11, 2005 between CarrAmerica Realty Operating Partnership,
                  L.P.
                  and the Company. (30)

10.18+

Trimble
                  Navigation Limited 2007 Management Incentive Plan Description.
                  (29)

10.19+

@Road,
                  Inc. 2000 Stock Option Plan. (31)

21.1

Subsidiaries
                  of the Company. (31)

23.1

Consent
                  of Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accounting firm.
                  (31)

24.1

Power
                  of Attorney included on signature page herein.

31.1

Certification
                  of CEO pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
                  (31)

31.2

Certification
                  of CFO pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
                  (31)

32.1

Certification
                  of CEO pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
                  (31)

32.2

Certification
                  of CFO pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
                  (31)

+

Management
                  contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed
                  as an
                  exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Item 14I
                  thereof.

(1)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 4.1 to the Company’s Registration Statement
                  on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 33-35333), which became effective
                  July
                  19, 1990.

(2)

Incorporated
                  by reference exhibit number 10.46 to the Company’s Registration Statement
                  on Form S-1 (File No. 33-45990), which was filed February 25,
                  1992.

(3)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 10.32 to the Company’s Annual Report on
                  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993.

(4)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 1 to the Company’s Registration Statement
                  on Form 8-A, which was filed on February 18, 1999.

(5)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 3.1 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form
                  10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 1999.

(6)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 3.2 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form
                  10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 1999.

(7)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 3.3 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form
                  10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 1999.

(8)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 3.4 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form
                  10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 1999.

(9)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 10.67 to the Company’s Annual Report on
                  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 1999.

(10)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on
                  Form 8-K filed on May 25, 2005.


Table
            of Contents

(11)

Incorporated
                by reference to exhibit number 10.3 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on
                Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 3, 2003.

(12)

Incorporated
                by reference to exhibit number 10.77 to the Company’s Annual Report on
                Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2000.

(13)

Incorporated
                by reference to exhibit number 4.1 to the Company’s Registration Statement
                on Form S-3 filed on April 19, 2002.

(14)

Incorporated
                by reference to exhibit number 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on
                Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005.

(15)

Incorporated
                by reference to exhibit number 3.5 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on
                Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 4, 2003.

(16)

Incorporated
                by reference to exhibit number 10.15 to the Company’s Annual Report on
                Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.

(18)

Incorporated
                by reference to exhibit number 3.7 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on
                Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 29, 2006.

(19)

Incorporated
                by reference to exhibit number 3.6 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on
                Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 2, 2004.

(20)

Incorporated
                by reference to exhibit number 4.3 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form
                10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.

(21)

Incorporated
                by reference to exhibit number 10.13 to the Company’s Annual Report on
                Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.

(22)

Incorporated
                by reference to exhibit number 10.14 to the Company’s Annual Report on
                Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.

(23)

Incorporated
                by reference to exhibit number 10.16 to the Company’s Annual Report on
                Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.

(24)

Incorporated
                by reference to exhibit number 10.17 to the Company’s Annual Report on
                Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.

(25)

Incorporated
                by reference to exhibit number 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on
                Form 8-K filed on January 24, 2006.

(26)

Incorporated
                by reference to exhibit number 10.1 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form
                10-K for the year ended December 20, 3005.

(27)

Incorporated
              by reference to exhibit number 2.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form
              8-K filed on December 11, 2006.

(28)

Incorporated
                by reference to exhibit number 2.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form
                8-K filed on December 11, 2006.

(29)

Incorporated
                by reference to exhibit number 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on
                Form 8-K filed on January 30, 2006.

(30)

Incorporated
                by reference to exhibit number 10.17 to the Company’s Annual Report on
                Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2005.

(31)

Filed
                herewith.


Table
            of Contents

EXHIBIT
      LIST

Exhibit

Number

2.1

Agreement
                  and Plan of Merger, by and among Trimble Navigation Limited, Roadrunner
                  Acquisition Corp. and @Road, Inc., dated as of December 10, 2006.
                  (27)

2.2

Form
                  of Voting Agreement, by and among Trimble Navigation Limited and
                  certain
                  stockholders of @Road, Inc., dated as of December 10, 2006.
                  (28)

3.1

Restated
                  Articles of Incorporation of the Company filed June 25, 1986.
                  (5)

3.2

Certificate
                  of Amendment of Articles of Incorporation of the Company filed
                  October 6,
                  1988. (6)

3.3

Certificate
                  of Amendment of Articles of Incorporation of the Company filed
                  July 18,
                  1990. (7)

3.4

Certificate
                  of Determination of the Company filed February 19, 1999.
                  (8)

3.5

Certificate
                  of Amendment of Articles of Incorporation of the Company filed
                  May 29,
                  2003. (15)

3.6

Certificate
                  of Amendment of Articles of Incorporation of the Company filed
                  March 4,
                  2004. (19)

3.7

Bylaws
                  of the Company (amended and restated through July 20, 2006).
                  (18)

4.1

Specimen
                  copy of certificate for shares of Common Stock of the Company.
                  (1)

4.2

Preferred
                  Shares Rights Agreement dated as of February 18, 1999.
                  (4)

4.3

Agreement
                  of Substitution and Amendment of Preferred Shares Rights Agreement
                  dated
                  September 10, 2004. (20)

4.4

Form
                  of Warrant dated April 12, 2002. (13)

10.1+

Form
                  of Indemnification Agreement between the Company and its officers
                  and
                  directors. (26)

10.
                  2+

                  Director Stock Option Plan, as amended, and form of Outside Director
                  Non-statutory Stock Option Agreement. (3)

10.3+

                  Management Discount Stock Option and form of Non-statutory Stock
                  Option
                  Agreement. (2)

10.4+

                  Stock Option Plan, as amended October 24, 2003. (11)

10.5+

Trimble
                  Navigation 1988 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended January
                  17, 2007.
                  (31)

10.6+

Employment
                  Agreement between the Company and Steven W. Berglund dated March
                  17, 1999.
                  (9)

10.7+

Trimble
                  Navigation Limited Deferred Compensation Plan effective December
                  30, 2004,
                  as amended May 19, 2005. (10)

10.8+

Australian
                  Addendum to the Trimble Navigation Limited 1988 Employee Stock
                  Purchase
                  Plan. (12)

10.9+

Trimble
                  Navigation Limited 2002 Stock Plan (as amended and restated October
                  20,
                  2006), including forms of option agreements. (32)

10.10

Credit
                  Agreement dated July 28, 2005 among Trimble Navigation Limited,
                  The Bank
                  of Nova Scotia (Administrative Agent, Issuing Bank and Swing Line
                  Bank),
                  The Bank of New York and Harris Nesbitt (Co-Syndication Agents),
                  Bank of
                  America, N.A. and Wells Fargo Bank N.A. (Co-Documentation Agents),
                  The
                  Bank of Nova Scotia and BNY Capital Markets, Inc. (Joint Lead Arrangers),
                  and The Bank of Nova Scotia (Sole Book Runner). (14)

10.11+

Employment
                  Agreement between the Company and Rajat Bahri dated December 6,
                  2004.
                  (21)

10.12+

Board
                  of Directors Compensation Policy effective January 1, 2004.
                  (22)

10.13+

Form
                  of Change in Control severance agreement between the Company and
                  certain
                  Company officers. (16)

10.14+

Letter
                  of Assignment between the Company and Alan Townsend dated November
                  12,
                  2003. (23)

10.15+

Supplemental
                  agreement to Letter of Assignment between the Company and Alan
                  Townsend
                  dated January 19, 2004. (24)

10.16+

Trimble
                  Navigation Limited 2006 Management Incentive Plan Description.
                  (25)

10.17

Lease
                  dated May 11, 2005 between CarrAmerica Realty Operating Partnership,
                  L.P.
                  and the Company. (30)

10.18+

Trimble
                  Navigation Limited 2007 Management Incentive Plan Description.
                  (29)

10.19+

@Road,
                  Inc. 2000 Stock Option Plan. (31)

21.1

Subsidiaries
                  of the Company. (31)

23.1

Consent
                  of Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accounting firm.
                  (31)

24.1

Power
                  of Attorney included on signature page herein.

31.1

Certification
                  of CEO pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
                  (31)

31.2

Certification
                  of CFO pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
                  (31)

32.1

Certification
                  of CEO pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
                  (31)

32.2

Certification
                  of CFO pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
                  (31)


Table
            of Contents

+

Management
                  contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed
                  as an
                  exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Item 14I
                  thereof.

(1)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 4.1 to the Company’s Registration Statement
                  on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 33-35333), which became effective
                  July
                  19, 1990.

(2)

Incorporated
                  by reference exhibit number 10.46 to the Company’s Registration Statement
                  on Form S-1 (File No. 33-45990), which was filed February 25,
                  1992.

(3)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 10.32 to the Company’s Annual Report on
                  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993.

(4)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 1 to the Company’s Registration Statement
                  on Form 8-A, which was filed on February 18, 1999.

(5)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 3.1 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form
                  10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 1999.

(6)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 3.2 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form
                  10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 1999.

(7)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 3.3 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form
                  10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 1999.

(8)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 3.4 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form
                  10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 1999.

(9)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 10.67 to the Company’s Annual Report on
                  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 1999.

(10)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on
                  Form 8-K filed on May 25, 2005.

(11)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 10.3 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on
                  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 3, 2003.

(12)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 10.77 to the Company’s Annual Report on
                  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2000.

(13)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 4.1 to the Company’s Registration Statement
                  on Form S-3 filed on April 19, 2002.

(14)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on
                  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005.

(15)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 3.5 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on
                  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 4, 2003.

(16)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 10.15 to the Company’s Annual Report on
                  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.

(18)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 3.7 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on
                  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 29, 2006.

(19)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 3.6 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on
                  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 2, 2004.

(20)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 4.3 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form
                  10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.

(21)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 10.13 to the Company’s Annual Report on
                  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.

(22)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 10.14 to the Company’s Annual Report on
                  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.

(23)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 10.16 to the Company’s Annual Report on
                  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.

(24)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 10.17 to the Company’s Annual Report on
                  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.

(25)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on
                  Form 8-K filed on January 24, 2006.

(26)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 10.1 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form
                  10-K for the year ended December 20, 3005.

(27)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 2.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form
                  8-K filed on December 11, 2006.

(28)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 2.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form
                  8-K filed on December 11, 2006.

(29)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on
                  Form 8-K filed on January 30, 2006.

(30)

Incorporated
                  by reference to exhibit number 10.17 to the Company’s Annual Report on
                  Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2005.

(31)

Filed
                  herewith.


Table
            of Contents

SIGNATURES

Pursuant
      to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
      1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report on Form 10-K to be signed
      on
      its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

TRIMBLE
      NAVIGATION LIMITED

By

:
      /s/
      Steven W. Berglund

Steven
      W.
      Berglund,

President
      and Chief Executive Officer

February
      23, 2007


Table
            of Contents

POWER
      OF ATTORNEY

Know
      all
      persons by these presents, that each person whose signature appears below
      constitutes and appoints Steven W. Berglund as his attorney-in-fact, with the
      power of substitution, for him in any and all capacities, to sign any amendments
      to this Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with exhibits thereto and
      other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange
      Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorney-in-fact,
      or
      his substitute or substitutes, may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

Pursuant
      to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Annual Report
      on Form 10-K has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
      registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:


SCHEDULE
      II

TRIMBLE
        NAVIGATION LIMITED

VALUATION
        AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

(IN
        THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)

Allowance
                  for doubtful accounts:

December
                  29,


December
                  30,


December
                  31,


Balance
                  at beginning of period

$

5,230

$

8,952

$

9,953

Acquired
                  allowance




Bad
                  debt expense



1,210

Write-offs,
                  net of recoveries

(1,824

)

(3,459

)

(2,327

)

Balance
                  at end of period

$

4,063

$

5,230

$

8,952

Inventory
                  allowance:

Balance
                  at beginning of period

$

23,238

$

26,217

$

25,885

Acquired
                  allowance




Additions
                  to allowance

7,061

5,612

3,765

Write-offs,
                  net of recoveries

(1,718

)

(8,948

)

(4,024

)

Balance
                  at end of period

$

28,582

$

23,238

$

26,217

Sales
                  return reserve:

Balance
                  at beginning of period

$

1,500

$

2,210

$

3,252

Acquired
                  allowance



-

Additions
                  (Reductions) to allowance

(586

)

(383

)

(809

)

Write-offs,
                  net of recoveries

(110

)

(348

)

(233

)

Balance
                  at end of period

$


$

1,500

$

2,210

S-1