10-K


d10k.htm

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004

For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2004


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004

OR

¨

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from

to

.

Commission File Number: 0-19582

OLD DOMINION FREIGHT LINE, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

VIRGINIA

56-0751714

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

500 Old Dominion Way

Thomasville, NC 27360

(Address of principal executive offices)

(336) 889-5000 (Registrant’s Telephone Number)

www.odfl.com (Registrant’s Web Site)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Common Stock ($.10 par value)

(Title of class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of the registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

x

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2).    Yes

x

No

¨

The aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of
the registrant as of June 30, 2004, was $405,737,249.

As of March 16, 2005,
the registrant had 24,845,235 outstanding shares of Common Stock ($.10 par value).

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by reference into Part III of this report.


PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this report to “Old Dominion”, the “Company”, “we”,
“us” and “our” refer to Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. and its subsidiary on a consolidated basis.

General

We are a leading less-than-truckload (“LTL”) multi-regional motor carrier providing timely one to five day service among five regions in the United States and next-day and second-day service within these
regions. Through our four branded product groups, OD-Domestic, OD-Expedited, OD-Global and OD-Technology, we offer an expanding array of innovative products and services. At December 31, 2004, we provided full-state coverage to 29 of the 40 states
that we served directly within the Southeast, South Central, Northeast, Midwest and West regions of the country. Through marketing and carrier relationships, we also provided service to and from the remaining states as well as international services
around the globe. We plan to continue to expand our markets and increase our direct coverage to 41 states and our full-state coverage to 31 states in the first quarter of 2005, as a result of the January 2005 selected asset purchase of Wichita
Southeast Kansas Transit (“WSKT”). For a discussion of the WSKT asset purchase, see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. Old Dominion was founded in 1934 and incorporated in Virginia in 1950.

We have grown substantially over the last several years through strategic
acquisitions and internal growth. Prior to 1995, we provided inter-regional service to major metropolitan areas from, and regional service within, the Southeast region of the United States. Since 1995, we have expanded our infrastructure to provide
next-day and second-day service within four additional regions as well as expanded inter-regional service among those regions. From 1995 through December 31, 2004, we increased our number of service centers from 53 to 138 and our states directly
served from 21 to 40. We believe that our present infrastructure will enable us to increase the volume of freight moving through our network, or freight density, and thereby improve our profitability.

We are committed to providing our customers with high quality service. We are
continually upgrading our technological capabilities to improve our customer service, reduce our transit times and minimize our operating costs. In addition to our core LTL services, we provide premium expedited services, container delivery service
to and from nine port facilities and distribution services in which we either consolidate LTL shipments for full truckload transport by a truckload carrier or break down full truckload shipments from a truckload carrier into LTL shipments for our
delivery.

We combine the rapid transit times of a regional
carrier with the geographic coverage of an inter-regional carrier. We believe our transit times are generally faster than those of our principal national competitors in part because of our more efficient service center network, use of team drivers
and investment in technology. In addition, our direct service to 40 states and five regions provides greater geographic coverage than most of our regional competitors. We believe our diversified mix and scope of regional and inter-regional services
enable us to provide our customers a single source to meet their LTL shipping needs.

We provide consistent customer service from a single organization offering our customers information and pricing from one point of contact. Many of our multi-regional competitors that offer inter-regional service do
so through independent companies with separate points of contact, which can result in inconsistent service and pricing, as well as poor shipment visibility. Our integrated structure allows us to offer our customers consistent and continuous service
across all regions.

Our Industry

Trucks provide transportation services to virtually every industry operating
in the United States and generally offer higher levels of reliability and faster transit times than other surface transportation options. The trucking industry is comprised principally of two types of motor carriers: truckload and LTL. Truckload
carriers generally dedicate an entire trailer to one customer from origin to destination. LTL carriers pick up multiple shipments from multiple customers on a single truck and then route the goods through service centers where freight may be
transferred to other trucks with similar destinations for delivery.



In contrast to truckload carriers, LTL carriers require expansive networks of local pickup and delivery
service centers, as well as larger hub facilities. Significant capital is required of LTL motor carriers to create and maintain a network of service centers and a fleet of tractors and trailers. The substantial infrastructure spending needed for LTL
carriers makes it difficult for new start-up or small operations to effectively compete with established companies.

Service Center Operations

At December 31, 2004, we conducted operations through 138 service center locations, of which we own 68 and lease 70. We operate major breakbulk, or hub,
facilities in Atlanta, Georgia; Rialto, California; Indianapolis, Indiana; Greensboro, North Carolina; Harrisburg, Pennsylvania; Memphis and Morristown, Tennessee; and Dallas, Texas, while using some smaller service centers for limited breakbulk
activity in order to serve next-day markets. Our service centers are strategically located in five regions of the country to provide the highest quality service and minimize freight rehandling costs.

Each of our service centers is responsible for the pickup and delivery of
freight for its service area. All inbound freight received by the service center in the evening or during the night is scheduled for local delivery the next business day, unless a customer requests a different delivery schedule. Each service center
loads the freight by destination the day it is picked up. Our management reviews the productivity and service performance of each service center on a daily basis in order to maximize quality service.

While we have established primary responsibility for customer service at the
local service center level, our customers may access information through several different gateways such as our website, electronic data interchange, automated voice response systems, automated fax systems or through our customer service department
located at our corporate office. Our systems offer direct access to information such as freight tracking, shipping documents, rate quotes, rate databases and account activity.

We plan to expand capacity at existing service centers as well as expand the number of service centers geographically as
opportunities arise that provide for profitable growth and fit the needs of our customers.

Linehaul Transportation

Our Linehaul Transportation Department is responsible for directing the movement of freight among our service centers. Linehaul dispatchers control the movement of freight among service centers through real-time, integrated freight movement
systems. We also utilize load-planning software to optimize efficiencies in our linehaul operations. Our senior management continuously monitors freight movements, transit times, load factors and other productivity measurements to ensure that we
maintain our highest levels of service and efficiency.

We use
scheduled dispatches, and additional dispatches as necessary, to meet our published service standards. In addition, we lower our cost structure by maintaining flexible work force rules and by using twin 28-foot trailers exclusively in our linehaul
operations. Use of twin 28-foot trailers permits us to pick up freight directly from its point of origin to destination with minimal unloading and reloading, which also reduces cargo claims expenses, and twin trailers permit more freight to be
hauled behind a tractor than could be hauled if we used one larger trailer.

Tractors, Trailers and Maintenance

At
December 31, 2004, we operated 3,430 tractors. We generally use new tractors in linehaul operations for approximately three to five years and then transfer those tractors to pickup and delivery operations for the remainder of their useful lives. In
a number of our service centers, tractors perform pickup and delivery functions during the day and linehaul functions at night to maximize tractor utilization.

At December 31, 2004, we operated a fleet of 13,081 trailers. As we have expanded and our needs for equipment have increased, we have purchased new
trailers as well as trailers meeting our specifications from other trucking companies. These purchases of pre-owned equipment, though providing an excellent value, have the effect of increasing our trailer fleet’s average age.



The table below reflects, as of December 31, 2004, the average age of our tractors and trailers:

We develop certain
specifications for tractors and trailers, the production and purchase of which are negotiated with several manufacturers. These purchases are planned well in advance of anticipated delivery dates in order to accommodate manufacturers’
production schedules. We believe that there is sufficient capacity among suppliers to ensure an uninterrupted flow of equipment.

The table below sets forth our capital expenditures for tractors and trailers for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002:

At December 31, 2004,
we had major maintenance operations at our service centers in Los Angeles and Rialto, California; Atlanta, Georgia; Des Plaines, Illinois; Indianapolis, Indiana; Jersey City, New Jersey; Greensboro, North Carolina; Columbus, Ohio; Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania; Morristown and Memphis, Tennessee; and Dallas, Texas. In addition, eleven other service center locations are equipped to perform routine and preventive maintenance checks and repairs on our equipment.

We have an established scheduled maintenance policy and procedure. Linehaul
tractors are routed to appropriate maintenance facilities at designated mileage or time intervals, depending upon how the equipment was utilized. Pickup and delivery tractors and trailers are scheduled for maintenance every 90 days.

Marketing and Customers

At December 31, 2004, we had a sales staff of 363 employees. We compensate our sales force, in part, based upon revenue
generated, company and service center profitability and on-time service performance, which we believe helps to motivate our employees.

We utilize a computerized freight costing model to determine the price level at which a particular shipment of freight will be profitable. We can modify
elements of this freight costing model, as necessary, to simulate the actual conditions under which the freight will be moved. We also compete for business by participating in bid solicitations. Customers generally solicit bids for relatively large
numbers of shipments for a period of one to two years, and typically choose to enter into contractual arrangements with a limited number of motor carriers based upon price and service.

Revenue is generated from many customers and locations across the United States and North America. At year-end 2004, our
customer base exceeded 60,000 customers. In 2004, our largest customer accounted for approximately 3.5% of revenue and our largest 20, 10 and 5 customers accounted for approximately 22.4%, 15.1% and 10.3% of our revenue, respectively. For each of
the previous three years, less than 5% of our revenue was generated from international services. We believe the diversity of our revenue base helps protect our business from adverse developments in a single geographic region and the reduction or
loss of business from a single customer.



Competition

The transportation industry is highly competitive on the basis of both price and service. We are the 7

th

largest non-unionized LTL carrier in the United States, measured by revenue. We compete with regional, inter-regional and national LTL carriers and, to a
lesser extent, with truckload carriers, small package carriers, airfreight carriers and railroads. Competition is based primarily on personal relationships, price and service. We believe that we are able to compete effectively in our markets by
providing high quality and timely service at competitive prices.

We believe our transit times are generally faster than those of our principal national competitors. We believe this performance is due in part to our more efficient service center network, use of team drivers and investment in technology.
In addition, we provide greater geographic coverage than most of our regional competitors. We believe our diversified mix and scope of regional and inter-regional services enable us to provide our customers with a single source to meet their LTL
shipping needs and provides us with a distinct advantage over our regional, multi-regional and national competition.

We also believe our non-union workforce gives us a significant advantage over our unionized LTL competition. Advantages of our workforce include flexible
hours and the ability of our employees to perform multiple tasks, which we believe result in greater productivity, customer service, efficiency and cost savings.

We compete with several larger transportation service providers, each of which has more equipment, a broader coverage
network and a wider range of services than we do. Our larger competitors also have greater financial resources and, in general, the ability to reduce prices to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may
limit our ability to maintain or increase prices or maintain significant growth.

On February 25, 2005, Yellow Roadway Corporation announced that it entered into a definitive agreement to acquire USF Corporation. These two companies are direct competitors, and the combined enterprise is expected to
have annual revenue in excess of $9 billion. The addition of USF Corporation will allow Yellow Roadway to enter the next-day and regional markets, which are among the fastest growing transportation markets, and thereby may enable Yellow Roadway to
compete more directly with us for customers.

Seasonality

Our tonnage levels and revenue mix are subject to
seasonal trends common in the motor carrier industry. Financial results in the first quarter are normally lower due to reduced shipments during the winter months. Harsh winter weather can also adversely impact our performance by reducing demand and
increasing operating expenses. Freight volumes typically build to a peak in the third quarter and early fourth quarter, which generally result in improved operating margins.

Technology

We continually upgrade our technological capabilities. We provide access to our systems through multiple gateways that offer our customers maximum
flexibility and immediate access to information. We also employ freight handling systems and logistics technology in an effort to reduce costs and transit times. Our principal technologies include:

•

www.odfl.com.

A variety of information and services are available through our award-winning web site. We continuously update our web site with current information, including
service products, coverage maps, financial data, news releases, corporate governance matters, employment opportunities and other information of importance to our customers, investors and employees. We make available, free of charge on our web site,
our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably
practicable after we electronically file these reports with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.



•

odfl4me.com.

Customers may register on the secure area of our web site, odfl4me.com. Our simple registration gives our customers the freedom to manage their accounts from
their desktops; create bills of lading; get information they need online easily and efficiently; check the real-time status of all active shipments; receive interactive rate estimates; schedule pickups; pay invoices; download rates; generate
reports; and view or print documents.

•

Interactive Voice Response (IVR).

Through our IVR telephone system, callers can trace shipments, develop rate estimates and access our fax server to retrieve shipping
documents, such as delivery receipts and bills of lading.

•

Electronic Data Interchange (EDI).

For our customers who prefer to exchange information electronically, we provide a number of EDI options with flexible formats and
communication alternatives. Our customers can transmit or receive invoices, remittance advices, shipping documents and shipment status information, as well as other customized information.

•

Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) System.

This automated arrival/dispatch system monitors equipment location and freight movement throughout our system. Radio frequency
identification tags are installed on all of our tractors and trailers, and readers are installed in most of our service centers. These tags and readers record arrivals and departures, eliminating the need for manual entry and providing real-time
freight tracing capabilities for our customers and our employees.

•

Dock Yard Management (DYM) System.

The DYM system records the status of shipments moving within our system through a network of computers mounted on our freight docks,
switching tractors and forklifts. When a shipment is scanned, its status is updated throughout the system. Handheld and fixed mounted computers are used to monitor, update and close loads on the dock. We completed the planned installation of the DYM
system during 2004.

•

Handheld Computer System

. Handheld computers utilized by our drivers provide them with direct communication to our systems and allow them to capture real-time information
during pickups and deliveries, including individual pieces and weights as well as origin and destination shipping points. Timely pickup information allows for better direct loading and efficient scheduling of linehaul operations and enhances
real-time information for our customers’ visibility of their supply chain.

•

Pickup and Delivery (“P&D”) Optimization Software

. We are implementing P&D optimization software to assist our service centers in improving the efficiency
of their P&D routes. At December 31, 2004, we were using this software at 130 service centers for street level route optimization and will continue to implement and develop this technology in 2005.

Insurance

We carry significant insurance with third party insurance carriers and we self-insure a portion of this risk. We are
currently self-insured for bodily injury and property damage claims up to $2,000,000 per occurrence. Cargo claims are self-insured up to $100,000. We also are self-insured for workers’ compensation in certain states and have first dollar or
high deductible plans in the other states. The workers’ compensation retention levels for all states range from $250,000 to $1,000,000 depending on the plan year. Group health claims are self-insured up to $300,000 per occurrence and long-term
disability claims are self-insured to a maximum per individual of $3,000 per month.

We believe that our policy of self-insuring up to set limits, together with our safety and loss prevention programs, is an effective means of managing insurance costs. We believe that our current insurance coverage is
adequate to cover our liability risks.

Fuel Availability and Cost

Our industry depends heavily upon the availability of
diesel fuel. In periods of significant price increases, we have implemented a fuel surcharge to offset the additional cost of fuel, which is consistent with our competitors’ practices. However, from time to time, we experience shortages in the
availability of fuel at certain locations and have been forced to incur additional expense to ensure adequate supply on a timely basis. Our management believes that our operations and financial condition are susceptible to the same fuel price
increases or fuel shortages as those of our competitors. Fuel costs, including fuel taxes, averaged 9.5% of revenue in 2004. Our current fuel surcharge program was implemented in August 1999 and has remained in effect since that time.



Tire Availability

Our industry depends heavily upon the availability of tires. Due to increased demand for tires in the transportation industry, tire manufacturers have
recently faced capacity constraints. In response to these constraints, we have obtained commitments from our suppliers to ensure that our needs for 2005 will be met.

Employees

As of December 31, 2004, we employed 8,497 individuals on a full-time basis in the following categories:

As of December 31,
2004, we employed 1,981 linehaul drivers and 2,355 pickup and delivery drivers. All of our drivers are selected based upon driving records and experience. Drivers are required to pass drug tests and have a current United States Department of
Transportation (“DOT”) physical and a valid commercial driver’s license prior to employment. Drivers are also required to take drug and alcohol tests periodically, by random selection.

To help fulfill driver needs, we offer qualified employees the opportunity to
become drivers through the “Old Dominion Driver Training Program.” Since its inception in 1988, 1,609 individuals have graduated from this program, from which we have experienced an annual turnover rate of approximately 9%. We believe our
driver training and qualification programs have been important factors in improving our safety record. Drivers with safe driving records are rewarded with bonuses of up to $1,000 annually. Driver safety bonuses paid during 2004 were approximately
$829,000.

Our management believes that relations with our
employees are excellent and there are no employees represented under a collective bargaining agreement. We believe our non-union workforce gives us a significant advantage over unionized LTL carriers. Advantages of our workforce include flexible
hours and the ability of our employees to perform multiple tasks, which we believe result in greater productivity, customer service, efficiency and cost savings. Management’s focus on communication and the continued education, development and
motivation of our employees helps to ensure that our relationship with our employees remains excellent.

Governmental Regulation

We are regulated by the Surface Transportation Board, an agency within the DOT, and by various state agencies. These regulatory authorities have broad powers, generally governing matters such as authority to engage in motor carrier
operations, hours of service, certain mergers, consolidations and acquisitions, and periodic financial reporting. The trucking industry is subject to regulatory and legislative changes, such as increasingly stringent environmental and occupational
safety and health regulations or limits on vehicle weight and size, ergonomics and hours of service. These changes may affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or by influencing the demand for, and the costs
of providing services to, shippers.

The DOT issued new Hours
of Service Regulations for the transportation industry that became effective January 2, 2004. These new regulations increased the number of hours our drivers can drive from 10 hours to a maximum of 11 hours and defined the maximum number of hours in
a workday to 14 hours, measured from the driver’s initial start time. These regulations also increased the minimum required number of hours of rest between work periods from 8 hours to 10 hours. On September 30, 2004, the U.S. Congress voted to
extend the current Hours of Service Regulations until no later than



September 30, 2005, after a July 2004 ruling by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia that vacated those
rules in order to allow the DOT adequate time to provide evidence that the new Hours of Service Regulations are safe. In response to the July 2004 U.S. Court of Appeals decision, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (“FMCSA”)
has been reviewing and reconsidering the Hours of Service Regulations and has asked for public comments. On February 9, 2005, the FMCSA Administrator announced that the Bush Administration will recommend to the U.S. Congress that it include the
current Hours of Service Regulations in this year’s highway reauthorization legislation.

We believe that the cost of compliance with applicable laws and regulations neither has materially affected nor will materially affect our results of operations or financial condition.

Environmental Regulation

We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and
regulations that focus on, among other things, the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the environment or their presence on or in our properties and vehicles, fuel storage tanks, transportation of certain materials and the discharge
or retention of storm water. Under specific environmental laws, we could also be held responsible for any costs relating to contamination at our past or present facilities and at third-party waste disposal sites. We do not believe that the cost of
future compliance with environmental laws or regulations will have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, competitive position or capital expenditures for the remainder of fiscal 2005 or fiscal 2006.

Risk Factors

In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following are some of the important factors that could
cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements:

We operate in a highly competitive industry, and our business will suffer if we are unable to adequately address potential downward pricing pressures and other factors that may adversely affect our operations and
profitability.

Numerous competitive factors could impair
our ability to maintain our current profitability. These factors include the following:

•

we compete with many other transportation service providers of varying sizes, some of which have more equipment, a broader coverage network, a wider range of services and greater
capital resources than we do or have other competitive advantages;

•

some of our competitors periodically reduce their prices to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or
increase prices or maintain significant growth in our business;

•

many customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting “core carriers” as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances we may not be
selected;

•

many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress prices or result in the loss of some business to competitors;

•

the trend towards consolidation in the ground transportation industry may create other large carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages relating to
their size;

•

advances in technology require increased investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher prices to cover the cost of these investments; and

•

competition from non-asset-based logistics and freight brokerage companies may adversely affect our customer relationships and prices.



If our employees were to unionize, our operating costs would increase and our ability to compete would be
substantially impaired.

None of our employees are
currently represented by a collective bargaining agreement. However, from time to time there have been efforts to organize our employees at various service centers. We can make no assurance that our employees will not unionize in the future, which
could in turn have a material adverse effect on our operating results because:

•

some shippers have indicated that they intend to limit their use of unionized trucking companies because of the threat of strikes and other work stoppages, and such action by our
customers would impair our revenue base;

•

restrictive work rules could hamper our efforts to improve and sustain operating efficiency;

•

a strike or work stoppage would hurt our profitability and could damage customer and other relationships; and

•

an election and bargaining process would distract management’s time and attention and impose significant expenses.

These results, and unionization of our workforce generally, could have a
materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

If we are unable to successfully execute our growth strategy, our business and future results of operations may suffer.

Our growth strategy includes increasing the volume of freight moving through our existing service center network, selectively expanding the geographic
reach of our service center network and broadening the scope of our service offerings. In connection with our growth strategy, we have purchased additional equipment, expanded and upgraded service centers, hired additional personnel and increased
our sales and marketing efforts, and expect to continue to do so. Our growth strategy exposes us to a number of risks, including the following:

•

geographic expansion requires start-up costs, and often requires lower rates to generate initial business. In addition, geographic expansion may disrupt our freight patterns to and
from and within the expanded area and may expose us to areas where we are less familiar with customer rates, operating issues and the competitive environment;

•

growth may strain our management, capital resources, information systems and customer service;

•

hiring new employees may increase training costs and may result in temporary inefficiencies as the employees become proficient in their jobs; and

•

expanding our service offerings may require us to enter into new markets and compete with additional competitors.

We cannot assure that we will overcome the risks associated with our growth.
If we fail to overcome such risks, we may not realize additional revenue or profits from our efforts, we may incur additional expenses and therefore our financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.

Our information technology systems are subject to certain risks that we
cannot control.

Our information systems, including our
accounting systems, are dependent upon third-party software, global communications providers, telephone systems and other aspects of technology and Internet infrastructure that are susceptible to failure. Though we have implemented redundant systems
and network security measures, our information technology remains susceptible to outages, computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions that may inhibit our ability to provide services to our customers and the ability of our customers to
access our systems. This may result in the loss of customers or a reduction in demand for our services.



We are exposed to potential risks from recent legislation requiring companies to evaluate their internal control over
financial reporting.

Management has concluded that our
internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2004, in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, based on management’s evaluation under the framework in

Internal Control – Integrated
Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. In addition, our auditors have attested to management’s certification, as set forth in its audit report included in this annual report.
Management’s evaluation and our auditor’s attestation related to a software platform that we had used through December 31, 2004, but that we had decided in 2003 to replace. The process to convert our old software platform to our new
platform occurred during 2004 and was completed on January 1, 2005. Consequently, we must document and test, and management must assess, our internal control over financial reporting under the new software platform during 2005 and in future periods.
There can be no assurances that the evaluation required by Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 in 2005 will not result in the identification of control deficiencies, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses.

Difficulty in attracting drivers could affect our profitability.

Competition for drivers is intense within the trucking industry, and we
periodically experience difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified drivers. Our operations may be affected by a shortage of qualified drivers in the future, which could cause us to temporarily under-utilize our truck fleet, face difficulty
in meeting shipper demands and increase our compensation levels for drivers. If we encounter difficulty in attracting or retaining qualified drivers, our ability to service our customers and increase our revenue could be adversely affected.

Insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our profitability.

We are exposed to claims related to cargo loss and
damage, property damage, personal injury, workers’ compensation, long-term disability and group health. We carry significant insurance with third party insurance carriers. The cost of such insurance has risen significantly. To offset, in part,
the significant increases we have experienced, we have elected to increase our self-insured retention levels for most of our risk exposures. If the number or severity of claims for which we are self-insured increases, or we are required to accrue or
pay additional amounts because the claims prove to be more severe than our original assessment, our operating results would be adversely affected. Insurance companies require us to obtain letters of credit to collateralize our self-insured
retention. If these requirements increase, our borrowing capacity could be adversely affected.

Our business is subject to general economic factors that are largely out of our control.

Economic conditions may adversely affect our customers’ business levels, the amount of transportation services they need and their ability to pay for
our services. Customers encountering adverse economic conditions represent a greater potential for bad debt losses, which may require us to increase our reserve for bad-debt. In addition, because we self-insure a substantial portion of our group
health expense, increases in healthcare costs and pharmaceutical expenses can adversely affect our financial results. Our results also may be negatively affected by increases in interest rates, which increase our borrowing costs and can negatively
affect the level of economic activity by our customers and thus our freight volumes.

We have significant ongoing cash requirements that could limit our growth and affect our profitability if we are unable to obtain sufficient financing.

Our business is highly capital intensive. Our net capital expenditures in 2004 and 2003 were $92,106,000 and $98,441,000,
respectively. We expect our capital expenditures for 2005, including the WSKT selected asset purchase, to be approximately $145,000,000 to $155,000,000. We depend on operating leases, lines of credit, secured equipment financing and cash flow from
operations to finance the purchase of tractors, trailers and service centers. If we are unable in the future to raise sufficient capital or borrow sufficient funds to make these purchases, we will be forced to limit our growth and operate our trucks
for longer periods of time, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.



In addition, our business has significant operating cash requirements. If our cash requirements are high
or our cash flow from operations is low during particular periods, we may need to seek additional financing, which may be costly or difficult to obtain. We currently maintain an $80,000,000 unsecured line of credit with lenders consisting of
Wachovia Bank, National Association; Bank of America, N.A.; and Branch Banking and Trust Company that will expire in June 2006. We also executed a note purchase agreement during the first quarter of 2005, pursuant to which we issued $50,000,000 of
privately-placed senior notes in February 2005 and will issue an additional $25,000,000 of privately-placed senior notes in May 2005. For additional information on these senior notes, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” included in Item
7.

We may not realize additional revenues or profits from our
infrastructure investments in a timely manner or at all.

We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, substantial amounts in building, expanding and upgrading service center facilities. If we are unsuccessful in our strategy for increasing our market share of LTL shipments, we may not
realize additional revenues or profits from our infrastructure investments in a timely manner or at all.

We may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in the price and availability of fuel.

Fuel is a significant operating expense. We do not hedge against the risk of fuel price increases. Any increase in fuel taxes or fuel prices or any change
in federal or state regulations that results in such an increase, to the extent not offset by freight rate increases or fuel surcharges to customers, or any interruption in the supply of fuel, could have a material adverse effect on our operating
results. Historically, we have been able to offset significant increases in fuel prices through fuel surcharges to our customers, but we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so in the future. From time to time, we experience shortages in the
availability of fuel at certain locations and have been forced to incur additional expense to ensure adequate supply on a timely basis.

Limited supply and increased prices for new equipment may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow.

Investment in new equipment is a significant part of our annual capital
expenditures. We may face difficulty in purchasing new equipment due to decreased supply. The price of our equipment may be adversely affected in the future by regulations on newly manufactured tractors and diesel engines. See the discussion below:
“We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, and costs of compliance with, liabilities under, or violations of, existing or future environmental laws or regulations could adversely affect our business.”

We operate in a highly regulated industry, and increased costs of compliance with, or
liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business.

We are regulated by the DOT and by various state agencies. These regulatory authorities have broad powers, generally governing matters such as authority
to engage in motor carrier operations, safety and fitness of transportation equipment and drivers, driver hours of service, and periodic financial reporting. In addition, the trucking industry is subject to regulatory and legislative changes from a
variety of other governmental authorities, which address matters such as increasingly stringent environmental and occupational safety and health regulations or limits on vehicle weight and size, and ergonomics. Regulatory requirements, and changes
in regulatory requirements, may affect our business or the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or by influencing the demand for and the costs of providing transportation services.



We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, and costs of compliance with, liabilities under, or
violations of, existing or future environmental laws or regulations could adversely affect our business.

We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations regulating, among other things, the emission and discharge of
hazardous materials into the environment or presence on or in our properties and vehicles, fuel storage tanks, our transportation of certain materials and the discharge or retention of storm water. Under specific environmental laws, we could also be
held responsible for any costs relating to contamination at our past or present facilities and at third-party waste disposal sites. Environmental laws have become and are expected to become increasingly more stringent over time, and there can be no
assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental laws or liabilities arising under such laws will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition.

The Environmental Protection Agency has issued regulations that require
progressive reductions in exhaust emissions from diesel engines through 2007. Beginning in October 2002, new diesel engines were required to meet these new emission limits. Some of the regulations require subsequent reductions in the sulfur content
of diesel fuel beginning in June 2006 and the introduction of emissions after-treatment devices on newly-manufactured engines and vehicles beginning with model year 2007. These regulations could result in higher prices for tractors and diesel
engines and increased fuel and maintenance costs. These adverse effects, combined with the uncertainty as to the reliability of the vehicles equipped with the newly designed diesel engines and the residual values that will be realized from the
disposition of these vehicles, could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business or operations.

Our results of operations may be affected by seasonal factors and harsh weather conditions.

Our operations are subject to seasonal trends common in the trucking industry. Our operating results in the first quarter
are normally lower due to reduced demand during the winter months. Harsh weather can also adversely affect our performance by reducing demand and reducing our ability to transport freight, which could result in increased operating expenses.

If we are unable to retain our key employees, our business, financial
condition and results of operations could be harmed.

The
success of our business will continue to depend upon our executive officers. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect.

Our principal shareholders control a large portion of our outstanding common stock.

On March 15, 2005, Earl E. Congdon and John R. Congdon and members of their
families and their affiliates beneficially owned 32.5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As long as the Congdon family controls a large portion of our voting stock, they will be able to significantly influence the election of the entire
Board of Directors and the outcome of all matters involving a shareholder vote. The Congdon family’s interests may differ from other shareholders.

We cannot provide assurances that our acquisitions will be profitable or that they will not negatively impact our business.

Acquisitions have been and continue to be an important part of our growth
strategy. However, suitable acquisition candidates may not be available on terms and conditions we find acceptable. In pursuing acquisitions, we compete with other companies, many of which have greater financial and other resources than we do to
acquire attractive companies. Even if completed, the following are some of the risks associated with acquisitions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations:

•

some of the acquired businesses may not achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flow;

•

we may assume liabilities that were not disclosed to us or exceed our estimates;



•

we may be unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully and realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner, which could result in substantial
costs and delays or other operational, technical or financial problems;

•

acquisitions could disrupt our ongoing business, distract management, divert resources and make it difficult to maintain our current business standards, controls and procedures;

•

we may finance future acquisitions by issuing common stock for some or all of the purchase price, which could dilute the ownership interests of our shareholders; and

•

we may incur additional debt related to future acquisitions.

Our business may be harmed by anti-terrorism measures.

In the aftermath of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on the United States, federal, state and municipal authorities implemented various security
measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. If new security measures disrupt or impede the timing of our deliveries, we may fail to meet the needs of our customers or may incur increased expenses to do so. We cannot
assure you that these measures will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results.

Our stock price may be volatile and could decline substantially.

Our common stock has experienced price and volume fluctuations. Many factors may cause the market price for our common stock to decline, including some of
the risks enumerated above. In addition, if our operating results fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in any quarter or securities analysts revise their estimates downward, our stock price could decline.

In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price
of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we become involved in a securities class action litigation in the future, it could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources,
harming our business.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

We own our general office located in Thomasville, North Carolina, consisting
of a two-story office building of approximately 160,000 square feet on 23.6 acres of land. We also own service center facilities in Birmingham, Dothan and Huntsville, Alabama; Tucson, Arizona; Little Rock, Arkansas; Bakersfield, Los Angeles and
Rialto, California; Denver, Colorado; South Windsor, Connecticut; New Castle, Delaware; Atlanta and Sylvester, Georgia; Jacksonville, Miami, Orlando, Sarasota and Tampa, Florida; Des Plaines and Rock Island, Illinois; Indianapolis, Indiana; Des
Moines, Iowa; Kansas City, Kansas; Lexington, Kentucky; Baltimore, Maryland; Boston, Massachusetts; Detroit and Lansing, Michigan; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Jackson and Tupelo, Mississippi; Syracuse, New York; Asheville, Charlotte, Fayetteville,
Greensboro, Hickory, Wilmington and Wilson, North Carolina; Cincinnati, Columbus, Dayton and Youngstown, Ohio; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Harrisburg and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Providence, Rhode Island; Charleston, Columbia and Greenville, South
Carolina; Chattanooga, Memphis, Morristown and Nashville, Tennessee; Amarillo, Dallas, El Paso, Houston, Laredo and Wichita Falls, Texas; Salt Lake City, Utah; Manassas, Martinsville, Norfolk and Richmond, Virginia; and La Crosse, Milwaukee and
Wausau, Wisconsin.

We also own ten non-operating properties,
all of which are held for lease. Seven of these ten properties are currently leased with lease terms ranging from month-to-month to a lease that expires in June 2005.

We lease 70 of our 138 service centers. These leased facilities are dispersed over the 40 states in which we operate in the
Southeast, Northeast, Midwest, South Central and West regions of the country. The length of these leases ranges from month-to-month to a lease that expires in August 2011. We believe that as current leases expire, we will be able to renew them or
find comparable facilities without incurring any material negative impact on service to customers or our operating results.



We believe that all of our properties are in good repair and are capable of providing the level of
service required by current business levels and customer demands.

ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

We are involved in various legal
proceedings and claims that have arisen in the ordinary course of our business that have not been fully adjudicated. Many of these are covered in whole or in part by insurance. Our management does not believe that these actions, when finally
concluded and determined, will have a significant adverse effect upon our financial position or results of operations.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None.

PART II

ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

Common Stock and Dividend Information

Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol ODFL. At March 4, 2005, there were approximately 6,000 holders of our common
stock, including 134 shareholders of record. We did not pay any dividends on our common stock in fiscal year 2004 or 2003, and we have no current plans to declare or pay any dividends on our common stock in 2005. The information concerning
restrictions on dividend payments required by Item 5 of Form 10-K appears in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Item 7 of this report and Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements under Item 8 of this report.

On May 19, 2003, the
Board of Directors approved a three-for-two common stock split for shareholders of record as of the close of business on June 4, 2003. On June 16, 2003, those shareholders received one additional share of common stock for every two shares owned.

On April 20, 2004, the Board of Directors approved a
three-for-two common stock split for shareholders of record as of the close of business on May 6, 2004. On May 20, 2004, those shareholders received one additional share of common stock for every two shares owned.

The following table sets forth the high and low bid quotations of our common
stock for the periods indicated, adjusted where appropriate for the common stock splits on June 16, 2003 and May 20, 2004, as reported by the Nasdaq National Market:



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Overview

We are a leading less-than-truckload multi-regional motor carrier providing timely one to five day service among five
regions in the United States and next-day and second-day service within these regions. Through our four branded product groups, OD-Domestic, OD-Expedited, OD-Global and OD-Technology, we offer an expanding array of innovative products and services.
At December 31, 2004, we provided full-state coverage to 29 of the 40 states that we serve directly within the Southeast, South Central, Northeast, Midwest and West regions of the country. Through marketing and carrier relationships, we also
provided service to and from the remaining states as well as international services around the globe. We plan to continue to expand our markets and increase our direct coverage to 41 states and our full-state coverage to 31 states in the first
quarter of 2005, as a result of the January 2005 acquisition of WSKT.

Historically, over 90% of our revenue is derived from transporting LTL shipments for our customers, whose demand for our services is generally tied to the overall health of the U.S. domestic economy. We combine the rapid transit times of a
regional carrier with the geographic coverage of an inter-regional carrier. We believe our transit times are generally faster than those of our principal national competitors and we are highly competitive with our principal regional competition.

In analyzing the components of our revenue, we monitor changes
and trends in the following key metrics:

•

LTL Revenue Per LTL Hundredweight

– This measurement reflects our pricing policies, which are influenced by competitive market conditions and our growth strategies.
Generally, freight is rated by a class system, which is established by the National Motor Freight Traffic Association, Inc. Light, bulky freight typically has a higher class and is priced at higher revenue per hundredweight than dense, heavy
freight. Changes in the class, packaging of the freight and length of haul of the shipment can also affect this average. Fuel surcharges, accessorial charges and revenue adjustments are included in this measurement for all periods presented in this
annual report. We changed the calculation of this metric in 2005 to include revenue adjustments that are typical in the LTL industry, such as customer allowances and changes to components used in the original rating of the shipment, and we applied
this change to the calculation for prior periods reflected in this report. We believe this change improves the periodic comparison of this pricing measurement.

•

LTL Weight Per LTL Shipment

– Fluctuations in weight per shipment can indicate changes in the class, or mix, of freight we receive from our customers as well as changes
in the number of units included in a shipment. Generally, increases in LTL weight per LTL shipment indicate higher demand for our customers’ products and overall increased economic activity.

•

Average Length of Haul

– We consider lengths of haul less than 500 miles to be regional traffic, lengths of haul between 500 miles and 1,000 miles to be inter-regional
traffic, and lengths of haul in excess of 1,000 miles to be national traffic. By segmenting our revenue into lengths of haul, we can determine our market share and the growth potential of our service products in those markets.

•

LTL Revenue Per LTL Shipment

– This measurement is primarily determined by the three metrics listed above and is used, in conjunction with the number of LTL shipments we
receive, to calculate total LTL revenue.

Our
primary revenue focus is to increase shipment and tonnage growth within our existing infrastructure, generally referred to as increased density, thereby maximizing asset utilization and labor productivity. We measure density over many different
functional areas of our operations including revenue per service center, linehaul load factor, pickup and delivery (“P&D”) stops per hour, P&D shipments per hour and platform pounds per hour. We believe continued improvement in
density is a key component in our ability to sustain profitable growth.



The majority of direct costs associated with our business are driver and service center wages and
benefits; operating supplies and expenses; and depreciation of our equipment fleet and service center facilities. We gauge our overall success in managing these costs by monitoring our operating ratio, a measure of profitability calculated by
dividing total operating expenses by revenue, which also allows industry-wide comparisons with our competition.

We continually upgrade our technological capabilities to improve our customer service and lower our operating costs. This technology provides our
customers with visibility of their shipments throughout our systems, while providing key metrics from which we can monitor our processes.

We believe our non-union workforce gives us a significant advantage over our unionized LTL competition. Advantages of our workforce include flexible hours
and the ability of our employees to perform multiple tasks, which we believe result in greater productivity, customer service, efficiency and cost savings. We focus on communication and the continued education, development and motivation of our
employees to ensure that our relationships remain excellent.

Market fluctuations in the cost of key components of our cost structure, such as diesel fuel, can affect our profitability. Our tariffs and contracts generally provide for a fuel surcharge as diesel fuel prices increase above stated levels.
We are also subject to market changes in insurance rates, and we continue to evaluate our balance of excess insurance coverage and self-insurance to minimize that cost.

Results of Operations

The following table sets forth, for the years indicated, expenses and other items as a percentage of revenue from operations:



2004 Compared to 2003

Key financial and operating metrics for 2004 and 2003 are presented below:

In 2004 and for the
third consecutive year, we achieved double-digit growth in revenue, net income and diluted earnings per share. Because our focus in 2004 remained primarily on revenue growth in existing markets, we were successful in increasing our operating density
and achieved reductions in our operating ratio to 91.4% from 92.3% in 2003. Increased revenue and improved operating efficiency enabled us to achieve a 41.3% increase in net income and a 39.1% increase in earnings per share, both in excess of our
23.4% growth in revenue. Our earnings per share improvement was achieved despite the dilutive effects of our third quarter 2004 stock offering, which increased our shares outstanding by 736,000 shares, or 3.1%.

Our revenue growth in 2004 was driven primarily by two factors, a 16.7%
growth in LTL tonnage coupled with a 5.0% increase in LTL revenue per LTL hundredweight. We believe our tonnage gains are due to overall improvements in the U.S. domestic economy and our ability to attract new customers. In 2004, LTL weight per LTL
shipment increased 3.8% over 2003. We believe the increase in LTL weight per LTL shipment indicates greater demand for our customers’ products and a resulting increase in overall shipment size and weight. In addition, we have seen higher
year-over-year growth rates in our customer base that is priced through individual contracts. Revenue based on contractual pricing increased to 39.7% of our total revenue in 2004 compared with 37.7% in 2003. We believe the expansion of our service
center network and full-state coverage to 29 of those states at year-end 2004 has positioned us to be attractive to larger customers that ship to and from many regions in the country and seek to reduce their number of core carriers. Our contract
customers generally offer larger shipments, which increase our average LTL weight per LTL shipment. These customers often have a greater length of haul, which is consistent with our average length of haul increase to 937 miles in 2004 from 926 miles
in 2003.

LTL revenue per LTL hundredweight increased to $14.49
from $13.80. Our tariffs and contracts generally provide for a fuel surcharge as diesel fuel prices increase above stated levels. This surcharge is recorded as additional revenue and is intended to offset significant fluctuations in the price of
diesel fuel, which is one of the larger components of our operating supplies and expenses. Because of average higher fuel prices in 2004, the fuel surcharge increased to 6.3% of revenue from 4.4% in 2003. Excluding the fuel surcharge, LTL revenue
per LTL hundredweight increased 2.9% to $13.57 from $13.19 in 2003, reflecting our ability to marginally improve overall pricing in 2004.

During the year, we opened 12 new service centers. In addition to these openings, we improved our direct service capabilities in Canada and initiated
sales operations in Toronto and Montreal. While the expansion of our service center network and improvement in our service capabilities should provide a platform for future growth, these events did not have a significant impact on our annual
results.

Density, as measured by increases in tonnage and
concentrations of shipments moving through our route structure and service center network, generated efficiencies throughout our operations. As a result, we achieved reductions in salaries, wages and benefits as a percentage of revenue, which
decreased to 56.9% in 2004 from 59.4% in 2003.

Driver wages
decreased to 22.9% of revenue in 2004 from 24.0% for the prior year. We achieved a 2.0% improvement in P&D shipments handled per hour and a 1.7% increase in our laden load average for the year. We also experienced a similar reduction in platform
labor, which decreased to 7.7% of revenue in 2004 from 8.0% for the prior year. Our fringe benefit costs increased slightly to 27.3% of payroll in 2004 from 27.0% for the prior year due primarily to increases in holiday, vacation and other paid time
off.



Operating supplies and expenses increased to 12.2% of revenue in 2004 from 10.8% in 2003. This increase
was primarily due to a 56.1% increase in diesel fuel costs, excluding fuel taxes, resulting from increased fuel prices and an 18.5% increase in consumption. We currently do not use diesel fuel hedging instruments; therefore, we are subject to market
price fluctuations. Our fuel surcharges, which decrease or are eliminated as fuel prices approach established base levels, effectively offset the increases in diesel fuel prices in 2004.

Insurance and claims expense, primarily consisting of premiums and self-insured costs for auto liability and cargo claims,
increased to 3.2% of revenue in 2004 compared to 2.6% in 2003. We choose to self-insure a portion of our auto and cargo claims liabilities and obtain excess insurance coverage for claims above our retention levels. While cargo claims liabilities in
2004 remained relatively constant with 2003 experience, our auto liability claims experience under our retention level increased to 1.3% of revenue for 2004 compared to 0.7% in the prior year. This increase is due to both the number and severity of
claims that were incurred during 2004 and to increases in reserves for claims incurred in prior years.

The focus on revenue growth in existing markets has provided opportunities to leverage our investments in property and equipment. As a result,
depreciation and amortization expenses decreased to 5.4% of revenue in 2004 from 5.7% in 2003. In addition, building and office equipment rents decreased to 0.9% of revenue in 2004 from 1.1% in the prior year. As a result of greater service center
utilization and improved density, our average revenue per service center increased 11.8% over the prior year.

We purchase transportation services from other motor carriers and railroads for linehaul and pickup and delivery services. We also contract with lease
operators and lease tractors, trailers and other revenue producing equipment. We utilize these services when there are capacity restraints or imbalances of freight flow within our service center network or when it is economically beneficial.
Purchased transportation increased to 3.6% of revenue in 2004 from 3.2% in 2003, primarily as a result of the increased use of purchased linehaul services, which increased to 1.0% of revenue in 2004 from 0.4% of revenue in 2003. We increased our
utilization of these linehaul services in 2004 primarily to offset freight imbalances in our longer haul lanes.

Our revenue growth and density improvements in 2004 allowed us to successfully leverage our communication and utilities costs along with general supplies
and expenses, which decreased to 4.7% of revenue in 2004 from 5.0% in 2003.

We applied the proceeds of $19,753,000 from our third quarter 2004 stock offering to reduce outstanding debt on our credit facility. At year-end, long-term debt including current maturities was $79,454,000 compared to
$97,426,000 at December 31, 2003, a decrease of $17,972,000, or 18.4%. As a result, interest expense for 2004, net of interest income, decreased 13.7% to $5,273,000 from $6,111,000 in 2003. We also capitalized $154,000 more interest during 2004 than
the prior year, which also contributed to the decrease in net interest expense.

Our effective tax rate for 2004 was 39.6% compared to 39.1% in 2003.

2003 Compared to 2002

We produced a 17.8% increase in revenue in 2003 coupled with a 49.5% increase in net income for the year. Revenue increased to $667,531,000 from $566,459,000 in 2002, our second consecutive year of double-digit revenue growth and the
eleventh in the thirteen years since our initial public offering in 1991. Our operating ratio decreased to 92.3% from 93.6% and net income for 2003 was $27,600,000 compared to $18,462,000 in 2002.

Most of our growth in 2003 can be attributed to market share gains in
existing areas of our operations, which increased our density and resulted in lower incremental operating costs. Revenue per service center increased 13.7%, despite opening 9 additional service centers in 2003. These openings accounted for less than
4% of our increase in revenue in 2003, but enabled us to offer full-state coverage to all points in Arkansas, Louisiana and Missouri and increase our full-state coverage from 24 to 27 of the 38 states in which we provide direct service.



Our LTL shipments increased 12.9% over 2002 and LTL tonnage increased 12.1%, both indicators of increased
market share and an improving domestic economy. We also continued to benefit from the September 2, 2002, bankruptcy of Consolidated Freightways, a major national LTL carrier and one of our competitors. Our average length of haul increased to 926
miles from 903 in 2002, which is consistent with the longer haul freight that became available after the closure of Consolidated Freightways.

LTL Revenue per LTL shipment increased to $142.57 from $136.50 in 2002, an increase of 4.4%. This was due to a combination of a 5.2% increase in LTL
revenue per hundredweight, partially offset by a 0.8% decrease in weight per shipment. Approximately 48% of our revenue was generated from public tariffs, which are generally reviewed on an annual basis with the most recent general price increase
occurring on July 3, 2003. The remaining revenue base was generated from contractual agreements, typically one to two years in length, which are renegotiated as they near expiration. While the average LTL weight per LTL shipment was lower in 2003,
we have seen consecutive monthly increases in this measurement since April 2003 and we believe this is yet another indicator of an improving economic climate as our customers are moving larger shipments through our network.

Our tariffs and contracts generally provide for a fuel surcharge as diesel
fuel prices increase above stated levels. This surcharge is recorded as additional revenue and is intended to offset significant fluctuations in the price of diesel fuel, which is one of the larger components of our operating supplies and expenses.
Because of average higher fuel prices in 2003, the fuel surcharge increased to 4.4% of revenue from 3.1% in 2002.

The market share increases we experienced in 2003 generated operating efficiencies and productivity gains throughout our operations, which is reflected in
a decrease in our operating ratio to 92.3% from 93.6% in 2002. The benefit of increased freight density was particularly evident in the reduction in salaries, wages and benefits, which decreased to 59.4% of revenue in 2003 from 60.2% in 2002.

P&D wages decreased to 11.9% of revenue from 12.4% in
2002. A portion of these savings resulted from the rollout of our driver hand-held computers, which was completed by year-end 2003. These handheld computers provide direct communication between our drivers, service center personnel and other Old
Dominion systems, which results in more efficient routings of our P&D fleet and increased productivity. For the comparable years, P&D shipments handled per hour increased 3.1% and P&D wages per shipment decreased slightly, despite an
average hourly wage increase of approximately 2.5%.

Platform
wages decreased to 8.0% of revenue in 2003 from 8.2% in 2002. This reduction was due to increased dock productivity partially due to the implementation of our Dock Yard Management system at most of our major facilities by year-end 2003. This system
utilizes barcode technology to improve freight visibility throughout our systems and allow for faster and more efficient handling of freight. LTL weight per platform hour and LTL shipments per platform hour, both measures of dock productivity,
increased 1.1% and 2.5%, respectively, in 2003 while platform wages per LTL hundredweight increased only 1.7% against an average hourly wage increase of 2.8%.

Reductions in P&D and platform wages were partially offset by an increase in linehaul wages to 12.1% of revenue from 12.0% in 2002. Linehaul miles
increased 16.0%, due to increased business levels and a longer average length of haul, and average linehaul wages per mile increased 3.0%. Slight improvements in our linehaul load factor, the weight of shipments loaded onto trailers for each
linehaul dispatch, was not sufficient to offset these additional costs.

Our fringe benefit costs increased to 27.0% of payroll in 2003 from 26.5% for the prior year due primarily to increases in workers’ compensation expenses. We self-insure workers’ compensation claims in a range between $250,000 and
$1,000,000, depending upon the plan year and the state in which we are operating. We also carry excess coverage for claims in excess of these deductibles. In 2003, the combination of claims expense and insurance premiums was 3.9% of payroll compared
to 3.2% in 2002, primarily due to anticipated settlement costs for our self-insured portion.

Diesel fuel costs, excluding fuel taxes, increased 41.7% over 2002 due to a 17.2% increase in consumption and increased costs per gallon. We did not use diesel fuel hedging instruments in 2003 or 2002; therefore, we
were subject to market price fluctuations. We believe that our fuel surcharges, which decrease or are eliminated as fuel prices approach base levels, effectively offset the increases in diesel fuel prices in 2003.



Net capital expenditures in 2003 were $98,441,000, which included $45,456,000 for purchases of tractors
and trailers in addition to $36,111,000 for purchases of service center facilities or capital improvements to existing service center facilities. These capital expenditures included the purchase of eleven service center facilities auctioned as a
result of the September 2002 bankruptcy of Consolidated Freightways. As a result, depreciation and amortization expenses increased to 5.7% of revenue from 5.5% in 2002. As these properties replaced leased facilities, our building and office
equipment rents decreased to 1.1% of revenue from 1.3% for the prior year.

Insurance and claims expense, primarily consisting of premiums and self-insured costs for auto liability and cargo claims, decreased to 2.6% of revenue in 2003 compared to 2.9% in 2002. Premiums for excess coverage
above our self-insured retention levels generally increased over the prior year as a percentage of revenue. These additional costs were offset by favorable claims experience in our self-insured retention for both auto liability and cargo claims,
resulting in a decline in our overall insurance costs in 2003.

Our revenue growth and density improvements in 2003 allowed us to successfully leverage other costs, including communication and utilities, general supplies and expenses, and miscellaneous expenses, which as a group declined to 5.5% of
revenue from 6.5% in 2002. Expenses for uncollectible revenue, a component of miscellaneous expenses, decreased to 0.1% of revenue from 0.7% in 2002.

Interest expense for 2003, net of interest income, increased 6.5% to $6,111,000 from $5,736,000 in 2002. By year-end, we borrowed $14,000,000 on our line
of credit and an additional $2,650,000 on other debt instruments; however, we made principal payments of $12,447,000 on outstanding debt during the year, resulting in net borrowings of $4,203,000 for 2003. Since average outstanding debt remained
relatively constant for the comparable years, the increase in interest expense can be attributed to the decrease in the amount of interest that was capitalized in 2003, which was $178,000 compared to $699,000 in 2002.

Our effective tax rate for 2003 was 39.1% compared to 39.0% in 2002.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Expansion in both the size and number of service center facilities, our
planned tractor and trailer replacement cycle and revenue growth have required continued investment in real estate and equipment. In order to support these requirements, we incurred net capital expenditures of $92,106,000 during 2004. Cash and cash
flows generated internally funded approximately 98% of these expenditures. At December 31, 2004, long-term debt including current maturities decreased to $79,454,000 from $97,426,000 at December 31, 2003, primarily due to the application of the
proceeds from our third quarter 2004 stock offering to outstanding debt on our credit facility.

We estimate net capital expenditures, including the WSKT selected asset purchase, to be approximately $145,000,000 to $155,000,000 for the year ending
December 31, 2005. Of that, approximately $102,000,000 is allocated for the purchase of tractors and trailers; $27,000,000 is allocated for the purchase of service center facilities, construction of new service center facilities or expansion of
existing service center facilities; $11,000,000 is allocated for investments in technology; and the balance is allocated for other assets. We plan to fund these capital expenditures primarily through cash flows from operations supplemented by
additional borrowings.



The table below sets forth our net capital expenditures for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003, and
2002:

We entered into an
unsecured revolving credit agreement dated June 30, 2003 with lenders consisting of Wachovia Bank, National Association; Bank of America, N.A.; and Branch Banking and Trust Company, with Wachovia as agent for the lenders. This three-year facility,
as amended, consists of $80,000,000 in line of credit commitments from the lenders, all of which are available for revolving loans. In addition, of that $80,000,000 line of credit, $40,000,000 may be used for letters of credit and $10,000,000 may be
used for borrowings under Wachovia’s sweep program. The sweep program is a daily cash management tool that automatically initiates borrowings to cover overnight cash requirements up to an aggregate of $10,000,000 or initiates overnight
investments for excess cash balances. Revolving loans under the facility bear interest at either: (a) an applicable margin plus the higher of Wachovia’s prime rate or one-half of one percentage point over the federal funds rate (the
“Adjusted Base Rate”); or (b) LIBOR plus an applicable margin (the “Adjusted LIBOR Rate”). The applicable margin varies depending upon our ratio of adjusted debt to capital. In the case of the Adjusted Base Rate, the applicable
margin ranges from 0% to 0.25%. In the case of the Adjusted LIBOR Rate, the applicable margin ranges from 0.75% to 1.25%. The applicable margin under this agreement for 2004 for the Adjusted Base Rate and the Adjusted LIBOR Rate was 0% and 1.0%,
respectively. Revolving loans under the sweep program bear interest at the aggregate rate applicable under the sweep program plus the Adjusted LIBOR Rate.

Quarterly fees ranging from 0.20% to 0.30% are charged on the aggregate unused portion of the facility determined by our ratio of adjusted debt to
capital. The applicable rate for the periods under this agreement in 2004 was 0.25%. Quarterly fees are charged on the aggregate undrawn portion of outstanding letters of credit at a rate ranging from 0.75% to 1.25%, which was 1.0% in 2004 as
determined by our ratio of adjusted debt to capital. In addition, a quarterly facing fee at an annual rate of 0.125% was charged on the aggregate undrawn portion of outstanding letters of credit.

The June 2003 credit facility contains customary covenants, including
financial covenants that require us to observe a maximum ratio of adjusted debt to capital, to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and to maintain a minimum consolidated tangible net worth. Our wholly owned subsidiary guaranteed payment
of all of our obligations under the facility. Future wholly owned subsidiaries would be required to guarantee payment of all of our obligations under the facility. At December 31, 2004, there was $17,333,000 outstanding on the line of credit
facility and there was $31,047,000 outstanding on the standby letter of credit facility.

We had three senior note agreements outstanding totaling $53,714,000 at December 31, 2004. These notes call for periodic principal payments with maturities ranging from 2005 to 2008, of which $16,607,000 is due in
2005. Interest rates on these notes are fixed and range from 6.35% to 7.59%.

Our senior notes and credit agreement limit the amount of dividends that may be paid to shareholders pursuant to certain financial ratios. At December 31, 2004, our credit agreement was the most restrictive and
limited the amount of dividends that could be paid to shareholders to the difference between our current tangible net worth, which is defined as shareholders’ equity plus intangible assets, and the sum of $198,000,000 and 50% of cumulative net
income since March 31, 2003. We did not declare or pay a dividend on our common stock in 2004, and we have no plans to declare or pay a dividend in 2005.

We have a term loan with principal outstanding of $6,636,000 as of December 31, 2004, which was used to purchase 300 tractors. The term loan consists of
48-month term notes secured by the purchased



equipment pursuant to a security agreement with the lender. The notes call for equal monthly payments of principal and
interest and mature in 2006, of which $4,141,000 in principal is due within the next 12 months. The interest rates on the notes are fixed and range from 4.21% to 4.39%. The term loan agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants.
The term notes originally incorporated by reference the financial covenants from our May 2000 credit facility and were amended to incorporate by reference our financial covenants under our June 2003 facility.

With the exception of the line of credit, interest rates are fixed on all of
our debt instruments. Therefore, short-term exposure to fluctuations in interest rates is limited to our line of credit facility, which had an outstanding balance of $17,333,000 at December 31, 2004. We do not currently use interest rate derivative
instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. Also, we do not use fuel hedging instruments, as our tariff provisions and contracts generally allow for fuel surcharges to be implemented in the event that fuel prices exceed stipulated
levels.

A significant decrease in demand for our services
could limit our ability to generate cash flow and affect profitability. Most of our debt agreements have covenants that require stated levels of financial performance, which if not achieved could cause acceleration of the payment schedules. We do
not anticipate a significant decline in business levels or financial performance, and we believe the combination of our existing credit facilities along with our additional borrowing capacity will be sufficient to meet seasonal and long-term capital
needs.

On February 25, 2005, we entered into a Note Purchase
Agreement with Allstate Life Insurance Company, Allstate Life Insurance Company of New York, New York Life Insurance Company, New York Life Insurance and Annuity Corporation, United of Omaha Life Insurance Company, PRU & Co. (as nominee for
Prudential Retirement Insurance and Annuity Company), UMBTRU & Co. (as nominee for Security Benefit Life Insurance Company, Inc.) and Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. Under this agreement, we issued $50,000,000 of privately-placed Series A
Senior Notes, Tranche A on February 25, 2005 and will issue an additional $25,000,000 of privately-placed Series A Senior Notes, Tranche B on May 25, 2005 (the “Series A Notes”). The Series A Notes bear an interest rate of 4.68% and a
maturity date of February 25, 2015. The Series A Notes call for semi-annual interest payments beginning on August 25, 2005 and seven equal annual principal prepayments commencing on February 25, 2009. The proceeds from this agreement were used to
refinance existing indebtedness and for general corporate purposes. The Note Purchase Agreement may also serve as the platform for potential future private note issuances by the Company. The aggregate principal amount of all notes issued pursuant to
the Note Purchase Agreement, including the Series A Notes, shall not exceed $300,000,000. The applicable interest rate and payment schedules for any new notes will be determined and mutually agreed upon at the time of issuance.

Pursuant to the February 25, 2005 Note Purchase Agreement, our wholly owned
subsidiary executed a Subsidiary Guaranty Agreement, dated as of February 25, 2005, for the benefit of the note holders, which provides that the subsidiary will absolutely, unconditionally and irrevocably guarantee the full payment of all amounts
due from the Company and the performance of all of the Company’s obligations, agreements and covenants under the Note Purchase Agreement. As part of the financing, we also entered into a Second Amendment, dated as of February 25, 2005, to our
revolving credit agreement, which amended the covenants contained in the credit agreement concerning debt limitations to permit the incurrence of debt under the Series A Notes.



The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of
December 31, 2004:

(1)

Contractual obligations include long-term debt consisting primarily of senior notes totaling $53,714,000; capital lease obligations for trailers and computer equipment; and
operating leases primarily consisting of real estate leases.

(2)

Other commercial commitments consist of standby letters of credit used as collateral for self-insured retention of insurance claims.

Critical Accounting Policies

In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we apply the following
critical accounting policies that affect judgments and estimates of amounts recorded in certain assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses:

Revenue and Expense Recognition

- We recognize revenue based upon when our transportation services have been completed in accordance with the bill of lading
contract, our general tariff provisions or contractual agreements with our customers. Generally, this occurs when we complete the delivery of a shipment. For transportation services not completed at the end of a reporting period, we use a percentage
of completion method to allocate the appropriate revenue to each separate reporting period. Under this method, we develop a factor for each uncompleted shipment by dividing the actual number of days in transit at the end of a reporting period by
that shipment’s standard delivery time schedule. This factor is applied to the total revenue for that shipment and revenue is allocated between reporting periods accordingly.

Expenses are recognized when incurred.

Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts

- We maintain an allowance for uncollectible accounts for estimated losses resulting from
the inability of our customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required.

Claims and Insurance Accruals

- Claims and insurance accruals reflect the
estimated unpaid cost of claims, including amounts for claims incurred but not reported, for cargo loss and damage, bodily injury and property damage, workers’ compensation, long-term disability and group health not covered by insurance. These
costs are charged to insurance and claims expense except for workers’ compensation, long-term disability and group health, which are charged to employee benefits expense.

We are currently self-insured for bodily injury and property damage claims up to $2,000,000 per occurrence. Cargo loss and
damage claims are self-insured up to $100,000. We are self-insured for workers’ compensation in certain states and have first dollar or high deductible plans in the remaining



states with self-insured retention levels ranging from $250,000 to $1,000,000. Group health claims are self-insured up to
$300,000 per occurrence and long-term disability claims are self-insured to a maximum per individual of $3,000 per month.

Insurers providing excess coverage above retention levels adjust their premiums to cover insured losses and for other market factors. As a result, we
periodically evaluate our self-insured retention levels to determine the most cost efficient balance of self-insurance and excess coverage.

In establishing accruals for claims and insurance expenses, we evaluate and monitor each claim individually, and we use factors such as historical
experience, known trends and third-party estimates to determine the appropriate reserves for potential liability. We believe the assumptions and methods used to estimate these liabilities are reasonable; however, changes in the severity of
previously reported claims, significant changes in the medical costs and legislative changes affecting the administration of our plans could significantly impact the determination of appropriate reserves in future periods.

Goodwill

- The excess cost over net assets acquired in connection with
acquisitions, or goodwill, is recorded in “Other Assets”. We completed the annual analysis of our intangible assets, required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

(“SFAS
142”), on our annual measurement date of October 1, 2004, and determined that there was no impairment of intangible assets. At December 31, 2004, goodwill totaled $10,648,000.

Property and Equipment

- Property and equipment are recorded at cost and depreciated on a straight-line basis over
their estimated economic lives. Management uses historical experience, certain assumptions and estimates in determining the economic life of each asset. Periodically, we review property and equipment for impairment to include changes in operational
and market conditions, and we adjust the carrying value and economic life of any impaired asset as appropriate. Currently, estimated economic lives for structures are 7 to 30 years; revenue equipment is 4 to 12 years; other equipment is 2 to 20
years; and leasehold improvements are the lesser of the economic life of the leasehold improvement or the life of the lease. The use of different assumptions, estimates or significant changes in the resale market for our equipment could result in
material changes in the carrying value of our assets.

Inflation

Most of our expenses are affected by inflation, which
generally results in increased operating costs. In response to fluctuations in the cost of petroleum products, particularly diesel fuel, we have implemented a fuel surcharge in our tariffs and contractual agreements. The fuel surcharge is designed
to offset the cost of fuel above a base price and increases as fuel prices escalate over the base. For the past three years, the net effect of inflation on our results of operations was minimal.

Related Party Transactions

Family relationships

Each of Earl E. Congdon, John R. Congdon, David S. Congdon, John R. Congdon,
Jr. and John B. Yowell are related to one another and serves in various executive management positions and/or on our Board of Directors. In addition, except for Mr. Yowell, each of them beneficially owns more than 5% of our common stock. In 2004, we
entered into employment agreements with Earl E. Congdon, John R. Congdon, David S. Congdon and John B. Yowell, which are filed as exhibits to our annual report on Form 10-K. We regularly disclose the amount of compensation that we pay to these
individuals in the proxy statement for our annual meeting of shareholders.

Transactions with Old Dominion Truck Leasing, Inc.

Old Dominion Truck Leasing, Inc. (“Leasing”), a North Carolina corporation whose voting stock is owned by the Earl E. Congdon Intangibles Trust, David S. Congdon, Trustee, the John R. Congdon Revocable Trust
and members of Earl E. Congdon’s and John R. Congdon’s families, is engaged in the business of purchasing and leasing tractors, trailers and other vehicles. John R. Congdon is Chairman of the Board of Leasing, and Earl E. Congdon is Vice
Chairman of the Board of Leasing. Since 1986, we have combined our requirements with Leasing for the purchase of tractors, trailers, equipment, parts, tires and fuel. We believe that, by combining our requirements, we are often able to obtain
pricing discounts because of the increased level of purchasing. While this arrangement is beneficial to us, our management believes that the termination of this relationship would not have a material adverse impact on our financial results.

For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, we
charged Leasing $7,000, $39,000 and $14,000, respectively, for vehicle repair, maintenance and other services, which we provide to Leasing at cost plus a negotiated markup. In addition, we charged Leasing $12,000 annually in 2004, 2003 and 2002, for
rental of a vehicle maintenance facility located in Chesapeake, Virginia. On March 15, 2003, we entered into an agreement to sublease a vehicle maintenance facility in South Bend, Indiana, to Leasing for which we charged $12,000 in 2004 and $10,000
in 2003.



We purchased $346,000, $266,000 and $297,000 of maintenance and other services from Leasing in 2004, 2003
and 2002, respectively. We believe that the prices we pay for such services are lower than would be charged by unaffiliated third parties for the same quality of work, and we intend to continue to purchase maintenance and other services from
Leasing, provided that Leasing’s prices continue to be favorable to us. We also paid Leasing $2,000 for leased equipment in 2004, but did not lease any equipment from Leasing in 2003 or 2002.

On January 4, 2002, we purchased 91 1997 model pickup and delivery trailers
from Leasing for an aggregate purchase price of $774,000. We also purchased one trailer from Leasing on May 1, 2003, for a purchase price of $8,000.

Transactions with E & J Enterprises

On July 29, 2002, our Board of Directors approved the purchase of 163 trailers for $1,200 each, or a total of $195,600, from E & J Enterprises
(“E&J”), a Virginia general partnership of which Earl E. Congdon, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board of Directors, and John R. Congdon, Vice Chairman of our Board of Directors, are each 50% owners. These trailers had
been leased to us by E&J since 1988 pursuant to a term lease that converted to a month-to-month lease in 1999. At year-end 2002, we had completed the purchase of 50 of these trailers for a purchase price of $60,000. During the first quarter
2003, we continued to lease the remaining 113 trailers on a month-to-month basis until we completed the purchase of those trailers in March 2003 for a purchase price of $135,600. Also in March 2003, we purchased an additional 10 trailers from
E&J for $5,000 each for a total purchase price of $50,000.

On July 29, 2002, our Board of Directors also approved the leasing from E&J of 150 pickup and delivery trailers on a month-to-month basis for $204 per month for each trailer. On December 1, 2003, we purchased these 150 trailers for an
aggregate purchase price of $907,000, thereby ending all lease activity with E&J.

There were no lease agreements in effect with E&J during 2004. The total amount paid to E&J for all trailers under lease was $357,000 and $387,000 for 2003 and 2002, respectively.

In December 1988, we sold E&J certain tracts of unimproved land and a
vacant service center facility in exchange for a receivable in the amount of $579,798. In December 2003, E&J paid the remaining receivable balance of $195,677, which effectively ended this related party transaction.

Greensboro, NC Service Center Purchase

On October 15, 2002, we purchased a 116-door service center facility and
shop located in Greensboro, N.C. for $6,000,000 from an irrevocable trust created for the benefit of the families of Earl E. Congdon, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board of Directors, and John R. Congdon, Vice Chairman of our Board
of Directors. Prior to our purchase, this property was leased to us with payments totaling $285,000 in 2002. The purchase of this property ended all related party transactions between this trust and the Company.

Disposition of Certain Split Dollar Life Insurance Policies

Prior to December 31, 2003, five split-dollar life insurance agreements to
which we were a party terminated. Two of these agreements involved policies administered by Aurora Life Insurance Company. One policy insured the life of Earl E. Congdon and the second insured the life of John R. Congdon. Each policy was owned by
the wife of the insured. The owners assigned their interests in the policies to us as payment in full for any obligations owed by them pursuant to the split dollar agreements. As a result of the assignments, we currently own both policies and
currently hold them as key man life insurance on Earl. E. Congdon and John R. Congdon.

A third split-dollar agreement involved a policy administered by The Prudential Insurance Company of America insuring the joint lives of Earl E. Congdon and Kathryn Congdon. The policy was owned by Earl Congdon’s
children. Under the Prudential split-dollar agreement, the owners had the right to terminate the split-dollar agreement upon payment to us of the total amount of premiums paid by us on the policy less any amounts previously reimbursed. In exercise
of that right, the owners terminated the split-dollar agreement in December 2003 and paid to us $595,137. All of this amount represented premiums previously advanced on the insured’s behalf. We no longer own any interest in the Prudential
policy.



The final two split-dollar agreements involved policies administered by American General Life of Houston,
Texas. One policy insured the joint lives of Earl E. Congdon and Kathryn Congdon and the second insured the joint lives of Jack Congdon and Natalie Congdon. Each policy was owned by a family limited partnership. Under each American General
split-dollar agreement, the owners had the right to terminate the split-dollar agreement upon payment to us of the total amount of premiums paid by us on the policy less any amounts previously reimbursed. In exercise of that right, the owner of the
American General split-dollar agreement for Earl and Kathryn Congdon terminated that agreement and in December 2003 paid to us $1,367,678 and the owner of the American General split-dollar agreement for Jack and Natalie Congdon terminated that
agreement and paid to us $1,373,626. All of these amounts represented premiums previously advanced on the insured’s behalf. We no longer own any interest in the American General policies.

Audit Committee Approval

The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors reviewed and approved all
related party transactions.

Forward-Looking Information

Forward-looking statements in this report, including, without limitation,
statements relating to future events or our future financial performance, appear in the preceding Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in other written and oral statements made by or on
behalf of us, including, without limitation, statements relating to our goals, strategies, expectations, competitive environment, regulation and availability of resources. Such forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor
provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events and results to be materially different from those
expressed or implied herein, including, but not limited to, the risk factors detailed in this Annual Report.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Market risk represents the risk of loss that may impact the consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows due to adverse changes
in financial market prices and rates.

We are exposed to
interest rate risk directly related to our bank credit lines, which have variable interest rates. The average principal balance and effective interest rate under this agreement in 2004 was $22,472,000 and 2.48%, respectively. A 100 basis point
increase in the average interest rate on this agreement would have no material effect on our operating results. We have established policies and procedures to manage exposure to market risks and use major institutions that are creditworthy to
minimize credit risk.

We are also exposed to commodity price
risk related to diesel fuel prices and have established policies and procedures to manage our exposure to such risk.

For further discussion related to these risks, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources” included in Item 7.



ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

OLD DOMINION FREIGHT LINE, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.



OLD DOMINION FREIGHT LINE, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

The accompanying notes are an
integral part of these financial statements.



OLD DOMINION FREIGHT LINE, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

The accompanying notes are an
integral part of these financial statements.



OLD DOMINION FREIGHT LINE, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

Cash paid for interest
was approximately $5,910,000, $6,535,000 and $6,419,000 for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Interest of $332,000, $178,000 and $699,000 was capitalized during 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1. Significant Accounting Policies

Business

We are a less-than-truckload
multi-regional motor carrier providing one to five day service among five regions in the United States and next-day and second-day service within these regions. At December 31, 2004, we provided 100% full-state coverage to 29 of the 40 states that
we served directly within the Southeast, South Central, Northeast, Midwest and West regions of the country. Through marketing and carrier relationships, Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. and its subsidiary also provided service to and from the
remaining states as well as international services around the globe.

Basis of Presentation

The consolidated
financial statements include the accounts of Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiary. All significant intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from these estimates.

Certain amounts in prior years have been reclassified to
conform prior years’ financial statements to the current presentation.

Unless the context requires otherwise, references in these Notes to “Old Dominion”, the “Company”, “we”, “us” and “our” refer to Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. and
its subsidiary on a consolidated basis.

Segments

We operate one business segment and have no customer that exceeds 10% of our
operating revenue.

Revenue and Expense Recognition

We recognize revenue based upon when our transportation services have
been completed in accordance with the bill of lading contract, our general tariff provisions or contractual agreements with our customers. Generally, this occurs when we complete the delivery of a shipment. For transportation services not completed
at the end of a reporting period, we use a percentage of completion method to allocate the appropriate revenue to each separate reporting period. Under this method, we develop a factor for each uncompleted shipment by dividing the actual number of
days in transit at the end of a reporting period by that shipment’s standard delivery time schedule. This factor is applied to the total revenue for that shipment and revenue is allocated between reporting periods accordingly.

Expenses are recognized when incurred.

Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts

We maintain an allowance for uncollectible accounts for losses resulting
from the estimated inability of our customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required.

Credit Risk

Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations
of credit risk consist principally of customer receivables. Credit risk is generally diversified due to the large number of entities comprising our customer base and their dispersion across many different industries and geographic regions.



Cash and Cash Equivalents

We consider cash on hand and deposits in banks along with certificates of deposit and short-term marketable securities with
original maturities of three months or less as cash and cash equivalents.

Tires on Equipment

The cost of tires
on equipment is amortized over the estimated tire life of 18 to 24 months.

Property and Equipment

Property and equipment is stated at cost. Major additions and improvements are capitalized, while maintenance and repairs that do not improve or extend the lives of the respective assets are charged to expense as incurred.

Depreciation is provided by the straight-line method over the following
estimated useful lives:

Depreciation expense,
which includes the amortization of capital leases, was $44,822,000, $38,203,000 and $31,075,000 for 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

The excess cost over net assets acquired in connection with acquisitions is recorded in “Other Assets”, which was $10,648,000 at December 31,
2004 and 2003.

In accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standard (“SFAS”) No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

, effective January 1, 2002, goodwill is no longer amortized, but instead is subject to an impairment test on an annual measurement date. The initial step in
testing for goodwill impairment is to compare the fair value of each reporting unit with its book value. To the extent the fair value is less than book value, which would indicate the potential that impairment of goodwill exists, a second test is
required to determine the amount of impairment. We completed the required annual analysis of our intangible assets on our annual measurement date of October 1, 2004, and determined that there was no impairment of intangible assets.

Long-Lived Assets

We periodically assess the realizable value of our long-lived assets and
evaluate such assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.

Claims and Insurance Accruals

We are self-insured for bodily injury and property damage claims up to $2,000,000 per occurrence and cargo claims are self-insured up to $100,000 per
occurrence. We are also self-insured for workers’ compensation in certain states, and we have first dollar or high deductible plans in the other states. Our workers’ compensation retention levels range from $250,000 to $1,000,000 depending
on the plan year. Group health claims are self-insured up to $300,000 per occurrence and long-term disability claims are self-insured to a maximum per individual of $3,000 per month.

Claims and insurance accruals reflect the estimated unpaid cost of claims, including amounts for claims incurred but not
reported, for cargo loss and damage, bodily injury and property damage, workers’ compensation, long-term disability and group health not covered by insurance. These costs are charged to insurance and claims expense except for workers’
compensation, long-term disability and group health, which are charged to employee benefits expense.

We reserved $39,517,000 and $31,518,000 at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, for self-insured claims and insurance reserves on our Consolidated
Balance Sheets. The long-term portions of those reserves were $17,466,000 and $13,776,000 for 2004 and 2003, respectively, which were included in “Other non-current liabilities”.



Advertising

The costs of advertising our services are expensed as incurred. Advertising costs charged to expense amounted to $2,410,000, $2,160,000 and $1,906,000 for
2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

Earnings Per
Share

Net income per common share is computed using
the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. The effect of dilutive employee stock options in Note 7 is immaterial to the calculation of diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002.

Fair Values of Financial Instruments

At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the carrying values of financial instruments
such as cash and cash equivalents, customer and other receivables, trade payables and long-term debt approximated their fair values. The fair value of cash and cash equivalents, customer and other receivables and trade payables approximates the
carrying value due to the short maturities of these instruments. The fair value of our long-term debt is determined using quoted market prices for debt of the same remaining maturity and other characteristics.

Stock Based Compensation

Effective December 31, 2002, Old Dominion adopted the prospective method of
transition of SFAS No. 148,

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation — Transition and Disclosure, an amendment of SFAS No. 123.

Stock based compensation expense for our employee stock option plan that was granted prior to January 1, 2003
continues to be recognized under the provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees

(“APB 25”), and related interpretations. Consistent with APB 25, the exercise price of our
employee stock options equals the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant; therefore, no compensation expense is recognized. Pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per share required by SFAS No. 123,

Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation

, as amended, is not significant.

Common
Stock Split

On May 19, 2003, the Board of Directors
approved a three-for-two common stock split for shareholders of record as of the close of business on June 4, 2003. On June 16, 2003, those shareholders received one additional share of common stock for every two shares owned.

On April 20, 2004, the Board of Directors approved a three-for-two common
stock split for shareholders of record as of the close of business on May 6, 2004. On May 20, 2004, those shareholders received one additional share of common stock for every two shares owned.

All references in this report to shares outstanding, weighted average shares
outstanding and earnings per share amounts have been restated retroactively for these stock splits.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

On December 16, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004),

Share-Based Payment

, which is a revision of SFAS No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation

. This Statement supersedes APB Opinion No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees

, and amends SFAS No. 95,

Statement of Cash Flows

. Generally the approach in SFAS No. 123(R) is similar to the approach described
in SFAS No. 123. However, SFAS No. 123(R) requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the income statement based on their fair values. Pro forma disclosure is no longer an
alternative. SFAS No. 123(R) will be effective July 1, 2005. Old Dominion does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) to have a material impact on its financial position, results of operation or cash flows.

On December 16, 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153,

Exchanges of
Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29

. This Statement is based on the principal that exchanges of nonmonetary assets should be accounted for on the fair value of the assets exchanged, unless the exchange lacks commercial
substance. Under APB Opinion No. 29, an exchange of a productive asset for a similar productive asset was based on the recorded amount of the asset relinquished. SFAS No. 153 is effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods
beginning after June 15, 2005, the provisions of which are applied prospectively. Old Dominion does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 153 to have a material impact on its financial position, results of operation or cash flows.



Note 2. Long-term Debt

Long-term debt consisted of the following:

We have three
unsecured senior note agreements with interest rates ranging from 6.35% to 7.59%. These notes require periodic principal payments with maturities ranging from 2005 to 2008. On February 25, 2005, we executed a note purchase agreement to obtain
additional financing through the issuance of senior notes. For additional information on these senior notes, see Note 9, “Subsequent Events”.

We entered into an unsecured revolving credit agreement dated June 30, 2003 with lenders consisting of Wachovia Bank, National Association; Bank of
America, N.A.; and Branch Banking and Trust Company, with Wachovia as agent for the lenders. This three-year facility, as amended, consists of $80,000,000 in line of credit commitments from the lenders, all of which are available for revolving
loans. In addition, of that $80,000,000 line of credit, $40,000,000 may be used for letters of credit and $10,000,000 may be used for borrowings under Wachovia’s sweep program. The sweep program is a daily cash management tool that
automatically initiates borrowings to cover overnight cash requirements up to an aggregate of $10,000,000 or initiates overnight investments for excess cash balances. Revolving loans under the facility bear interest at either: (a) an applicable
margin plus the higher of Wachovia’s prime rate or one-half of one percentage point over the federal funds rate (the “Adjusted Base Rate”); or (b) LIBOR plus an applicable margin (the “Adjusted LIBOR Rate”). The applicable
margin varies depending upon our ratio of adjusted debt to capital. In the case of the Adjusted Base Rate, the applicable margin ranges from 0% to 0.25%. In the case of the Adjusted LIBOR Rate, the applicable margin ranges from 0.75% to 1.25%. The
applicable margin under this agreement for 2004 for the Adjusted Base Rate and the Adjusted LIBOR Rate was 0% and 1.0%, respectively. Revolving loans under the sweep program bear interest at the aggregate rate applicable under the sweep program plus
the Adjusted LIBOR Rate.

Quarterly fees ranging from 0.20% to
0.30% are charged on the aggregate unused portion of the facility determined by our ratio of adjusted debt to capital. The applicable rate for the periods under this agreement in 2004 was 0.25%. Quarterly fees are charged on the aggregate undrawn
portion of outstanding letters of credit at a rate ranging from 0.75% to 1.25%, which was 1.0% in 2004 as determined by our ratio of adjusted debt to capital. In addition, a quarterly facing fee at an annual rate of 0.125% was charged on the
aggregate undrawn portion of outstanding letters of credit.

The June 2003 credit facility contains customary covenants, including financial covenants that require us to observe a maximum ratio of adjusted debt to capital, to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and to maintain a minimum
consolidated tangible net worth. Our wholly owned subsidiary guaranteed payment of all of our obligations under the facility. Future wholly owned subsidiaries would be required to guarantee payment of all of our obligations under the facility. At
December 31, 2004, there was $17,333,000 outstanding on the line of credit facility and there was $31,047,000 outstanding on the standby letter of credit facility.

Our senior notes and credit agreement limit the amount of dividends that may be paid to shareholders pursuant to certain
financial ratios. At December 31, 2004, our credit agreement was the most restrictive and limited the amount of dividends that could be paid to shareholders to the difference between our current tangible net worth, which is defined as
shareholders’ equity plus intangible assets, and the sum of $198,000,000 and 50% of cumulative net income since March 31, 2003. We did not declare or pay a dividend on our common stock in 2004, and we have no plans to declare or pay a dividend
in 2005.



Equipment and capitalized lease obligations are collateralized by property and equipment with a book
value of $11,006,000 at December 31, 2004.

As of December 31,
2004, aggregate maturities of long-term debt are as follows:

The effective average
interest rate on our outstanding fixed rate debt was 6.54%, 6.56% and 6.49% at December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

Note 3. Leases

We lease certain revenue equipment and information systems under capital leases. We also lease other assets under operating leases, which primarily
consist of real estate leases for 70 of our service center locations.

Certain capital and operating leases provide for purchase and/or renewal options. Generally, purchase options are at prices representing the expected fair value of the property at the expirations of the lease term. Renewal options and
length of renewals vary by lease and are typically offered at their fair rental value.

The assets under capital leases are included in property and equipment as follows:

Future minimum annual
lease payments as of December 31, 2004, are as follows:

Aggregate expense
under operating leases approximated $11,139,000, $10,957,000 and $10,971,000 for 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.



Note 4. Income Taxes

The components of the provision for income taxes are as follows:

Net cash paid for
income taxes during 2004, 2003 and 2002 aggregated $18,315,000, $8,487,000 and $13,480,000, respectively.

The following is a reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rates with our effective income tax rates for 2004, 2003 and 2002:

Deferred tax assets
and liabilities consist of the following:



The net current asset and noncurrent liability consist of the following:

Note 5. Related Party Transactions

Transactions with Old Dominion Truck Leasing, Inc.

Old Dominion Truck Leasing, Inc. (“Leasing”), a
North Carolina corporation whose voting stock is owned by the Earl E. Congdon Intangibles Trust, David S. Congdon, Trustee, the John R. Congdon Revocable Trust and members of Earl E. Congdon’s and John R. Congdon’s families, is engaged in
the business of purchasing and leasing tractors, trailers and other vehicles. John R. Congdon is Chairman of the Board of Leasing, and Earl E. Congdon is Vice Chairman of the Board of Leasing. Since 1986, we have combined our requirements with
Leasing for the purchase of tractors, trailers, equipment, parts, tires and fuel. We believe that, by combining our requirements, we are often able to obtain pricing discounts because of the increased level of purchasing. While this arrangement is
beneficial to us, our management believes that the termination of this relationship would not have a material adverse impact on our financial results.

For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, we charged Leasing $7,000, $39,000 and $14,000, respectively, for vehicle repair, maintenance and
other services, which we provide to Leasing at cost plus a negotiated markup. In addition, we charged Leasing $12,000 annually in 2004, 2003 and 2002, for rental of a vehicle maintenance facility located in Chesapeake, Virginia. On March 15, 2003,
we entered into an agreement to sublease a vehicle maintenance facility in South Bend, Indiana, to Leasing for which we charged $12,000 and $10,000 in 2004 and 2003, respectively.

We purchased $346,000, $266,000 and $297,000 of maintenance and other services from Leasing in 2004, 2003 and 2002,
respectively. We also paid Leasing $2,000 for leased equipment in 2004, but did not lease any equipment from Leasing in 2003 or 2002.

On January 4, 2002, we purchased 91 1997 model pickup and delivery trailers from Leasing for an aggregate purchase price of $774,000. We also purchased
one trailer from Leasing on May 1, 2003, for a purchase price of $8,000.

Transactions with E & J Enterprises

On July 29, 2002, our Board of Directors approved the purchase of 163 trailers for $1,200 each, or a total of $195,600, from E & J Enterprises (“E&J”), a Virginia general partnership of which Earl E. Congdon, our Chief
Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board of Directors, and John R. Congdon, Vice Chairman of our Board of Directors, are each 50% owners. These trailers had been leased to us by E&J since 1988 pursuant to a term lease that converted to a
month-to-month lease in 1999. At year-end 2002, we had completed the purchase of 50 of these trailers for a purchase price of $60,000. During the first quarter 2003, we continued to lease the remaining 113 trailers on a month-to-month basis until we
completed the purchase of those trailers in March 2003 for a purchase price of $135,600. Also in March 2003, we purchased an additional 10 trailers from E&J for $5,000 each for a total purchase price of $50,000.

On July 29, 2002, our Board of Directors also approved the leasing from
E&J of 150 pickup and delivery trailers on a month-to-month basis for $204 per month for each trailer. On December 1, 2003, we purchased these 150 trailers for an aggregate purchase price of $907,000.

There were no lease agreements in effect with E&J during 2004. The total
amount paid to E&J for all trailers under lease was $357,000 and $387,000 for 2003 and 2002, respectively.



In December 1988, we sold E&J certain tracts of unimproved land and a vacant service center facility
in exchange for a receivable in the amount of $579,798. In December 2003, E&J paid the remaining receivable balance of $195,677.

Greensboro, NC Service Center Purchase

On October 15, 2002, we purchased a 116-door service center facility and shop located in Greensboro, N.C. for $6,000,000 from an irrevocable trust created
for the benefit of the families of Earl E. Congdon, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board of Directors, and John R. Congdon, Vice Chairman of our Board of Directors. Prior to our purchase, this property was leased to us with payments
totaling $285,000 in 2002.

Disposition of Certain Split Dollar Life
Insurance Policies

Prior to December 2003, we were a
party to five split-dollar life insurance arrangements with two executives. In December 2003, we terminated three of these split-dollar arrangements by selling our interests in the policies to the owners of the policies. These three transactions
resulted in a non-operating gain of $518,000, which was the difference between the cash surrender value of the policies and the amount paid by the owners that approximated the premiums we had paid over the policy lives. Also in December 2003, the
owners of the other two split-dollar policies conveyed their rights in those policies to us. We are holding those policies as key man life insurance on two executives.

Note 6. Employee Retirement Plan Contribution Expense

Substantially all employees meeting certain service requirements are eligible to participate in our 401(k) employee
retirement plan. Employee contributions are limited to a percentage of their compensation, as defined in the plan. We make contributions based upon the greater of a percentage of employee contributions or ten percent of net income. Company
contributions for 2004, 2003 and 2002 were $3,899,000, $2,760,000 and $1,846,000, respectively.

Note 7. Stock Options

In 1991, our Board of Directors and shareholders adopted the 1991 Employee Stock Option Plan (“Plan”) under which 250,000 shares of common stock are reserved for stock option grants to certain officers and employees. Options
granted under the Plan may be incentive stock options or nonqualified stock options. The Plan provides that options may be granted at prices not less than the fair market value on the date the option is granted, which means the closing price of a
share of common stock as reported on the Nasdaq National Market on such day or the preceding day if the shares are not traded in the Nasdaq system on the grant day. On the date the option is granted, the Stock Option Plan Committee of the Board of
Directors determines the period during which the option may be exercised; however, under the terms of the Plan, the option period cannot extend more than ten years from the date on which the option is granted. Options may not be granted under the
Plan after August 31, 2001. A summary of the changes in the number of common shares under option during the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 is provided below. Shares and per share amounts have been restated for the three-for-two stock
splits that occurred in 2003 and 2004.



At December 31, 2004 there were 11,250 options exercisable. The weighted average remaining contractual
life of outstanding options is 0.8 years.

Note 8. Commitments and
Contingencies

We are involved in various legal
proceedings and claims that have arisen in the ordinary course of our business that have not been fully adjudicated. Many of these are covered in whole or in part by insurance. Our management does not believe that these actions, when finally
concluded and determined, will have a significant adverse effect upon our financial position or results of operations.

Note 9. Subsequent Events

On January 15, 2005, we closed on a transaction to purchase substantially all of the assets of Wichita Southeast Kansas Transit, Inc. (“WSKT”),
a private LTL carrier headquartered in Parsons, Kansas. We plan to integrate WSKT’s 43 service center operations and its entire route structure with our network of 138 service centers, increasing our network by 10 service centers in 2005. In
addition, we plan to expand our direct operations into our 41

st

state, Nebraska, and we plan to initiate full-state
coverage in Kansas and Iowa, bringing the total number of states with full-state coverage to 31. This acquisition was structured as an asset purchase for which the total purchase price will be approximately $25,000,000. The acquired assets included
tractors, trailers, service centers and approximately $9,000,000 of accounts receivable.

On February 25, 2005, we entered into a Note Purchase Agreement with Allstate Life Insurance Company, Allstate Life Insurance Company of New York, New
York Life Insurance Company, New York Life Insurance and Annuity Corporation, United of Omaha Life Insurance Company, PRU & Co. (as nominee for Prudential Retirement Insurance and Annuity Company), UMBTRU & Co. (as nominee for Security
Benefit Life Insurance Company, Inc.) and Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. Under this agreement, we issued $50,000,000 of privately-placed Series A Senior Notes, Tranche A on February 25, 2005 and will issue an additional $25,000,000 of
privately-placed Series A Senior Notes, Tranche B on May 25, 2005 (the “Series A Notes”). The Series A Notes bear an interest rate of 4.68% and a maturity date of February 25, 2015. The Series A Notes call for semi-annual interest payments
beginning on August 25, 2005 and seven equal annual principal prepayments commencing on February 25, 2009. The proceeds from this agreement were used to refinance existing indebtedness and for general corporate purposes. The Note Purchase Agreement
may also serve as the platform for potential future private note issuances by the Company. The aggregate principal amount of all notes issued pursuant to the note Purchase Agreement, including the Series A Notes, shall not exceed $300,000,000. The
applicable interest rate and payment schedules for any new notes will be determined and mutually agreed upon at the time of issuance.

Pursuant to the February 25, 2005 Note Purchase Agreement, our wholly owned subsidiary executed a Subsidiary Guaranty Agreement, dated as of February 25,
2005, for the benefit of the note holders, which provides that the subsidiary will absolutely, unconditionally and irrevocably guarantee the full payment of all amounts due from the Company and the performance of all of the Company’s
obligations, agreements and covenants under the Note Purchase Agreement. As part of the financing, we also entered into a Second Amendment, dated as of February 25, 2005, to our revolving credit agreement, which amended the covenants contained in
the credit agreement concerning debt limitations to permit the incurrence of debt under the Series A Notes.



Note 10. Quarterly Financial Information

(Unaudited)



Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Shareholders

Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. (the Company) as of December 31, 2004 and 2003 and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in
shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2004. Our audits also include the financial statement schedule of Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. listed in Item 15(a). These financial statements
and schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2004, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Also, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents
fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

As
discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over the financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated March 14, 2005 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Greensboro, North Carolina

March 14, 2005



ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES

None.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

a.)

Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures

As of the end of the period covered by this report, our management has conducted an evaluation, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, in accordance with Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act. Based on this evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our
disclosure controls and procedures are effective to enable us to record, process, summarize and report in a timely manner the information that we are required to disclose in our Exchange Act reports.

b.)

Management’s annual report on internal control over financial reporting

Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Management has conducted an evaluation, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of our
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004 based on the framework in

Internal Control – Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Management concluded that
our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2004, based on our evaluation under the framework in

Internal Control – Integrated Framework

.

A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the
objectives of the control system are met. Further, in designing a control system, we must take into account the benefits of controls relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can
provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected.

Our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, has been audited by Ernst
& Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included herein.

c.)

Changes in internal control over financial reporting

There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by this report that have materially
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.



Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Shareholders

Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc.

We have audited management’s assessment, included in the accompanying Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, that Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. maintained effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Old
Dominion Freight Line’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on management’s assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
evaluating management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management’s assessment that Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004,
is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the COSO criteria. Also, in our opinion, Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on
the COSO criteria

.

We also have audited, in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in
shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2004 of Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. and our report dated March 14, 2005 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Greensboro, North Carolina

March 14, 2005



ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION

None.

PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information required by Item 10 of Form 10-K appears in the Company’s proxy statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of its Shareholders, reference
to which is hereby made, and the information there is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The
information required by Item 11 of Form 10-K appears in the Company’s proxy statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of its Shareholders, reference to which is hereby made, and the information there is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The information required by Item 12
of Form 10-K appears in the Company’s proxy statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of its Shareholders, reference to which is hereby made, and the information there is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information required by Item 13 of Form 10-K appears in the
Company’s proxy statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of its Shareholders, reference to which is hereby made, and the information there is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

The information required by Item 14 of Form 10-K appears in the Company’s proxy statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting
of its Shareholders, reference to which is hereby made, and the information there is incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND
REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)(1) Financial Statements.

The following consolidated financial statements of Old Dominion Freight
Line, Inc. are included in Item 8:

Consolidated Balance Sheets - December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003

Consolidated Statements of Operations - Years ended December 31, 2004, December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity - Years ended December 31, 2004, December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows - Years ended December 31, 2004, December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



(a)(2) Financial Statement Schedules.

The following financial statement schedule of Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc., is included in response to Item 15(d):

Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable
accounting regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the instructions or are inapplicable and, therefore, have been omitted.

(a)(3) Exhibits Filed. The exhibits listed in the accompanying Exhibit Index are filed as a part of this report.

(b)

Reports on Form 8-K.

On October 21, 2004, we furnished a Current Report on Form 8-K under Item 2.02 to report our earnings for the third quarter 2004.

(c)

Exhibits. See Exhibit Index.

(d)

Financial Statement Schedules.

Schedule II

Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc.

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and as of the dates indicated:



EXHIBIT INDEX

TO ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

OLD DOMINION FREIGHT LINE, INC.

FOR YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004





(a)

Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of the same number contained in the Company’s registration statement on Form S-1 filed under the Securities Act of 1933 (SEC File: 33-
42631)

(b)

Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of the same number contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995

(c)

Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of the same number contained in the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1996

(d)

Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of the same number contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996

(e)

Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of the same number contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997

(f)

Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of the same number contained in the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1999

(g)

Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of the same number contained in the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2000

(h)

Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of the same number contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000

(i)

Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of the same number contained in the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2001

(j)

Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of the same number contained in the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2002

(k)

Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of the same number contained in the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2002

(l)

Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of the same number contained in the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2003

(m)

Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of the same number contained in the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2004

(n)

Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of the same number contained in the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 10, 2004

(o)

Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of the same number contained in the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004

(p)

Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of the same number contained in the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed under the Securities Act of 1933 (SEC File:
333-116399)

(q)

Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of the same number contained in the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 4, 2005

(r)

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 22.1 contained in the Company’s registration statement on Form S-1 filed under the Securities Act of 1933 (SEC File: 33-42631)

*

Denotes an executive compensation plan or agreement

Our SEC file number reference for documents filed with the SEC pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is 000-19582.

50