10-K


d10k.htm

OLD DOMINION FREIGHT LINES FORM 10-K

Old Dominion Freight Lines Form 10-K

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM
10-K

(Mark One)

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2002

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the
transition period from ________________ to ________________.

Commission File Number: 0-19582

OLD DOMINION FREIGHT LINE, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in
its charter)

VIRGINIA

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

56-0751714

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

500 Old Dominion Way

Thomasville, NC 27360

(Address of
principal executive offices)

(336) 889-5000 (Registrant’s Telephone Number)

www.odfl.com (Registrant’s Web
Site)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Common Stock ($.10 par value)

(Title of class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of the registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

x

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2).

Yes

o

No

x

The aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the registrant as of June 30, 2002, was $19,124,261.

As of March 25, 2003, the registrant had 10,692,264 outstanding shares of Common Stock ($.10 par value).

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2003 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by reference into Part
III of this report.

PART I

ITEM
1.

BUSINESS

General

We are a leading less-than-truckload multi-regional motor carrier providing timely one to four day service among five regions in the United States and next-day and second-day service within these
regions. Through our non-union workforce and our four branded product groups, OD-Domestic, OD-Global, OD-Expedited and OD-Technology, we offer an array of innovative products and services that provide direct service to 38 states within the
Southeast, South Central, Northeast, Midwest and West regions of the country, including 24 states within which we provide full-state coverage. In addition, through marketing and carrier relationships, we provide service to and from the remaining 12
states, as well as Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean.

We have grown substantially over the last several years through strategic acquisitions and internal
growth. Prior to 1995, we provided inter-regional service to major metropolitan areas from, and regional service within, the Southeast region of the United States. Since 1995, we have expanded our infrastructure to provide next-day and second-day
service within four additional regions as well as expanded inter-regional service among those regions. During this period, we increased our number of service centers from 53 to 117 and our states directly served from 21 to 38. We believe that our
present infrastructure will enable us to increase freight density (the volume of freight moving through our network) and thereby improve our profitability.

We
are committed to providing our customers with high quality service products. We are continually upgrading our technological capabilities to improve our customer service, reduce our transit times and minimize our operating costs. In addition to our
core less-than-truckload, or LTL, services, we provide premium expedited services, including guaranteed on-time delivery, time-specific delivery and next-day air delivery. We also offer container delivery service to and from ten port facilities as
well as assembly and distribution services in which we either consolidate LTL shipments for full truckload transport by a truckload carrier or break down full truckload shipments from a truckload carrier into LTL shipments for our
delivery.

We combine the rapid transit times of a regional carrier with the geographic coverage of an inter-regional carrier. We believe our transit times are
generally faster than those of our principal national competitors, in part because of our more efficient service center network, use of team drivers and industry leading technology. In addition, our direct service to 38 states and five regions
provides greater geographic coverage than most of our regional competitors. We believe our diversified mix and scope of regional and inter-regional services enable us to provide our customers a single source to meet their LTL shipping needs.

We provide consistent customer service from a single organization offering our customers information and pricing from one point of contact. Most of our
multi-regional competitors that offer inter-regional service do so through independent companies with separate points of contact, which can result in inconsistent service and pricing, as well as poor shipment visibility. Our integrated structure
allows us to offer our customers consistent and continuous service across regions.

Our Industry

Trucks provide transportation services to virtually every industry operating in the United States and generally offer higher levels of reliability and faster transit times than other surface transportation options. The
trucking industry is comprised principally of two types of motor carriers: truckload and LTL. Truckload carriers dedicate an entire trailer to one customer from origin to destination. LTL carriers pick up multiple shipments from multiple customers
on a single truck and then route the goods through terminals, or service centers, where freight may be transferred to other trucks with similar destinations for delivery.

In contrast to truckload carriers, LTL carriers require expansive networks of local pickup and delivery service centers, as well as larger hub facilities. Significant capital is required of LTL motor carriers to create
and maintain a network of service centers and a fleet of tractors and trailers. The substantial infrastructure spending needed for LTL carriers makes it difficult for new start-up or small operations to effectively compete with established
companies.


Service Center Operations

At December 31, 2002, we
conducted operations through 117 service center locations, of which we own 51 and lease 66. We operate major breakbulk, or hub, facilities in Atlanta, Georgia; Rialto, California; Indianapolis, Indiana; Greensboro, North Carolina; Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania; Morristown, Tennessee; and Dallas, Texas, while using some smaller service centers for limited breakbulk activity in order to serve next-day markets. Our service centers are strategically located in five regions of the country to
permit us to provide the highest quality service and minimize freight rehandling costs.

Each of our service centers is responsible for the pickup and delivery
of freight for its own service area. All inbound freight received by the service center in the evening or during the night is scheduled for local delivery the next business day, unless a customer requests a different delivery schedule. Each service
center loads the freight by destination the day it is picked up. Our management reviews the productivity and service performance of each service center on a daily basis in order to maximize quality service.

While we have established primary responsibility for customer service at the local service center level, our customers may access information through several different gateways such as our website,
electronic data interchange, automated voice response systems, automated fax systems or through our customer service department located at our corporate office. Our systems offer direct access to information such as freight tracking, shipping
documents, rate quotes, rate databases and account activity.

We plan to expand capacity at existing service centers as well as expand the number of service
centers geographically as opportunities arise that provide for profitable growth and fit the needs of our customers.

Linehaul Transportation

Our Linehaul Transportation Department is responsible for directing the movement of freight among our service centers. Linehaul dispatchers control the movement of freight among
service centers through real-time, integrated freight movement systems. We also utilize load-planning software to optimize efficiencies in our linehaul operations. Our senior management continuously monitors freight movements, transit times, load
factors and other productivity measurements to ensure that we maintain our highest levels of service and efficiency.

We use scheduled dispatches, and
additional dispatches as necessary, to meet our published service standards. In addition, we lower our cost structure by maintaining flexible work force rules and by using twin 28-foot trailers exclusively in our linehaul operations, which also
reduces cargo claims expenses. Use of twin 28-foot trailers permits us to pick up freight directly from its point of origin to destination with minimal unloading and reloading and permits more freight to be hauled behind a tractor than could be
hauled if we used one larger trailer.

Tractors and Trailers and Maintenance

At
December 31, 2002, we operated 2,752 tractors. We generally use new tractors in linehaul operations for approximately three to five years and then transfer those tractors to pickup and delivery operations for the remainder of their useful lives. In
a number of our service centers, tractors perform pickup and delivery functions during the day and linehaul functions at night to maximize tractor utilization.

At December 31, 2002, we operated a fleet of 10,729 trailers. As we have expanded and our needs for equipment have increased, we have purchased new trailers as well as trailers meeting our specifications from other trucking companies that
have ceased operations. These purchases of pre-owned equipment, though providing an excellent value, have the effect of increasing the trailer fleet’s average age.


The table below reflects, as of December 31, 2002, the average age of our tractors and trailers:

We develop certain
specifications for tractors and trailers, the production and purchase of which are negotiated with several manufacturers. These purchases are planned well in advance of anticipated delivery dates in order to accommodate manufacturers’
production schedules. We believe that there is sufficient capacity among suppliers to ensure an uninterrupted flow of equipment.

The table below sets forth
our capital expenditures for tractors and trailers for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000:

We currently have major maintenance operations at
our service centers in Atlanta, Georgia; Dallas, Texas; Chicago and Des Plaines, Illinois; Harrisburg, Pennsylvania; Jersey City, New Jersey; Morristown and Memphis, Tennessee; Los Angeles and Rialto, California; Columbus, Ohio; Greensboro, North
Carolina; and Greenville, South Carolina. In addition, six other service center locations are equipped to perform routine and preventive maintenance checks and repairs on our equipment.

We have an established scheduled maintenance policy and procedure. Linehaul tractors are routed to appropriate maintenance facilities at designated mileage intervals ranging from 12,500 to 25,000 miles, depending upon
how the equipment was utilized. Pickup and delivery tractors and trailers are scheduled for maintenance every 90 days.

Marketing and Customers

At December 31, 2002, we had a sales staff of 328 employees. We compensate our sales force, in part, based upon revenue generated, company and service center profitability and
on-time service performance, which we believe helps to motivate our employees.

We utilize a computerized freight costing model to determine the price level at
which a particular shipment of freight will be profitable. We can modify elements of this freight costing model, as necessary, to simulate the actual conditions under which the freight will be moved. From time to time, we also compete for business
by participating in bid solicitations. Customers generally solicit bids for relatively large numbers of shipments for a period of from one to two years and typically choose to enter into a contractual arrangement with a limited number of motor
carriers based upon price and service.

Revenue is generated from many customers and locations across the United States and North America. We currently serve
over 57,000 customers with direct service to 38 states, including 24 with 100% full-state coverage. In addition, through marketing and carrier relationships, we provide service to the remaining 12 states, as well as Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean.
For the year ended December 31, 2002, our largest customer accounted for approximately 1.8% of revenue and our largest 20, 10 and five customers accounted for approximately 17.6%, 12.1% and 7.4% of our revenue, respectively. For each of the previous
three years, less than 1% of our revenue was generated through our carrier relationships in Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean. We believe the


diversity of our revenue base helps protect our business from adverse developments in a single geographic region and the reduction or loss of business from a
single customer.

Competition

The transportation industry is highly competitive
on the basis of both price and service. We compete with regional, inter-regional and national LTL carriers and, to a lesser extent, with truckload carriers, small package carriers, air freight carriers and railroads. We believe that we are able to
compete effectively in our markets by providing high quality and timely service at competitive prices.

Seasonality

Our tonnage levels and revenue mix are subject to seasonal trends common in the motor carrier industry. Financial results in the first and fourth quarters are normally lower due to reduced shipments
during the winter months. Harsh winter weather can also adversely impact our performance by reducing demand and increasing operating expenses. The second and third quarters reflect increased demand for services during the spring and summer months,
which generally result in improved operating margins.

Technology

We continually
upgrade our technological capabilities. We provide access to our systems through multiple gateways that offer our customers maximum flexibility and immediate access to necessary information. We also employ freight handling systems and logistics
technology in an effort to reduce costs and transit times. Our principal technologies include:

•

www.odfl.com.

A variety of information and services is available through our award-winning web
site. We continuously update our web site with current information, including service products, coverage maps, financial data, news releases, employment opportunities and other information of importance to our customers, investors and employees.
Since November 22, 2002, we have made available, free of charge on our web site, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file these reports with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

•

odfl4me.com.

Customers may register
their accounts on the secure area of our web site odfl4me.com. Our simple registration gives our customers the freedom to manage their accounts from their desktops; create bills of lading; get the information they need online easily and efficiently;
check the real-time status of all active shipments; receive interactive rate estimates; schedule pickups; download rates; generate reports; and view or print documents.

•

Interactive Voice Response (IVR).

Through our IVR telephone system, callers can trace shipments, develop rate estimates and access our fax server to retrieve shipping documents such as delivery receipts and bills of lading.

•

Electronic Data Interchange
(EDI).

For our customers who prefer to exchange information electronically, we provide a number of EDI options with flexible formats and communication alternatives. Through this system, our customers can transmit or receive
invoices, remittance advices, shipping documents, shipment status information as well as other customized information.

•

Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) System.

This automated arrival/dispatch system monitors
equipment location and freight movement throughout our system. Radio frequency identification tags are installed on all of our tractors and trailers, and readers are installed in most of our service centers. These tags and readers record arrivals
and departures, eliminating the need for manual recording and assisting in breakbulk planning.

•

Dock Yard Management (DYM) System.

The DYM system tells us the status of any shipment moving
within our system through a network of computers mounted on our freight docks and in each switching tractor. When a shipment is scanned, its status is updated throughout the


system. Handheld computers are used to monitor, update and close loads on the dock. The DYM system is currently installed in 51 of our
service centers and is scheduled to be fully installed by July 2004.

•

Handheld Computer System.

Handheld computers carried by drivers on pickup and delivery tractors provide direct communication with our
drivers and allow them to capture real-time information during pickups and deliveries, including individual pieces and weights as well as origin and destination shipping points. Timely pickup information allows for better direct loading and
efficient scheduling of linehaul power and enhances real-time information for customer’s visibility of their supply chain. We expect the use of handheld computers by our pickup and delivery drivers to be fully implemented by August
2003.

Insurance

We carry significant insurance with third party insurance
carriers. We are self-insured for bodily injury and property damage claims up to $1,750,000 per occurrence. Cargo claims are self-insured up to $100,000. We also are self-insured for workers’ compensation in certain states and have first dollar
or high deductible plans in the other states. We believe that our policy of self-insuring up to set limits, together with our safety and loss prevention programs, is an effective means of managing insurance costs. We believe that our current
insurance coverage is adequate to cover our liability risks.

Fuel Availability and Cost

Our industry depends heavily upon the availability of diesel fuel. We have not experienced difficulties in maintaining a consistent and ample supply of fuel. In periods of significant price increases, we have
implemented a fuel surcharge to offset the additional cost of fuel, which is consistent with our competitors’ practices. However, from time to time, we experience shortages in the availability of fuel at certain locations and have been forced
to incur additional expense to ensure adequate supply on a timely basis. Our management believes that our operations and financial condition are susceptible to the same fuel price increases or fuel shortages as those of our competitors. Fuel costs,
excluding fuel taxes, averaged 4.5% of revenue in 2002. In response to fuel price fluctuations, we implemented a fuel surcharge program in August 1999, which has remained in effect since that time.

Employees

As of December 31, 2002, we employed 6,895 individuals on a full-time basis in the following
categories:

As of December 31, 2002, we
employed 1,527 linehaul drivers and 1,983 pickup and delivery drivers. All of our drivers are selected based upon driving records and experience. Drivers are required to pass drug tests and have a current DOT physical and a valid commercial
driver’s license prior to employment. Drivers are also required to take drug and alcohol tests periodically, by random selection.

To help fulfill driver
needs, we offer qualified employees the opportunity to become drivers through the “Old Dominion Driver Training Program.” Since its inception in 1988, 1,234 individuals have graduated from this program, from which we have experienced an
annual turnover rate of approximately 10%. In our management’s opinion, our driver training and qualification programs have been important factors in improving our safety record. Drivers with safe driving records are rewarded with bonuses of up
to $1,000 annually. Driver safety bonuses paid during 2002 were approximately $688,000.


Our management believes that relations with our employees are excellent and there are no employees represented under a collective
bargaining agreement. We believe our non-union workforce gives us a significant advantage over unionized LTL carriers. Advantages of our workforce include flexible hours and the ability of our employees to perform multiple tasks, which we believe
result in greater productivity, customer service, efficiency and cost savings. Management’s focus on communication and the continued education, development and motivation of our employees ensures that our relationship with our employees remains
excellent.

Governmental Regulation

We are regulated by the Surface
Transportation Board, an independent agency within the United States Department of Transportation, and by various state agencies. These regulatory authorities have broad powers, generally governing matters such as authority to engage in motor
carrier operations, hours of service, certain mergers, consolidations and acquisitions, and periodic financial reporting. The trucking industry is subject to regulatory and legislative changes, such as increasingly stringent environmental and
occupational safety and health regulations or limits on vehicle weight and size, ergonomics and hours of service. These changes may affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or by influencing the demand for,
and the costs of providing services to, shippers.

We believe that the cost of compliance with applicable laws and regulations neither has materially affected
nor will materially affect our results of operations or financial condition.

Environmental Regulation

We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that focus on, among other things, the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the environment from our properties and
vehicles, fuel storage tanks and the discharge or retention of storm water. Under specific environmental laws, we could also be held responsible for any costs relating to contamination at our past or present facilities and at third-party waste
disposal sites. We do not believe that the cost of future compliance with environmental laws or regulations will have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition.

Risk Factors

In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following are some of the important
factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements:

We operate in a highly competitive industry, and our
business will suffer if we are unable to adequately address potential downward pricing pressures and other factors that may adversely affect our operations and profitability.

Numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability. These factors include the following:

•

we compete with many other transportation service providers of varying sizes, some of
which have more equipment, a broader coverage network, a wider range of services and greater capital resources than we do or have other competitive advantages;

•

some of our competitors periodically reduce their prices to gain business, especially
during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase prices or maintain significant growth in our business;

•

many customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting so-called
“core carriers” as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances we may not be selected;


•

many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress prices or result in the loss of some
business to competitors;

•

the trend towards consolidation in the ground transportation industry may create other large carriers with greater financial resources than us and other
competitive advantages relating to their size;

•

advances in technology require increased investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher prices to cover the cost of
these investments; and

•

competition from non-asset-based logistics and freight brokerage companies may adversely affect our customer relationships and prices.

If our employees were to unionize, our operating costs would increase.

None of our employees are
currently represented by a collective bargaining agreement. However, from time to time there have been efforts to organize our employees at various service centers. We have no assurance that our employees will not unionize in the future, which could
increase our operating costs and force us to alter our operating methods. This could in turn have a material adverse effect on our operating results.

Difficulty in attracting
drivers could affect our profitability.

Competition for drivers is intense within the trucking industry, and we periodically experience difficulties in
attracting and retaining qualified drivers. Our operations may be affected by a shortage of qualified drivers in the future, which could cause us to temporarily under-utilize our truck fleet, face difficulty in meeting shipper demands and increase
our compensation levels for drivers. If we encounter difficulty in attracting or retaining qualified drivers, our ability to grow our business could be adversely affected.

Insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our profitability.

We are exposed to claims related to cargo loss and damage, property
damage, personal injury and workers’ compensation. We carry significant insurance with third party insurance carriers. The cost of such insurance has risen significantly. To offset, in part, the significant increases we have experienced, we
have elected to increase our self-insured retention levels from $250,000 to $1,750,000 for personal injury and property damage. If the number or severity of claims for which we are self-insured increases, our operating results would be adversely
affected. Insurance companies require us to obtain letters of credit to collateralize our self-insured retention. If these requirements increase, our borrowing capacity could be adversely affected.

Our business is subject to general economic factors that are largely out of our control.

Economic conditions may
adversely affect our customers’ business levels, the amount of transportation services they need and their ability to pay for our services. Customers encountering adverse economic conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we may be
required to increase our reserve for bad-debt losses.

Disruptions of port activity on the West Coast in 2002 moderately reduced our shipping volume in that
region. If these disruptions recur, our results of operations may be adversely affected.

We have significant ongoing cash requirements that could limit our growth and affect
our profitability if we are unable to obtain sufficient financing.

Our business is highly capital intensive. Our capital expenditures in 2002 and 2001
were $70.0 million and $43.6 million, respectively. We expect our capital expenditures for 2003 to be approximately $95.0 to $100.0 million. We depend on operating leases, lines of credit, secured equipment financing and cash flow from operations to
finance the purchase of tractors, trailers and service centers. If we are unable in the future to raise sufficient capital or borrow sufficient funds to


make these purchases, we will be forced to limit our growth and operate our trucks for longer periods of time, which could have a material adverse effect on
our operating results.

In addition, our business has significant operating cash requirements. If our cash requirements are high or our cash flow from
operations is low during particular periods, we may need to seek additional financing, which may be costly or difficult to obtain. We have begun discussions to renew our credit line, which expires in May 2003, but we can provide no assurances that
it will be renewed on comparable terms.

We may not realize additional revenues or profits from our infrastructure investments in a timely manner or at all.

We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, substantial amounts in building, expanding and upgrading service center facilities. If we are unsuccessful in our
strategy for increasing our market share of LTL shipments, we may not realize additional revenues or profits from our infrastructure investments in a timely manner or at all.

We may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in the price and availability of fuel.

Fuel is a significant operating expense. We do not hedge
against the risk of fuel price increases. Any increase in fuel taxes or fuel prices or any change in federal or state regulations that results in such an increase, to the extent not offset by freight rate increases or fuel surcharges to customers,
or any interruption in the supply of fuel, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Historically, we have been able to offset significant increases in fuel prices through fuel surcharges to our customers, but we cannot be
certain that we will be able to do so in the future. From time to time, we experience shortages in the availability of fuel at certain locations and have been forced to incur additional expense to ensure adequate supply on a timely basis.

Limited supply and increased prices for new equipment may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow.

Investment in new equipment is a significant part of our annual capital expenditures. We may face difficulty in purchasing new equipment due to decreased supply. In addition, some manufacturers have communicated their
intention to raise the prices of new equipment. The price of our equipment may be adversely affected in the future by regulations on newly manufactured tractors and diesel engines. See “— We are subject to various environmental laws and
regulations, and costs of compliance with, liabilities under, or violations of, existing or future environmental laws or regulations could adversely affect our business.”

We operate in a highly regulated industry, and increased costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business.

We are regulated by the Surface Transportation Board, an independent agency within the United States Department of Transportation, and by various state agencies. These regulatory
authorities have broad powers, generally governing matters such as authority to engage in motor carrier operations, hours of service, certain mergers, consolidations and acquisitions, and periodic financial reporting. The trucking industry is
subject to regulatory and legislative changes, such as increasingly stringent environmental and occupational safety and health regulations or limits on vehicle weight and size, ergonomics and hours of service. These changes may affect the economics
of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or by influencing the demand for, and the costs of providing services to, shippers.

We are subject to various
environmental laws and regulations, and costs of compliance with, liabilities under, or violations of, existing or future environmental laws or regulations could adversely affect our business.

We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations regulating, among other things, the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the environment from our
properties and vehicles, fuel storage tanks and the discharge or retention of storm water. Under


specific environmental laws, we could also be held responsible for any costs relating to contamination at our past or present facilities and at third-party
waste disposal sites. Environmental laws have become and are expected to become increasingly more stringent over time, and there can be no assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental laws or liabilities arising under
such laws will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition.

The Environmental Protection Agency has issued
regulations that require progressive reductions in exhaust emissions from diesel engines through 2007. Beginning in October 2002, new diesel engines must meet these new emission limits. Some of the regulations require subsequent reductions in the
sulfur content of diesel fuel beginning in June 2006 and the introduction of emissions after-treatment devices on newly-manufactured engines and vehicles beginning with model year 2007. These regulations could result in higher prices for tractors
and diesel engines and increased fuel and maintenance costs. These adverse effects combined with the uncertainty as to the reliability of the vehicles equipped with the newly designed diesel engines and the residual values that will be realized from
the disposition of these vehicles could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business or operations.

Our results of operations may be affected by seasonal
factors and harsh weather conditions.

Our operations are subject to seasonal trends common in the trucking industry. Our operating results in the first
and fourth quarters are normally lower due to reduced demand during the winter months. Harsh weather can also adversely affect our performance by reducing demand and our ability to transport freight and increasing operating expenses.

If we are unable to retain our key employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed.

The success of our business will continue to depend upon our executive officers, and we do not have employment agreements with any of them. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel could have a material
adverse effect on us.

Our principal shareholders control a large portion of our outstanding common stock.

Earl E. Congdon and John R. Congdon and members of their families and their affiliates beneficially own 42.3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As long as the Congdon family controls a large portion of our
voting stock, they will be able to significantly influence the election of the entire Board of Directors and the outcome of all matters involving a shareholder vote. The Congdon family’s interests may differ from yours.

We may not be able to continue to successfully execute our acquisition strategy, which could cause our business and future growth prospects to suffer.

Acquisitions have been and continue to be an important part of our growth strategy. However, suitable acquisition candidates may not be available on terms and conditions we find acceptable. In
pursuing acquisitions, we compete with other companies, many of which have greater financial and other resources than we do to acquire attractive companies. Even if completed, the following are some of the risks associated with acquisitions that
could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations:

•

some of the acquired businesses may not achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flow;

•

we may assume liabilities
that were not disclosed to us or exceed our estimates;

•

we may be unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully and realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner, which could
result in substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical or financial problems;


•

acquisitions could disrupt our ongoing business, distract management, divert resources and make it difficult to maintain our current business standards, controls
and procedures;

•

we may finance future acquisitions by issuing common stock for some or all of the purchase price, which could dilute the ownership interests of our shareholders;
and

•

we may incur additional debt related to future acquisitions.

Our business may be harmed by anti-terrorism measures.

In the aftermath of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on the United States, federal, state and municipal authorities have implemented and are continuing to implement various security
measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. If new security measures disrupt or impede the timing of our deliveries, we may fail to meet the needs of our customers or may incur increased expenses to do so. We cannot
assure you that these measures will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results.

Our stock price may be volatile and could decline
substantially.

Our common stock has experienced price and volume fluctuations. Many factors may cause the market price for our common stock to decline,
including some of the risks enumerated above. In addition, if our operating results fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in any quarter or securities analysts revise their estimates downward, our stock price could
decline.

In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action
litigation. If we become involved in a securities class action litigation in the future, it could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, harming our business.

Proposed reforms of corporate governance standards for public companies will require changes in our Board of Directors.

If current corporate governance proposals of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Board of Directors of the Nasdaq Stock Market are approved and implemented, we will have to make changes to our Board of Directors and its committees
to increase their independence. We cannot assure you that a reconstituted Board of Directors will provide the expertise and leadership necessary for our continued growth or success.

ITEM 2.

PROPERTIES

We own our general office located in Thomasville, North Carolina, consisting of a two-story office building of approximately 160,000 square feet on 23.6 acres of land. We also own service center facilities in
Birmingham, Dothan and Huntsville, Alabama; Tucson, Arizona; Little Rock, Arkansas; Los Angeles and Rialto, California; South Windsor, Connecticut; Atlanta and Sylvester, Georgia; Jacksonville, Miami, Orlando and Tampa, Florida; Des Plaines,
Illinois; Kansas City, Kansas; Baltimore, Maryland; Boston, Massachusetts; Detroit, Michigan; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Tupelo, Mississippi; Syracuse, New York; Asheville, Charlotte, Fayetteville, Greensboro, Hickory, Wilmington and Wilson, North
Carolina; Cincinnati and Columbus, Ohio; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Providence, Rhode Island; Charleston, Columbia and Greenville, South Carolina; Chattanooga, Memphis, Morristown and Nashville, Tennessee; Amarillo, Dallas,
Houston and Wichita Falls, Texas; Salt Lake City, Utah; Richmond, Manassas, Martinsville and Norfolk, Virginia; and Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

We also own
non-operating properties in Jacksonville, Florida; Des Moines, Iowa; Tupelo, Mississippi; St. Louis, Missouri; Fayetteville and Hickory, North Carolina; Cincinnati, Ohio; Memphis, Morristown, and Nashville, Tennessee; and two properties in Houston,
Texas. All of these properties are held for lease except for the Des Moines property, which we are currently renovating and plan to open in the second quarter of 2003. Currently, the Tupelo property is leased until September 2004; the St. Louis
property is leased until February 2004; the Hickory is leased until June 2003; the Jacksonville property is leased month-to-month; one of the two Houston properties is leased until December 2003;


and the remaining Houston property along with the Cincinnati, Fayetteville, Memphis, Morristown, and Nashville properties are not under lease.

We lease 66 of our 117 service centers. These leased facilities are dispersed over the 38 states in which we operate in the Southeast, Northeast, Midwest, South Central and
West regions of the country. The length of these leases ranges from month-to-month to a lease that expires in July 2008. We believe that as current leases expire, we will be able either to renew them or find comparable facilities without incurring
any material negative impact on service to customers or our operating results.

We believe that all of our properties are in good repair and are capable of
providing the level of service required by current business levels and customer demands.

ITEM 3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

We are involved in various legal proceedings and
claims that have arisen in the ordinary course of our business that have not been fully adjudicated. Many of these are covered in whole or in part by insurance. Our management does not believe that these actions, when finally concluded and
determined, will have a significant adverse effect upon our financial position or results of operations.

ITEM 4.

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None.

PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Common
Stock and Dividend Information

Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol ODFL. At March 17, 2003, there were approximately
2,600 holders of our common stock, including 122 shareholders of record. We did not pay any dividends on our common stock in fiscal year 2001 or 2002. The information concerning restrictions on dividend payments required by Item 5 of Form 10-K
appears in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Item 7 of this report and Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of this report.

The following table sets forth the high and low bid prices of our common stock for the periods indicated, as reported by the Nasdaq National Market:


ITEM 6.

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA


ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Overview

We are a leading less-than-truckload multi-regional motor carrier providing one to four day service among five regions in the United States and next-day and second-day service within these regions.
Through our four branded product groups, OD-Domestic, OD-Global, OD-Expedited and OD-Technology, we offer an array of innovative products and services that provide direct service to 38 states within the Southeast, South Central, Northeast, Midwest
and West regions of the country, including 24 states within which we provide full-state coverage. In addition, through marketing and carrier relationships, we provide service to and from the remaining 12 states, as well as Canada, Mexico and the
Caribbean. Our non-union workforce operates a fleet of more than 2,700 tractors and more than 10,700 trailers.

Historically, over 90% of our revenue is
derived from transporting LTL shipments for our customers, whose demand for our services is generally tied to the health of the overall economy. The majority of direct costs associated with our business are driver and service center wages and
benefits; operating supplies and expenses; and depreciation of our equipment fleet and service center facilities.

Results of Operations

The following table sets forth, for the years indicated, expenses and other items as a percentage of revenue from operations:

2002 Compared to 2001

In 2002, we achieved double-digit revenue growth, improved our operating efficiencies and increased our earnings at a faster rate than revenue growth. We achieved these objectives,
even while the U.S. economy remained sluggish throughout the year, primarily by implementing our strategy of growing revenue in our existing areas of operation and improving asset utilization. Revenue for 2002 increased 12.8% to $566,459,000
compared to $502,239,000 in 2001. Our operating ratio, a measure of profitability calculated by dividing operating costs by revenue, improved to 93.6% from


95.1%, and net income improved to $18,462,000 for 2002, or 55.1% over net income for 2001 of $11,905,000.

Our revenue growth strategy was based upon increasing market share through improved service products, faster transit times and expanded coverage. Consistent with these objectives, we announced
full-state coverage for the state of New Hampshire in June 2002, bringing the number of states in which we provide 100% coverage to 24. While expansion plans are closely tied to the strength of the national economy, we seek to produce long-term
profitable growth by positioning ourselves to expand significantly in stronger economic times and avoiding the risk of overextending ourselves in weaker economic cycles.

Revenue growth in 2002 was driven by an 11.8% increase in the number of shipments handled coupled with a .9% increase in revenue per shipment. The improvement in revenue per shipment resulted from a 2.2% increase in
revenue per hundredweight, partially offset by a 1.3% decrease in weight per shipment. The improvement in revenue per hundredweight in 2002 was due more to a 3.0% increase in our average length of haul than to our ability to raise rates or maintain
pricing, particularly in the first half of the year. Our average length of haul increased to 903 miles in 2002 from 877 miles in 2001.

A portion of our
revenue growth in the second half of the year can be attributed to the increase in freight volume associated with the September 3, 2002 bankruptcy of Consolidated Freightways, a major national LTL carrier with annual revenues of $2.3 billion in 2001
and one of our competitors. While we experienced a 7.7% increase in shipments and a .4% decrease in revenue per shipment in the first half of the year, we gained a significant amount of momentum in the second half of the year as reflected by a 15.9%
increase in shipments and a 2.0% improvement in revenue per shipment. We believe this reduction in industry capacity, will continue to provide an opportunity for us to expand our customer base, improve market share and provide for a more favorable
pricing environment for all LTL carriers.

We also benefited from a full year of revenue and increased market share generated by the 13 additional service
centers we opened in our South Central Area on February 10, 2001, when we acquired certain assets of Carter & Sons Freightways of Carrollton, Texas. We anticipate these markets will continue to mature and be a source of growth in
2003.

As a result of our market share improvements throughout our service center network, tonnage increased 10.3% in 2002 over 2001, enabling us to obtain
certain economies of scale as we moved greater concentrations of shipments through our existing route structure and service center network. As a result, our incremental costs associated with this added volume were generally lower as reflected by the
improvement in our operating ratio.

Salaries, wages and employee benefit expenses, the largest component of our cost structure, were 60.2% of revenue in 2002
compared to 61.0% in 2001. Most of these costs were incurred as variable driver and platform labor directly associated with the movement of shipments through our network. Our driver and platform wages, excluding benefit expenses, were 32.6% of
revenue in 2002 compared to 33.0% for 2001.

The cost of providing group health benefits to our employees and their families decreased to 3.7% of revenue in
2002 from 4.3% in 2001. After experiencing a 24.5% increase in these costs in 2001, primarily due to significant increases in the cost of our prescription drug benefit, we identified cost savings opportunities that were implemented in January 2002.
These changes were instrumental in reducing the rate of increase in our group health costs in 2002.

Purchased transportation expenses, which includes lease
operator costs, purchased linehaul, local transportation services and equipment rentals, decreased to 3.3% of revenue in 2002 from 3.7% in 2001. When there are capacity restraints within our fleet or when it is economically beneficial, we purchase
transportation services for our linehaul and local pickup and delivery operations from lease operators, other motor carriers and rail providers. In 2002, lease operator expenses decreased from 1.3% of revenue to 1.2%, purchased linehaul services
increased to .4% of revenue from .2%, and purchased pickup and delivery services decreased to 1.5% from 1.9%. Equipment rentals decreased from .3% of revenue to .2% from the prior year. As we continue to expand our services and


geographic coverage, we intend to decrease our use of purchased transportation and increase the utilization of our employees and equipment.

Fuel costs, including fuel taxes, decreased to 7.3% of revenue in 2002 from 7.8% in 2001. Our general tariffs and contracts generally include provisions for a fuel
surcharge, recorded in net revenue, which have effectively offset significant diesel fuel price fluctuations. These surcharges decrease or are eliminated as fuel prices approach certain floor levels.

The adoption of Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

, on January 1, 2002 resulted in a decrease in amortization expenses of $737,000 in
2002. In addition, we also increased our asset utilization as more tonnage moved through our service center network. As a result, depreciation and amortization expense dropped to 5.5% of revenue in 2002 from 6.0% for the prior year.

Insurance and claims expense increased to 2.9% of revenue in 2002 from 2.6% in 2001. On April 1, 2002, we renewed many of our major insurance policies at significantly
higher renewal rates, even after substantially increasing our self-insured retention levels. These higher rates resulted from overall increases in insurance markets, which affect the entire transportation industry, rather than our specific loss
experience.

Long-term debt, including current maturities, decreased 5.3% to $93,223,000 at December 31, 2002 compared to $98,422,000 at year-end 2001. While
debt levels were higher throughout the first 11 months of 2002, we used $16,783,000 of the net $47,878,000 in proceeds from our underwritten public offering of stock completed in November 2002 to repay all indebtedness under our revolving line of
credit and retire a senior note. Although our debt levels were higher in 2002, our weighted average interest rate on outstanding debt was lower, resulting in a decrease in interest expense to 1.0% of revenue from 1.2% in 2001. We capitalized
$699,000 in interest charges in 2002 compared to $232,000 in 2001.

The effective tax rate for both 2002 and 2001 was 39.0%.

2001 Compared to 2000

While the trucking industry experienced lower demand for transportation
products, we continued to implement our long-term strategy to increase market share through improved service products and selective geographic expansion. On February 10, 2001, we purchased selected assets of Carter & Sons Freightways, Inc. of
Carrollton, Texas. Carter & Sons operated a regional less-that-truckload network of 23 service centers, primarily in Texas and surrounding states. As a result, we opened 13 new service centers and merged the remaining 10 service centers into our
existing operations. This acquisition allowed us to expand our full-state coverage to 23 states and enhanced our regional and inter-regional markets in the continental United States. We estimate that the acquisition generated approximately
$23,000,000 of additional revenue in 2001.

A weak national economy, compounded by the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, impacted our ability to reach
our financial performance goals for 2001. While revenue grew to $502,239,000, or 5.6% over 2000, increases in operating costs outpaced revenue growth and resulted in a 13.1% decline in net income to $11,905,000 compared to $13,696,000 in 2000.
Diluted earnings per share for the year was $1.43 compared to $1.65, a decrease of 13.3%. Our operating ratio for 2001, a measure of profitability calculated by dividing operating costs by revenue, increased to 95.1% from 94.4% in 2000.

Although total tonnage decreased .4% in 2001 when compared with 2000, LTL tonnage (shipments weighing less than 10,000 lbs.) increased 5.4%. Because LTL shipments
generally are priced at higher revenue per hundredweight, our revenues increased while tonnage decreased. Net revenue per hundredweight was $10.11 compared to $9.54 for the prior year, an increase of 6.0%.

We operated 115 service centers at year-end 2001 compared to 104 service centers in 2000. These additional service centers required us to increase our tractor and trailer fleet by 6.6% and 6.1%,
respectively. Increases in the number of service centers and the equipment fleet, combined with relatively flat tonnage between 2001 and 2000, generated excess capacity and a resulting increase in depreciation and amortization expense to 6.0% of
revenue from 5.7% for 2000.


Linehaul driver pay increased to 12.3% of revenue from 11.8% in 2000, a result of an increase in intercity miles driven without a
comparable increase in revenue per mile. Intercity miles increased 7.4% while revenue per intercity mile decreased 1.7%, an indication that linehaul density declined between the two periods.

We self-insure a significant portion of the group health benefits we provide for our employees and their families. These costs increased 24.5% or $4,269,000 over the prior year and significantly
contributed to the increase in our operating ratio. In anticipation of continued increases in health care costs, consistent with national trends, we implemented cost savings initiatives in January 2002 to offset a portion of these costs.

Fuel expense decreased to 5.1% of revenue from 5.6% in 2000. Our general tariffs and contracts generally include provisions for a fuel surcharge, recorded in net
revenue, which has effectively offset significant diesel fuel price fluctuations. We seek to apply these surcharges until prices fall below certain floor levels.

Results for 2001 also include the sale and disposition of land and structures, which included both operating and non-operating properties. Operating properties were sold for gains before taxes totaling $2,114,000 and were recorded in
“Miscellaneous expenses, net”. “Other (income) expense, net” included the sale and disposal of non-operating assets for a net gain before taxes of $772,000.

As a result of a higher average level of debt outstanding during 2001, interest expense increased to 1.2% of revenue from .9%. Outstanding debt was $98,422,000 at December 31, 2001 compared to $83,542,000 at December
31, 2000, an increase of 17.8%. This increase in debt is primarily due to increased working capital requirements and to additional financing required to fund $46,963,000 of net capital expenditures in 2001. We capitalized $232,000 in interest
charges in 2001 compared to $1,031,000 in 2000.

The tax rate for both 2001 and 2000 was 39%.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Expansion in both the size and number of service center facilities, the planned tractor
and trailer replacement cycle and revenue growth have required continued investment in real estate and equipment. In order to support these requirements, we incurred net capital expenditures of $69,105,000 during 2002. Cash flows generated
internally funded 64.2% of the capital expenditures for the year, while the remainder was funded by proceeds received through a stock offering completed in November 2002. At December 31, 2002, long-term debt including current maturities decreased to
$93,223,000 from $98,422,000 at December 31, 2001.

We estimate net capital expenditures to be approximately $95,000,000 to $100,000,000 for the year ending
December 31, 2003. Of that, approximately $48,000,000 is allocated for the purchase of tractors and trailers, $41,000,000 is allocated for the purchase or construction of larger replacement service centers or expansion of existing service centers,
$10,000,000 is allocated for investments in technology and the balance is allocated for other assets. We plan to fund these capital expenditures primarily through cash flows from operations supplemented by the remaining proceeds from our November
2002 stock offering and additional borrowings.

The table below sets forth our capital expenditures for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000,
excluding assets acquired as part of business acquisitions:


On May 31, 2000, we entered into an uncollateralized committed credit facility with Wachovia Bank, National Association (formerly First
Union National Bank), which, as amended, consists of a $20,000,000 line of credit and a $20,000,000 line to support standby letters of credit. This facility has a term of three years that expires on May 31, 2003, and we are currently negotiating the
renewal of this credit agreement. Interest on the line of credit is charged at rates that vary in a range of LIBOR plus .60% to .85%, based upon a fixed charge coverage ratio. The applicable interest rate for 2002 under this agreement was based upon
LIBOR plus .70% to .85%. A fee ranging from .20% to .25% was charged on the unused portion of the line of credit, and fees ranging between .70% to .75% were charged on outstanding standby letters of credit. Standby letters of credit are primarily
issued as collateral for self-insured retention reserves for bodily injury, property damage and workers’ compensation claims. At December 31, 2002, there were no amounts outstanding on the line of credit and $16,535,000 outstanding on the
standby letter of credit facility.

We have four individual senior note agreements outstanding totaling $76,929,000 at December 31, 2002. These notes call for
periodic principal and interest payments with maturities ranging from 2005 through 2008, of which $6,107,000 is due in 2003. Interest rates on these notes are fixed and range from 6.35% to 7.59%. Under the provisions of one of these notes, we may
issue up to $15,000,000 of additional senior notes. The applicable interest rate and payment schedules for any new notes will be determined and mutually agreed upon at the time of issuance.

Our senior notes and credit agreement limit the amount of dividends that may be paid to shareholders pursuant to certain financial ratios. At December 31, 2002, our debt instruments limited the
amount of dividends that could be paid to shareholders to $79,327,000. We did not declare or pay a dividend on our common stock in 2002 and we have no plans to declare or pay a dividend in 2003.

With the exception of the line of credit, interest rates are fixed on all of our debt instruments. Therefore, short-term exposure to fluctuations in interest rates is limited to our line of credit
facility, which had no outstanding balance at December 31, 2002. We do not currently use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. Also, we do not use fuel hedging instruments, as our tariff provisions
generally allow for fuel surcharges to be implemented in the event that fuel prices exceed stipulated levels.

In November 2002, we issued and sold in an
underwritten public offering 2,304,124 shares of common stock in exchange for net proceeds of $47,878,000. We used $13,783,000 of the total proceeds to repay all indebtedness outstanding under our committed credit facility. We used $3,000,000 to
repay a maturing senior note issued in 1996, which bears a 7.3% interest rate and matured on December 15, 2002. The balance of the proceeds will be used to fund scheduled debt payments in 2003, fund the scheduled replacement cycle of our existing
equipment, which consists primarily of tractors and trailers, and to fund our growth strategy, which includes the purchase and expansion of service centers.

A
significant decrease in demand for our services could limit our ability to generate cash flow and affect profitability. Most of our debt agreements have covenants that require stated levels of financial performance, which if not achieved could cause
acceleration of the payment schedules. We do not anticipate a significant decline in business levels or financial performance, and we believe the combination of our existing credit facilities along with our additional borrowing capacity will be
sufficient to meet seasonal and long-term capital needs.

The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations and commercial commitments as
of December 31, 2002:


(1)

Contractual obligations include long-term debt consisting primarily of senior notes totaling $76,929,000; capital lease obligations for tractors, trailers and computer equipment; and off-balance sheet
operating leases primarily consisting of real estate leases.

(2)

Other commercial commitments consist of standby letters of credit used as collateral for self-insured retention of insurance claims.

Critical Accounting Policies

In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we apply the following critical accounting policies that affect
judgments and estimates of amounts recorded in certain assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses:

Revenue and Expense Recognition

– Operating revenue is recognized on a percentage of completion method based on average transit time. Expenses associated with operating revenue are recognized when incurred.

Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts

– We maintain an allowance for uncollectible accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required
payments. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required.

Claims and Insurance Accruals

– Claims and insurance accruals reflect the estimated ultimate total cost of claims, including amounts for claims incurred but not reported, for cargo
loss and damage, bodily injury and property damage, workers’ compensation, long-term disability and group health not covered by insurance. These costs are charged to insurance and claims expense except for workers’ compensation, long-term
disability and group health, which are charged to employee benefits expense.

From April 1, 2001 through March 31, 2002, we were self-insured for bodily injury
and property damage claims up to $250,000 per occurrence. Cargo claims were self-insured up to $100,000; however, after the first two losses exceeded $100,000 in the policy year, the retention under our excess insurance policy was reduced to $50,000
per occurrence. We were also self-insured for workers’ compensation in certain states and had first dollar or high deductible plans in the remaining states.

Due to recent losses incurred by the insurance industry, rates offered by insurers for many types of coverage have significantly increased over the prior-year renewal rates. As a result, we determined that additional risk in the form of
higher retention levels was warranted, and, effective April 1, 2002, self-insured retention for bodily injury and property damage increased to $1,750,000 per claim while the self-insured retention for cargo claims increased to $100,000 per claim.
This combination of increased premiums and additional reserve requirements for self-insurance caused insurance expense to increase to 2.9% of operating revenue in 2003 from 2.6% in the previous year.

In establishing accruals for claims and insurance expenses, we evaluate and monitor each claim individually, and we use factors such as historical experience, known trends and third-party estimates
to determine the appropriate reserves for potential liability. We believe the assumptions and methods used to estimate these liabilities are reasonable; however, changes in the severity of previously reported claims, significant changes in the
medical costs and legislative changes affecting the administration of our plans could significantly impact the determination of appropriate reserves in future periods.

Goodwill

– The excess cost over net assets acquired in connection with acquisitions is recorded in “Other Assets”. We adopted Statements of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

(“SFAS 142”) on January 1, 2002 and completed the required analyses of the


fair value of our single reporting unit compared to the carrying value as of January 1, 2002 and October 1, 2002. Based on those analyses, we concluded that
there was no impairment of these assets, which totaled $10,656,000 at year-end 2002.

Prior to the adoption of SFAS 142, these intangible assets were amortized
using a straight-line method over their estimated useful lives of three to 25 years. At December 31, 2001, goodwill totaled $10,663,000, which included $1,667,000 of accumulated amortization.

Property and Equipment

– Property and equipment are recorded at cost and depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated economic lives. Management
uses historical experience, certain assumptions and estimates in determining the economic life of each asset. Periodically, we review property and equipment for impairment to include changes in operational and market conditions, and we adjust the
carrying value and economic life of any impaired asset as appropriate. Currently, estimated economic lives for structures are five to 30 years; revenue equipment is two to 12 years; other equipment is two to 10 years; and leasehold improvements are
the lesser of 10 years or the life of the lease. The use of different assumptions, estimates or significant changes in the resale market for our equipment could result in material changes in the carrying value of our assets.

Inflation

Most of our expenses are affected by inflation, which generally results in increased
operating costs. In response to fluctuations in the cost of petroleum products, particularly diesel fuel, we have implemented a fuel surcharge in our tariffs and contractual agreements. The fuel surcharge is designed to offset the cost of fuel above
a base price and increases as fuel prices escalate over the base. For 2002, the net effect of inflation on our results of operations was minimal.

Related Party
Transactions

Greensboro, NC Service Center Purchase

On October 15,
2002, we purchased a 116-door service center facility and shop located in Greensboro, N.C. for $6,000,000 from an irrevocable trust created for the benefit of the families of Earl E. Congdon, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board of
Directors, and John R. Congdon, Vice Chairman of our Board of Directors. Prior to October 15, 2002, this property was leased to us with payments totaling $285,000, $380,000 and $377,000 for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

Transactions with Old Dominion Truck Leasing, Inc.

Old Dominion Truck Leasing, Inc.
(“Leasing”), a North Carolina corporation whose voting stock is owned by the Earl E. Congdon Intangibles Trust, David S. Congdon, Trustee, the John R. Congdon Revocable Trust and members of Earl E. Congdon’s and John R. Congdon’s
families, is engaged in the business of purchasing and leasing tractors, trailers and other vehicles. John R. Congdon is Chairman of the Board, and Earl E. Congdon is Vice Chairman of the Board of Leasing. Since 1986, Leasing and we have combined
our requirements for the purchase of tractors, trailers, equipment, parts, tires and fuel. We believe that, by combining our requirements, we are often able to obtain pricing discounts because of the increased level of purchasing. While this is
beneficial to us, our management believes that the termination of this relationship would not have a material adverse impact on our financial results.

For the
years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, we charged Leasing $14,000, $11,000 and $15,000, respectively, for vehicle repair, maintenance and other services, which we provide to Leasing at cost. In addition, we charged Leasing $12,000 annually in
2002, 2001 and 2000, for rental of a vehicle maintenance facility located in Chesapeake, Virginia.

We purchased $297,000, $287,000 and $244,000 of maintenance
and other services from Leasing in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. We believe that the prices we pay for such services are lower than would be charged by unaffiliated third parties for the same quality of work, and we intend to continue to
purchase maintenance and other services from Leasing, provided that Leasing’s prices continue to be favorable to us. In addition, Leasing has a right of first refusal for our future tractor and trailer leases, exercisable on the same terms
offered to us by third parties. We did not lease any


equipment from Leasing in 2002 but we paid Leasing $8,000 and $4,000 for short-term tractor rentals in 2001 and 2000, respectively.

On January 4, 2002, we purchased 91 1997 model pickup and delivery trailers from Leasing for an aggregate purchase price of $774,000.

Transactions with E & J Enterprises

On July 29, 2002, our Board of Directors approved the purchase of 163
trailers for $1,200 each, or a total of $195,600, from E & J Enterprises, a Virginia general partnership of which Earl E. Congdon, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board of Directors, and John R. Congdon, Vice Chairman of our
Board of Directors, are each 50% owners. These trailers, which are approximately 20 years old, had been leased to us by E & J Enterprises since 1988 pursuant to a term lease, which converted to a month-to-month lease in 1999. We will continue to
lease these trailers for $205 per month under the provisions of the month-to-month lease until we close this purchase. At year-end 2002, we had completed the purchase of 50 of these trailers for a purchase price of $60,000.

Also on July 29, 2002, our Board of Directors approved the leasing from E & J of 150 pickup and delivery trailers on a month-to-month basis for $204 per month for each trailer.
The total amount paid for trailer leases under both the lease agreements was $387,000, $401,000 and $401,000 for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

Audit Committee
Approval

The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors reviewed and approved all related party transactions.

Forward-Looking Information

Forward-looking statements in this report, including, without limitation, statements
relating to future events or our future financial performance, appear in the preceding Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in other written and oral statements made by or on behalf of us,
including, without limitation, statements relating to our goals, strategies, expectations, competitive environment, regulation and availability of resources. Such forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events and results to be materially different from those expressed or implied
herein, including, but not limited to, the risk factors detailed in this Annual Report and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission during the past 12 months.

ITEM 7A.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The information required by Item 7A of Form 10-K appears in Item 7 of this report under the heading “Liquidity and Capital Resources”.


ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

OLD DOMINION FREIGHT LINE, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE
SHEETS

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these financial statements.


OLD DOMINION FREIGHT LINE, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

The accompanying notes are
an integral part of these financial statements.


OLD DOMINION FREIGHT LINE, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’
EQUITY

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these financial statements.


OLD DOMINION FREIGHT LINE, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

Cash paid for interest was approximately $6,419,000,
$5,968,000 and $5,553,000 for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Interest of $699,000, $232,000 and $1,031,000 was capitalized during 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.


NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1.
Significant Accounting Policies

Business

We are a
less-than-truckload multi-regional motor carrier providing one to four day service among five regions in the United States and next-day and second-day service within these regions. We provide direct service to 38 states within the Southeast, South
Central, Northeast, Midwest and West regions of the country, including 24 states in which we provide full-state coverage. Through marketing and carrier relationships, we also provide service to and from the remaining 12 states, as well as Canada,
Mexico and the Caribbean.

Basis of Consolidation

The consolidated
financial statements include the accounts of the Company and our subsidiary. All significant intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.

Segments

We operate one business segment, within the continental United States, and have no customer that exceeds 10% of our operating
revenue.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from
these estimates.

Revenue and Expense Recognition

Operating revenue is
recognized on a percentage of completion method based on average transit time. Expenses associated with operating revenue are recognized when incurred.

Allowance for
Uncollectible Accounts

We maintain an allowance for uncollectible accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make
required payments. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required.

Credit Risk

Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist
principally of customer receivables. Credit risk is generally diversified due to the large number of entities comprising our customer base and their dispersion across many different industries and geographic regions.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

We consider cash on hand and deposits in banks along with
certificates of deposit and short-term marketable securities with original maturities of three months or less as cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statements of cash flows.

Tires on Equipment

The cost of tires on equipment is amortized over the estimated tire life of 18 to 24
months.

Property and Equipment

Property and equipment is stated at cost.
Major additions and improvements are capitalized, while maintenance and repairs that do not improve or extend the lives of the respective assets are charged to expense as incurred.


Depreciation is provided by the straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives:

Depreciation expense was $31,075,000, $29,163,000 and $26,615,000 for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

Goodwill

The excess cost over net assets acquired in connection with acquisitions is recorded in “Other Assets”. As discussed in this note below, we adopted Statements of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

(“SFAS 142”) on January 1, 2002. Under SFAS No. 142, goodwill is no longer amortized over its economic life, but is
tested periodically for impairment.

Prior to the adoption of SFAS 142, these intangible assets were amortized using a straight-line method over their
estimated useful lives of three to 25 years. At December 31, 2001, goodwill totaled $10,663,000, which included $1,667,000 of accumulated amortization.

Long-Lived
Assets

We periodically assess the realizable value of our long-lived assets and evaluate such assets for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.

Claims and Insurance Accruals

We are self-insured for bodily injury and property damage claims up to $1,750,000 per occurrence and cargo claims are self-insured up to $100,000 per occurrence. We are also self-insured for
workers’ compensation in certain states and, we have first dollar or high deductible plans in the other states.

Claims and insurance accruals reflect the
estimated ultimate total cost of claims, including amounts for claims incurred but not reported, for cargo loss and damage, bodily injury and property damage, workers’ compensation, long-term disability and group health not covered by
insurance. These costs are charged to insurance and claims expense except for workers’ compensation, long-term disability and group health, which are charged to employee benefits expense.

Advertising

The costs of advertising our products are generally expensed as incurred. Advertising costs charged
to expense amounted to $1,906,000, $1,555,000, and $1,364,000 for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

Earnings Per Share

Net income per common share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. The effect of dilutive employee stock options in Note 7 is immaterial to the
calculation of diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000.

Fair Values of Financial Instruments

At December 31, 2002 and 2001, the carrying values of financial instruments such as cash and cash equivalents, customer and other receivables, trade payables and long-term debt
approximated their fair values. Fair value is determined based on expected future cash flows, discounted at market interest rates, and other appropriate valuation methodologies.

Stock Based Compensation

Stock based compensation expense for our employee stock option plan is recognized under the provisions of Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees

(“APB 25”), and related interpretations. Consistent with APB 25, the exercise price of our employee


stock options equals the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant; therefore, no compensation expense is recognized. Pro forma information
regarding net income and earnings per share required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,

is not significant.

Adoption of SFAS No. 142,

“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”

We adopted SFAS No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

, effective January 1, 2002. Under this standard, goodwill is no longer amortized, but
instead is subject to an impairment test both at the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption and on an annual measurement date thereafter. The initial step in testing for goodwill impairment is to compare the fair value of each reporting unit with
its book value. To the extent the fair value is less than book value, which would indicate the potential that impairment of goodwill exists, a second test is required to determine the amount of impairment. With the assistance of an outside
consultant, we completed the required analysis of the fair value of our single reporting unit compared to book value as of January 1, 2002 and concluded that there was no impairment of intangible assets with a carrying value of $10,663,000 included
in “Other Assets” on that date. We also completed a similar analysis of our intangible assets as of October 1, 2002, the date we chose as our annual measurement date, and determined that there was no impairment of intangible assets with a
carrying value of $10,658,000 on that date.

The following table adjusts the reported net income and earnings per share for the years 2001 and 2000 to exclude
the amortization of goodwill:

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In October 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144,

Accounting for the Impairment or
Disposal of Long-Lived Assets

(“SFAS No. 144”). This Statement establishes a single accounting model for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets. As required by SFAS No. 144, we adopted this new accounting
standard on January 1, 2002. We have no indicators of impairment on our long-lived assets and therefore the adoption of SFAS No. 144 did not have a material effect on our financial statements.

In July 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 146,

Obligations Associated with Disposal
Activities

(“SFAS 146”), which is effective for disposal activities initiated after December 31, 2002. SFAS 146 requires that a liability for a disposal obligation should be recognized and measured at its fair value
when it is incurred. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our financial statements.

Reclassifications

Certain amounts in prior years have been reclassified to conform with the current period presentation.


Note 2.

Long-term Debt

Long-term debt consisted of the following:

Senior notes consist of four individual debt
agreements with interest rates ranging from 6.35% to 7.59%. The notes require periodic principal payments with maturities ranging from 2005 to 2008.

On May
31, 2000, we entered into an uncollateralized committed credit facility with Wachovia Bank, National Association (formerly First Union National Bank), which, as amended, consists of a $20,000,000 line of credit and a $20,000,000 line to support
standby letters of credit. This facility has a term of three years that expires on May 31, 2003, and we are currently negotiating the renewal of our credit agreement. Interest on the line of credit is charged at rates that vary based upon a certain
financial performance ratio. The applicable interest rate for 2002 under this agreement was based upon LIBOR plus .70% to .85%. A fee ranging from .20% to .25% was charged on the unused portion of the line of credit, and fees ranging between .70% to
..75% were charged on outstanding standby letters of credit. At December 31, 2002, there were no amounts outstanding on the line of credit facility and there were $16,535,000 outstanding on the standby letter of credit facility.

Our senior notes and credit agreement limit the amount of dividends that may be paid to shareholders pursuant to certain financial ratios. At December 31, 2002, our debt
instruments limited the amount of dividends that could be paid to shareholders to $79,327,000. We did not declare or pay a dividend on our common stock in 2002, and we have no plans to declare or pay a dividend in 2003.

Equipment and capitalized lease obligations are collateralized by property and equipment with a net book value book value of $15,359,000 at December 31, 2002.

As of December 31, 2002, aggregate maturities of long-term debt are as follows:


Note 3.

Leases

We lease certain revenue equipment and information systems under capital leases. These assets are included in property and equipment as follows:

Future minimum annual lease payments as of December
31, 2002, are as follows:

Aggregate expense under operating leases
approximated $10,971,000, $11,680,000 and $12,061,000 for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

Note 4.

Income
Taxes

The components of the provision for income taxes are as follows:

Net cash paid for income taxes during 2002, 2001 and
2000 aggregated $13,480,000, $4,340,000 and $10,666,000, respectively.


The following is a reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rates with our effective income tax rates for 2002, 2001 and
2000:

Deferred tax assets and liabilities consist of the
following:

Note 5. Related Party Transactions

Greensboro, NC Service Center Purchase

On October 15, 2002, we purchased a 116-door service
center facility and shop located in Greensboro, N.C. for $6,000,000 from an irrevocable trust created for the benefit of the families of Earl E. Congdon, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board of Directors, and John R. Congdon, Vice
Chairman of our Board of Directors. Prior to October 15, 2002, this property was leased to us with payments totaling $285,000, $380,000 and $377,000 for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

Transactions with Old Dominion Truck Leasing, Inc.

Old Dominion Truck Leasing, Inc. (“Leasing”), a
North Carolina corporation whose voting stock is owned by the Earl E. Congdon Intangibles Trust, David S. Congdon, Trustee, the John R. Congdon Revocable Trust and members of Earl E. Congdon’s and John R. Congdon’s families, is engaged in
the business of purchasing and leasing tractors, trailers and other vehicles. John R. Congdon is Chairman of the Board, and Earl E. Congdon is Vice Chairman of the Board of Leasing. Since 1986, Leasing and we have combined our requirements for the
purchase of tractors, trailers, equipment, parts, tires and fuel. We believe that, by combining our requirements, we are often able to obtain pricing discounts because of the increased level of purchasing. While this is beneficial to us, our
management believes that the termination of this relationship would not have a material adverse impact on our financial results.

For the years ended December
31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, we charged Leasing $14,000, $11,000 and $15,000, respectively, for vehicle repair, maintenance and other services, which we provide to Leasing at cost. In addition, we charged Leasing $12,000 annually in 2002, 2001 and 2000,
for rental of a vehicle maintenance facility located in Chesapeake, Virginia.


We purchased $297,000, $287,000 and $244,000 of maintenance and other services from Leasing in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. We
believe that the prices we pay for such services are lower than would be charged by unaffiliated third parties for the same quality of work, and we intend to continue to purchase maintenance and other services from Leasing, provided that
Leasing’s prices continue to be favorable to us. In addition, Leasing has a right of first refusal for our future tractor and trailer leases, exercisable on the same terms offered to us by third parties. We did not lease any equipment from
Leasing in 2002, but we paid Leasing $8,000 and $4,000 for short-term tractor rentals in 2001 and 2000, respectively.

On January 4, 2002, we purchased 91 1997
model pickup and delivery trailers from Leasing for an aggregate purchase price of $774,000.

Transactions with E & J Enterprises

On July 29, 2002, our Board of Directors approved the purchase of 163 trailers for $1,200 each, or a total of $195,600, from E & J Enterprises, a Virginia general partnership
of which Earl E. Congdon, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board of Directors, and John R. Congdon, Vice Chairman of our Board of Directors, are each 50% owners. These trailers, which are approximately 20 years old, had been leased to
us by E & J Enterprises since 1988 pursuant to a term lease, which converted to a month-to-month lease in 1999. We will continue to lease these trailers for $205 per month under the provisions of the month-to-month lease until we close this
purchase. At year-end 2002, we had completed the purchase of 50 of these trailers for a purchase price of $60,000.

Also on July 29, 2002, our Board of
Directors approved the leasing from E & J of 150 pickup and delivery trailers on a month-to-month basis for $204 per month for each trailer. The total amount paid for trailer leases under both the lease agreements was $387,000, $401,000 and
$401,000 for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

Note 6. Employee Retirement Plan Contribution Expense

Substantially all employees meeting certain service requirements are eligible to participate in our 401(k) employee retirement plan. Employee contributions are limited to a percentage of their compensation, as defined
in the plan. We make contributions based upon the greater of a percentage of employee contributions or ten percent of net income. Company contributions for 2002, 2001 and 2000 were $1,846,000, $1,253,000 and $1,370,000, respectively.

Note 7. Stock Options

In 1991, our Board of Directors and shareholders adopted the 1991
Employee Stock Option Plan (“Plan”) under which 250,000 shares of common stock are reserved for stock option grants to certain officers and employees. Options granted under the Plan may be incentive stock options or nonqualified stock
options. The Plan provides that options may be granted at prices not less than the fair market value on the date the option is granted, which means the closing price of a share of common stock as reported on the Nasdaq National Market on such day or
the preceding day if the shares are not traded in the Nasdaq system on the grant day. On the date the option is granted, the Stock Option Plan Committee of the Board of Directors determines the period during which the option may be exercised;
however, under the terms of the Plan, the option period cannot extend more than ten years from the date on which the option is granted. Options may not be granted under the Plan after August 31, 2001. A summary of the changes in the number of common
shares under option during the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 follows:


At December 31, 2002 there were 68,400 options exercisable. The
weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding options is 1.6 years.

Note 8. Acquisitions of Business Assets

On February 10, 2001, we purchased selected assets, consisting primarily of revenue equipment and real estate, from Carter & Sons Freightway, Inc. of Carrollton, Texas. This acquisition consisted
of cash outlays and the present value of assumed equipment leases totaling $10,055,000.

This acquisition was accounted for as a purchase transaction, and the
results of operations were included in our financial statements beginning on the date the acquisition was consummated. The aggregate pro forma impact on our revenue from operations, operating income and earnings per share is not material to the
consolidated results of operations.

Note 9. Commitments and Contingencies

We
are involved in various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen in the ordinary course of our business that have not been fully adjudicated. Many of these are covered in whole or in part by insurance. Our management does not believe that these
actions, when finally concluded and determined, will have a significant adverse effect upon our financial position or results of operations.

Note 10. Quarterly Financial
Information (Unaudited)


Report of Independent Auditors

The Board of Directors and
Shareholders

Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. and subsidiary
as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2002. Our audits also include the financial
statement schedule of Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. and subsidiary listed in Item 15(a). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and schedules based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States. Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Old Dominion
Freight Line, Inc. and subsidiary as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2002, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States. Also, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth
therein.

As discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142,

Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets

.

/s/ E

RNST

&

Y

OUNG

L

LP

Greensboro, North Carolina

January 27, 2003

ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES

None.

PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information concerning the Company’s directors and executive officers required by Item 10 of Form 10-K is incorporated by reference to the Company’s proxy statement
for the 2003 Annual Meeting of its Shareholders, reference to which is hereby made, and the information there is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by Item 11 of Form 10-K appears in the Company’s proxy statement for the 2003 Annual Meeting of its Shareholders, reference to which is hereby made, and the information there is incorporated herein by
reference.


ITEM 12.

SECURITY
OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information required by Item 12 of Form 10-K appears in the Company’s proxy statement for
the 2003 Annual Meeting of its Shareholders, reference to which is hereby made, and the information there is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information required by Item 13 of Form 10-K appears in the Company’s proxy statement for the 2003 Annual Meeting of its Shareholders, reference to which is hereby made, and the information there is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

a)

Evaluation of disclosure controls and
procedures

Within 90 days prior to the date of this report, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer evaluated the effectiveness of our
disclosure controls and procedures in accordance with Rule 13a-14 under the Exchange Act. Based on their evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures enable us to
record, process, summarize and report in a timely manner the information that we are required to disclose in our Exchange Act reports.

b)

Changes in internal controls

There were no significant changes in our internal
controls or in other factors that could significantly affect these controls subsequent to the date of the evaluation referred to in (a) above.

PART
IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL
STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)(1)

Financial Statements.

The following consolidated financial statements of Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. are included in Item 8:

Consolidated Balance Sheets - December 31, 2002, and December 31, 2001

Consolidated Statements of
Operations - Years ended December 31, 2002, December 31, 2001, and December 31, 2000

Consolidated Statements of Changes in
Shareholders’ Equity - Years ended December 31, 2002, December 31, 2001, and December 31, 2000

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
- - Years ended December 31, 2002, December 31, 2001, and December 31, 2000

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

(a)(2)

Financial Statement Schedules.

The following financial statement schedule of Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc., is included in response to Item 15(d):

Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

All other schedules for which provision is made in the
applicable accounting regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the instructions or are inapplicable and, therefore, have been omitted.


The documents listed below are filed under subsection (d) of Item 15:

(a)(3)

Exhibits Filed. The exhibits listed in the accompanying Exhibit Index are filed as a part of this report.

(b)

Reports on Form 8-K.

On November 25, 2002, we filed an 8-K
pursuant to Item 5 to disclose a recalculation of our earnings guidance as previously reported on October 17, 2002, solely in order to give effect to the issuance of additional shares pursuant to our public offering of common stock.

(c)

Exhibits. See Exhibit Index.

(d)

Financial Statement Schedules.

SCHEDULE
II

Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc.

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements
of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

OLD DOMINION FREIGHT LINE, INC.

Pursuant to the requirements of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:


CERTIFICATION

I, Earl E. Congdon, certify that:

1.

I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc.;

2.

Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual report;

3.

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this annual
report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4.

The registrant’s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and we have:

a)

designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this annual report is being prepared;

b)

evaluated the effectiveness of the
registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

c)

presented in this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our evaluation as of the
Evaluation Date;

5.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have disclosed,
based on our most recent evaluation, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

a)

all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal controls which could adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial data and have identified for the registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal controls; and

b)

any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant’s internal controls; and

6.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have indicated in this annual report whether or
not there were significant changes in internal controls or in other factors that could significantly affect internal controls subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard to significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses.


CERTIFICATION

I, J. Wes Frye, certify that:

1.

I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc.;

2.

Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual report;

3.

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this annual
report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4.

The registrant’s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and we have:

a)

designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this annual report is being prepared;

b)

evaluated the effectiveness of the
registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

c)

presented in this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our evaluation as of the
Evaluation Date;

5.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have disclosed,
based on our most recent evaluation, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

a)

all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal controls which could adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial data and have identified for the registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal controls; and

b)

any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant’s internal controls; and

6.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have indicated in this annual report whether or
not there were significant changes in internal controls or in other factors that could significantly affect internal controls subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard to significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses.


EXHIBIT INDEX

TO ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

OLD DOMINION FREIGHT LINE,
INC.

FOR YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002


______________

(a)

Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of the same number contained in the Company’s registration statement on
Form S-1 filed under the Securities Act of 1933 (SEC File: 33-42631)

(b)

Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of the same number contained in the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1995

(c)

Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of the same number contained in the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995

(d)

Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of the same number contained in the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1996

(e)

Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of the same number contained in the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996

(f)

Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of the same number contained in the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997

(g)

Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of the same number
contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997

(h)

Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of the same number contained in the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1999

(i)

Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of
the same number contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999

(j)

Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of the same number contained in the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 2000

(k)

Incorporated by
reference to the exhibit of the same number contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000

(l)

Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of the same number contained in the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 2001

(m)

Incorporated by
reference to the exhibit of the same number contained in the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2002

(n)

Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of the same number contained in the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 30, 2002

*

Denotes an executive compensation plan or agreement

41