ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

MGM Resorts International is referred to as the "Company," "MGM Resorts," or the "Registrant," and together
with its subsidiaries may also be referred to as "we," "us" or "our." MGM China Holdings Limited together with its subsidiaries is referred to as "MGM China."

Overview

Vision, Mission and Strategies

MGM Resorts International is one of the world's leading global hospitality companies, operating a world-renowned portfolio of
destination resort brands. We believe the resorts we own, manage and invest in are among the world's finest casino resorts. MGM Resorts International is a Delaware corporation that acts largely as a
holding company; our operations are conducted through our wholly owned subsidiaries.

Our
vision is to be the recognized global leader in entertainment and hospitality. To achieve that vision, we:

•Embrace innovation and diversity to inspire excellence;•Reward our employees, invest in our communities and enrich our stakeholders;
and•Engage, entertain and exceed the expectations of our guests worldwide.

Our
mission is to be the leader in entertainment and hospitality through a diverse collection of extraordinary people, distinctive brands and best-in-class
destinations. We believe the following key elements of our strategic plan will allow us to achieve our mission:

•Owning, developing, operating and strategically investing in a strong portfolio of resorts;•Operating our resorts in a manner that
emphasizes the delivery of excellent customer service while maximizing revenue and
profit;•Increasing brand awareness and customer loyalty through M life; and•Leveraging our strong brands and taking
advantage of significant management experience and expertise.

Reportable Segments

We have two reportable segments that are based on the regions in which we operate: wholly owned domestic resorts and MGM China. We
currently operate 15 wholly owned resorts in the United States. MGM China's operations consist of the MGM Macau resort and casino. We have additional business activities including our investments in
unconsolidated affiliates, our MGM Hospitality operations, and certain other corporate and management operations. The CityCenter joint venture ("CityCenter") is our most significant unconsolidated
affiliate, which we also manage for a fee. See "Resort Operations" below as well as the segment footnote in the accompanying financial statements for additional information related to our segments.

Resort Operations

General

Our casino resorts offer gaming, hotel, convention, dining, entertainment, retail and other resort amenities. Most of our revenue is
essentially cash-based, through customers wagering with cash or paying for non-gaming services with cash or credit cards. We rely heavily on the ability of our resorts to
generate operating cash flow to repay debt financings, fund capital expenditures and provide excess cash flow for future development. We have historically made significant investments in our resorts
through the addition of new restaurants, entertainment, nightlife offerings as well as other new features and amenities. In








addition,
we have made regular capital investments to maintain the quality of our hotel rooms and public spaces.

We
believe we operate the highest quality resorts in each of the markets in which we operate. As discussed above, ensuring our resorts are the premier resorts in their respective markets
requires capital investments to maintain the best possible experiences for our guests. The quality of our resorts and amenities can be measured by our success in winning numerous awards, both domestic
and globally, such as several Four and Five Diamond designations from the American Automobile Association, Four and Five Star designations from Mobil Travel and Forbes Travel Guide Four Star awards.

Our
results of operations do not tend to be seasonal in nature, though a variety of factors may affect the results of any interim period, including the timing of major conventions, the
amount and timing of marketing and special events for our high-end gaming customers, and the level of play during major holidays, including New Year and Chinese New Year. While our results
do not depend on key individual customers, a significant portion of our operating income is generated from high-end gaming customers, which can cause variability in our results. In
addition, our success in marketing to customer groups such as convention customers and the financial health of customer segments such as business travelers or high-end gaming customers
from a country or region can affect our results.

All
of our casino resorts operate 24 hours a day, every day of the year, with the exception of Grand Victoria which operates 22 hours a day, every day of the year. At our
wholly owned domestic resorts, our primary casino and hotel operations are owned and managed by us. Other resort amenities may be owned and operated by us, owned by us but managed by third parties for
a fee, or leased to third parties. We generally have an operating philosophy that favors ownership and management of
amenities, since guests have direct contact with staff in these areas and we prefer to control all aspects of the guest experience; however, we do lease space to retail and food and beverage
operators, particularly for branding opportunities and when capital investment by us is not desirable or feasible. We also operate many managed outlets, utilizing third-party management for specific
expertise in operations of restaurants and nightclubs.








Our Operating Resorts

We have provided certain information below about our resorts as of December 31, 2012. Except as otherwise indicated, we wholly
own and operate the resorts shown below.

Name and LocationNumber ofGuestroomsand SuitesApproximateCasino SquareFootage (1)Slots (2)GamingTables (3)Las Vegas Strip, NevadaCityCenter - 50% owned (4)5,744150,0001,942129Bellagio3,933156,0002,111146MGM Grand Las Vegas (5)6,017153,0001,919145Mandalay Bay4,752160,0001,78282The Mirage3,044100,0001,75293Luxor4,400116,0001,31362Excalibur3,98193,0001,53761New York-New York2,02490,0001,31769Monte Carlo2,99287,0001,35757Circus Circus Las Vegas3,767107,0001,39846Subtotal40,6541,212,00016,428890Other NevadaCircus Circus Reno (Reno)1,57156,00090435Silver Legacy - 50% owned (Reno) (6)1,71187,0001,40563Gold Strike (Jean)40029,0004377Railroad Pass (Henderson)12011,0003246Other OperationsMGM Macau - 51% owned (Macau S.A.R.)582282,0001,272427MGM Grand Detroit (Detroit, Michigan) (7)400127,0003,95795Beau Rivage (Biloxi, Mississippi)1,74079,0002,04682Gold Strike (Tunica, Mississippi)1,13343,0001,29055Grand Victoria - 50% owned (Elgin, Illinois) (6)-30,0001,16122Grand Total48,3111,956,00029,2241,682

(1)Casino
square footage is approximate and includes the gaming floor, race and sports, high limit areas and casino specific walkways, and excludes casino cage
and other nongaming space within the casino area.(2)Includes
slot machines, video poker machines and other electronic gaming devices.(3)Includes
blackjack ("21"), baccarat, craps, roulette and other table games; does not include poker.(4)Includes
Aria with 4,004 rooms and Mandarin Oriental Las Vegas with 392 rooms. Vdara includes 1,495 condo-hotel units. As of December 31, 2012, 147
units have been sold and closed, of which 85 units were contracted to participate in a hotel rental program managed by CityCenter. The remaining 1,348 unsold units are currently being utilized as
company-owned hotel rooms.(5)Includes
1,021 rooms available for rent at The Signature at MGM Grand.(6)The
other 50% of Silver Legacy is owned by Eldorado LLC. The other 50% of Grand Victoria is owned by an affiliate of Hyatt Gaming, who also operates
that resort.(7)Our
local partners have an ownership interest of approximately 3% of MGM Grand Detroit.

More detailed information about each of our operating resorts can be found in Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, which Exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.

Wholly owned domestic resorts.Over half of the net revenue from our wholly owned domestic resorts is derived from non-gaming operations,
including hotel, food and beverage, entertainment and other non-gaming amenities. Our significant convention and meeting facilities allow us to maximize hotel occupancy and customer
volumes during off-peak times such as mid-week or during traditionally slower








leisure
travel periods, which also leads to better labor utilization. Our operating results are highly dependent on the volume of customers at our resorts, which in turn affects the price we can
charge for our hotel rooms and other amenities. We market to different customer segments to manage our hotel occupancy, such as targeting large conventions to increase mid-week occupancy.

Our
casino operations feature a variety of slots, table games, and race & sports book wagering. In addition, we offer our premium players access to high-limit rooms
and lounge experiences where players may enjoy an upscale atmosphere.

MGM China.On June 3, 2011, we and Ms. Ho, Pansy Catilina Chiu King ("Ms. Pansy Ho") completed a reorganization of the capital
structure of MGM China pursuant to which we acquired an additional 1% interest in MGM China and thereby became the owner of 51% of MGM China. Through the acquisition of the additional 1% interest of
MGM China, we obtained a controlling interest and were required to consolidate MGM China as of June 3, 2011. Prior to the transaction, we held a 50% interest in MGM Grand Paradise, S.A.
("MGM Grand Paradise"), which was accounted for under the equity
method. We believe our ownership interest in MGM China plays an important role in extending our reach internationally and will foster future growth and profitability. Asia is the fastest-growing
gaming market in the world and Macau is the world's largest gaming destination in terms of revenue and has continued to grow over the past few years despite the global economic downturn.

Our
current MGM China operations relate primarily to the MGM Macau resort and casino ("MGM Macau"). Revenues at MGM Macau are generated primarily from gaming operations made up of two
distinct market segments: main floor and high-end ("VIP"). MGM Macau main floor operations consist of both table games and slot machines on the main gaming floors for the public, which
usually consists of walk-in and day trip visitors. VIP players play mostly in dedicated VIP rooms or designated gaming areas. VIP customers can be further divided into customers sourced by
in-house VIP programs and those sourced through gaming promoters. A significant portion of our VIP volume is generated through gaming promoters, also known as junket operators, which
introduce VIP gaming players to MGM Macau, assist these customers with travel arrangements, and extend gaming credit to these players.

Gaming
operations at MGM Macau are conducted under a gaming subconcession held by MGM Grand Paradise. The Macau government has granted three gaming concessions and each of these
concessionaires has granted a subconcession. The MGM Grand Paradise gaming subconcession was granted by Sociedade de Jogos de Macau, S.A., ("SJM") and expires in 2020. The Macau government
currently prohibits additional concessions and subconcessions, but does not place a limit on the number of casinos or gaming areas operated by the concessionaires and subconcessionaires, though
additional casinos require government approval prior to commencing operations.

On
October 18, 2012, MGM Grand Paradise formally accepted the terms and conditions of a land concession contract from the government of Macau to develop a resort and casino on an
approximately 17.8 acre site in Cotai, Macau. The land concession contract became effective when the Macau government published the agreement in the Official Gazette of Macau on January 9, 2013
and has an initial term of 25 years. The total land premium payable to the Macau government for the land concession contract is approximately $161 million and is composed of a down
payment and eight additional semi-annual payments. In October 2012, MGM China paid approximately $56 million as the initial down payment of the contract premium. Including interest
on the eight semi-annual payments, MGM China has approximately $118 million remaining payable for the land concession contract. In addition, MGM Grand Paradise is required to pay
the Macau government approximately $269,000 per year in rent during the course of development of the land and approximately $681,000 per year in rent once the development is completed. The annual rent
is subject to review by the Macau government every five years. Under the terms of the land concession contract, MGM Grand Paradise is required to complete the development of the land by January 2018.








Customers and Competition

Our casino resorts operate in highly competitive environments. We compete against gaming companies, as well as other hospitality
companies in the markets we operate in, neighboring markets, and in other parts of the world, including non-gaming resort destinations such as Hawaii and Florida. Our gaming operations
compete to a lesser extent with state-sponsored lotteries, off-track wagering, card parlors, and other forms of legalized gaming in the United States and internationally.

Our
primary methods of successful competition include:

•Locating our resorts in desirable leisure and business travel markets and operating at superior sites within those
markets;•Constructing and maintaining high-quality resorts and facilities, including luxurious guestrooms,
state-of-the-art convention facilities and premier dining, entertainment, retail and other amenities;•Recruiting, training and retaining well-qualified and motivated employees who
provide superior and friendly
customer service;•Providing unique, "must-see" entertainment attractions; and•Developing distinctive and memorable
marketing, promotional and customer loyalty programs.

Wholly owned domestic resorts.Our Las Vegas casino resorts compete for customers with a large number of other hotel casinos in the Las
Vegas area,
including major hotel casinos on or near the Las Vegas Strip, major hotel casinos in the downtown area, which is about five miles from the center of the
Strip, and several major hotel casinos elsewhere in the Las Vegas area. Our Las Vegas Strip resorts also compete, in part, with each other. According to the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors
Authority, there were approximately 150,500 guestrooms in Las Vegas at December 31, 2012 and 150,000 at December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2012, we operated approximately 27% of
the guestrooms in Las Vegas. Las Vegas visitor volume was 39.7 million in 2012, a 2% increase from the 38.9 million reported for 2011.

The
Las Vegas market includes leisure travel customers; premium gaming customers; convention customers, including small meetings, trade associations, and corporate incentive programs;
and tour and travel customers. Our luxury wholly owned resorts, including Bellagio, MGM Grand Las Vegas, Mandalay Bay and The Mirage, appeal to the upper end of each market segment, balancing their
business by using the convention and tour and travel segments to fill the mid-week and off-peak periods. Our marketing strategy for New York-New York, Luxor and
Monte Carlo is aimed at attracting middle- to upper-middle-income customers, largely from the leisure travel and the tour and travel segments. Excalibur and Circus Circus Las Vegas generally cater to
the value-oriented and middle-income leisure travel and tour and travel segments.

Outside
Las Vegas, our other Nevada operations compete with each other and with many other similarly sized and larger operations. Our Nevada resorts located outside of Las Vegas appeal
primarily to the value-oriented leisure traveler and the value-oriented local customer. A significant number of our customers at these resorts come from California.

Outside
Nevada, our resorts primarily compete for customers in local and regional gaming markets, where location is a critical factor to success. In addition, we compete with gaming
operations in surrounding jurisdictions and other leisure destinations in each region. For example, in Detroit, Michigan we compete with a casino in nearby Windsor, Canada and with Native American
casinos in Michigan. In Biloxi, Mississippi we compete with regional riverboat and land-based casinos in Louisiana, Native American casinos in central Mississippi and with casinos in
Florida and the Bahamas.

MGM China.Our key competitors in Macau include five other gaming concessionaires and subconcessionaires. If the Macau government were to grant
additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face additional competition which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We also
encounter competition from major gaming centers located in








other
areas of Asia and around the world, including Singapore, Malaysia, Australia, Las Vegas, cruise ships in Asia that offer gaming and from unlicensed gaming operations in the region.

The
two primary customer segments in the Macau gaming market are VIP and main floor. VIP gaming play is sourced both internally and externally. Externally sourced VIP gaming play is
obtained through external gaming promoters who offer VIP players various services, such as extension of credit as well as complimentary hotel, food and beverage services. External gaming promoters
operate VIP gaming rooms within the property. We typically pay commissions to external gaming promoters based on gaming wins or losses. We extend credit and provide complimentaries to our internally
sourced VIP clientele without the use of an intermediary. These clientele are acquired through our direct marketing efforts.

Historically,
gaming operators in Macau have mainly focused on VIP players, but we have increased our focus on the main floor segment. The main floor segment includes both table games
and slot machines played on the main gaming floors, consisting mainly of walk-in and day-trip visitors. The main floor segment is the highest margin sector of the overall
gaming market and exceeds the VIP segment due to the latter's commission costs to gaming promoters. Gaming revenues from the main gaming floors have grown significantly in recent years and we expect a
larger portion of MGM Macau's gaming revenues to come from the main floor segment in future periods.

Corporate and other.Aria, which we manage and own 50% through the CityCenter joint venture, appeals to the upper end of each segment in the Las
Vegas market and competes with our wholly owned luxury casino resorts and other luxury resorts on the Las Vegas Strip. Our other unconsolidated affiliates mainly compete for customers against casino
resorts in their respective markets. Much like our wholly owned resorts, our unconsolidated affiliates compete through the quality of amenities, the value of the experience offered to guests and the
location of their resorts.

Marketing

Our marketing efforts are conducted through various means, including our loyalty programs as discussed further below. We advertise on
the radio, television, internet and billboards and in newspapers and magazines in selected cities throughout the United States and overseas, as well as by direct mail and through the use of social
media. We also advertise through our regional marketing offices located in major U.S. and foreign cities. A key element of marketing to
premium gaming customers is personal contact by our marketing personnel. Direct marketing is also important in the convention segment. We maintain websites to inform customers about our resorts and
allow our customers to reserve hotel rooms, make restaurant reservations and purchase show tickets. We actively utilize several social media sites to promote our brands, unique events, and special
deals.

Wholly owned domestic resorts.We introduced our loyalty program, M life, in 2010. M life is a broad-based program recognizing and rewarding customer
spending across most channels focusing on wallet share capture, increased loyalty, unique and exclusive offerings and instant gratification. M life provides access to rewards, privileges, and
members-only events. M life is a tiered system and allows customers to qualify for benefits across our participating resorts and in both gaming and non-gaming areas,
encouraging customers to keep their total spend within our casino resorts. Customers earn free play and "express comps" for their gaming play which can be redeemed at restaurants, box offices, the M
life loyalty club, or kiosks at participating properties. Members can utilize the M life website,www.mlife.comto see offers, reward levels and point and express comp
balances.

M
life utilizes advanced analytic techniques and information technology which identifies customer preferences and helps predict future customer behavior, allowing us to make more
relevant offers to customers, influence incremental visits, and help build lasting customer relationships. In addition to the loyalty program, we have re-branded our company magazine as M
life and developed an in-room M life television channel to highlight customers' experiences and showcase "Moments" customers can earn through the accumulation of express comps.








We
also utilize our world-class golf courses in marketing programs at our Las Vegas Strip resorts. Our major Las Vegas resorts offer luxury suite packages that include golf privileges at
Shadow Creek in North Las Vegas. In connection with our marketing activities, we also invite our premium gaming customers to play Shadow Creek on a complimentary basis. Additionally, marketing efforts
at Beau Rivage benefit from Fallen Oak golf course located 20 minutes north of Beau Rivage.

MGM China.MGM Macau's loyalty program is the Golden Lion Club, a tiered program which meets the needs of a range of customers from lower spending
leisure and entertainment customers through the highest level VIP cash players. The structured rewards system based on member value and tiers ensures that customers can progressively access the
full range of services that the resort provides. The program is aspirational by design and transparent in its rewards, encouraging customers to increase both visitation and spend. In addition to the
rewards offered to Golden Lion Club members, MGM
Macau has developed dedicated gaming and non-gaming areas to reflect different levels of rated play. Information from the Golden Lion Club is used to analyze customer usage by segment and
individual player profile.

In
addition to the Golden Lion Club program, the resort has also created and continues to expand several luxurious private gaming salons that provide a distinctive, high-end
environment for the VIP players brought to the resort through gaming promoters and the in-house VIP marketing team. The resort has created a variety of incentive programs to reward gaming
promoters for increased business and efficiency.

Employees and Management

We believe that knowledgeable, friendly and dedicated employees are a key success factor. Therefore, we invest heavily in recruiting,
training, motivating and retaining exceptional employees, and we seek to hire and promote the strongest management team possible. We have numerous programs, both at the corporate and business unit
level, designed to achieve these objectives. We believe our internal development programs, such as the MGM Resorts University and various leadership and management training programs, are best in class
among our industry peers.

Technology

We utilize various types of technology to maximize revenue and efficiency in our operations. We continue to move forward on
standardizing the technology platforms for several of our key operational systems. The standardization of these systems provides us with one consistent operating platform, allowing us efficiencies in
training, reducing complexity in system integration and interfaces, standardizing processes across our casino resorts and providing our customers with better information. These systems capture charges
made by our customers during their stay, including allowing customers of our resorts to charge meals and services at our other resorts to their hotel accounts. In addition, we utilize yield management
programs at many of our resorts that help us maximize occupancy and room rates.

We
continue to roll out our new booking engine, which brings together and standardizes our domestic portfolio. The booking engine allows our guests and business partners the ability to
create an all-inclusive experience, from accommodations to dining to shows. In addition, guests will be able to share their vacation plans with others via social media. Available through
all of our domestic resorts' individual websites, the booking engine gives guests the power to customize a complete itinerary from our full portfolio of experiences, all in one place. This experience
is a significant improvement over traditional hotel booking engines which require guests to visit multiple
sites for dining, hotel and entertainment reservations. The booking engine is also beneficial to M life members, through full integration with www.mlife.com. With future plans to enable members to
redeem express comps, members will enjoy powerful benefits, including easier access to their customized offers.








Corporate Social Responsibility

We seek to conduct our business in an effective, socially responsible way while striving to maximize shareholder value. Our corporate
social responsibility efforts are overseen by the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee of our Board of Directors.

Environmental sustainability.We continue to gain recognition for our comprehensive environmental responsibility initiatives. Our resorts in Nevada
and Michigan were the first to earn certification from Green Key, the largest international program evaluating sustainable hotel operations. We received certifications at 12 resorts, including "Five
Green Key" (the highest possible) ratings at Aria, Vdara and Mandalay Bay. Many major travel service providers recognize the Green Key designation and identify our resorts for their continued
commitment to sustainable hotel operations.

In
addition, we believe that incorporating the tenets of sustainability in our business decisions provides a platform for innovation and operational efficiency. CityCenter is one of the
world's largest private green developments. With six LEED® Gold certifications from the U.S. Green Building Council, CityCenter serves as a new standard for combining luxury and
environmental responsibility within the large-scale hospitality industry.

We
incorporate the same commitment to the environment at MGM Macau. Our efforts to improve energy efficiency, indoor air quality, and environmental stewardship have resulted in MGM Macau
receiving the Macau Environmental Protection Bureau—Macau Green Hotel Award.

Diversity and inclusion.Our award-winning diversity program is designed to identify and develop programs and practices that give sustainable life
and momentum to diversity within our company and
our suppliers. The diversity initiative at our wholly owned domestic resorts focuses on the unique strengths of our individuals, combined with a culture of collaborative teamwork to achieve greater
performance. Our diversity program has been widely recognized and has been awarded numerous accolades.

Philanthropy and community engagement.Our community and social investments are prioritized to strengthen the communities where our employees live,
work and care for their families. Our community platform features three main programs: our Corporate Giving Program, the employee-funded MGM Resorts Foundation and our Employee Volunteer Program.
Through these channels, we make financial and in-kind donations, contribute volunteer service and participate in civic and non-profit organizations that advance the quality of
life in our communities. Key investment areas include basic human needs, diversity, education, and health and wellness.

Internal Controls

We have a strong culture of compliance, driven by our history in the highly regulated gaming industry and our belief that compliance is
a value-added activity. Our system of internal controls and procedures—including internal control over financial reporting—is designed to promote reliable and accurate
financial records, transparent disclosures, compliance with laws and regulations, and protection of our assets. Our internal controls start at the source of business transactions, and we have rigorous
enforcement at both the business unit and corporate level.

We
have a corporate internal audit function that performs regular reviews regarding gaming compliance, internal controls over financial reporting, and operations. In addition, we
maintain an independent compliance committee that administers our company-wide compliance plan. The compliance plan is in place to promote compliance with gaming and other laws applicable
to our operations in all jurisdictions, including performing background investigations on our current and potential employees, directors and vendors as well as thorough review of proposed transactions
and associations. Although the corporate internal audit function and the company-wide compliance plan are not applicable to MGM China, which is a publicly traded subsidiary, MGM China has
its own internal audit group with similar








responsibilities
and has established a compliance program at MGM Macau that is modeled after our program.

In
connection with the supervision of gaming activities at our casinos, we maintain stringent controls on the recording of all receipts and disbursements and other activities, including
cash transaction reporting which is essential in our industry. Our controls surrounding cash transactions include locked cash boxes on the casino floor, daily cash counts performed by employees who
are independent of casino operations, constant observation and supervision of the gaming area, observation and recording of gaming and other areas by closed-circuit television, constant computer
monitoring of our slot machines, and timely analysis of deviations from expected performance.

Marker
play represents a significant portion of the table games volume at our high-end resorts. Our other facilities do not emphasize marker play to the same extent, although
we offer markers to customers at certain of those casinos as well. We maintain strict controls over the issuance of markers and aggressively pursue collection from those customers who fail to timely
pay their marker balances. These collection efforts are similar to those used by most large corporations when dealing with overdue customer accounts, including the mailing of statements and
delinquency notices, direct personal contact and the use of outside collection agencies and civil litigation.

In
our U.S. jurisdictions, amounts owed for markers that are not timely paid are enforceable under state laws and all other states are required to enforce a judgment for amounts owed,
pursuant to the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the U.S. Constitution. Amounts owed for markers that are not timely paid are not legally enforceable in some foreign countries, but the U.S. assets of
foreign customers may be reached to satisfy judgments entered in the United States. Although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the U.S. of foreign
debtors may be reached to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from U.S. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations.

Furthermore,
we expect that MGM Macau will be able to enforce its gaming debts only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including Macau. To the extent MGM Macau gaming customers and
gaming promoters are from other jurisdictions, MGM Macau may not have access to a forum in which it will be able to collect all of its gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many
jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and MGM Macau may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. Moreover, under applicable law, MGM Macau remains obligated to pay taxes on
uncollectible winnings from customers.

Leveraging Our Brand and Management Assets

In allocating resources, our financial strategy is focused on managing a proper mix of investing in existing resorts, spending on new
resorts or initiatives and repaying long-term debt. We believe there are reasonable investments for us to make in new initiatives and at our current resorts that will provide profitable
returns, although these decisions were significantly affected by economic conditions over the past several years when our access to capital was limited.

We
regularly evaluate possible expansion and acquisition opportunities in both the domestic and international markets, but cannot at this time determine the likelihood of proceeding with
specific development opportunities. Opportunities we evaluate may include the ownership, management and operation of gaming and other entertainment facilities in Nevada or in states other than Nevada
or outside of the United States. We leverage our management expertise and well-recognized brands through strategic partnerships and international expansion opportunities. We feel that
several of our brands, particularly the "MGM Grand," "Bellagio," and "Skylofts" brands, are well suited to new projects in both gaming and non-gaming developments. We may undertake these
opportunities either alone or in cooperation with one or more third parties.








MGM Hospitality

MGM Hospitality seeks to leverage our management expertise and well-recognized brands through strategic partnerships and
international expansion opportunities. MGM Hospitality entered into management agreements for hotels in the Middle East, North Africa, India and, through its joint venture with Diaoyutai State
Guesthouse, the People's Republic of China. MGM Hospitality opened its first resort, MGM Grand Sanya on Hainan Island, the People's Republic of China in early 2012.

MGM
Hospitality and Asian Coast Development Ltd. ("ACDL") previously announced plans to develop MGM Grand Ho Tram in Vietnam. The project is delayed as ACDL has not
received certain required government approvals and has experienced a suspension of funding from its lenders. MGM Hospitality and ACDL have entered into an amendment to the management agreement that
requires ACDL to achieve certain milestones before the project will open and provides a mechanism for the required opening date to be adjusted. The required opening date has been adjusted to
March 1, 2013. If the milestones are not completed by the required opening date, MGM Hospitality may terminate its agreements with ACDL.

Other

Bwin.party.In October 2011, we announced a strategic partnership with bwin.party digital entertainment plc, the world's largest publicly
traded online poker operator with operations under the "PartyPoker" brand. Although interstate online gambling is currently prohibited in the United States, this partnership gives us the ability to
offer a secure and regulated online gaming platform to U.S. customers subject to the limitations of applicable federal and state laws and regulations.

Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Nation.We have an agreement with the Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Nation ("MPTN"), which owns and operates Foxwoods Casino
Resort in Mashantucket, Connecticut for the casino resort owned and operated by MPTN located adjacent to the Foxwoods Casino Resort to carry the "MGM Grand" brand name. We earn a fee for MPTN to use
the "MGM Grand" name.

Intellectual Property

Our principal intellectual property consists of trademarks for, among others, Bellagio, The Mirage, Mandalay Bay, MGM, MGM Grand, MGM
Resorts International, Luxor, Excalibur, New York-New York, Circus Circus and Beau Rivage, all of which have been registered or allowed in various classes in the U.S. We are currently
undergoing the application process for the MGM Resorts International trademark. In addition, we have also registered or applied to register numerous other trademarks in connection with our properties,
facilities and development projects in the U.S. We have also registered and/or applied to register many of our trademarks in various other foreign jurisdictions. These trademarks are brand names under
which we market our properties and services. We consider these brand names to be important to our business since they have the effect of developing brand identification. We believe that the name
recognition, reputation and image that we have developed attract customers to our facilities. Once granted, our trademark registrations are of perpetual duration so long as they are used and
periodically renewed. It is our intent to pursue and maintain our trademark registrations consistent with our goals for brand development and identification, and enforcement of our trademark rights.

Employees and Labor Relations

As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 44,500 full-time and 16,500 part-time employees
domestically, of which 5,800 and 2,700, respectively, related to CityCenter. In addition, we had 5,550 full-time employees and 100 part-time employees at MGM Macau. At that
date, we had collective bargaining contracts with unions covering approximately 30,000 of our employees. The collective bargaining agreements covering most of our Las Vegas union employees expire in
2013. In November 2011, we and approximately 2,300 employees at MGM Grand Detroit approved a new union contract








which
expires in 2015. As of December 31, 2012, none of the employees of MGM Macau are part of a labor union and the resort is not party to any collective bargaining agreements. We consider our
employee relations to be good.

Regulation and Licensing

The gaming industry is highly regulated, and we must maintain our licenses and pay gaming taxes to continue our operations. Each of our
casinos is subject to extensive regulation under the laws, rules and regulations of the jurisdiction in which it is located. These laws, rules and regulations generally concern the responsibility,
financial stability and character of the owners, managers, and persons with financial interest in the gaming operations. Violations of laws in one jurisdiction could result in disciplinary action in
other jurisdictions.

A
more detailed description of the gaming regulations to which we are subject is contained in Exhibit 99.2 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which Exhibit is
incorporated herein by reference.

Our
businesses are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations affecting businesses in general. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to,
restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, smoking, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, construction, land use and marketing and advertising. We
also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money
laundering regulations. Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. Material changes, new laws or
regulations, or material differences in interpretations by courts or governmental authorities could adversely affect our operating results.

In
addition, we are subject to certain federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource
Conservation Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and the Oil Pollution Act of 1990. Under various federal, state and local laws and regulations, an
owner or operator of real property may be held liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances or wastes located on its property, regardless of whether or not
the present owner or operator knows of, or is responsible for, the presence of such substances or wastes. We have not identified any issues associated with our properties that could reasonably be
expected to have an adverse effect on us or the results of our operations.

Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

This Form 10-K and our 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of
the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "seeks," "believes," "estimates," "expects,"
"will," "may" and similar references to future periods. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements we make regarding our ability to generate significant cash
flow, amounts we will invest in capital expenditures, amounts we will pay under the CityCenter completion guarantee, the opening of strategic resort developments, and the amount we will receive from
the MGM China special dividend. The foregoing is not a complete list of all forward-looking statements we make.

Forward-looking
statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions regarding our business, the economy and other future conditions. Because forward-looking statements
relate to the future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks, and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Our actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by
the forward-looking statements. They are neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees or assurances of future performance. Therefore, we caution you against relying on any of these
forward-looking statements.








Important
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, regional, national or global political, economic,
business, competitive, market, and regulatory conditions and the following:

•

our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could adversely affect our development options and
financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations;

•

current and future economic and credit market conditions could adversely affect our ability to service or refinance
our
indebtedness and to make planned expenditures and investments;

•

restrictions and limitations in the agreements governing our senior credit facility and other senior indebtedness could
significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity;

•

significant competition we face with respect to destination travel locations
generally and with respect to our peers in
the industries in which we compete;

•

the fact that our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such
regulations could adversely affect our business;

•

the impact on our business of economic and market conditions in the markets in which we operate and in the locations in
which our customers reside;

•

restrictions on our ability to have any interest or involvement in gaming business in China, Macau, Hong Kong and Taiwan,
other than through MGM China;

•

the ability of the Macau government to terminate MGM Grand Paradise's gaming subconcession under certain circumstances
without compensating MGM Grand Paradise or refuse to grant MGM Grand Paradise an extension of the subconcession, which is scheduled to expire on March 31, 2020;

•

our ability to build
and open our development in Cotai by January 2018;

•

the dependence of MGM Macau upon gaming junket operators for a significant portion of gaming revenues in Macau;

•

extreme weather conditions or climate change may cause property damage or interrupt business;

•

the concentration of our major gaming resorts on the Las Vegas Strip;

•

the fact that we extend credit to a large portion
 of our customers and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables;

•

the potential occurrence of impairments to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets or long-lived assets
which could negatively affect future profits;

•

the susceptibility of leisure and business travel, especially travel by air, to global geopolitical events, such as
terrorist attacks or acts of war or hostility;

•

the fact that investing through partnerships or joint ventures including CityCenter decreases our ability to manage risk;

•

the fact that future construction or development projects will be susceptible to substantial development and construction
risks;

•

the fact that our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer,
our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain similar insurance coverage in the future;

•

the fact that CityCenter has decided to abate the potential for structural
collapse of the Harmon in the event of a
code-level earthquake by demolishing the building, which exposes us to risks prior to or in connection with the demolition process;

•

the fact that a failure to protect our trademarks
could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names and
adversely affect our business;

•

the fact that Tracinda Corporation owns a significant amount of our common stock and may have interests that differ from
the interests of other holders of our stock;

•

the risks associated with doing business outside of the United States and the impact of any potential violations of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other similar anti-corruption laws;

•

risks related to pending claims that have been, or future claims that may be brought against us;

•

the fact that a significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements;








•the sensitivity of our business to energy prices and a rise in energy prices could harm our operating results;•the potential that
failure to maintain the integrity of internal customer information could result in damage of reputation
and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or other restrictions on our use or transfer of data;•increases in gaming taxes and fees in the jurisdictions in which we
operate;•the potential for conflicts of interest to arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of MGM
China, which is now a publicly traded company listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange; and•the risks associated with doing business outside of the United States.

Any
forward-looking statement made by us in this Form 10-K or our 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders speaks only as of the date on which it is made. Factors or events
that could cause our actual results to differ may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of them. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking
statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as may be required by law. If we update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be made
that we will make additional updates with respect to those or other forward-looking statements.

You
should also be aware that while we from time to time communicate with securities analysts, we do not disclose to them any material non-public information, internal
forecasts or other confidential business information. Therefore, you should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by any analyst, irrespective of the content of the statement or
report. To the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain projections, forecasts or opinions, those reports are not our responsibility and are not endorsed by us.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth, as of February 28, 2013, the name, age and position of each of our executive officers. Executive
officers are elected by and serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.

NameAgePositionJames J. Murren51Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and DirectorRobert H. Baldwin62Chief Design and Construction Officer and DirectorWilliam J. Hornbuckle55President and Chief Marketing OfficerCorey I. Sanders49Chief Operating OfficerDaniel J. D'Arrigo44Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and TreasurerPhyllis A. James60Executive Vice President, Special Counsel—Litigation and Chief Diversity OfficerJohn M. McManus45Executive Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryChristopher Nordling52Executive Vice President of OperationsWilliam M. Scott IV52Executive Vice President—Corporate Strategy and Special CounselRobert C. Selwood57Executive Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer

Mr. Murren has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since December 2008 and as President from December 1999 to
December 2012. He served as Chief Operating Officer from August 2007 through December 2008. He was Chief Financial Officer from January 1998 to August 2007 and Treasurer from November 2001 to August
2007.

Mr. Baldwin
has served as Chief Design and Construction Officer since August 2007. He served as Chief Executive Officer of Mirage Resorts from June 2000 to August 2007 and
President and Chief Executive Officer of Bellagio, LLC from June 1996 to March 2005.








Mr. Hornbuckle
has served as Chief Marketing Officer since August 2009 and President since December 2012. He served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Mandalay Bay
Resort & Casino from April 2005 to August 2009. He served as President and Chief Operating Officer of MGM MIRAGE—Europe from July 2001 to April 2005. He served as President and
Chief Operating Officer of MGM Grand Las Vegas from October 1998 to July 2001.

Mr. Sanders
has served as Chief Operating Officer since September 2010. He served as Chief Operating Officer for the Company's Core Brand and Regional Properties from August 2009
to September 2010, as Executive Vice President—Operations from August 2007 to August 2009, as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for MGM Grand Resorts from April 2005 to
August 2007 and as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for MGM Grand from August 1997 to April 2005.

Mr. D'Arrigo
has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since August 2007 and Treasurer since September 2009. He served as Senior Vice
President—Finance of the Company from February 2005 to August 2007 and as Vice President—Finance of the Company from December 2000 to February 2005.

Ms. James
has served as Executive Vice President and Special Counsel—Litigation since July 2010 and as Chief Diversity Officer since 2009. She served as Senior Vice
President, Deputy General Counsel of the Company from March 2002 to July 2010. From 1994 to 2001 she served as Corporation (General) Counsel and Law Department Director for the City of Detroit. In
that capacity she also served on various public and quasi-public boards and commissions on behalf of the City, including the Election Commission, the Detroit Building Authority and the Board of
Ethics.

Mr. McManus
has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since July 2010. He served as Senior Vice President, Acting General Counsel and Secretary of the
Company from December 2009 to July 2010. He served as Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from September 2009 to December 2009. He served as Senior Vice President,
Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of the Company from July 2008 to September 2009. He served as Vice President and General Counsel for CityCenter's residential and retail divisions
from
January 2006 to July 2008. Prior thereto, he served as General Counsel or Assistant General Counsel for various of the Company's operating subsidiaries from May 2001 to January 2006.

Mr. Nordling
has served as Executive Vice President of Operations since December 2011. He continues to serve as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for
CityCenter, a position he has held since September 2007. Mr. Nordling also served as the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Mirage Resorts from 2005 to 2007. Prior to that,
Mr. Nordling served as the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Bellagio from 2000 to 2005.

Mr. Scott
has served as Executive Vice President—Corporate Strategy and Special Counsel since July 2010. He served as Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel
of the Company from August 2009 to July 2010. Previously, he was a partner in the Los Angeles office of Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP, specializing in financing transactions,
having joined that firm in 1986.

Mr. Selwood
has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer since August 2007. He served as Senior Vice President—Accounting of the Company from
February 2005 to August 2007 and as Vice President—Accounting of the Company from December 2000 to February 2005.

Available Information

We maintain a website atwww.mgmresorts.comthat includes
financial and other information for investors. We provide access to our Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q (including related filings in XBRL format), filed and furnished current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports on our








website,
free of charge, through a link to the SEC's EDGAR database. Through that link, our filings are available as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish the documents with the SEC.

These
filings are also available on the SEC's website atwww.sec.gov. In addition, the public may read and
copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street,
NE, Washington, D.C. 20549 and may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

Because
of the time differences between Hong Kong and the United States, we also use our corporate website as a means of posting important information about MGM China.

Reference
in this document to our website address does not incorporate by reference the information contained on the website into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.








