ITEM 1.BUSINESS



MGM Resorts International is referred to as the “Company,” “MGM Resorts,” or the “Registrant,” and together with its subsidiaries may also be referred to as “we,” “us” or “our.” MGM China Holdings Limited together with its subsidiaries is referred to as “MGM China.”



Overview



Vision, Mission and Strategies



MGM Resorts International’s vision is to be the best-in-class operator of integrated destination resorts that deliver high-quality entertainment, gaming and hospitality experiences.



Our mission is to create memorable experiences that engage, entertain, and inspire our guests through our diverse and talented people and our portfolio of brands.  We champion the principles of corporate social responsibility while serving our guests, employees, communities and stakeholders worldwide.



The following are our strategic objectives:



·Drive operational and capital structure improvements to enhance shareholder value;

·Enhance our culture and approach to operations to better leverage investments in critical foundational competencies that support a high performance organization;

·Identify and execute on expansion and development opportunities in key domestic and international markets to grow global presence; and

·Continue to solidify our reputation as a global leader in the practice of corporate social responsibility to sustain long-term shareholder value.



Reportable Segments



We have two reportable segments based on the similar characteristics of the operating segments within the regions in which they operate: wholly owned domestic resorts and MGM China. We currently operate 12 wholly owned resorts in the United States. MGM China’s operations consist of the MGM Macau resort and casino (“MGM Macau”) and the development of an integrated casino, hotel, and entertainment resort on the Cotai Strip in Macau. We have additional business activities including our investments in unconsolidated affiliates, and certain other corporate and management operations. CityCenter Holdings, LLC (“CityCenter”) is our most significant unconsolidated affiliate, which we also manage for a fee.  See “Resort Operations” below, as well as “Executive Overview” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 16 in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements, for additional information related to our segments.



Resort Operations



General



Our casino resorts offer gaming, hotel, convention, dining, entertainment, retail and other resort amenities.  We believe we own or invest in several of the finest casino resorts in the world and we continually reinvest in our resorts to maintain our competitive advantage. We make significant investments in our resorts through newly remodeled hotel rooms, restaurants, entertainment and nightlife offerings, as well as other new features and amenities. Most of our revenue is cash-based, through customers wagering with cash or paying for non-gaming services with cash or credit cards.  We rely heavily on the ability of our resorts to generate operating cash flow to fund capital expenditures, provide excess cash flow for future development and repay debt financings.



We believe we operate the highest quality resorts in each of the markets in which we operate. As discussed above, ensuring our resorts are the premier resorts in their respective markets requires capital investments to maintain the best possible experiences for our guests. The quality of our resorts and amenities can be measured by our success in winning numerous awards, both domestic and globally, including several Four and Five Diamond designations from the American Automobile Association as well as multiple Four and Five Star designations from Forbes Travel Guide.



Our results of operations do not tend to be seasonal in nature, though a variety of factors may affect the results of any interim period, including the timing of major conventions, the amount and timing of marketing and special events for our high-end gaming








customers, and the level of play during major holidays, including New Year and Chinese New Year.  While our results do not depend on key individual customers, a significant portion of our operating income is generated from high-end gaming customers, which can cause variability in our results.  In addition, our success in marketing to customer groups such as convention customers and the financial health of customer segments such as business travelers or high-end gaming customers from a specific country or region can affect our results.



All of our casino resorts operate 24 hours a day, every day of the year, with the exception of Grand Victoria which operates 22 hours a day, every day of the year.  At our wholly owned domestic resorts, our primary casino and hotel operations are owned and managed by us.  Other resort amenities may be owned and operated by us, owned by us but managed by third parties for a fee, or leased to third parties.  We utilize third-party management for specific expertise in operations of restaurants and nightclubs.  We lease space to retail and food and beverage operators, particularly for branding opportunities and when capital investment by us is not desirable or feasible.



Our Operating Resorts



We have provided certain information below about our resorts as of December 31, 2015.  Except as otherwise indicated, we wholly own and operate the resorts shown below.



Number ofApproximateGuestroomsCasinoSquareGamingName and Locationand SuitesFootage (1)Slots (2)Tables (3)Wholly Owned Domestic Resorts:Las VegasBellagio3,933156,0001,915145MGM Grand Las Vegas (4)6,141153,0001,695128Mandalay Bay (5)4,752160,0001,35182The Mirage3,044100,0001,31881Luxor4,400116,0001,06958Excalibur3,98195,0001,21752New York-New York2,02490,0001,25472Monte Carlo2,99287,0001,17265Circus Circus Las Vegas3,76398,0001,32043OtherMGM Grand Detroit (Detroit, Michigan) (6)400127,0003,561121Beau Rivage (Biloxi, Mississippi)1,74074,0001,83180Gold Strike (Tunica, Mississippi)1,13353,0001,22958Subtotal38,3031,309,00018,932985MGM China:MGM Macau–51% owned (Macau S.A.R.)579274,0001,272417Other Operations:CityCenter–50% owned (Las Vegas, Nevada) (7)5,891140,0001,626124Borgata – 50% owned (Atlantic City, New Jersey) (8)2,767161,0003,026184Grand Victoria–50% owned (Elgin, Illinois) (9)–30,0001,10029Subtotal8,658331,0005,752337Grand total47,5401,914,00025,9561,739







(1)Casino square footage is approximate and includes the gaming floor, race and sports, high limit areas and casino specific walkways, and excludes casino cage and other non-gaming space within the casino area.

(2)Includes slot machines, video poker machines and other electronic gaming devices.

(3)Includes blackjack (“21”), baccarat, craps, roulette and other table games; does not include poker.

(4)Includes 1,148 rooms at The Signature at MGM Grand Las Vegas.

(5)Includes 1,117 rooms at the Delano and 424 rooms at the Four Seasons Hotel.

(6)Our local investors have an ownership interest of approximately 3% of MGM Grand Detroit.

(7)Includes Aria with 4,004 rooms and Mandarin Oriental Las Vegas with 392 rooms.  Vdara includes 1,495 condo-hotel units. As of December 31, 2015, 147 units have been sold and closed, of which 66 units were contracted to participate in a hotel rental program managed by CityCenter. The remaining 1,348 unsold units are being utilized as company-owned hotel rooms. The other 50% of CityCenter is owned by Infinity World Development Corp.

(8)The other 50% of Borgata is owned by Boyd Gaming Corporation, which also operates the resort.

(9)The other 50% of Grand Victoria is owned by an affiliate of Hyatt Gaming, which also operates the resort.



More detailed information about each of our operating resorts can be found in Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which Exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.










Wholly owned domestic resorts.Over half of the net revenue from our wholly owned domestic resorts is derived from non-gaming operations, including hotel, food and beverage, entertainment and other non-gaming amenities. We market to different customers and utilize our significant convention and meeting facilities to allow us to maximize hotel occupancy and customer volumes during off-peak times such as mid-week or during traditionally slower leisure travel periods, which also leads to better labor utilization.  Our operating results are highly dependent on the volume of customers at our resorts, which in turn affects the price we can charge for our hotel rooms and other amenities.



Our casino operations feature a variety of slots, table games, and race and sports book wagering.  In addition, we offer our premium players access to high-limit rooms and lounge experiences where players may enjoy an upscale atmosphere.



MGM China.We own a 51% controlling interest in MGM China Holdings Limited (“MGM China”), which owns MGM Grand Paradise, S.A. (“MGM Grand Paradise”), the Macau company that owns and operates the MGM Macau resort and casino and the related gaming subconcession and land concession. We believe our ownership interest in MGM China plays an important role in extending our reach internationally and will foster future growth and profitability. Macau is the world’s largest gaming destination in terms of revenue and we expect future growth in the Asian gaming market.



Our current MGM China operations relate to MGM Macau and the development of an integrated casino, hotel, and entertainment resort on the Cotai Strip in Macau, discussed further below. Revenues at MGM Macau are generated primarily from gaming operations which are conducted under a gaming subconcession held by MGM Grand Paradise. The Macau government has granted three gaming concessions and each of these concessionaires has granted a subconcession. The MGM Grand Paradise gaming subconcession was granted by Sociedade de Jogos de Macau, S.A., and expires in 2020.  The Macau government currently prohibits additional concessions and subconcessions, but does not place a limit on the number of casinos or gaming areas operated by the concessionaires and subconcessionaires, though additional casinos require government approval prior to commencing operations.



In October 2012, MGM Grand Paradise formally accepted the terms and conditions of a land concession contract from the government of Macau to develop a resort and casino on an approximately 18 acre site on the Cotai Strip in Macau (“MGM Cotai”).  The land concession contract became effective when the Macau government published the agreement in the Official Gazette of Macau on January 9, 2013 and has an initial term of 25 years.  Under the terms of the land concession contract, MGM Grand Paradise is required to build and open MGM Cotai by January 2018.



Construction of MGM Cotai commenced in 2013 and it is anticipated to open at the end of the first quarter of 2017. China State Construction Engineering Corporation serves as the sole general contractor for the project.  MGM Cotai will be an integrated casino, hotel and entertainment resort with capacity for up to 500 gaming tables and up to 1,500 slots, and featuring approximately 1,500 hotel rooms.  The actual number of gaming tables allocated to MGM Cotai will be determined by the Macau government prior to opening, and such allocation may be less than our 500 gaming table capacity.  The total estimated project budget is $3.0 billion, excluding development fees eliminated in consolidation, capitalized interest and land related costs.



Customers and Competition



Our casino resorts operate in highly competitive environments. We compete against gaming companies, as well as other hospitality companies in the markets we operate in, neighboring markets, and in other parts of the world, including non-gaming resort destinations such as Hawaii.  Our gaming operations compete to a lesser extent with state-sponsored lotteries, off-track wagering, card parlors, online gambling and other forms of legalized gaming in the United States and internationally.



Our primary methods of successful competition include:



·Locating our resorts in desirable leisure and business travel markets and operating at superior sites within those markets;

·Constructing and maintaining high-quality resorts and facilities, including luxurious guestrooms, state-of-the-art convention facilities and premier dining, entertainment, retail and other amenities;

·Recruiting, training and retaining well-qualified and motivated employees who provide superior customer service;

·Providing unique, “must-see” entertainment attractions; and

·Developing distinctive and memorable marketing, promotional and customer loyalty programs.



Wholly owned domestic resorts.Our customers include premium gaming customers; leisure and wholesale travel customers; business travelers, and group customers, including conventions, trade associations, and small meetings.  We have a complete portfolio of resorts which appeal to the upper end of each market segment and also cater to leisure and value-oriented tour and travel customers. Many of our resorts have significant convention and meeting space which we utilize to drive business to our resorts during mid-week and off-peak periods.










Our Las Vegas casino resorts compete for customers with a large number of other hotel casinos in the Las Vegas area, including major hotel casinos on or near the Las Vegas Strip, major hotel casinos in the downtown area, which is about five miles from the center of the Strip, and several major hotel casinos elsewhere in the Las Vegas area.   Our Las Vegas Strip resorts also compete, in part, with each other.  According to the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority, there were approximately 149,200 and 150,500 guestrooms in Las Vegas at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.  At December 31, 2015, we operated approximately 27% of the guestrooms in Las Vegas.  Las Vegas visitor volume was 42.3 million in 2015, a 2.9% increase from the 41.1 million reported for 2014.  Major competitors, including new entrants, have either recently expanded their hotel room capacity or are currently expanding their capacity or constructing new resorts in Las Vegas.  Also, the growth of gaming in areas outside Las Vegas has increased the competition faced by our operations in Las Vegas.



Outside Nevada, our resorts primarily compete with other hotel casinos in their markets and for customers in surrounding regional gaming markets, where location is a critical factor to success.  In addition, we compete with gaming operations in surrounding jurisdictions and other leisure destinations in each region. For example, in Detroit, Michigan we compete with a casino in nearby Windsor, Canada and with Native American casinos in Michigan.  In Biloxi, Mississippi we compete with regional riverboat and land-based casinos in Louisiana, Native American casinos in central Mississippi and with casinos in Florida and the Bahamas.





Our key competitors in Macau include five other gaming concessionaires and subconcessionaires. If the Macau government were to grant additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face additional competition which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  Additionally, we face competition at our Macau and Cotai properties from several concessionaires who have expansion plans announced or underway, primarily on the Cotai Strip with several expected openings in 2016 and 2017.



We expect competition in the Macau market to continue to increase, as more capacity is brought online in the near future.  We also encounter competition from major gaming centers located in other areas of Asia and around the world, including Singapore, Malaysia, the Philippines, Australia, New Zealand, Las Vegas, cruise ships in Asia that offer gaming and from unlicensed gaming operations in the region.



Corporate and other.Much like our wholly owned resorts, our unconsolidated affiliates compete through the quality of amenities, the value of the experience offered to guests and the location of their resorts.  Aria, which we manage and own 50% through CityCenter, appeals to the upper end of each segment in the Las Vegas market and competes with our wholly owned casino resorts and other resorts on the Las Vegas Strip.  Our other unconsolidated affiliates mainly compete for customers against casino resorts in their respective markets.



Marketing



Our marketing efforts are conducted through various means, including our loyalty programs as discussed further below. We advertise on radio, television, internet and billboards and in newspapers and magazines in selected cities throughout the United States and overseas, as well as by direct mail, email and through the use of social media.  We also advertise through our regional marketing offices located in major U.S. and foreign cities.  A key element of marketing to premium gaming customers is personal contact by our marketing personnel.  Direct marketing is also important in the convention segment.  We maintain websites to inform customers about our resorts and allow our customers to reserve hotel rooms, make restaurant reservations and purchase show tickets.  We actively utilize several social media sites to promote our brands, unique events, and special deals.










Wholly owned domestic resorts.M life, our customer loyalty program, is a broad-based program recognizing and rewarding customer spending across many channels focusing on wallet share capture and increased loyalty through unique and exclusive benefits and rewards.  M life provides access to rewards, privileges, and members-only events.  M life is a tiered program and allows customers to qualify for benefits across our participating resorts and in both gaming and non-gaming areas, encouraging customers to keep their total spend within our casino resorts. Members may earnpointsand/or Express Comps for their gaming play which can be redeemed at restaurants, box offices or the M life front desk at participating properties.  Points may also be redeemed forfree slot play on participating machines. Members can utilize the M life website,www.mlife.com, to see offers, tier levels and point and Express Comps balances.



M life utilizes advanced analytic techniques that identify customer preferences and help predict future customer behavior, allowing us to make more relevant offers to members, influence incremental visits, and help build lasting customer relationships. In addition to the loyalty program, we issue a company magazine - M life Magazine - to highlight customers’ experiences and showcase “Moments” that members can redeem through the accumulation of Express Comps.



We also utilize our world-class golf courses in marketing programs at our Las Vegas Strip resorts.  Our major Las Vegas resorts offer luxury suite packages that include golf privileges at Shadow Creek in North Las Vegas.  In connection with our marketing activities, we also invite our premium gaming customers to play Shadow Creek on a complimentary basis. Additionally, marketing efforts at Beau Rivage in Biloxi, Mississippi benefit from the Fallen Oak golf course located 20 minutes north of Beau Rivage.



MGM China.MGM Macau’s loyalty program is the Golden Lion Club, a tiered program which meets the needs of a range of members from lower spending leisure and entertainment customers through the highest level VIP cash players.  The structured rewards system based on member value and tiers ensures that customers can progressively access the full range of services that the resort provides. The program is aspirational by design and transparent in its rewards, encouraging members to increase both visitation and spend.  In addition to the rewards offered to Golden Lion Club members, MGM Macau has developed dedicated gaming and non-gaming areas to reflect different levels of rated play. Information from the Golden Lion Club is used to analyze customer usage by segment and individual player profile.



In addition to the Golden Lion Club program, MGM Macau has also created and continues to expand several luxurious private gaming salons that provide distinctive, high-end environments for the VIP players brought to the resort through gaming promoters and the in-house VIP marketing team.  MGM Macau has created a variety of incentive programs to reward gaming promoters for increased business and efficiency.



Technology



We utilize various types of technology to maximize revenue, drive efficiency in our operations, and serve our customers more effectively. We continue to move forward on standardizing the technology platforms for several of our key operational systems. The standardization of these systems will afford us efficiencies in operations and integration with future technology. These systems capture charges made by our customers during their stay, including allowing customers of our resorts to charge meals and services at our other local resorts to their hotel folio. Additionally, we utilize yield management programs at our resorts that help us maximize occupancy and room rates.



We continue to enhance our eCommerce platform, which is critical to our digital platforms that support our domestic portfolio of casino resorts. Our eCommerce platform provides our guests and business partners a premier digital experience where they have the ability to create an all-inclusive experience, from accommodations to dining to shows with real time recommendations provided based on the guests’ shopping experience.  Available through our domestic resorts’ individual websites and our loyalty program website (www.mlife.com), the eCommerce platform gives guests the power to customize a complete itinerary from our full portfolio of experiences, all in one place. In addition, this platform also provides our contact center agents in Las Vegas a unified and integrated customer service application, allowing our agents to provide fast, efficient, and pertinent service to our guests.



Employees and Management



We believe that knowledgeable, friendly and dedicated employees are a key success factor in the hospitality industry.  Therefore, we invest heavily in recruiting, training, motivating and retaining exceptional employees, and we seek to hire and promote the strongest management team possible.  We have numerous programs, both at the corporate and business unit level, designed to achieve these objectives.  We believe our internal development programs, such as the MGM Resorts University and various leadership and management training programs, are best in class among our industry peers.










Corporate Social Responsibility



We seek to conduct our business in an effective, socially responsible way while striving to maximize shareholder value.  Our corporate social responsibility efforts are overseen by the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee of our Board of Directors.



Diversity and inclusion.Diversity and inclusion are fundamental to our Company’s value system, our people philosophy, our cultural life and therefore, our competitive advantage as an employer and destination of choice for our global customer base.  Our diversity initiative at our resorts fosters employee engagement, individual responsibility, team collaboration, leadership competency, high performance and innovation.  Our diversity initiative has been widely recognized for many years and has been awarded numerous accolades.



Philanthropy and community engagement.Our host community and social investments are prioritized to strengthen the communities where our employees live, work and care for their families.  Our community platform features three main programs: our Corporate Giving Program, our employee-funded MGM Resorts Foundation and our Employee Volunteer Program.  Through these channels, we make financial and in-kind donations, contribute volunteer service and participate in civic and non-profit organizations and issues that advance the quality of life in our communities. Key investment areas include basic human needs, diversity, public education, health and wellness and environmental sustainability.



Environmental sustainability.We continue to gain recognition for our comprehensive environmental responsibility initiatives in energy and water conservation, recycling and waste management, sustainable supply chain and green building.  Certain of our casino resorts in Nevada and our casino resort in Michigan were the first in each state to earn certification from Green Key, the largest international program evaluating sustainable hotel operations.  We received certifications at all of our wholly owned domestic resorts and Aria and Vdara at CityCenter. Aria, Vdara, Bellagio and Mandalay Bay are the only casino resorts to receive “Five Green Key” (the highest possible) ratings.  Many major travel service providers recognize the Green Key designation and identify our resorts for their continued commitment to sustainable hotel operations.



In addition, we believe that incorporating the tenets of sustainability in our business decisions advances a platform for innovation and operational efficiency. CityCenter (Aria, Vdara, Veer, Mandarin Oriental Las Vegas, and The Shops at Crystals) is one of the world’s largest private sustainable developments. With six LEED®Gold certifications from the U.S. Green Building Council, CityCenter serves as the standard for combining luxury and environmental responsibility within the large-scale hospitality industry.



At MGM Macau, we incorporate the same commitment to environmental preservation.  Our efforts to improve energy efficiency, indoor air quality, and environmental stewardship have resulted in MGM Macau receiving the Macau Environmental Protection Bureau – Macau Green Hotel Award.



The construction of MGM National Harbor and MGM Springfield will further position MGM Resorts as a leader in sustainable resort operations, and by adopting innovative technologies in the design and operating practices of these resorts, we are advancing our commitment to protecting the planet in new regions.



Development and Leveraging Our Brand and Management Assets



In allocating resources, our financial strategy is focused on managing a proper mix of investing in existing resorts, spending on new resorts and other developments or initiatives and repaying long-term debt. We believe there are reasonable investments for us to make in new initiatives and at our current resorts that will provide profitable returns.



We regularly evaluate possible expansion and acquisition opportunities in domestic and international markets. Opportunities we evaluate may include the ownership, management and operation of gaming and other entertainment facilities in Nevada, or in states other than Nevada, or outside of the United States. We leverage our management expertise and well-recognized brands through strategic partnerships and international expansion opportunities. We feel that several of our brands, particularly the “MGM Grand,” “Bellagio,” and “Skylofts” brands, are well suited to new projects in both gaming and non-gaming developments. We may undertake these opportunities either alone or in cooperation with one or more third parties.



MGM National Harbor



The Maryland Video Lottery Facility Location Commission has awarded the Company’s subsidiary developing MGM National Harbor a license to build and operate a destination casino resort in Prince George’s County at National Harbor, which is a waterfront development located on the Potomac River just outside of Washington D.C. The expected cost to develop and construct MGM National Harbor is approximately $1.3 billion, excluding capitalized interest and land-related costs. The Company expects the resort to include a casino with approximately 3,600 slots and 160 table games including poker; a 300-room hotel with luxury spa and rooftop








pool; 93,100 square feet of high‑end branded retail and fine and casual dining; a 3,000-seat theater venue; 50,000 square feet of meeting and eventspace; and a 4,700-space parking garage. MGM National Harbor is expected to open in the fourth quarter of 2016.



MGM Springfield



A subsidiary of the Company was awarded a casino license to build and operate MGM Springfield in Springfield, Massachusetts. MGM Springfield will be developed on approximately 14 acres of land in downtown Springfield, Massachusetts. The Company’s plans for the resort currently include a casino with approximately 3,000 slots and 100 table games including poker; a 250-room hotel; 100,000 square feet of retail and restaurant space; 44,000 square feet of meeting and event space; and a 3,375-space parking garage, with an expected development and construction cost of approximately $865 million, excluding capitalized interest and land related costs. Construction of MGM Springfield is expected to be completed in late 2018.



T-Mobile Arena



In 2013, the Company formed Las Vegas Arena Company, LLC (the “Las Vegas Arena Company”) with a subsidiary of Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. (“AEG”) – a leader in sports, entertainment, and promotions – to design, construct, and operate an arena, located on a parcel of the Company’s land between Frank Sinatra Drive and New York-New York, adjacent to the Las Vegas Strip. The Company and AEG each own 50% of Las Vegas Arena Company. Such development is estimated to cost approximately $350 million,excluding capitalized interest and land related costs and is scheduled to open in April 2016.The Las Vegas Arena Company recently entered into a multi-year naming rights agreement with T-Mobile.  T-Mobile Arena will have a limited number of exclusive founding partners which already include Coca-Cola, Cox Business, Toshiba American Business Solutions Inc. and Schneider Electric.  T-Mobile Arena will seat between 18,000 and 20,000 people and is expected to host world-class events – from UFC, boxing, hockey, basketball and bull riding to high-profile awards shows and top-name concerts. Also, effective January 1, 2016, the Las Vegas Arena Company leases and operates the MGM Grand Garden Arena under a long term lease with an initial 15-year term, plus two 5-year renewal options.  See Note 6 and Note 11 for additional information related to Las Vegas Arena Company.



MGM Hospitality



The Company has entered into management agreements for future non-gaming hotels, resorts and residential products in the Middle East, North Africa, India and the United States. In 2014, the Company and the Hakkasan Group formed MGM Hakkasan Hospitality (“MGM Hakkasan”), owned 50% by each member, to design, develop and manage luxury non-gaming hotels, resorts and residences under certain brands licensed from the Company and the Hakkasan Group. Upon formation, the Company contributed its management agreements for non-gaming hotels, resorts and residential projects (outside of the greater China region) under development to MGM Hakkasan. In May 2015, the Company and the Hakkasan Group mutually agreed to terminate MGM Hakkasan and the brand license from Hakkasan Group. The Company will continue to develop these projects under its brands through MGM Hospitality (a wholly owned subsidiary). Additionally, the Company will continue to develop and manage properties in the greater China region with Diaoyutai State Guesthouse, including MGM Grand Sanya.



FormationandProposedInitial Public Offering of MGM Growth Properties, LLC (“ MGP” )



On October 29, 2015, we announced the formation of MGP, a newly formed subsidiary that we expect to be taxed as a real estate investment trust (“REIT”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We intend to contribute the real estate associated with Mandalay Bay, The Mirage, New York-New York, Luxor, Monte Carlo, Excalibur, The Park, MGM Grand Detroit, Beau Rivage and Gold Strike Tunica (collectively, the “Properties”) to a newly formed operating partnership (the “Operating Partnership”), which MGP will control through a general partner subsidiary. We also intend to incur approximately $4 billion of debt to refinance a portion of the debt outstanding under our existing senior credit facility and senior notes, which refinancing debt would be assumed by the Operating Partnership in connection with the REIT transaction. One of our subsidiaries will then lease the Properties from MGP for use under a long-term, “triple net” master lease agreement with an initial 10-year term that includes four five-year extensions at our option. We will guarantee our subsidiary’s obligations under the master lease. We expect to retain through subsidiaries an approximate 70% economic interest in the new Operating Partnership, as well as voting control of MGP through our ownership of a controlling share in MGP.



We also announced that MGP had submitted a draft confidential registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) relating to its proposed initial public offering (“IPO”) of shares, the proceeds of which would be used to purchase an approximate 30% economic interest in the Operating Partnership. The transaction is expected to be completed in the first half of 2016, subject to regulatory approvals, including receipt of approvals from gaming regulators, MGP’s registration statement on Form S-11 being declared effective by the SEC, completion of the related financings needed to fund MGP, general market conditions and other customary conditions. MGP is expected to file the REIT election with its tax return for the calendar year ending December








31, 2016. We may, at any time and for any reason until the proposed transaction is complete, abandon the transaction or modify orchange the terms of the transaction.



Although the number of shares that will be sold to the public in connection with the proposed IPO has not been determined, we expect that we will continue to consolidate MGP’s results of operations with our business for accounting purposes upon the completion of the proposed IPO and for so long as we retain the controlling share in MGP. The minority interest that we do not own following the completion of the proposed IPO will be reflected in our consolidated balance sheets as “non-controlling interests” and such interest’s proportionate share of MGP’s net income or losses will be reflected in our consolidated statements of operations as “net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests.” We have no current intention to dispose of our controlling share of MGP or our economic interests in the operating partnership.



Intellectual Property



Our principal intellectual property consists of trademarks for, among others, Bellagio, The Mirage, Mandalay Bay, MGM, MGM Grand, MGM Resorts International, Luxor, Excalibur, New York-New York, Circus Circus and Beau Rivage, all of which have been registered or allowed in various classes in the United States.  In addition, we have also registered or applied to register numerous other trademarks in connection with our properties, facilities and development projects in the United States and in various other foreign jurisdictions. These trademarks are brand names under which we market our properties and services. We consider these brand names to be important to our business since they have the effect of developing brand identification. We believe that the name recognition, reputation and image that we have developed attract customers to our facilities. Once granted, our trademark registrations are of perpetual duration so long as they are used and periodically renewed. It is our intent to pursue and maintain our trademark registrations consistent with our goals for brand development and identification, and enforcement of our trademark rights.



Employees and Labor Relations





Regulation and Licensing



The gaming industry is highly regulated, and we must maintain our licenses and pay gaming taxes to continue our operations.  Each of our casinos is subject to extensive regulation under the laws, rules and regulations of the jurisdiction in which it is located.  These laws, rules and regulations generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners, managers, and persons with financial interest in the gaming operations. Violations of laws in one jurisdiction could result in disciplinary action in other jurisdictions.



A more detailed description of the gaming regulations to which we are subject is contained in Exhibit 99.2 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which Exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.



Our businesses are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations affecting businesses in general.  These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, smoking, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes (including regulations under the Americans with Disabilities Act, which requires all publicaccommodations to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons), construction, land use and marketing and advertising.  We also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering regulations. Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted.  Material changes, new laws or regulations, or material differences in interpretations by courts or governmental authorities could adversely affect our operating results.










In addition, we are subject to certain federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and the Oil Pollution Act of 1990. Under various federal, state and local laws and regulations, an owner or operator of real property may be held liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances or wastes located on its property, regardless of whether or not the presentowner or operator knows of, or is responsible for, the presence of such substances or wastes. We have not identified any issues associated with our properties that could reasonably be expected to have an adverse effect on us or the results of our operations.



Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements



This Form 10-K and our 2015 Annual Report to Stockholders contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “seeks,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “will,” “may” and similar references to future periods. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements we make regarding ourability and ultimate decision to complete the REIT transaction and related financing transactions, the anticipated terms of any such REIT transaction, including the terms of the master lease, and the realization of any potential advantages, benefits and the impact of, and opportunities created by, the REIT transaction; expected market growth in Macau; ourability to generate significant cash flow and execute on ongoing and future projects, such as the Profit Growth Plan, and the expected results of the Profit Growth Plan;amounts we will spend in capital expenditures and investments; the opening of strategic resort and other developments and the estimated costs and expected components associated with those developments; and dividends and distributions we will receive from MGM Chinaor CityCenter. The foregoing is not a complete list of all forward-looking statements we make.



Forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions regarding our business, the economy and other future conditions.  Because forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks, and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Our actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements. They are neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees or assurances of future performance. Therefore, we caution you against relying on any of these forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, regional, national or global political, economic, business, competitive, market, and regulatory conditions and the following:



·our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could adversely affect our operations and financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations;

·current and future economic and credit market conditions could adversely affect our ability to service or refinance our indebtedness and to make planned expenditures and investmentsas well as strategic initiatives such as the proposed REIT transaction;

·restrictions and limitations in the agreements governing our senior credit facility and other senior indebtedness could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity;

·risks associated with our proposed REIT transaction;

·significant competition we face with respect to destination travel locations generally and with respect to our peers in the industries in which we compete;

·the fact that our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations could adversely affect our business,including whether or when we may be able to complete the proposed REIT transaction;

·the impact on our business of economic and market conditions in the markets in which we operate and in the locations in which our customers reside;

·the fact that we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of our Profit Growth Plan;

·restrictions on our ability to have any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in China, Macau, Hong Kong and Taiwan, other than through MGM China;

·the ability of the Macau government to terminate MGM Grand Paradise’s gaming subconcession under certain circumstances without compensating MGM Grand Paradise or refuse to grant MGM Grand Paradise an extension of the subconcession, which is scheduled to expire on March 31, 2020;

·our ability to build and open our development in Cotai, which is expected to be completed at the end of the first quarter of 2017;

·the dependence of MGM Macau upon gaming promoters for a significant portion of gaming revenues in Macau;

·our ability to recognize our foreign tax credit deferred asset and the variability of the valuation allowance we may apply against such deferred tax asset;

·extreme weather conditions or climate change may cause property damage or interrupt business;

·the concentration of a majority of our major gaming resorts on the Las Vegas Strip;

·the fact that we extend credit to a large portion of our customers and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables;








·the potential occurrence of impairments to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets or long-lived assets which could negatively affect future profits;

·the susceptibility of leisure and business travel, especially travel by air, to global geopolitical events, such as terrorist attacks or acts of war or hostility, and to disease epidemics;

·the fact that co-investing in properties, including our investment in CityCenter, decreases our ability to manage risk;

·the fact that future construction, development or expansion projects will be susceptible to substantial development and construction risks;

·the fact that our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain similar insurance coverage in the future;

·the fact that a failure to protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names and adversely affect our business;

·the risks associated with doing business outside of the United States and the impact of any potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other similar anti-corruption laws;

·risks related to pending claims that have been, or future claims that may be, brought against us;

·the fact that a significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements;

·the sensitivity of our business to energy prices and a rise in energy prices could harm our operating results;

·the potential that failure to maintain the integrity of our computer systems and internal customer information could result in damage of reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or other restrictions on our use or transfer of data;

·increases in gaming taxes and fees in the jurisdictions in which we operate;

·the fact that acquisitions, dispositions or other investments we may seek to pursue in the future may be unsuccessful; and

·the potential for conflicts of interest to arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of MGM China, which is now a publicly traded company listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.



Any forward-looking statement made by us in this Form 10-K or our 2015 Annual Report to Stockholders speaks only as of the date on which it is made. Factors or events that could cause our actual results to differ may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of them. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as may be required by law. If we update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be made that we will make additional updates with respect to those or other forward-looking statements.



You should also be aware that while we from time to time communicate with securities analysts, we do not disclose to them any material non-public information, internal forecasts or other confidential business information. Therefore, you should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by any analyst, irrespective of the content of the statement or report. To the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain projections, forecasts or opinions, those reports are not our responsibility and are not endorsed by us.



Executive Officers of the Registrant



The following table sets forth, as of February 29, 2016, the name, age and position of each of our executive officers.  Executive officers are elected by and serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.



NameAgePositionJames J. Murren54Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerRobert H. Baldwin65Chief Customer Development OfficerWilliam J. Hornbuckle58PresidentCorey I. Sanders52Chief Operating OfficerDaniel J. D’Arrigo47Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and TreasurerPhyllis A. James63Executive Vice President, Special Counsel – Litigation and Chief Diversity OfficerJohn M. McManus48Executive Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryRobert C. Selwood60Executive Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer



Mr. Murren has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since December 2008 and as President from December 1999 to December 2012.  He served as Chief Operating Officer from August 2007 through December 2008.  He was Chief Financial Officer from January 1998 to August 2007 and Treasurer from November 2001 to August 2007.










Mr. Baldwin has served as Chief Customer Development Officer since August 2015.  He served as Chief Design and Construction Officer from August 2007 to August 2015, Chief Executive Officer of Mirage Resorts from June 2000 to August 2007 and President and Chief Executive Officer of Bellagio, LLC from June 1996 to March 2005.



Mr. Hornbuckle has served as President since December 2012.  He served as Chief Marketing Officer from August 2009 to August 2014 and President and Chief Operating Officer of Mandalay Bay Resort & Casino from April 2005 to August 2009.



Mr. Sanders has served as Chief Operating Officer since September 2010.  He served as Chief Operating Officer for the Company’s Core Brand and Regional Properties from August 2009 to September 2010, as Executive Vice President—Operations from August 2007 to August 2009, as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for MGM Grand Resorts from April 2005 to August 2007.



Mr. D’Arrigo has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since August 2007 and as Treasurer since September 2009.  He served as Senior Vice President—Finance of the Company from February 2005 to August 2007 and as Vice President—Finance of the Company from December 2000 to February 2005.



Ms. James has served as Executive Vice President and Special Counsel—Litigation since July 2010 and as Chief Diversity Officer since 2009.  She served as Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel of the Company from March 2002 to July 2010.



Mr. McManus has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since July 2010.  He served as Senior Vice President, Acting General Counsel and Secretary of the Company from December 2009 to July 2010.  He served as Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from September 2009 to December 2009.  He served as Senior Vice President, Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of the Company from July 2008 to September 2009.  He served as Vice President and General Counsel for CityCenter’s residential and retail divisions from January 2006 to July 2008.



Mr. Selwood has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer since August 2007.  He served as Senior Vice President—Accounting of the Company from February 2005 to August 2007 and as Vice President—Accounting of the Company from December 2000 to February 2005.



Available Information



We maintain a website atwww.mgmresorts.comthat includes financial and other information for investors.  We provide access to our SEC filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q (including related filings in XBRL format), filed and furnished current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports on our website, free of charge, through a link to the SEC’s EDGAR database.  Through that link, our filings are available as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish the documents with the SEC.



These filings are also available on the SEC’s website atwww.sec.gov.  In addition, the public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549 and may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.



Because of the time differences between Macau and the United States, we also use our corporate website as a means of posting important information about MGM China.



Reference in this document to our website address does not incorporate by reference the information contained on the website into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.














