ITEM 1.BUSINESS



MGM MIRAGE is referred to as the “Company” or the
    “Registrant,” and together with our subsidiaries may
    also be referred to as “we,” “us” or
    “our.”



Overview



MGM MIRAGE is one of the world’s leading and most respected
    companies with significant holdings in gaming, hospitality and
    entertainment. We believe the resorts we own, manage, and invest
    in are among the world’s finest casino resorts. MGM MIRAGE
    is a Delaware corporation that acts largely as a holding
    company; our operations are conducted through our wholly-owned
    subsidiaries.



Our strategy is to generate sustainable, profitable growth by
    creating and maintaining competitive advantages and through the
    execution of our business plan, which is focused on:



•Owning, developing, operating and strategically investing in a
    strong portfolio of resorts;•Operating our resorts in a manner that emphasizes the delivery
    of excellent customer service with the goal of maximizing
    revenue and profit; and•Leveraging our strong brands and taking advantage of significant
    management experience and expertise.



Resort
    Portfolio



We execute our strategy through a portfolio approach, seeking to
    ensure that we own, invest in and manage resorts that are
    superior to our competitors’ resorts in the markets in
    which our resorts are located and across our customer base. Our
    customer base is discussed below under “Resort
    Operation.”



We selectively acquire, invest in and develop resorts in markets
    with a stable regulatory history and environment. As seen in the
    table below, this means that a large portion of our resorts are
    located in Nevada. We target markets with growth potential and
    we believe there is growth potential in investing in and
    managing both gaming and non-gaming resorts. Our growth
    strategies are discussed in greater detail below under
    “Sustainable Growth and Leveraging Our Brand and Management
    Assets.”



Our
    Operating Resorts



We have provided below certain information about our resorts as
    of December 31, 2009. Except as otherwise indicated, we
    wholly own and operate the resorts shown below.



Number ofApproximateGuestroomsCasino SquareGamingName and Locationand SuitesFootageSlots(1)Tables(2)Las Vegas Strip, NevadaCityCenter — 50% owned (3)5,060150,0001,940140Bellagio3,933160,0002,272152MGM Grand Las Vegas (4)6,198158,0002,278162Mandalay Bay (5)4,752160,0001,859102The Mirage3,044118,0001,95897Luxor4,370113,0001,32968Excalibur3,98189,0001,47764New York-New York2,02584,0001,69267Monte Carlo2,992102,0001,49862Circus Circus Las Vegas3,767126,0001,75772Subtotal40,1221,260,00018,060986





Number ofApproximateGuestroomsCasino SquareGamingName and Locationand SuitesFootageSlots(1)Tables(2)Other NevadaCircus Circus Reno(Reno)1,57270,00092335Silver Legacy — 50% owned(Reno)1,50687,0001,49863Gold Strike(Jean)81037,0006679Railroad Pass(Henderson)12013,0003335Other OperationsMGM Grand Detroit(Detroit, Michigan)400100,0004,09097Beau Rivage(Biloxi, Mississippi)1,74075,0002,05293Gold Strike(Tunica, Mississippi)1,13350,0001,35858MGM Grand Macau — 50% owned(Macau S.A.R.)593215,000938429Borgata — 50% owned(Atlantic City, New Jersey)2,769160,0003,925182Grand Victoria — 50% owned(Elgin, Illinois)—30,0001,12228Grand Total50,7652,097,00034,9661,985









(1)Includes slot machines, video poker machines and other
    electronic gaming devices.(2)Includes blackjack (“21”), baccarat, craps, roulette
    and other table games; does not include poker.(3)We manage CityCenter for a fee. Includes Aria with 4,004 rooms,
    Mandarin Oriental Las Vegas with 392 rooms, and 664 rooms
    available for rent at Vdara.(4)Includes 1,154 rooms available for rent at The Signature at MGM
    Grand.(5)Includes the Four Seasons Hotel with 424 guest rooms and
    THEhotel with 1,117 suites.



More detailed information about each of our operating resorts
    can be found in Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report onForm 10-K,which Exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.



Portfolio
    Strategy



We believe we operate the highest quality resorts in each of the
    markets in which we operate. Ensuring our resorts are the
    premier resorts in their respective markets requires targeted
    capital investments that promote our goal to create the greatest
    possible experiences for our guests. We have historically made
    significant investments in our resorts through the addition of
    new restaurants, entertainment and nightlife offerings, and
    other new features and amenities. In addition, we have made
    regular capital investments to maintain the quality of our hotel
    rooms and public spaces. The quality of our resorts can be
    measured by our success in winning numerous awards, such as
    several Four and Five Diamond designations from the American
    Automobile Association and Four and Five Star designations from
    Mobil Travel.



We also actively manage our portfolio of land holdings. We own
    approximately 670 acres of land on the Las Vegas Strip,
    with a meaningful portion of those acres undeveloped acreage or
    acreage we consider to be under-developed.



Risks
    Associated with Our Portfolio Strategy



Certain principal risk factors relating to our current portfolio
    of resorts are:



•Our limited geographic diversification — our major
    resorts are concentrated on the Las Vegas Strip and some of our
    largest competitors operate in more gaming markets than we do;•There are a number of gaming facilities located closer to where
    our customers live than our resorts; and•Additional new hotel-casinos and expansion projects at existing
    Las Vegas hotel-casinos are under construction or have been
    proposed. We are unable to determine to what extent increased
    competition will affect our future operating results.



See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” below for a more
    detailed discussion of these and other risk factors.





Resort
    Operation



Our operating philosophy is to create resorts of memorable
    character, treat our employees well and provide superior service
    for our guests. We also seek to develop competitive advantages
    in specific markets and among specific customer groups.



General



We primarily own and operate casino resorts, which includes
    offering gaming, hotel, dining, entertainment, retail and other
    resort amenities. Over half of our net revenue is derived from
    non-gaming activities, a higher percentage than many of our
    competitors, as our operating philosophy is to provide a
    complete resort experience for our guests, including high
    quality non-gaming amenities for which our guests are willing to
    pay a premium.



As a resort-based company, our operating results are highly
    dependent on the volume of customers at our resorts, which in
    turn affects the price we can charge for our hotel rooms and
    other amenities. Since we believe that the number of walk-in
    customers affects the success of our casino resorts, we design
    our facilities to maximize their attraction to guests of other
    hotels. We also generate a significant portion of our operating
    income from the high-end gaming segment, which can be a cause of
    variability in our results.



Most of our revenue is essentially cash-based, through customers
    wagering with cash or paying for non-gaming services with cash
    or credit cards. Our resorts, like many in the industry,
    generate significant operating cash flow. Our industry is
    capital intensive and we rely heavily on the ability of our
    resorts to generate operating cash flow to repay debt financing,
    fund maintenance capital expenditures and provide excess cash
    for future development.



Our results of operations do not tend to be seasonal in nature,
    though a variety of factors can affect the results of any
    interim period, including the timing of major Las Vegas
    conventions, the amount and timing of marketing and special
    events for our high-end customers, and the level of play during
    major holidays, including New Year and Chinese New Year. Our
    significant convention and meeting facilities typically allow us
    to maximize hotel occupancy and customer volumes during off-peak
    times, such as mid-week or during traditionally slower leisure
    travel periods, which also leads to better labor utilization.
    Our results do not depend on key individual customers, although
    our success in marketing to customer groups, such as convention
    customers, or the financial health of customer segments, such as
    business travelers or high-end gaming customers from a
    particular country or region, can affect our results.



All of our casino resorts operate 24 hours a day, every day
    of the year, with the exception of Grand Victoria which operates
    22 hours a day, every day of the year. At our wholly-owned
    resorts, our primary casino and hotel operations are owned and
    managed by us. Other resort amenities may be owned and operated
    by us, owned by us but managed by third parties for a fee, or
    leased to third parties. We generally have an operating
    philosophy that favors ownership and management of amenities,
    since guests have direct contact with staff in these areas and
    we prefer to control all aspects of the guest experience;
    however, we do lease space to retail and food and beverage
    operators in certain situations, particularly for branding
    opportunities and where capital investment by us is not
    feasible. We also operate many “managed” outlets,
    utilizing third-party management for specific expertise in areas
    such as restaurants and nightclubs, as well as for branding
    opportunities.



Customers
    and Competition



Our casino resorts generally operate in highly competitive
    environments. We compete against other gaming companies, as well
    as other hospitality and leisure and business travel companies.
    Our primary methods of competing successfully include:



•Locating our resorts in desirable leisure and business travel
    markets, and operating at superior sites within those markets;•Constructing and maintaining high-quality resorts and
    facilities, including luxurious guestrooms along with premier
    dining, entertainment, retail and other amenities;







•Recruiting, training and retaining well-qualified and motivated
    employees who provide superior and friendly customer service;•Providing unique, “must-see” entertainment
    attractions; and•Developing distinctive and memorable marketing and promotional
    programs.



Our Las Vegas casino resorts compete for customers with a large
    number of other hotel-casinos in the Las Vegas area, including
    major hotel-casinos on or near the Las Vegas Strip, major
    hotel-casinos in the downtown area, which is about five miles
    from the center of the Strip, and several major hotel-casinos
    elsewhere in the Las Vegas area. Our Las Vegas Strip resorts
    also compete, in part, with each other. According to the Las
    Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority, there were
    approximately 149,000 guestrooms in Las Vegas at
    December 31, 2009, up 6% from approximately 141,000 rooms
    at December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2009, we
    operated approximately 28% of the guestrooms in Las Vegas. Las
    Vegas visitor volume was 36.4 million in 2009, a decrease
    of 3% from the 37.5 million reported for 2008.



The principal segments of the Las Vegas gaming market are
    leisure travel; premium gaming customers; conventions, including
    small meetings, trade associations, and corporate incentive
    programs; and tour and travel. Our high-end wholly-owned
    properties, which include Bellagio, MGM Grand Las Vegas,
    Mandalay Bay, and The Mirage, appeal to the upper end of each
    market segment, balancing their business by using the convention
    and tour and travel segments to fill the mid-week and off-peak
    periods. Our marketing strategy for New York-New York, Luxor and
    Monte Carlo is aimed at attracting middle- to
    upper-middle-income customers, largely from the leisure travel
    and, to a lesser extent, the tour and travel segments. Excalibur
    and Circus Circus Las Vegas generally cater to the
    value-oriented and middle-income leisure travel and tour and
    travel segments.



Outside Las Vegas, our other wholly-owned Nevada operations
    compete with each other and with many other similarly sized and
    larger operations. Our Nevada resorts not located in Las Vegas
    appeal primarily to the value-oriented leisure traveler and the
    value-oriented local customer. A significant portion of our
    customers at these resorts come from California. We believe the
    expansion of Native American gaming in California has had a
    negative impact on all of our Nevada resorts not located on the
    Las Vegas Strip, and additional expansion in California could
    have a further adverse effect on these resorts.



Outside Nevada, our wholly-owned resorts primarily compete for
    customers in local and regional gaming markets, where location
    is a critical factor to success. For instance, in Tunica,
    Mississippi, one of our competitors is closer to Memphis, the
    area’s principal market. In addition, we compete with
    gaming operations in surrounding jurisdictions and other leisure
    destinations in each region. For instance, in Detroit, Michigan
    we also compete with a casino in nearby Windsor, Canada and with
    Native American casinos in Michigan. In Biloxi, Mississippi we
    also compete with regional riverboat and land-based casinos in
    Louisiana, Native American casinos in central Mississippi and
    with casinos in Florida and the Bahamas.



Aria at CityCenter appeals to the upper end of each market
    segment. Our other unconsolidated affiliates mainly compete for
    customers against casino resorts in their respective markets.
    Much like our wholly-owned resorts, our unconsolidated
    affiliates compete through the quality of amenities, the value
    of the experience offered to guests, and the location of their
    resorts. Aria, which we manage and own 50% of through a joint
    venture, also competes against our wholly-owned resorts.



Our casino resorts also compete for customers with hotel-casino
    operations located in other areas of the United States and other
    parts of the world, and for leisure and business travelers with
    non-gaming tourist destinations such as Hawaii, Florida and
    cruise ships. Our gaming operations compete to a lesser extent
    with state-sponsored lotteries, off-track wagering, card
    parlors, and other forms of legalized gaming in the United
    States.



Marketing



We advertise on radio, television and billboards and in
    newspapers and magazines in selected cities throughout the
    United States and overseas, as well as on the Internet and by
    direct mail. We also advertise through our regional marketing
    offices located in major U.S. and foreign cities. A key
    element of marketing to premium gaming customers is personal
    contact by our marketing personnel. Direct marketing is also
    important in the convention





segment. We maintain Internet websites to inform customers about
    our resorts and allow our customers to reserve hotel rooms, make
    restaurant reservations and purchase show tickets. We also
    operate call centers to allow customer contact by phone to make
    hotel and restaurant reservations and purchase show tickets.



We utilize our world-class golf courses in marketing programs at
    our Las Vegas Strip resorts. Our major Las Vegas resorts offer
    luxury suite packages that include golf privileges at Shadow
    Creek in North Las Vegas. In connection with our marketing
    activities, we also invite our premium gaming customers to play
    Shadow Creek on a complimentary basis. We also use Primm Valley
    Golf Club for marketing purposes at our Las Vegas Strip resorts.
    Additionally, marketing efforts at Beau Rivage benefit from
    Fallen Oak golf course just 20 minutes north of Beau Rivage.



Employees
    and Management



We believe that knowledgeable, friendly and dedicated employees
    are a key success factor in the casino resort industry.
    Therefore, we invest heavily in recruiting, training and
    retaining our employees, as well as seeking to hire and promote
    the strongest management team possible. We have numerous
    programs, both at the corporate and business unit level,
    designed to achieve these objectives. For example, our diversity
    initiative extends throughout our company, and focuses on the
    unique strengths of our individuals combined with a culture of
    working together to achieve greater performance. Our diversity
    program has been widely recognized and has received numerous
    awards. We believe our development programs, such as the MGM
    Grand University and various leadership and management training
    programs, arebest-in-classamong our industry peers.



Technology



We utilize technology to maximize revenue and efficiency in our
    operations. Our Players Club program links our major resorts,
    and consolidates all slots and table games activity for
    customers with a Players Club account. Customers qualify for
    benefits across all of the participating resorts, regardless of
    where they play. We believe that our Players Club enables us to
    more effectively market to our customers.



We utilize server-based slot machine technology at Aria which
    gives us the ability to present Players Club data and other
    property marketing directly to the customer. In addition,
    server-based gaming allows us to quickly convert the games
    offered on machines on the casino floor to meet customer
    requests and gives us the ability to dynamically change machine
    wagering allowing us to maximize our profits based on demand.



Technology is an important part of our strategy in non-gaming
    and administrative operations. Our hotel systems include yield
    management software programs which allow us to maximize
    occupancy and room rates. Additionally, these systems capture
    charges made by our customers during their stay, including
    allowing customers of our resorts to charge meals and services
    at our other resorts to their hotel accounts.



Internal
    Controls



We have a strong culture of compliance, driven by our history in
    the highly regulated gaming industry and our belief that
    compliance is a value-added activity. Our system of internal
    controls and procedures — including internal control
    over financial reporting — is designed to ensure
    reliable and accurate financial records, transparent
    disclosures, compliance with laws and regulations, and
    protection of our assets. Our internal controls start at the
    source of business transactions, and we have rigorous
    enforcement at both the business unit and corporate level.



Our corporate management also reviews each of our businesses on
    a regular basis and we have a corporate internal audit function
    that performs reviews regarding gaming compliance, internal
    controls over financial reporting, and operations.



In addition, we maintain a compliance committee that administers
    our company-wide compliance plan. The compliance plan is in
    place to ensure compliance with gaming and other laws applicable
    to our operations in all jurisdictions, including performing
    background investigations on our current and potential
    employees, directors and vendors as well as thorough review of
    proposed transactions and associations.





In connection with the supervision of gaming activities at our
    casinos, we maintain stringent controls on the recording of all
    receipts and disbursements and other activities, including cash
    transaction reporting which is essential in our industry. Our
    controls surrounding cash transactions include locked cash boxes
    on the casino floor, daily cash counts performed by employees
    who are independent of casino operations, constant observation
    and supervision of the gaming area, observation and recording of
    gaming and other areas by closed-circuit television, constant
    computer monitoring of our slot machines, and timely analysis of
    deviations from expected performance.



Marker play represents a significant portion of the table games
    volume at Aria, Bellagio, MGM Grand Las Vegas, Mandalay Bay and
    The Mirage. Our other facilities do not emphasize marker play to
    the same extent, although we offer markers to customers at
    certain of those casinos as well. We also maintain strict
    controls over the issuance of markers and aggressively pursue
    collection from those customers who fail to timely pay their
    marker balances. These collection efforts are similar to those
    used by most large corporations when dealing with overdue
    customer accounts, including the mailing of statements and
    delinquency notices, direct personal contact and the use of
    outside collection agencies and civil litigation.



In Nevada, Mississippi, Michigan, New Jersey and Illinois,
    amounts owed for markers which are not timely paid are
    enforceable under state laws. All other states are required to
    enforce a judgment for amounts owed for markers entered into in
    Nevada, Mississippi, New Jersey, Illinois or Michigan which are
    not timely paid, pursuant to the Full Faith and Credit Clause of
    the U.S. Constitution. Amounts owed for markers which are
    not timely paid are not legally enforceable in some foreign
    countries, but the U.S. assets of foreign customers may be
    reached to satisfy judgments entered in the United States.



Risks
    Associated With Our Operating Strategy



Certain principal risk factors relating to our operating
    strategy are:



•Our guestroom, dining and entertainment prices are often higher
    than those of most of our competitors in each market, although
    we believe that the quality of our facilities and services is
    also higher;•Our hotel-casinos compete to some extent with each other for
    customers. Aria, Bellagio, MGM Grand Las Vegas, Mandalay Bay and
    The Mirage, in particular, compete for some of the same premium
    gaming customers; MGM Grand Las Vegas and Mandalay Bay also
    compete to some extent against each other in the large-scale
    conference and convention business; and•Additional new hotel-casinos and expansion projects at existing
    Las Vegas hotel-casinos are under construction or have been
    proposed. We are unable to determine the extent to which
    increased competition will affect our future operating results.



See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” below for a more
    detailed discussion of these and other risk factors.



Sustainable
    Growth and Leveraging Our Brand and Management Assets



In allocating resources, our financial strategy is focused on
    managing a proper mix of investing in existing resorts, spending
    on new resorts or initiatives, repaying long-term debt, and
    returning capital to shareholders. Historically, we have
    actively allocated capital to each of these areas. We believe
    there are reasonable investments for us to make in new
    initiatives that will provide returns in excess of the other
    options, although these decisions have been significantly
    affected by the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009, which limited
    our access to capital at prices low enough to finance all of our
    new initiatives.



We regularly evaluate possible expansion and acquisition
    opportunities in both the domestic and international markets,
    but cannot at this time determine the likelihood of proceeding
    with specific development opportunities. Opportunities we
    evaluate may include the ownership, management and operation of
    gaming and other entertainment facilities in Nevada or in states
    other than Nevada or outside of the United States. We may
    undertake these opportunities either alone or in cooperation
    with one or more third parties. Due to the financial crisis in
    2008 and 2009, we postponed certain development projects
    including a resort complex on our72-acresite
    in Atlantic City and an integrated resort to be located on the
    southwest corner of Las Vegas Boulevard and Sahara Avenue with
    Kerzner International and Istithmar. We do not expect to move
    forward with these projects until general economic





conditions, market conditions, and our financial position
    improve, and in the case of the Atlantic City development, we do
    not intend to pursue this development for the foreseeable
    future — see “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”
    for further discussion of the related impairment charge.



We also seek to leverage our management expertise and
    well-recognized brands through strategic partnerships and
    international expansion opportunities. We feel that several of
    our brands, particularly the “MGM Grand,”
    “Bellagio,” and “Skylofts” brands, are well
    suited to new projects in both gaming and non-gaming
    developments. We formed MGM MIRAGE Hospitality, LLC
    (“Hospitality”), which includes MGM MIRAGE Global
    Gaming Development, principally focused on international gaming
    expansion. The purpose of Hospitality is to source strategic
    resort development and management opportunities, both gaming and
    non-gaming, focusing on international opportunities, which we
    believe offer the greatest opportunity for future growth. We
    have hired senior personnel with established backgrounds in the
    development and management of international hospitality
    operations to maximize the profit potential of
    Hospitality’s operations.



MGM Grand
    Abu Dhabi



In November 2007, we announced plans to develop MGM Grand Abu
    Dhabi, a multi-billion dollar, large-scale, mixed-use
    development that will serve as an incoming gateway to Abu Dhabi,
    a United Arab Emirate, located at a prominent downtown
    waterfront site on Abu Dhabi Island. The project will be wholly
    owned by Mubadala Development Company; we do not have a capital
    investment in this project. We currently provide development
    management services for the project, and upon opening, will
    manage the project under a long-term management services
    agreement. The initial phase will utilize 50 acres and
    consist of MGM Grand, Bellagio and Skylofts hotels, and a
    variety of luxury residential offerings. Additionally, the
    development will feature a major entertainment facility,
    high-end retail shops, and world-class dining and convention
    facilities. The first phase of the development is expected to
    open in 2014.



Mashantucket
    Pequot Tribal Nation



We have an agreement with the Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Nation
    (“MPTN”), which owns and operates Foxwoods Casino
    Resort in Mashantucket, Connecticut for the casino resort owned
    and operated by MPTN located adjacent to the Foxwoods Casino
    Resort to carry the “MGM Grand” brand name. We earn a
    fee for MPTN to use the “MGM Grand” name.



China



We have formed a joint venture with the Diaoyutai State
    Guesthouse in Beijing, People’s Republic of China, to
    develop luxury non-gaming hotels and resorts in China, initially
    targeting prime locations, including Beijing, in the
    People’s Republic of China. We have signed three technical
    and management services agreements for resorts which will open
    over the next four years. We have minimal capital investments
    required for such projects.



Vietnam



In November 2008, we and Asian Coast Development Ltd. announced
    plans to develop MGM Grand Ho Tram, which is expected to open in
    2012. MGM Grand Ho Tram will anchor a multi-property complex on
    the Ho Tram Strip in the Ba Ria Vung Tau Province in southwest
    Vietnam. MGM Grand Ho Tram will be owned and financed by Asian
    Coast Development Ltd. and we will provide development
    assistance and operate the luxury integrated resort upon
    completion. We have no capital investment in this project.





Risks
    Associated With Our Growth and Brand Management
    Strategies



Certain principal risk factors relating to our growth strategy
    are:



•Development and operation of gaming facilities in new or
    existing jurisdictions are subject to many contingencies, some
    of which are outside of our control and may include the passage
    of appropriate gaming legislation, the issuance of necessary
    permits, licenses and approvals, the availability of appropriate
    financing and the satisfaction of other conditions;•Operations in which we may engage in foreign territories are
    subject to risks pertaining to international operations that may
    include financial risks such as foreign currency, adverse tax
    consequences, inability to adequately enforce our rights; and
    regulatory and political risks such as foreign government
    regulations, general geopolitical risks including political and
    economic instability, hostilities with neighboring countries,
    and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and•Expansion projects involve risks and uncertainties. For example,
    the design, timing and costs of the projects may change and are
    subject to risks attendant to large-scale projects to the extent
    we are responsible for financing such projects.



See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” below for a more
    detailed discussion of these and other risk factors.



Employees
    and Labor Relations



As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately
    46,000 full-time and 16,000 part-time employees; 7,000
    and 2,100 of which, respectively, relate to CityCenter. At that
    date, we had collective bargaining contracts with unions
    covering approximately 31,000 of our employees. We consider our
    employee relations to be good. The collective bargaining
    agreement covering approximately 4,000 employees at MGM
    Grand Las Vegas expired in 2008. We have signed an extension of
    such agreement and are currently negotiating a new agreement.
    The collective bargaining agreements covering most of our other
    union employees expire in 2012.



Regulation
    and Licensing



The gaming industry is highly regulated, and we must maintain
    our licenses and pay gaming taxes to continue our operations.
    Each of our casinos is subject to extensive regulation under the
    laws, rules and regulations of the jurisdiction in which it is
    located. These laws, rules and regulations generally concern the
    responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners,
    managers, and persons with financial interest in the gaming
    operations. Violations of laws in one jurisdiction could result
    in disciplinary action in other jurisdictions.



A more detailed description of the regulations to which we are
    subject is contained in Exhibit 99.2 to this Annual Report
    onForm 10-K,which Exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.



Our businesses are subject to various federal, state and local
    laws and regulations in addition to gaming regulations. These
    laws and regulations include, but are not limited to,
    restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages,
    environmental matters, employees, currency transactions,
    taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and
    advertising. Such laws and regulations could change or could be
    interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and
    regulations could be enacted. Material changes, new laws or
    regulations, or material differences in interpretations by
    courts or governmental authorities could adversely affect our
    operating results.



Forward-Looking
    Statements



ThisForm 10-Kand our 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders contain
    “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the
    U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
    Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as
    “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,”
    “seeks,” “believes,” “estimates,”
    “expects,” and similar references to future periods.
    Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not
    limited to, statements we make regarding our ability to generate
    significant cash flow and amounts that we expect to receive in
    federal tax refunds, amounts we will invest in capital
    expenditures, amounts we will pay under the CityCenter
    completion guarantee and receive from the sale of residential
    units at CityCenter. The foregoing is not a complete list of all
    forward-looking statements we make.





Forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations
    and assumptions regarding our business, the economy and other
    future conditions. Because forward-looking statements relate to
    the future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks,
    and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Our
    actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by
    the forward-looking statements. They are neither statements of
    historical fact nor guarantees or assurances of future
    performance. Therefore, we caution you against relying on any of
    these forward-looking statements. Important factors that could
    cause actual results to differ materially from those in the
    forward-looking statements include regional, national or global
    political, economic, business, competitive, market, and
    regulatory conditions and the following:





•our substantial indebtedness and significant financial
    commitments;



•current and future credit market conditions and general economic
    and business conditions, which could adversely affect our
    ability to service or refinance our indebtedness and to make
    planned expenditures;



•our senior credit facility and other senior indebtedness contain
    restrictions which could affect our ability to operate our
    business and our liquidity;



•competition with other destination travel locations throughout
    the United States and the world;



•the fact that several of our businesses are subject to extensive
    regulation; the cost or failure to comply with these regulations
    would affect our business;



•effects of economic conditions and market conditions in the
    markets in which we operate;



•extreme weather conditions may cause property damage or
    interrupt our business;



•changes in energy prices;



•our concentration of gaming resorts on the Las Vegas Strip;



•leisure and business travel is susceptible to global
    geopolitical events, such as terrorism or acts of war;



•investing through partnerships or joint ventures, including
    CityCenter and MGM Grand Macau, decreases our ability to manage
    risk;



•plans for future construction can be affected by a variety of
    factors, including timing delays and legal challenges;



•the outcome of any ongoing and future litigation;



•the fact that Tracinda Corporation owns a significant portion of
    our stock and may have interests that differ from the interests
    of our other shareholders; and



•a significant portion of our labor force is covered by
    collective bargaining agreements.



Any forward-looking statement made by us in thisForm 10-Kand our 2009 Annual Report speaks only as of the date on which
    it is made. Factors or events that could cause our actual
    results to differ may emerge from time to time, and it is not
    possible for us to predict all of them. We undertake no
    obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement,
    whether as a result of new information, future developments or
    otherwise, except as may be required by law.



You should also be aware that while we from time to time
    communicate with securities analysts, we do not disclose to them
    any material non-public information, internal forecasts or other
    confidential business information. Therefore, you should not
    assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by any
    analyst, irrespective of the content of the statement or report.
    To the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain
    projections, forecasts or opinions, those reports are not our
    responsibility.





Executive
    Officers of the Registrant



The following table sets forth, as of February 15, 2010,
    the name, age and position of each of our executive officers.
    Executive officers are elected by and serve at the pleasure of
    the Board of Directors.



NameAgePositionJames J. Murren48Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President and DirectorRobert H. Baldwin59Chief Design and Construction Officer and DirectorDaniel J. D’Arrigo41Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and TreasurerAldo Manzini46Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative OfficerRobert C. Selwood54Executive Vice President and Chief Accounting OfficerRick Arpin37Senior Vice President — Corporate ControllerAlan Feldman51Senior Vice President — Public AffairsPhyllis A. James57Senior Vice President, Deputy General CounselJohn McManus42Senior Vice President, Acting General Counsel and SecretaryShawn T. Sani44Senior Vice President — TaxesWilliam M. Scott IV49Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel





Mr. Murren has served as Chairman and Chief Executive
    Officer of the Company since December 2008 and as President
    since December 1999. He has served as Chief Operating Officer
    since August 2007. He was Chief Financial Officer from January
    1998 to August 2007 and Treasurer from November 2001 to August
    2007.



Mr. Baldwin has served as Chief Design and Construction
    Officer since August 2007. He served as Chief Executive Officer
    of Mirage Resorts from June 2000 to August 2007 and President
    and Chief Executive Officer of Bellagio, LLC from June 1996 to
    March 2005.



Mr. D’Arrigo has served as Executive Vice President
    and Chief Financial Officer since August 2007 and Treasurer
    since September 2009. He served as Senior Vice
    President — Finance of the Company from February 2005
    to August 2007 and as Vice President — Finance of the
    Company from December 2000 to February 2005.



Mr. Manzini has served as Executive Vice President and
    Chief Administrative Officer since March 2007. Prior thereto, he
    served as Senior Vice President of Strategic Planning for the
    Walt Disney Company and in various senior management positions
    throughout his tenure from April 1990 to January 2007.



Mr. Selwood has served as Executive Vice President and
    Chief Accounting Officer since August 2007. He served as Senior
    Vice President — Accounting of the Company from
    February 2005 to August 2007 and as Vice President —
    Accounting of the Company from December 2000 to February 2005.



Mr. Arpin has served as Senior Vice President —
    Corporate Controller of the Company since August 2009. He served
    as Vice President of Financial Accounting of the Company from
    January 2007 to August 2009. He served as Assistant Vice
    President of Financial Reporting from January 2005 to January
    2007, and as Director of Financial Reporting from May 2002 to
    January 2005.



Mr. Feldman has served as Senior Vice President —
    Public Affairs of the Company since September 2001. He served as
    Vice President — Public Affairs of the Company from
    June 2000 to September 2001.



Ms. James has served as Senior Vice President, Deputy
    General Counsel of the Company since March 2002. From 1994 to
    2001 she served as Corporation (General) Counsel and Law
    Department Director for the City of Detroit. In that capacity
    she also served on various public and quasi-public boards and
    commissions on behalf of the City, including the Election
    Commission, the Detroit Building Authority and the Board of
    Ethics.



Mr. McManus has served as Senior Vice President, Acting
    General Counsel and Secretary of the Company since December
    2009. He served as Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel
    and Assistant Secretary from September 2009 to December 2009. He
    served as Senior Vice President, Assistant General Counsel and
    Assistant Secretary of the Company from July 2008 to September
    2009. He served as Vice President and General Counsel for
    CityCenter’s residential and retail divisions from January
    2006 to July 2008. Prior thereto, he served as General Counsel
    or Assistant General Counsel for various of the Company’s
    operating subsidiaries from May 2001 to January 2006.





Mr. Sani has served as Senior Vice President —
    Taxes of the Company since July 2005. He served as Vice
    President — Taxes of the Company from June 2002 to
    July 2005. Prior thereto he was a partner in the Transaction
    Advisory Services practice of Arthur Andersen LLP, having served
    that firm in various other capacities since 1988.



Mr. Scott has served as Senior Vice President and Deputy
    General Counsel of the Company since August 2009. Previously, he
    was a partner in the Los Angeles office of Sheppard, Mullin,
    Richter & Hampton LLP, specializing in financing
    transactions, having joined that firm in 1986.



Available
    Information



We maintain a website, www.mgmmirage.com, which includes
    financial and other information for investors. We provide access
    to our SEC filings, including our annual report onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,filed and furnished current reports onForm 8-K,and amendments to those reports on our website, free of charge,
    through a link to the SEC’s EDGAR database. Through that
    link, our filings are available as soon as reasonably practical
    after we file the documents.



These filings are also available on the SEC’s website atwww.sec.gov. In addition, the public may read and
    copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s
    Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E.,
    Washington, D.C. 20549 and may obtain information on the
    operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at1-800-SEC-0330.



Reference in this document to our website address does not
    constitute incorporation by reference of the information
    contained on the website.



