ITEM 1.BUSINESS



MGM Resorts International is referred to as the
    “Company” or the “Registrant,” and together
    with our subsidiaries may also be referred to as “we,”
    “us” or “our.”



Overview



MGM Resorts International is one of the world’s leading and
    most respected companies with significant holdings in gaming,
    hospitality and entertainment. We believe the resorts we own,
    manage and invest in are among the world’s finest casino
    resorts. MGM Resorts International is a Delaware corporation
    that acts largely as a holding company; our operations are
    conducted through our wholly-owned subsidiaries.



Our strategy is to generate sustainable, profitable growth by
    creating and maintaining competitive advantages and through the
    execution of our business plan, which is focused on:



•Owning, developing, operating and strategically investing in a
    strong portfolio of resorts;•Operating our resorts in a manner that emphasizes the delivery
    of excellent customer service with the goal of maximizing
    revenue and profit; and•Leveraging our strong brands and taking advantage of significant
    management experience and expertise.



Resort
    Portfolio



We execute our strategy through a portfolio approach, seeking to
    ensure that we own, manage and invest in resorts that are
    superior to our competitors’ resorts in the markets in
    which our resorts are located, as well as across our customer
    base. Our customer base is discussed below under “Resort
    Operation.”



We selectively acquire, invest in and develop resorts in markets
    with a stable regulatory history and environment. As seen in the
    table below, this means that a large portion of our resorts are
    located in Nevada. We target markets with growth potential and
    we believe there is growth potential in investing in and
    managing both gaming and non-gaming resorts. Our growth
    strategies are discussed in greater detail below under
    “Sustainable Growth and Leveraging Our Brand and Management
    Assets.”



Our
    Operating Resorts



We have provided certain information below about our resorts as
    of December 31, 2010. Except as otherwise indicated, we
    wholly own and operate the resorts shown below.



Number ofApproximateGuestroomsCasino SquareGamingName and Locationand SuitesFootageSlots (1)Tables (2)Las Vegas Strip, NevadaCityCenter - 50% owned (3)5,735150,0001,991131Bellagio3,933160,0002,241155MGM Grand Las Vegas (4)6,264158,0002,105165Mandalay Bay4,752160,0001,81193The Mirage3,044118,0001,92389Luxor4,396100,0001,32168Excalibur3,98191,0001,44457New York-New York2,02584,0001,55669Monte Carlo2,992102,0001,43059Circus Circus Las Vegas3,767122,0001,62454Subtotal40,8891,245,00017,446940





Number ofApproximateGuestroomsCasino SquareGamingName and Locationand SuitesFootageSlots (1)Tables (2)Other NevadaCircus Circus Reno (Reno)1,57270,00091935Silver Legacy - 50% owned (Reno)1,70987,0001,41463Gold Strike (Jean)81037,00064510Railroad Pass (Henderson)12013,0003335Other OperationsMGM Grand Detroit (Detroit, Michigan)(5)400100,0004,16696Beau Rivage (Biloxi, Mississippi)1,74075,0002,02288Gold Strike (Tunica, Mississippi)1,13350,0001,32655MGM Macau - 50% owned (Macau S.A.R.)593215,0001,061409Grand Victoria - 50% owned (Elgin, Illinois)-34,0001,13327Grand Total48,9661,926,00030,4651,728









(1)Includes slot machines, video poker
    machines and other electronic gaming devices.(2)Includes blackjack
    (“21”), baccarat, craps, roulette and other table
    games; does not include poker.(3)Includes Aria with 4,004 rooms and
    Mandarin Oriental Las Vegas with 392 rooms. Vdara includes
    1,495 units, of which 156 have been sold as
    condominium-hotel units. 945 units in Vdara are currently
    available for rent, including 854 company-owned units and
    91 from units owned by third parties.(4)Includes 1,220 rooms available for
    rent at The Signature at MGM Grand.(5)Our local partners have an
    ownership interest of approximately 3% of MGM Grand Detroit.



More detailed information about each of our operating resorts
    can be found in Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report onForm 10-K,which Exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.



Portfolio
    Strategy



We believe we operate the highest quality resorts in each of the
    markets in which we operate. Ensuring our resorts are the
    premier resorts in their respective markets requires capital
    investments that target our goal of creating the best possible
    experiences for our guests. We have historically made
    significant investments in our resorts through the addition of
    new restaurants, entertainment and nightlife offerings, and
    other new features and amenities. In addition, we have made
    regular capital investments to maintain the quality of our hotel
    rooms and public spaces. The quality of our resorts and
    amenities can be measured by our success in winning numerous
    awards, such as several Four and Five Diamond designations from
    the American Automobile Association and Four and Five Star
    designations from Mobil Travel.



We also actively manage our portfolio of land holdings. We own
    approximately 670 acres of land on the Las Vegas
    Strip, with a meaningful portion of those acres undeveloped
    acreage or acreage we consider to be under-developed.



Risks
    Associated with Our Portfolio Strategy



Certain principal risk factors relating to our current portfolio
    of resorts are:



•Our limited geographic diversification – our major
    resorts are concentrated on the Las Vegas Strip and some of our
    largest competitors operate in more gaming markets than we do;•There are a number of gaming facilities located closer to our
    customers’ homes than our resorts; and•Additional new resort casinos and expansion projects at existing
    Las Vegas resort casinos have recently opened and new resorts
    could open in future periods. We are unable to determine to what
    extent increased competition will affect our future operating
    results.



See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for a more detailed
    discussion of these and other risk factors.





Resort
    Operation



Our operating philosophy is to create resorts of memorable
    character, to treat our employees as valued and respected team
    members and to provide superior service for our guests. In
    addition, we also seek to develop competitive advantages in
    specific markets and among specific customer groups.



General



We primarily own and operate casino resorts that include gaming,
    hotel, dining, entertainment, retail and other resort amenities.
    Over half of our net revenue is derived from non-gaming
    activities, a higher percentage than many of our competitors, as
    we provide a complete resort experience for our guests,
    including high quality non-gaming amenities for which our guests
    are willing to pay a premium.



As a resort-based company, our operating results are highly
    dependent on the volume of customers at our resorts, which in
    turn affects the price we can charge for our hotel rooms and
    other amenities. Since we believe that the number of walk-in
    customers affects the success of our casino resorts, we design
    our facilities to maximize their attraction to guests of other
    hotels. We also generate a significant portion of our operating
    income from the high-end gaming segment, which can cause
    variability in our results.



Most of our revenue is essentially cash-based, through customers
    wagering with cash or paying for non-gaming services with cash
    or credit cards. Our resorts, like many in the industry,
    generate significant operating cash flow. Our industry is
    capital intensive and we rely heavily on the ability of our
    resorts to generate operating cash flow to repay debt financing,
    fund capital expenditures and provide excess cash for future
    development.



Our results of operations do not tend to be seasonal in nature,
    though a variety of factors can affect the results of any
    interim period, including the timing of major Las Vegas
    conventions, the amount and timing of marketing and special
    events for our high-end customers, and the level of play during
    major holidays, including New Year and Chinese New Year. Our
    significant convention and meeting facilities are utilized to
    maximize hotel occupancy and customer volumes during off-peak
    times, such as mid-week or traditionally slower leisure travel
    periods, which also leads to better labor utilization. Our
    results do not depend on key individual customers, although our
    success in marketing to customer groups, such as convention
    customers, or the financial health of customer segments, such as
    business travelers or high-end gaming customers from a
    particular country or region, can affect our results.



All of our casino resorts operate 24 hours a day, every day
    of the year, with the exception of Grand Victoria which operates
    22 hours a day, every day of the year. At our wholly-owned
    resorts, our primary casino and hotel operations are owned and
    managed by us. Other resort amenities may be owned and operated
    by us, owned by us but managed by third parties for a fee, or
    leased to third parties. We generally have an operating
    philosophy that favors ownership and management of amenities,
    since guests have direct contact with staff in these areas and
    we prefer to control all aspects of the guest experience;
    however, we do lease space to retail and food and beverage
    operators, particularly for branding opportunities and when
    capital investment by us is not desirable or feasible. We also
    operate many “managed” outlets, utilizing third-party
    management for specific expertise in operations of restaurants
    and nightclubs, as well as for branding opportunities.



Customers
    and Competition



Our casino resorts generally operate in highly competitive
    environments. We compete against other gaming companies, as well
    as other hospitality and leisure and business travel companies.
    Our primary methods of successful competition include:



•Locating our resorts in desirable leisure and business travel
    markets, and operating at superior sites within those markets;•Constructing and maintaining high-quality resorts and
    facilities, including luxurious guestrooms,state-of-the-artconvention facilities and premier dining, entertainment, retail
    and other amenities;•Recruiting, training and retaining well-qualified and motivated
    employees who provide superior and friendly customer service;







•Providing unique, “must-see” entertainment
    attractions; and•Developing distinctive and memorable marketing and promotional
    programs.



Our Las Vegas casino resorts compete for customers with a large
    number of other hotel casinos in the Las Vegas area, including
    major hotel casinos on or near the Las Vegas Strip, major hotel
    casinos in the downtown area, which is about five miles from the
    center of the Strip, and several major hotel casinos elsewhere
    in the Las Vegas area. Our Las Vegas Strip resorts also compete,
    in part, with each other. According to the Las Vegas Convention
    and Visitors Authority, there were approximately 149,000
    guestrooms in Las Vegas at December 31, 2010 and
    December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2010, we operated
    approximately 28% of the guestrooms in Las Vegas. Las Vegas
    visitor volume was 37.3 million in 2010, a 3% increase from
    the 36.4 million reported for 2009.



The principal segments of the Las Vegas gaming market are
    leisure travel; premium gaming customers; conventions, including
    small meetings, trade associations, and corporate incentive
    programs; and tour and travel. Our luxury wholly-owned
    properties, including Bellagio, MGM Grand Las Vegas, Mandalay
    Bay, and The Mirage, appeal to the upper end of each market
    segment, balancing their business by using the convention and
    tour and travel segments to fill the mid-week and off-peak
    periods. Our marketing strategy for New York-New York, Luxor and
    Monte Carlo is aimed at attracting middle- to
    upper-middle-income customers, largely from the leisure travel
    and, to a lesser extent, the tour and travel segments. Excalibur
    and Circus Circus Las Vegas generally cater to the
    value-oriented and middle-income leisure travel and tour and
    travel segments.



Outside Las Vegas, our other wholly-owned Nevada operations
    compete with each other and with many other similarly sized and
    larger operations. Our Nevada resorts located outside of Las
    Vegas appeal primarily to the value-oriented leisure traveler
    and the value-oriented local customer. A significant number of
    our customers at these resorts come from California. We believe
    the expansion of Native American gaming in California has had a
    negative impact on all of our Nevada resorts not located on the
    Las Vegas Strip, and additional expansion in California could
    have a further adverse effect on these resorts.



Outside Nevada, our wholly-owned resorts primarily compete for
    customers in local and regional gaming markets, where location
    is a critical factor to success. For instance, in Tunica,
    Mississippi, one of our competitors is closer to Memphis, the
    area’s principal market. In addition, we compete with
    gaming operations in surrounding jurisdictions and other leisure
    destinations in each region. For example, in Detroit, Michigan
    we also compete with a casino in nearby Windsor, Canada and with
    Native American casinos in Michigan. In Biloxi, Mississippi we
    also compete with regional riverboat and land-based casinos in
    Louisiana, Native American casinos in central Mississippi and
    with casinos in Florida and the Bahamas.



Aria, which we manage and of which we own 50% through the
    CityCenter joint venture (“CityCenter”), appeals to
    the upper end of each segment in the Las Vegas market and
    competes with our wholly-owned luxury casino resorts. Our other
    unconsolidated affiliates mainly compete for customers against
    casino resorts in their respective markets. Much like our
    wholly-owned resorts, our unconsolidated affiliates compete
    through the quality of amenities, the value of the experience
    offered to guests, and the location of their resorts.



Our casino resorts also compete for customers with hotel casino
    operations located in other areas of the United States and
    other parts of the world, and for leisure and business travelers
    with non-gaming tourist destinations such as Hawaii, Florida and
    California. Our gaming operations compete to a lesser extent
    with state-sponsored lotteries, off-track wagering, card
    parlors, and other forms of legalized gaming in the United
    States.



Marketing



We advertise on the radio, television, internet and billboards
    and in newspapers and magazines in selected cities throughout
    the United States and overseas, as well as by direct mail and
    through the use of social media. We also advertise through our
    regional marketing offices located in major U.S. and
    foreign cities. A key element of marketing to premium gaming
    customers is personal contact by our marketing personnel. Direct
    marketing is also important in the convention segment. We
    maintain internet websites to inform customers about our resorts
    and allow our customers to reserve hotel rooms, make restaurant
    reservations and purchase show tickets. We actively utilize
    several social media sites to promote our brands, unique events,
    and special deals. We also operate call centers to allow
    customer contact by phone to make hotel and restaurant
    reservations and purchase show tickets.





We recently introduced a new players club loyalty program
    (“M life”). M life was introduced at our regional
    resorts in the third quarter of 2010, and to the remaining
    participating wholly-owned casino resorts and Aria on
    January 11, 2011. M life is our new player loyalty program
    that provides access to rewards, privileges, and members-only
    events. M life is a tiered system and allows customers to
    qualify for benefits across our participating resorts,
    regardless of where they play, encouraging customers to keep
    their total gaming spend within our casino resorts.



M life combines slots and table games play into one account and
    customers earn tiered rewards on both types of play. Customers
    earn “express comps,” which can be redeemed at
    restaurants, box offices, the M life players club, or kiosks at
    participating properties. Players can also redeem their express
    comps for M life “Moments,” which allow members to
    take advantage of unique andonce-in-a-lifetimeexperiences such as picking the Bellagio Fountain songs for a
    day, being a trainer for a day with the dolphins at The Mirage
    andmeet-and-greetswith performers and celebrity chefs across our resort portfolio.
    Members of M life also continue to earn points redeemable
    for free play.



M life is currently a casino centered program but will expand to
    a broad-based program recognizing and rewarding customer
    spending across most channels focusing on wallet share capture,
    loyalty and frequency of visits. Advanced analytic techniques
    and new information technology will better identify customer
    preferences and predict future behavior allowing us to make
    customers more relevant offers, influence incremental visits and
    help build lasting customer relationships.



In addition to the loyalty program, we have re-branded our
    company magazine and developed an in-room M life
    television channel to highlight customers’ experiences and
    showcase “Moments” customers can earn through the
    accumulation of express comps. We believe that M life will
    enable us to more effectively market to our customers, as well
    as allow us to personalize customers’ experiences.



We also utilize our world-class golf courses in marketing
    programs at our Las Vegas Strip resorts. Our major Las Vegas
    resorts offer luxury suite packages that include golf privileges
    at Shadow Creek in North Las Vegas. In connection with our
    marketing activities, we also invite our premium gaming
    customers to play Shadow Creek on a complimentary basis. We also
    use Primm Valley Golf Club for marketing purposes at our Las
    Vegas Strip resorts. Additionally, marketing efforts at Beau
    Rivage benefit from Fallen Oak golf course 20 minutes north of
    Beau Rivage.



Employees
    and Management



We believe that knowledgeable, friendly and dedicated employees
    are a key success factor in the casino resort industry.
    Therefore, we invest heavily in recruiting, training and
    retaining exceptional highly motivated employees, as well as
    seeking to hire and promote the strongest management team
    possible. We have numerous programs, both at the corporate and
    business unit level, designed to achieve these objectives. For
    example, our diversity initiative extends throughout our
    company, and focuses on the unique strengths of our individuals
    combined with a culture of collaborative teamwork to achieve
    greater performance. Our diversity program has been widely
    recognized and has received numerous awards. We believe our
    internal development programs, such as the MGM Resorts
    University and various leadership and management training
    programs, are best in class among our industry peers.



Technology



We utilize various types of technology to maximize revenue and
    efficiency in our operations. We continue to move forward on
    standardizing the technology platforms for our hotel and point
    of sale systems, along with several other key operational
    systems. The standardization of these systems provides us with
    one consistent operating platform, allowing us efficiencies in
    training, reducing complexity in system integration and
    interfaces, standardizing processes across our casino resorts,
    and providing our customers with better information in
    connection with the implementation of M life.



Technology is also an important part of our strategy in
    non-gaming and administrative operations. Our hotel systems
    include yield management software programs at many of our
    resorts that help us maximize occupancy and room rates.
    Additionally, these systems capture charges made by our
    customers during their stay, including allowing customers of our
    resorts to charge meals and services at our other resorts to
    their hotel accounts.





Corporate
    Sustainability



We continue to gain recognition for our comprehensive
    company-wide environmental responsibility initiatives. During
    2010, we were the first resorts in Nevada and Michigan to earn
    certification from Green Key, the largest international program
    evaluating sustainable hotel operations. We received
    certifications at 12 resorts, including “Five Green
    Key” (the highest possible) ratings at Aria, Vdara and
    Mandalay Bay. Many major travel service providers recognize the
    Green Key designation and identify our resorts for their
    continued commitment to sustainable hotel operations. We believe
    that our sustainability efforts are particularly beneficial in
    meeting and convention bookings, as corporations and
    associations seek to extend their environmentally responsible
    practices by doing business with like-minded, environmentally
    friendly companies.



In addition, we believe that incorporating the tenets of
    sustainability in our business decisions provides a platform for
    innovation. CityCenter is one of the world’s largest
    private green developments. Aria, Vdara, Crystals, Mandarin
    Oriental, Veer, and the Aria Convention Center all have received
    LEED®Gold certification by the U.S. Green Building Council. This
    marks the highest LEED achievement for any hotel, retail
    district or residential development in Las Vegas. With this
    accomplishment, CityCenter created a new standard for combining
    luxury and environmental responsibility within the large-scale
    hospitality industry.



Internal
    Controls



We have a strong culture of compliance, driven by our history in
    the highly regulated gaming industry and our belief that
    compliance is a value-added activity. Our system of internal
    controls and procedures - including internal control over
    financial reporting – is designed to promote reliable
    and accurate financial records, transparent disclosures,
    compliance with laws and regulations, and protection of our
    assets. Our internal controls start at the source of business
    transactions, and we have rigorous enforcement at both the
    business unit and corporate level.



Our corporate management also reviews each of our businesses on
    a regular basis and we have a corporate internal audit function
    that performs regular reviews regarding gaming compliance,
    internal controls over financial reporting, and operations.



In addition, we maintain a compliance committee that administers
    our company-wide compliance plan. The compliance plan is in
    place to promote compliance with gaming and other laws
    applicable to our operations in all jurisdictions, including
    performing background investigations on our current and
    potential employees, directors and vendors as well as thorough
    review of proposed transactions and associations.



In connection with the supervision of gaming activities at our
    casinos, we maintain stringent controls on the recording of all
    receipts and disbursements and other activities, including cash
    transaction reporting which is essential in our industry. Our
    controls surrounding cash transactions include locked cash boxes
    on the casino floor, daily cash counts performed by employees
    who are independent of casino operations, constant observation
    and supervision of the gaming area, observation and recording of
    gaming and other areas by closed-circuit television, constant
    computer monitoring of our slot machines, and timely analysis of
    deviations from expected performance.



Marker play represents a significant portion of the table games
    volume at Aria, Bellagio, MGM Grand Las Vegas, Mandalay Bay and
    The Mirage. Our other facilities do not emphasize marker play to
    the same extent, although we offer markers to customers at
    certain of those casinos as well. We maintain strict controls
    over the issuance of markers and aggressively pursue collection
    from those customers who fail to timely pay their marker
    balances. These collection efforts are similar to those used by
    most large corporations when dealing with overdue customer
    accounts, including the mailing of statements and delinquency
    notices, direct personal contact and the use of outside
    collection agencies and civil litigation.



In our U.S. jurisdictions, amounts owed for markers which
    are not timely paid are enforceable under state laws and all
    other states are required to enforce a judgment for amounts
    owed, pursuant to the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the
    U.S. Constitution. Amounts owed for markers that are not
    timely paid are not legally enforceable in some foreign
    countries, but the U.S. assets of foreign customers may be
    reached to satisfy judgments entered in the United States.





Risks
    Associated With Our Operating Strategy



Certain principal risk factors relating to our operating
    strategy are:



•Our guestroom, dining and entertainment prices are often higher
    than those of most of our competitors in each market, although
    we believe that the quality of our facilities and services is
    also higher;•Our resort casinos compete to some extent with each other for
    customers. Aria, Bellagio, MGM Grand Las Vegas, Mandalay
    Bay and The Mirage, in particular, compete for some of the same
    premium gaming customers; MGM Grand Las Vegas and Mandalay Bay
    also compete to some extent against each other in the
    large-scale convention business and for large entertainment
    events; and•Additional new hotel casinos and expansion projects at existing
    Las Vegas hotel casinos have recently opened and new resorts
    could open in future periods. We are unable to determine the
    extent to which increased competition will affect our future
    operating results.



See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for a more detailed
    discussion of these and other risk factors.



Sustainable
    Growth and Leveraging Our Brand and Management Assets



In allocating resources, our financial strategy is focused on
    managing a proper mix of investing in existing resorts, spending
    on new resorts or initiatives and repaying long-term debt. We
    believe there are reasonable investments for us to make in new
    initiatives and at our current resorts that will provide
    profitable returns, although these decisions have been
    significantly affected by economic conditions over the past
    several years, as well as by the recent financial crisis, which
    limited our access to capital.



We regularly evaluate possible expansion and acquisition
    opportunities in both the domestic and international markets,
    but cannot at this time determine the likelihood of proceeding
    with specific development opportunities. Opportunities we
    evaluate may include the ownership, management and operation of
    gaming and other entertainment facilities in Nevada or in states
    other than Nevada or outside of the United States. We may
    undertake these opportunities either alone or in cooperation
    with one or more third parties.



We leverage our management expertise and well-recognized brands
    through strategic partnerships and international expansion
    opportunities. We feel that several of our brands, particularly
    the “MGM Grand,” “Bellagio,” and
    “Skylofts” brands, are well suited to new projects in
    both gaming and non-gaming developments. We formed MGM
    Hospitality, LLC (“MGM Hospitality”) to focus on
    strategic resort development and management opportunities, with
    an emphasis on international opportunities which we believe
    offer the greatest opportunity for future growth. We have hired
    senior personnel with established backgrounds in the development
    and management of international hospitality operations to
    maximize the profit potential of MGM Hospitality’s
    operations. MGM Hospitality currently has management agreements
    for hotels in the Middle East, North Africa, India and China.



MGM Grand
    Abu Dhabi



In November 2007, we announced plans to develop a multi-billion
    dollar, large-scale, mixed-use development that will serve as an
    incoming gateway to Abu Dhabi, a United Arab Emirate, located at
    a prominent downtown waterfront site on Abu Dhabi Island. The
    project will be owned entirely by Mubadala Development Company
    (“Mubadala”); we will not have a capital investment in
    this project. Mubadala has informed us that they do not intend
    to proceed with the project on the same time frame and scope as
    originally contemplated. As a result, we are currently engaged
    in discussions with Mubadala regarding the restructuring of the
    project.



China



We have formed a joint venture with the Diaoyutai State
    Guesthouse in Beijing, People’s Republic of China, to
    develop luxury non-gaming hotels and resorts in China, initially
    targeting prime locations, including Beijing, in the
    People’s Republic of China. Our first resort, under the
    “MGM Grand” brand, is currently scheduled to open in
    late





2011 in Sanya, China. We have signed multiple technical and
    management services agreements for resorts that are expected to
    open over the next four years. We have minimal capital
    investments in these projects.



Vietnam



In November 2008, we and Asian Coast Development Ltd. announced
    plans to develop MGM Grand Ho Tram, which is expected to open in
    2013. MGM Grand Ho Tram will anchor a multi-property complex on
    the Ho Tram Strip in the Ba Ria Vung Tau Province in southwest
    Vietnam. MGM Grand Ho Tram will be owned and financed by Asian
    Coast Development Ltd. and we will provide technical assistance
    and operate the luxury-integrated resort upon completion. We
    will have no capital investment in this project.



Mashantucket
    Pequot Tribal Nation



We have an agreement with the Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Nation
    (“MPTN”), which owns and operates Foxwoods Casino
    Resort in Mashantucket, Connecticut for the casino resort owned
    and operated by MPTN located adjacent to the Foxwoods Casino
    Resort to carry the “MGM Grand” brand name. We earn a
    fee for MPTN to use the “MGM Grand” name.



Risks
    Associated With Our Growth and Brand Management
    Strategies



Certain principal risk factors relating to our growth strategy
    are:



•Development and operation of gaming facilities in new or
    existing jurisdictions are subject to many contingencies, some
    of which are outside of our control and may include the passage
    of appropriate gaming legislation, the issuance of necessary
    permits, licenses and approvals, the availability of appropriate
    financing and the satisfaction of other conditions;•Operations in which we may engage in foreign territories are
    subject to risks pertaining to international operations that may
    include financial risks such as foreign currency, adverse tax
    consequences, inability to adequately enforce our rights; and
    regulatory and political risks such as foreign government
    regulations, general geopolitical risks including political and
    economic instability, hostilities with neighboring countries,
    and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and•Expansion projects involve risks and uncertainties. For example,
    the design, timing and costs of the projects may change and are
    subject to risks attendant to large-scale projects to the extent
    we are responsible for financing such projects.



See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for a more detailed
    discussion of these and other risk factors.



Intellectual
    Property



Our principal intellectual property consists of, among others,
    Bellagio, The Mirage, Mandalay Bay, MGM Grand, Luxor,
    Excalibur, New York-New York, Circus Circus and Beau Rivage
    trademarks, all of which have been registered or allowed in
    various classes in the U.S. We are currently undergoing the
    application process for the MGM Resorts International trademark.
    In addition, we have also registered or applied to register
    numerous other trademarks in connection with our properties,
    facilities and development projects in the U.S. We have
    also registeredand/orapplied to register many of our trademarks in various other
    foreign jurisdictions. These trademarks are brand names under
    which we market our properties and services. We consider these
    brand names to be important to our business since they have the
    effect of developing brand identification. We believe that the
    name recognition, reputation and image that we have developed
    attract customers to our facilities. Once granted, our trademark
    registrations are of perpetual duration so long as they are used
    and periodically renewed. It is our intent to pursue and
    maintain our trademark registrations consistent with our goals
    for brand development and identification, and enforcement of our
    trademark rights.



Employees
    and Labor Relations



As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately
    45,000 full-time and 16,000 part-time employees of
    which 5,700 and 2,800, respectively, relate to CityCenter. At
    that date, we had collective bargaining contracts with unions





covering approximately 30,000 of our employees. We consider our
    employee relations to be good. The collective bargaining
    agreements covering most of our union employees are subject to
    renegotiation in 2012.



Regulation
    and Licensing



The gaming industry is highly regulated, and we must maintain
    our licenses and pay gaming taxes to continue our operations.
    Each of our casinos is subject to extensive regulation under the
    laws, rules and regulations of the jurisdiction in which it is
    located. These laws, rules and regulations generally concern the
    responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners,
    managers, and persons with financial interest in the gaming
    operations. Violations of laws in one jurisdiction could result
    in disciplinary action in other jurisdictions.



A more detailed description of the regulations to which we are
    subject is contained in Exhibit 99.2 to this Annual Report
    onForm 10-K,which Exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.



Our businesses are subject to various federal, state and local
    laws and regulations in addition to gaming regulations. These
    laws and regulations include, but are not limited to,
    restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages,
    environmental matters, employees, currency transactions,
    taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and
    advertising. Such laws and regulations could change or could be
    interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and
    regulations could be enacted. Material changes, new laws or
    regulations, or material differences in interpretations by
    courts or governmental authorities could adversely affect our
    operating results.



Cautionary
    Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements



ThisForm 10-Kand our 2010 Annual Report to Stockholders contain
    “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the
    U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
    Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as
    “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,”
    “seeks,” “believes,” “estimates,”
    “expects,” “will,” “may” and
    similar references to future periods. Examples of
    forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to,
    statements we make regarding our ability to generate significant
    cash flow; and amounts that we expect to receive in federal tax
    refunds, amounts we will invest in capital expenditures, amounts
    we will pay under the CityCenter completion guarantee, and
    amounts we may receive from the sale of residential units at
    CityCenter. The foregoing is not a complete list of all
    forward-looking statements we make.



Forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations
    and assumptions regarding our business, the economy and other
    future conditions. Because forward-looking statements relate to
    the future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks,
    and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Our
    actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by
    the forward-looking statements. They are neither statements of
    historical fact nor guarantees or assurances of future
    performance. Therefore, we caution you against relying on any of
    these forward-looking statements. Important factors that could
    cause actual results to differ materially from those in the
    forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to,
    regional, national or global political, economic, business,
    competitive, market, and regulatory conditions and the following:



•our substantial indebtedness and significant financial
    commitments and our ability to satisfy our obligations;•current and future economic and credit market conditions and our
    ability to service or refinance our indebtedness and to make
    planned expenditures;•restrictions and limitations in the agreements governing our
    senior credit facility and other senior indebtedness;•significant competition with respect to destination travel
    locations generally and with respect to our peers in the
    industries in which we compete;•the fact that we are subject to extensive regulation and the
    related cost of compliance or failure to comply with such
    regulations;•economic and market conditions in the markets in which we
    operate and in the locations in which our customers reside;•extreme weather conditions or climate change may cause property
    damage or interrupt business;•the concentration of our major gaming resorts on the Las Vegas
    Strip;





•investing through partnerships or joint ventures including
    CityCenter and MGM Macau decreases our ability to manage risk;•our business is particularly sensitive to energy prices and a
    rise in energy prices;•leisure and business travel, especially travel by air, are
    particularly susceptible to global geopolitical events, such as
    terrorist attacks or acts of war or hostility;•we extend credit to a significant portion of our customers and
    we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit
    players;•our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible
    losses that our properties could suffer. In addition, our
    insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain
    similar insurance coverage in the future;•plans for future construction can be affected by a number of
    factors, including timing delays and legal challenges;•the outcome of pending and potential future litigation claims
    against us;•the fact that Tracinda Corporation (“Tracinda”) owns a
    significant amount of our common stock and may have interests
    that differ from the interests of other holders of our stock;•a significant portion of our labor force is covered by
    collective bargaining agreements; and•risks associated with doing business outside of the United
    States.



Any forward-looking statement made by us in thisForm 10-Kor our 2010 Annual Report speaks only as of the date on which it
    is made. Factors or events that could cause our actual results
    to differ may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible
    for us to predict all of them. We undertake no obligation to
    publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a
    result of new information, future developments or otherwise,
    except as may be required by law.



You should also be aware that while we from time to time
    communicate with securities analysts, we do not disclose to them
    any material non-public information, internal forecasts or other
    confidential business information. Therefore, you should not
    assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by any
    analyst, irrespective of the content of the statement or report.
    To the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain
    projections, forecasts or opinions, those reports are not our
    responsibility and are not endorsed by us.



Executive
    Officers of the Registrant



The following table sets forth, as of February 28, 2011,
    the name, age and position of each of our executive officers.
    Executive officers are elected by and serve at the pleasure of
    the Board of Directors.



NameAgePositionJames J. Murren49Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President and DirectorRobert H. Baldwin60Chief Design and Construction Officer and DirectorWilliam J. Hornbuckle53Chief Marketing OfficerCorey I. Sanders47Chief Operating OfficerDaniel J. D’Arrigo42Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and TreasurerPhyllis A. James58Executive Vice President & Special Counsel—Litigation
    and Chief Diversity OfficerAldo Manzini47Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative OfficerJohn McManus43Executive Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryWilliam M. Scott IV50Executive Vice President—Corporate Strategy and Special
    CounselRobert C. Selwood55Executive Vice President and Chief Accounting OfficerRick Arpin38Senior Vice President—Corporate ControllerAlan Feldman52Senior Vice President—Public AffairsJames A. Freeman42Senior Vice President—Capital Markets and StrategyShawn T. Sani45Senior Vice President—Taxes





Mr. Murren has served as Chairman and Chief Executive
    Officer of the Company since December 2008 and as President
    since December 1999. He served as Chief Operating Officer from
    August 2007 through December 2008. He was Chief Financial
    Officer from January 1998 to August 2007 and Treasurer from
    November 2001 to August 2007.





Mr. Baldwin has served as Chief Design and Construction
    Officer since August 2007. He served as Chief Executive Officer
    of Mirage Resorts from June 2000 to August 2007 and President
    and Chief Executive Officer of Bellagio, LLC from June 1996 to
    March 2005.



Mr. Hornbuckle has served as Chief Marketing Officer since
    August 2009. He served as President and Chief Operating Officer
    of Mandalay Bay Resort & Casino from April 2005 to
    August 2009. He served as President and Chief Operating Officer
    of MGM MIRAGE—Europe from July 2001 to April 2005. He
    served as President and Chief Operating Officer of MGM Grand Las
    Vegas from October 1998 to July 2001.



Mr. Sanders has served as Chief Operating Officer since
    September 2010. He served as Chief Operating Officer for the
    Company’s Core Brand and Regional Properties from August
    2009 to September 2010, as Executive Vice
    President—Operations from August 2007 to August 2009, as
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for MGM
    Grand Resorts from April 2005 to August 2007 and served as
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for MGM
    Grand from August 1997 to April 2005.



Mr. D’Arrigo has served as Executive Vice President
    and Chief Financial Officer since August 2007 and Treasurer
    since September 2009. He served as Senior Vice
    President—Finance of the Company from February 2005 to
    August 2007 and as Vice President—Finance of the Company
    from December 2000 to February 2005.



Ms. James has served as Executive Vice President and
    Special Counsel—Litigation since July 2010. She served as
    Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel of the Company
    from March 2002 to July 2010. From 1994 to 2001 she served as
    Corporation (General) Counsel and Law Department Director for
    the City of Detroit. In that capacity she also served on various
    public and quasi-public boards and commissions on behalf of the
    City, including the Election Commission, the Detroit Building
    Authority and the Board of Ethics.



Mr. Manzini has served as Executive Vice President and
    Chief Administrative Officer since March 2007. Prior thereto, he
    served as Senior Vice President of Strategic Planning for the
    Walt Disney Company and in various senior management positions
    throughout his tenure from April 1990 to January 2007.



Mr. McManus has served as Executive Vice President, General
    Counsel and Secretary since July 2010. He served as Senior Vice
    President, Acting General Counsel and Secretary of the Company
    from December 2009 to July 2010. He served as Senior Vice
    President, Deputy General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from
    September 2009 to December 2009. He served as Senior Vice
    President, Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of
    the Company from July 2008 to September 2009. He served as Vice
    President and General Counsel for CityCenter’s residential
    and retail divisions from January 2006 to July 2008. Prior
    thereto, he served as General Counsel or Assistant General
    Counsel for various of the Company’s operating subsidiaries
    from May 2001 to January 2006.



Mr. Scott has served as Executive Vice
    President—Corporate Strategy and Special Counsel since July
    2010. He served as Senior Vice President and Deputy General
    Counsel of the Company from August 2009 to July 2010.
    Previously, he was a partner in the Los Angeles office of
    Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP, specializing
    in financing transactions, having joined that firm in 1986.



Mr. Selwood has served as Executive Vice President and
    Chief Accounting Officer since August 2007. He served as Senior
    Vice President—Accounting of the Company from February 2005
    to August 2007 and as Vice President—Accounting of the
    Company from December 2000 to February 2005.



Mr. Arpin has served as Senior Vice
    President—Corporate Controller of the Company since August
    2009. He served as Vice President of Financial Accounting of the
    Company from January 2007 to August 2009. He served as Assistant
    Vice President of Financial Reporting from January 2005 to
    January 2007, and as Director of Financial Reporting from May
    2002 to January 2005.



Mr. Feldman has served as Senior Vice President—Public
    Affairs of the Company since September 2001. He served as Vice
    President—Public Affairs of the Company from June 2000 to
    September 2001.



Mr. Freeman has served as Senior Vice
    President—Capital Markets and Strategy since March 2010.
    Previously, he was the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
    Officer of Fontainebleau Resorts, having joined that company in
    2006. Prior thereto, he held various investment banking
    positions with Banc of America Securities from 1998 to 2006.





Mr. Sani has served as Senior Vice President—Taxes of
    the Company since July 2005. He served as Vice
    President—Taxes of the Company from June 2002 to July 2005.Available
    InformationWe maintain a website atwww.mgmresorts.comthat
    includes financial and other information for investors. We
    provide access to our SEC filings, including our annual report
    onForm 10-Kand quarterly reports onForm 10-Q(including related filings in XBRL format), filed and furnished
    current reports onForm 8-K,and amendments to those reports on our website, free of charge,
    through a link to the SEC’s EDGAR database. Through that
    link, our filings are available as soon as reasonably practical
    after we file the documents.These filings are also available on the SEC’s website atwww.sec.gov. In addition, the public may read and
    copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s
    Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE,
    Washington, D.C. 20549 and may obtain information on
    the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at1-800-SEC-0330.Reference in this document to our website address does not
    constitute incorporation by reference of the information
    contained on the website.12








