ITEM 1.BUSINESS



MGM Resorts International is referred to as the “Company,” “MGM Resorts,” or the “Registrant,” and together with its subsidiaries may also be referred to as “we,” “us” or “our.” MGM China Holdings Limited together with its subsidiaries is referred to as “MGM China.”



Overview



Vision, Mission and Strategies



MGM Resorts International is one of the world's leading global hospitality companies, operating a world-renowned portfolio of destination resort brands. We believe the resorts we own, manage and invest in are among the world’s finest casino resorts. MGM Resorts International is a Delaware corporation that acts largely as a holding company; our operations are conducted through our wholly owned subsidiaries.



Our vision is to be the recognized global leader in entertainment and hospitality. To achieve that vision, we:



·Embrace innovation and diversity to inspire excellence;

·Reward our employees, invest in our communities and enrich our stakeholders; and

·Engage, entertain and exceed the expectations of our guests worldwide.



Our mission is to be the leader in entertainment and hospitality through a diverse collection of extraordinary people, distinctive brands and best-in-class destinations.



The following are our strategic objectives:



·Drive operational and capital structure improvements to enhance shareholder value;

·Identify and execute on growth and development opportunities in key domestic and international markets to grow global presence;

·Leverage investments in critical foundational competencies to support a high performance organization; and

·Continue to solidify our reputation as a global leader in the principles of corporate social responsibility.



Reportable Segments



We have two reportable segments that are based on the regions in which we operate: wholly owned domestic resorts and MGM China. We currently operate 15 wholly owned resorts in the United States. MGM China’s operations consist of the MGM Macau resort and casino (“MGM Macau”) and the development of a gaming resort in Cotai, Macau. We have additional business activities including our investments in unconsolidated affiliates, and certain other corporate and management operations. CityCenter Holdings, LLC (“CityCenter”) is our most significant unconsolidated affiliate, which we also manage for a fee.  See “Resort Operations” below, as well as “Executive Overview” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 16 in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements, for additional information related to our segments.



Resort Operations



General



Our casino resorts offer gaming, hotel, convention, dining, entertainment, retail and other resort amenities.  We believe we own or invest in several of the finest casino resorts in the world and continually reinvest in our resorts to maintain our competitive advantage. We make significant investments in our resorts through newly remodeled hotel rooms, restaurants, entertainment and nightlife offerings, as well as other new features and amenities. Most of our revenue is cash-based, through customers wagering with cash or paying for non-gaming services with cash or credit cards.  We rely heavily on the ability of our resorts to generate operating cash flow to repay debt financings, fund capital expenditures and provide excess cash flow for future development.



We believe we operate the highest quality resorts in each of the markets in which we operate. As discussed above, ensuring our resorts are the premier resorts in their respective markets requires capital investments to maintain the best possible experiences for our guests. The quality of our resorts and amenities can be measured by our success in winning numerous awards, both domestic and








globally, such as several Four and Five Diamond designations from the American Automobile Association, Four and Five Star designations from Mobil Travel and Forbes Travel Guide Four Star awards.



Our results of operations do not tend to be seasonal in nature, though a variety of factors may affect the results of any interim period, including the timing of major conventions, the amount and timing of marketing and special events for our high-end gaming customers, and the level of play during major holidays, including New Year and Chinese New Year.  While our results do not depend on key individual customers, a significant portion of our operating income is generated from high-end gaming customers, which can cause variability in our results.  In addition, our success in marketing to customer groups such as convention customers and the financial health of customer segments such as business travelers or high-end gaming customers from a country or region can affect our results.



All of our casino resorts operate 24 hours a day, every day of the year, with the exception of Grand Victoria which operates 22 hours a day, every day of the year.  At our wholly owned domestic resorts, our primary casino and hotel operations are owned and managed by us.  Other resort amenities may be owned and operated by us, owned by us but managed by third parties for a fee, or leased to third parties.  We utilize third-party management for specific expertise in operations of restaurants and nightclubs.  We lease space to retail and food and beverage operators, particularly for branding opportunities and when capital investment by us is not desirable or feasible.



Our Operating Resorts



We have provided certain information below about our resorts as of December 31, 2014.  Except as otherwise indicated, we wholly own and operate the resorts shown below.



Number ofApproximateGuestroomsCasinoSquareGamingName and Locationand SuitesFootage (1)Slots (2)Tables (3)Wholly Owned Domestic ResortsLas VegasBellagio3,933156,0001,895132MGM Grand Las Vegas (4)6,017153,0001,820139Mandalay Bay (5)4,752160,0001,39682The Mirage3,044100,0001,68691Luxor4,400111,0001,18255Excalibur3,98195,0001,42153New York-New York2,02488,0001,33472Monte Carlo2,99287,0001,31963Circus Circus Las Vegas3,75598,0001,40047OtherMGM Grand Detroit (Detroit, Michigan) (6)400127,0003,85692Beau Rivage (Biloxi, Mississippi)1,74080,0001,91583Gold Strike (Tunica, Mississippi)1,13353,0001,37259Circus Circus Reno (Reno, Nevada)1,57156,00090635Gold Strike (Jean, Nevada) (7)30031,0004307Railroad Pass (Henderson, Nevada) (8)12011,0003166Subtotal40,1621,406,00022,2481,016MGM ChinaMGM Macau–51% owned (Macau S.A.R.)582274,0001,197423Other operationsCityCenter–50% owned (Las Vegas, Nevada) (9)5,816150,0001,969122Borgata – 50% owned (Atlantic City, New Jersey) (10)2,767160,0003,094184Silver Legacy–50% owned (Reno, Nevada) (11)1,71189,0001,31463Grand Victoria–50% owned (Elgin, Illinois) (12)-38,0001,13324Subtotal10,294437,0007,510393Grand total51,0382,117,00030,9551,832







(1)Casino square footage is approximate and includes the gaming floor, race and sports, high limit areas and casino specific walkways, and excludes casino cage and other non-gaming space within the casino area.

(2)Includes slot machines, video poker machines and other electronic gaming devices.

(3)Includes blackjack (“21”), baccarat, craps, roulette and other table games; does not include poker.








(4)Includes 1,021 rooms at The Signature at MGM Grand Las Vegas.

(5)Includes 1,117 rooms at the Delano and 424 rooms at the Four Seasons Hotel.

(6)Our local investors have an ownership interest of approximately 3% of MGM Grand Detroit.

(7)In October 2014, we entered into an agreement to sell Gold Strike Jean; the sale is expected to close during 2015.

(8)In September 2014, we entered into an agreement to sell Railroad Pass; the sale is expected to close during 2015.

(9)Includes Aria with 4,004 rooms and Mandarin Oriental Las Vegas with 392 rooms.  Vdara includes 1,495 condo-hotel units. As of December 31, 2014, 147 units have been sold and closed, of which 72 units were contracted to participate in a hotel rental program managed by CityCenter. The remaining 1,348 unsold units are being utilized as company-owned hotel rooms. The other 50% of CityCenter is owned by Infinity World Development Corp.

(10)The other 50% of Borgata is owned by Boyd Gaming Corporation, which also operates the resort.

(11)The other 50% of Silver Legacy is owned by Eldorado Resorts, Inc.

(12)The other 50% of Grand Victoria is owned by an affiliate of Hyatt Gaming, which also operates the resort.



More detailed information about each of our operating resorts can be found in Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which Exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.



Wholly owned domestic resorts.Over half of the net revenue from our wholly owned domestic resorts is derived from non-gaming operations, including hotel, food and beverage, entertainment and other non-gaming amenities. We market to different customers and utilize our significant convention and meeting facilities to allow us to maximize hotel occupancy and customer volumes during off-peak times such as mid-week or during traditionally slower leisure travel periods, which also leads to better labor utilization.  Our operating results are highly dependent on the volume of customers at our resorts, which in turn affects the price we can charge for our hotel rooms and other amenities.



Our casino operations feature a variety of slots, table games, and race and sports book wagering.  In addition, we offer our premium players access to high-limit rooms and lounge experiences where players may enjoy an upscale atmosphere.



MGM China.On June 3, 2011, we and Ms. Ho, Pansy Catilina Chiu King (“Ms. Pansy Ho”) completed a reorganization of the capital structure of MGM China pursuant to which we acquired an additional 1% interest in MGM China and thereby became the owner of 51% of MGM China. Through the acquisition of the additional 1% interest of MGM China, we obtained a controlling interest and were required to consolidate MGM China as of June 3, 2011. Prior to the transaction, we held a 50% interest in MGM Grand Paradise, S.A. (“MGM Grand Paradise”), which was accounted for under the equity method. We believe our ownership interest in MGM China plays an important role in extending our reach internationally and will foster future growth and profitability. Asia is the fastest-growing gaming market in the world and Macau is the world’s largest gaming destination in terms of revenue.



Our current MGM China operations relate to MGM Macau and the development of a casino resort on the Cotai Strip in Macau, discussed further below. Revenues at MGM Macau are generated primarily from gaming operations which are conducted under a gaming subconcession held by MGM Grand Paradise. The Macau government has granted three gaming concessions and each of these concessionaires has granted a subconcession. The MGM Grand Paradise gaming subconcession was granted by Sociedade de Jogos de Macau, S.A., and expires in 2020.  The Macau government currently prohibits additional concessions and subconcessions, but does not place a limit on the number of casinos or gaming areas operated by the concessionaires and subconcessionaires, though additional casinos require government approval prior to commencing operations.



In October 2012, MGM Grand Paradise formally accepted the terms and conditions of a land concession contract from the government of Macau to develop a resort and casino on an approximately 18 acre site in Cotai, Macau (“MGM Cotai”).  The land concession contract became effective when the Macau government published the agreement in the Official Gazette of Macau on January 9, 2013 and has an initial term of 25 years.  Under the terms of the land concession contract, MGM Grand Paradise is required to complete the development of the land by January 2018.



MGM China has finalized the design of the MGM Cotai project and construction commenced in 2013.  In May 2013, MGM China entered into an agreement with China State Construction Engineering Corporation to serve as the sole general contractor for the project.  MGM Cotai will be an integrated casino, hotel and entertainment resort with approximately 1,500 hotel rooms, 500 gaming tables and 1,500 slots.  The total estimated project budget is $2.9 billion, excluding development fees eliminated in consolidation, capitalized interest and land related costs. MGM Cotai is anticipated to open in the fall of 2016.



Customers and Competition



Our casino resorts operate in highly competitive environments. We compete against gaming companies, as well as other hospitality companies in the markets we operate in, neighboring markets, and in other parts of the world, including non-gaming resort destinations such as Hawaii.  Our gaming operations compete to a lesser extent with state-sponsored lotteries, off-track wagering, card parlors, online gambling and other forms of legalized gaming in the United States and internationally.










Our primary methods of successful competition include:



·Locating our resorts in desirable leisure and business travel markets and operating at superior sites within those markets;

·Constructing and maintaining high-quality resorts and facilities, including luxurious guestrooms, state-of-the-art convention facilities and premier dining, entertainment, retail and other amenities;

·Recruiting, training and retaining well-qualified and motivated employees who provide superior customer service;

·Providing unique, “must-see” entertainment attractions; and

·Developing distinctive and memorable marketing, promotional and customer loyalty programs.



Wholly owned domestic resorts.Our customers include premium gaming customers; leisure and wholesale travel customers; business travelers, and group customers, including conventions, trade associations, and small meetings.  We have a complete portfolio of resorts which appeal to the upper end of each market segment and also cater to leisure and value-oriented tour and travel customers. Many of our resorts have significant convention and meeting space which we utilize to drive business to our resorts during mid-week and off-peak periods.



Our Las Vegas casino resorts compete for customers with a large number of other hotel casinos in the Las Vegas area, including major hotel casinos on or near the Las Vegas Strip, major hotel casinos in the downtown area, which is about five miles from the center of the Strip, and several major hotel casinos elsewhere in the Las Vegas area.   Our Las Vegas Strip resorts also compete, in part, with each other.  According to the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority, there were approximately 150,500 guestrooms in Las Vegas at both December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013.  At December 31, 2014, we operated approximately 27% of the guestrooms in Las Vegas.  Las Vegas visitor volume was 41.1 million in 2014, a 4% increase from the 39.7 million reported for 2013.



Outside Las Vegas, our other Nevada operations compete with each other and with many other similarly sized and larger operations. Our Nevada resorts located outside of Las Vegas appeal primarily to the value-oriented leisure traveler and the value-oriented local customer.  A significant number of our customers at these resorts come from California.



Outside Nevada, our resorts primarily compete for customers in local and regional gaming markets, where location is a critical factor to success.  In addition, we compete with gaming operations in surrounding jurisdictions and other leisure destinations in each region. For example, in Detroit, Michigan we compete with a casino in nearby Windsor, Canada and with Native American casinos in Michigan.  In Biloxi, Mississippi we compete with regional riverboat and land-based casinos in Louisiana, Native American casinos in central Mississippi and with casinos in Florida and the Bahamas.





Our key competitors in Macau include five other gaming concessionaires and subconcessionaires. If the Macau government were to grant additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face additional competition which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  Additionally, several concessionaires have expansion plans announced or underway, primarily located on the Cotai Strip.  The properties currently operating in Cotai have achieved a higher growth rate than those located on the Macau peninsula.  We expect competition in the Macau market to continue to increase, as more capacity is brought online in the near future.  We also encounter competition from major gaming centers located in other areas of Asia and around the world, including Singapore, Malaysia, the Philippines, Australia, New Zealand, Las Vegas, cruise ships in Asia that offer gaming and from unlicensed gaming operations in the region.



Corporate and other.Much like our wholly owned resorts, our unconsolidated affiliates compete through the quality of amenities, the value of the experience offered to guests and the location of their resorts.  Aria, which we manage and own 50% through CityCenter, appeals to the upper end of each segment in the Las Vegas market and competes with our wholly owned casino








resorts and other resorts on the Las Vegas Strip.  Our other unconsolidated affiliates mainly compete for customers against casino resorts in their respective markets.



Marketing



Our marketing efforts are conducted through various means, including our loyalty programs as discussed further below. We advertise on radio, television, internet and billboards and in newspapers and magazines in selected cities throughout the United States and overseas, as well as by direct mail, email and through the use of social media.  We also advertise through our regional marketing offices located in major U.S. and foreign cities.  A key element of marketing to premium gaming customers is personal contact by our marketing personnel.  Direct marketing is also important in the convention segment.  We maintain websites to inform customers about our resorts and allow our customers to reserve hotel rooms, make restaurant reservations and purchase show tickets.  We actively utilize several social media sites to promote our brands, unique events, and special deals.



Wholly owned domestic resorts.M life, our customer loyalty program, is a broad-based program recognizing and rewarding customer spending across most channels focusing on wallet share capture, increased loyalty, unique and exclusive offerings and instant gratification.  M life provides access to rewards, privileges, and members-only events.  M life is a tiered system and allows customers to qualify for benefits across our participating resorts and in both gaming and non-gaming areas, encouraging customers to keep their total spend within our casino resorts. Customers earn points and/or Express Comps for their gaming play which can be redeemed at restaurants, box offices, the M life Desk, or kiosks at participating properties.  Points may also be redeemed forFREEPLAY, which provides customers with free slot play on participating machines. Members can utilize the M life website,www.mlife.com, to see offers, tier levels and point and Express Comps balances.



M life utilizes advanced analytic techniques that identify customer preferences and helps predict future customer behavior, allowing us to make more relevant offers to customers, influence incremental visits, and help build lasting customer relationships. In addition to the loyalty program, we issue a company magazine - M life Magazine - and developed M life TV, an in-room television channel to highlight customers’ experiences and showcase “Moments” customers can redeem through the accumulation of Express Comps.



We also utilize our world-class golf courses in marketing programs at our Las Vegas Strip resorts.  Our major Las Vegas resorts offer luxury suite packages that include golf privileges at Shadow Creek in North Las Vegas.  In connection with our marketing activities, we also invite our premium gaming customers to play Shadow Creek on a complimentary basis. Additionally, marketing efforts at Beau Rivage in Biloxi, Mississippi benefit from the Fallen Oak golf course located 20 minutes north of Beau Rivage.



MGM China.MGM Macau’s loyalty program is the Golden Lion Club, a tiered program which meets the needs of a range of customers from lower spending leisure and entertainment customers through the highest level VIP cash players.  The structured rewards system based on member value and tiers ensures that customers can progressively access the full range of services that the resort provides. The program is aspirational by design and transparent in its rewards, encouraging customers to increase both visitation and spend.  In addition to the rewards offered to Golden Lion Club members, MGM Macau has developed dedicated gaming and non-gaming areas to reflect different levels of rated play. Information from the Golden Lion Club is used to analyze customer usage by segment and individual player profile.



In addition to the Golden Lion Club program, the resort has also created and continues to expand several luxurious private gaming salons that provide distinctive, high-end environments for the VIP players brought to the resort through gaming promoters and the in-house VIP marketing team.  The resort has created a variety of incentive programs to reward gaming promoters for increased business and efficiency.



Technology



We utilize various types of technology to maximize revenue and efficiency in our operations.  We continue to move forward on standardizing the technology platforms for several of our key operational systems.  The standardization of these systems provides us with one consistent operating platform, allowing us efficiencies in training, reducing complexity in system integration and interfaces, standardizing processes across our casino resorts and providing our customers with better information. These systems capture charges made by our customers during their stay, including allowing customers of our resorts to charge meals and services at our other resorts to their hotel accounts.  In addition, we utilize yield management programs at our resorts that help us maximize occupancy and room rates.



We continue to enhance our booking engine, which brings together and standardizes our domestic portfolio of casino resorts. The booking engine allows our guests and business partners the ability to create an all-inclusive experience, from accommodations to dining to shows.  In addition, guests are able to share their vacation plans with others via social media. Available through all of our








domestic resorts’ individual websites, the booking engine gives guests the power to customize a complete itinerary from our full portfolio of experiences, all in one place. This experience is a significant improvement over traditional hotel booking engines which require guests to visit multiple sites for dining, hotel and entertainment reservations. The booking engine is also beneficial to M life members, through full integration with www.mlife.com.  With future plans to enable members to redeem express comps, members will enjoy powerful benefits, including easier access to their customized offers.



Employees and Management



We believe that knowledgeable, friendly and dedicated employees are a key success factor in the hospitality industry.  Therefore, we invest heavily in recruiting, training, motivating and retaining exceptional employees, and we seek to hire and promote the strongest management team possible.  We have numerous programs, both at the corporate and business unit level, designed to achieve these objectives.  We believe our internal development programs, such as the MGM Resorts University and various leadership and management training programs, are best in class among our industry peers.



Corporate Social Responsibility



We seek to conduct our business in an effective, socially responsible way while striving to maximize shareholder value.  Our corporate social responsibility efforts are overseen by the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee of our Board of Directors.



Environmental sustainability.We continue to gain recognition for our comprehensive environmental responsibility initiatives.  Certain of our casino resorts in Nevada and our casino resort in Michigan were the first in each state to earn certification from Green Key, the largest international program evaluating sustainable hotel operations.  We received certifications at 15 resorts, including Aria, Vdara, Bellagio and Mandalay Bay, the only casino resorts to receive “Five Green Key” (the highest possible) ratings.  Many major travel service providers recognize the Green Key designation and identify our resorts for their continued commitment to sustainable hotel operations.



In addition, we believe that incorporating the tenets of sustainability in our business decisions provides a platform for innovation and operational efficiency. CityCenter (Aria, Vdara, Veer, Mandarin Oriental Las Vegas and The Shops at Crystals) is one of the world’s largest private sustainable developments. With six LEED®Gold certifications from the U.S. Green Building Council, CityCenter serves as the standard for combining luxury and environmental responsibility within the large-scale hospitality industry.



At MGM Macau, we incorporate the same commitment to the environment.  Our efforts to improve energy efficiency, indoor air quality, and environmental stewardship have resulted in MGM Macau receiving the Macau Environmental Protection Bureau – Macau Green Hotel Award.



The construction of MGM National Harbor and MGM Springfield will further position MGM Resorts as a leader in sustainable resort operations, and by adopting innovative technologies in the design and operating practices of these resorts, we are advancing our commitment to protecting the planet in new regions.



Diversity and inclusion.Diversity and inclusion are fundamental to our Company’s value system, our people philosophy, our cultural life and therefore, our competitive advantage as an employer and destination of choice for our global customer base.  Our diversity initiative at our resorts fosters employee engagement, individual responsibility, team collaboration, inspired leadership, high performance and innovation.  Our diversity initiative has been widely recognized for many years and has been awarded numerous accolades.



Philanthropy and community engagement.Our community and social investments are prioritized to strengthen the communities where our employees live, work and care for their families.  Our community platform features three main programs: our Corporate Giving Program, the employee-funded MGM Resorts Foundation and our Employee Volunteer Program.  Through these channels, we make financial and in-kind donations, contribute volunteer service and participate in civic and non-profit organizations that advance the quality of life in our communities. Key investment areas include basic human needs, diversity, public education, health and wellness and environmental sustainability.



Development and Leveraging Our Brand and Management Assets



In allocating resources, our financial strategy is focused on managing a proper mix of investing in existing resorts, spending on new resorts or initiatives and repaying long-term debt. We believe there are reasonable investments for us to make in new initiatives and at our current resorts that will provide profitable returns.










We regularly evaluate possible expansion and acquisition opportunities in domestic and international markets.  Opportunities we evaluate may include the ownership, management and operation of gaming and other entertainment facilities in Nevada, or in states other than Nevada, or outside of the United States.  We leverage our management expertise and well-recognized brands through strategic partnerships and international expansion opportunities.  We feel that several of our brands, particularly the “MGM Grand,” “Bellagio,” and “Skylofts” brands, are well suited to new projects in both gaming and non-gaming developments. We may undertake these opportunities either alone or in cooperation with one or more third parties.



MGM Hospitality



MGM Hospitality seeks to leverage our management expertise and well-recognized brands through domestic and international expansion opportunities. MGM Hospitality has entered into management agreements for non-gaming hotels, resorts and residential products in the Middle East, North Africa, India and the United States.  In 2014, MGM Hospitality and the Hakkasan Group formed MGM Hakkasan Hospitality (“MGM Hakkasan”), owned 50% by each member, to design, develop and manage luxury non-gaming hotels, resorts and residences under certain brands licensed from MGM Hospitality and the Hakkasan Group.  In October 2014, MGM Hospitality contributed all of the management agreements for non-gaming hotels, resorts and residential projects (outside of the greater China region) that are currently under development to MGM Hakkasan.  MGM Hospitality will continue to develop and manage properties in the greater China region with Diaoyutai State Guesthouse, including MGM Grand Sanya.



MGM National Harbor



We were awarded the sixth and final casino license under current statutes in the State of Maryland by the Maryland Video Lottery Facility Location Commission to build and operate MGM National Harbor, a destination resort casino in Prince George’s County at National Harbor. We currently expect the cost to develop and construct MGM National Harbor to be approximately $1.2 billion, excluding capitalized interest and land related costs. We expect that the resort will include a casino with approximately 3,600 slots and 160 table games including poker; a 300 suite hotel with luxury spa and rooftop pool; 79,000 square feet of high end branded retail and fine and casual dining; a dedicated 3,000 seat theater venue; 50,000 square feet of meeting and event space; and a 4,700 space parking garage. Construction of MGM National Harbor has commenced with estimated completion in the second half of 2016.



MGM Springfield



We were awarded the Category One casino license in Region B, Western Massachusetts, one of three licensing regions designated by legislation, to build and operate MGM Springfield. MGM Springfield will be developed on 14.5 acres of land between Union and State streets, and Columbus Avenue and Main Street in Springfield, Massachusetts. We currently expect the cost to develop and construct MGM Springfield to be approximately $760 million, excluding capitalized interest and land related costs. We expect the resort will include a casino with approximately 3,000 slots and 100 table games including poker; 250 hotel rooms; 64,000 square feet of retail and restaurant space; 33,000 square feet of meeting and event space; and a 3,500 space parking garage.  Construction of MGM Springfield is expected to be completed in the second half of 2017.



Las Vegas Arena



We entered into an agreement with a subsidiary of Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. (“AEG”) – a leader in sports, entertainment, and promotions – to design, construct, and operate the Las Vegas Arena, which will be located on a parcel of our land between Frank Sinatra Drive and New York-New York, adjacent to the Las Vegas Strip. We and AEG each own 50% of Las Vegas Arena Company, the developer of the arena. The Las Vegas Arena is anticipated to seat between 18,000 – 20,000 people and is currently scheduled to be completed in the first half of 2016. Such development is estimated to cost approximately $350 million, excluding capitalized interest and land related costs. In September 2014, a wholly owned subsidiary of Las Vegas Arena Company entered into a $200 million senior secured credit facility to finance construction of the Las Vegas Arena.



Intellectual Property



Our principal intellectual property consists of trademarks for, among others, Bellagio, The Mirage, Mandalay Bay, MGM, MGM Grand, MGM Resorts International, Luxor, Excalibur, New York-New York, Circus Circus and Beau Rivage, all of which have been registered or allowed in various classes in the United States.  In addition, we have also registered or applied to register numerous other trademarks in connection with our properties, facilities and development projects in the United States. We have also registered and/or applied to register many of our trademarks in various other foreign jurisdictions. These trademarks are brand names under which we market our properties and services. We consider these brand names to be important to our business since they have the effect of developing brand identification. We believe that the name recognition, reputation and image that we have developed attract customers to our facilities. Once granted, our trademark registrations are of perpetual duration so long as they are used and








periodically renewed. It is our intent to pursue and maintain our trademark registrations consistent with our goals for brand development and identification, and enforcement of our trademark rights.



Employees and Labor Relations



As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately 46,000 full-time and 16,000 part-time employees domestically, of which 6,000 and 2,500, respectively, related to CityCenter.  In addition, we had approximately 6,100 employees at MGM Macau.  We had collective bargaining contracts with unions covering approximately 30,800 of our employees as of December 31, 2014.  In November 2013, Las Vegas union employees approved new collective bargaining agreements covering most of our Las Vegas union employees; these agreements expire in 2018. The collective bargaining agreement covering approximately 4,300 employees at MGM Grand Las Vegas expired in 2014. We have signed an extension of such agreement and are currently negotiating a new agreement. The union contract covering approximately 2,400 domestic employees at MGM Grand Detroit expires in 2015.  As of December 31, 2014, none of the employees of MGM Macau are part of a labor union and the resort is not party to any collective bargaining agreements.  We consider our employee relations to be good.



Regulation and Licensing



The gaming industry is highly regulated, and we must maintain our licenses and pay gaming taxes to continue our operations.  Each of our casinos is subject to extensive regulation under the laws, rules and regulations of the jurisdiction in which it is located.  These laws, rules and regulations generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners, managers, and persons with financial interest in the gaming operations. Violations of laws in one jurisdiction could result in disciplinary action in other jurisdictions.



A more detailed description of the gaming regulations to which we are subject is contained in Exhibit 99.2 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which Exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.



Our businesses are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations affecting businesses in general.  These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, smoking, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, construction, land use and marketing and advertising.  We also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering regulations. Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted.  Material changes, new laws or regulations, or material differences in interpretations by courts or governmental authorities could adversely affect our operating results.



In addition, we are subject to certain federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and the Oil Pollution Act of 1990. Under various federal, state and local laws and regulations, an owner or operator of real property may be held liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances or wastes located on its property, regardless of whether or not the present owner or operator knows of, or is responsible for, the presence of such substances or wastes. We have not identified any issues associated with our properties that could reasonably be expected to have an adverse effect on us or the results of our operations.



Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements



This Form 10-K and our 2014 Annual Report to Stockholders contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “seeks,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “will,” “may” and similar references to future periods.  Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements we make regarding our ability to generate significant cash flow, amounts we will spend in capital expenditures and investments; amounts we will pay under the CityCenter completion guarantee; the opening of strategic resort developments, the estimated costs associated with those developments and the expected components of such developments; and dividends we will receive from MGM China.  The foregoing is not a complete list of all forward-looking statements we make.



Forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions regarding our business, the economy and other future conditions.   Because forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks, and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict.  Our actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements.  They are neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees or assurances of future performance.  Therefore, we caution you against relying on any of these forward-looking statements.  Important factors that could cause actual








results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, regional, national or global political, economic, business, competitive, market, and regulatory conditions and the following:



·our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could adversely affect our development options and financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations;

·current and future economic and credit market conditions could adversely affect our ability to service or refinance our indebtedness and to make planned expenditures and investments;

·restrictions and limitations in the agreements governing our senior credit facility and other senior indebtedness could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity;

·significant competition we face with respect to destination travel locations generally and with respect to our peers in the industries in which we compete;

·the fact that our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations could adversely affect our business;

·the impact on our business of economic and market conditions in the markets in which we operate and in the locations in which our customers reside;

·restrictions on our ability to have any interest or involvement in gaming business in China, Macau, Hong Kong and Taiwan, other than through MGM China;

·the ability of the Macau government to terminate MGM Grand Paradise’s gaming subconcession under certain circumstances without compensating MGM Grand Paradise or refuse to grant MGM Grand Paradise an extension of the subconcession, which is scheduled to expire on March 31, 2020;

·our ability to build and open our development in Cotai by January 2018;

·the dependence of MGM Macau upon gaming promoters for a significant portion of gaming revenues in Macau;

·our ability to recognize our foreign tax credit deferred asset and the variability of the valuation allowance we may apply against such deferred tax asset;

·extreme weather conditions or climate change may cause property damage or interrupt business;

·the concentration of a majority of our major gaming resorts on the Las Vegas Strip;

·the fact that we extend credit to a large portion of our customers and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables;

·the potential occurrence of impairments to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets or long-lived assets which could negatively affect future profits;

·the susceptibility of leisure and business travel, especially travel by air, to global geopolitical events, such as terrorist attacks or acts of war or hostility, and to disease epidemics;

·the fact that co-investing in properties, including our investment in CityCenter, decreases our ability to manage risk;

·the fact that future construction or development projects will be susceptible to substantial development and construction risks;

·the fact that our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain similar insurance coverage in the future;

·the fact that CityCenter has decided to abate the potential for structural collapse of the Harmon Hotel & Spa (the “Harmon”) in the event of a code-level earthquake by demolishing the building, which exposes us to risks in connection with the demolition process;

·the fact that a failure to protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names and adversely affect our business;

·the risks associated with doing business outside of the United States and the impact of any potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other similar anti-corruption laws;

·risks related to pending claims that have been, or future claims that may be brought against us;

·the fact that a significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements;

·the sensitivity of our business to energy prices and a rise in energy prices could harm our operating results;

·the potential that failure to maintain the integrity of our computer systems and internal customer information could result in damage of reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or other restrictions on our use or transfer of data;

·increases in gaming taxes and fees in the jurisdictions in which we operate; and

·the potential for conflicts of interest to arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of MGM China, which is now a publicly traded company listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.



Any forward-looking statement made by us in this Form 10-K or our 2014 Annual Report to Stockholders speaks only as of the date on which it is made.  Factors or events that could cause our actual results to differ may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of them.  We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as may be required by law.  If we update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be made that we will make additional updates with respect to those or other forward-looking statements.










You should also be aware that while we from time to time communicate with securities analysts, we do not disclose to them any material non-public information, internal forecasts or other confidential business information.  Therefore, you should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by any analyst, irrespective of the content of the statement or report.  To the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain projections, forecasts or opinions, those reports are not our responsibility and are not endorsed by us.



Executive Officers of the Registrant



The following table sets forth, as of February 27, 2015, the name, age and position of each of our executive officers.  Executive officers are elected by and serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.



NameAgePositionJames J. Murren53Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerRobert H. Baldwin64Chief Design and Construction Officer and DirectorWilliam J. Hornbuckle57PresidentCorey I. Sanders51Chief Operating OfficerDaniel J. D’Arrigo46Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and TreasurerPhyllis A. James62Executive Vice President, Special Counsel – Litigation and Chief Diversity OfficerJohn M. McManus47Executive Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryRobert C. Selwood59Executive Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer



Mr. Murren has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since December 2008 and as President from December 1999 to December 2012.  He served as Chief Operating Officer from August 2007 through December 2008.  He was Chief Financial Officer from January 1998 to August 2007 and Treasurer from November 2001 to August 2007.



Mr. Baldwin has served as Chief Design and Construction Officer since August 2007.  He served as Chief Executive Officer of Mirage Resorts from June 2000 to August 2007 and President and Chief Executive Officer of Bellagio, LLC from June 1996 to March 2005.



Mr. Hornbuckle has served as President since December 2012.  He served as Chief Marketing Officer from August 2009 to August 2014 and President and Chief Operating Officer of Mandalay Bay Resort & Casino from April 2005 to August 2009.



Mr. Sanders has served as Chief Operating Officer since September 2010.  He served as Chief Operating Officer for the Company’s Core Brand and Regional Properties from August 2009 to September 2010, as Executive Vice President—Operations from August 2007 to August 2009, as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for MGM Grand Resorts from April 2005 to August 2007.



Mr. D’Arrigo has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since August 2007 and as Treasurer since September 2009.  He served as Senior Vice President—Finance of the Company from February 2005 to August 2007 and as Vice President—Finance of the Company from December 2000 to February 2005.



Ms. James has served as Executive Vice President and Special Counsel—Litigation since July 2010 and as Chief Diversity Officer since 2009.  She served as Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel of the Company from March 2002 to July 2010.



Mr. McManus has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since July 2010.  He served as Senior Vice President, Acting General Counsel and Secretary of the Company from December 2009 to July 2010.  He served as Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from September 2009 to December 2009.  He served as Senior Vice President, Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of the Company from July 2008 to September 2009.  He served as Vice President and General Counsel for CityCenter’s residential and retail divisions from January 2006 to July 2008.



Mr. Selwood has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer since August 2007.  He served as Senior Vice President—Accounting of the Company from February 2005 to August 2007 and as Vice President—Accounting of the Company from December 2000 to February 2005.










Available Information



We maintain a website atwww.mgmresorts.comthat includes financial and other information for investors.  We provide access to our Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q (including related filings in XBRL format), filed and furnished current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports on our website, free of charge, through a link to the SEC’s EDGAR database.  Through that link, our filings are available as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish the documents with the SEC.



These filings are also available on the SEC’s website atwww.sec.gov.  In addition, the public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549 and may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.



Because of the time differences between Macau and the United States, we also use our corporate website as a means of posting important information about MGM China.



Reference in this document to our website address does not incorporate by reference the information contained on the website into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.














