Item 1.BUSINESS.

(dollars and shares in thousands)



Overview

We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on serving patients with severe and ultra-rare disorders through the innovation, development and commercialization of life-transforming therapeutic products. Our marketed product Soliris is the first and only therapeutic approved for patients with either of two severe and ultra-rare disorders resulting from chronic uncontrolled activation of the complement component of the immune system:  paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH), a life-threatening and ultra-rare genetic blood disorder, and atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS), a life-threatening and ultra-rare genetic disease. We are also evaluating additional potential indications for Soliris in severe and devastating diseases in which we believe that uncontrolled complement activation is the underlying mechanism, and we are progressing in various










stages of development with additional biotechnology product candidates as treatments for patients with severe and life-threatening ultra-rare disorders.  We were incorporated in 1992 and began commercial sale of Soliris in 2007.

Soliris is designed to inhibit a specific aspect of the complement component of the immune system and thereby treat inflammation associated with chronic disorders in several therapeutic areas, including hematology, nephrology, transplant rejection and neurology. Soliris is a humanized monoclonal antibody that effectively blocks terminal complement activity at the doses currently prescribed. The initial indication for which we received approval for Soliris is PNH. PNH is a debilitating and life-threatening, ultra-rare genetic blood disorder defined by chronic uncontrolled complement activation leading to the destruction of red blood cells (hemolysis). The chronic hemolysis in patients with PNH may be associated with life-threatening thromboses, recurrent pain, kidney disease, disabling fatigue, impaired quality of life, severe anemia, pulmonary hypertension, shortness of breath and intermittent episodes of dark-colored urine (hemoglobinuria).

Soliris was approved for the treatment of PNH by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the European Commission (EC) in 2007 and by Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (MHLW) in 2010, and has been approved in several other territories. Additionally, Soliris has been granted orphan drug designation for the treatment of PNH in the United States, Europe, Japan and several other territories.

In September and November 2011, Soliris was approved by the FDA and EC, respectively, for the treatment of pediatric and adult patients with aHUS in the United States and Europe.  In September 2013, the MHLW approved Soliris for the treatment of pediatric and adult patients with aHUS in Japan.  aHUS is a severe and life-threatening genetic ultra-rare disease characterized by chronic uncontrolled complement activation and thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA), the formation of blood clots in small blood vessels throughout the body, causing a reduction in platelet count (thrombocytopenia) and life-threatening damage to the kidney, brain, heart and other vital organs.  In addition, the FDA and EC have granted Soliris orphan drug designation for the treatment of patients with aHUS.

Products and Development Programs

The human immune system defends the body from attack or invasion by infectious agents or pathogens. This defense is accomplished through a complex system of proteins and cells, primarily complement proteins, antibodies and white blood cells, each with a specialized function. Under normal circumstances, complement proteins, together with antibodies and white blood cells, act to protect the body by removing:

•harmful micro-organisms;

•cells containing foreign proteins known as antigens; and

•potential disease-causing combinations of antigens and antibodies known as immune complexes.

When activated by certain stimuli, the immune system triggers a series of enzymatic and biochemical reactions called the complement cascade that results in a pro-inflammatory, pro-thrombotic and cytolytic (cell lysis) response. This set of responses is one of the immune system’s weapons against foreign pathogens or otherwise diseased tissue. Given this role of the complement cascade, it must be tightly regulated so that damage to healthy cells, tissues and organs does not occur.   However, in certain settings, the complement cascade is subject to uncontrolled  excessive or inappropriate activation, or as well an individual may be deficient in naturally occurring complement inhibitors (regulatory proteins). Any of these circumstances  may result in acute and chronic inflammatory conditions and damage to healthy tissues and organs.

We focus our product development programs on life-transforming therapeutics for severe and life-threatening ultra-rare diseases for which we believe current treatments are either non-existent or inadequate. Eculizumab is a humanized antibody known as a C5 terminal complement inhibitor (C5 Inhibitor), which is designed to selectively block the cleavage of C5 and hence the production of the pro-inflammatory, pro-thrombotic and cytolytic  proteins of the terminal complement cascade. In addition to PNH and aHUS, for which the use of eculizumab has been approved in the United States, Europe, Japan, and other countries, we believe that C5 Inhibitors may be useful in the treatment of a variety of other serious diseases and conditions resulting from uncontrolled complement activation.










Marketed Products

Our marketed products include the following:ProductDevelopment AreaDescriptionDevelopment StageSoliris (eculizumab)HematologyParoxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria (PNH)CommercialPNH RegistryPhase IVHematology/NephrologyAtypical Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome (aHUS)CommercialaHUS RegistryPhase IV

Paroxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria (PNH)

Soliris is the first and only therapy approved for the treatment of patients with PNH, a debilitating and life-threatening ultra-rare blood disorder in which an acquired genetic deficiency causes uncontrolled complement activation which leads to life-threatening complications.  We continue to work with researchers to expand the base of knowledge in PNH and the utility of Soliris to treat patients with PNH.  In 2013, the EC extended the Soliris label to include pediatric patients with PNH.  The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) recommends that the renewal be granted with unlimited validity.  Additionally, we are sponsoring a multinational registry to gather information regarding the natural history of patients with PNH and the longer term outcomes during Soliris treatment.

Atypical Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome (aHUS)

aHUS is a chronic and life-threatening ultra-rare genetic disease in which uncontrolled complement activation causes blood clots in small blood vessels throughout the body, or TMA, leading to kidney failure, stroke, heart attack and death.  Soliris is the first and only therapy approved for the treatment of pediatric and adult patients with aHUS.  Pursuant to a post marketing requirement imposed by the FDA, we have now completed enrollment in a prospective open-label trial in adults with aHUS and, separately, enrollment has been completed in a prospective trial of pediatric patients with aHUS. In May 2014, based on data from these trials, the FDA approved conversion of Soliris accelerated approval in aHUS to regular approval for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients with aHUS to inhibit complement-mediated TMA.










Clinical Development Program

Our programs, including investigator sponsored clinical programs, include the following:

ProductDevelopment AreaDescriptionDevelopment StageSoliris (eculizumab)TransplantDelayed Kidney Transplant Graft FunctionPhase IIIAntibody Mediated Rejection (AMR) Presensitized Renal Transplant - Living DonorPhase IIAntibody Mediated Rejection (AMR) Presensitized Renal Transplant - Deceased DonorPhase IITreatment of Antibody Mediated Rejection (AMR) Following Renal Transplantation*Phase IINeurologyNeuromyelitis Optica (NMO)Phase IIIMyasthenia Gravis (MG)Phase IIIAsfotase alfaMetabolic DisordersHypophosphatasia (HPP)Phase IIcPMP (ALXN 1101)Metabolic DisordersMoCD Type APhase IIALXN 1007Inflammatory DisordersGI Graft versus Host DiseasePhase IIAnti-phospholipid SyndromePhase IIALXN 1210Next GenerationPhase IALXN 5500Next GenerationPhase I

* Investigator Initiated Trial



Soliris (eculizumab)



Transplant

Delayed Kidney Transplant Graft Function

Delayed graft function (DGF) is the term used to describe the failure of a kidney or other organs to function immediately after transplantation due to ischemia-reperfusion and immunological injury. Enrollment has been completed in this Phase III registration trial study of eculizumab in patients at elevated risk for DGF following kidney transplant.    Eculizumab has been granted orphan drug designation for DGF by the FDA and, in the first quarter of 2014, the EC granted orphan drug designation to eculizumab for prevention of DGF after solid organ transplantation.  In August 2014, we announced the initiation of dosing in a single, multinational, placebo-controlled DGF registration trial based on positive discussions with regulators in the U.S. and EU.

Antibody Mediated Rejection (AMR) in Presensitized Kidney Transplant Patients

AMR is the term used to describe a type of transplant rejection that occurs when the recipient has antibodies to the donor organ. Enrollment in a multi-national, multi-site controlled clinical trial of eculizumab in presensitized kidney transplant patients at elevated risk for AMR who received kidneys from deceased organ donors was completed in March 2013.  The study was re-opened in October 2013 to enroll additional patients at the request of participating investigators.  Enrollment and dosing in this expanded trial has been completed and patient follow-up in the trial is continuing.  In September 2013, researchers presented positive preliminary data from the eculizumab deceased-donor AMR kidney transplant study at the European Society of Organ Transplant in Vienna, Austria.

Enrollment in a multi-national, multi-site randomized controlled clinical trial of eculizumab in presensitized kidney transplant patients at elevated risk for AMR who received kidneys from living donors has been completed and patient follow-up in the trial is ongoing.   In January 2015, we reported results from a randomized, open-label, multicenter Phase II clinical trial to determine the safety and efficacy of eculizumab in the prevention of AMR in living-donor kidney transplant recipients requiring desensitization. The primary composite endpoint of the trial did not reach statistical significance.  Data analyses are










ongoing and based on discussions with regulators, we are developing plans to commence a clinical trial with eculizumab as a treatment for patients with AMR.

In April 2014, the EC granted orphan drug designation to eculizumab for the prevention of graft rejection following solid organ transplantation.

Neurology

Neuromyelitis Optica (NMO)

NMO is a severe and ultra-rare autoimmune disease of the central nervous system (CNS) that primarily affects the optic nerves and spinal cord.  In an investigator-initiated Phase II clinical trial of eculizumab in severe and relapsing NMO, eculizumab reduced the median number of NMO attacks at 12 months with a high degree of statistical significance.  In the first half of 2014, we commenced a Phase III pivotal trial to evaluate eculizumab as as treatment for patients with relapsing NMO.  The FDA , EC, and MHLW have each granted orphan designation for eculizumab as a treatment for patients with NMO.

Myasthenia Gravis (MG)

MG is an ultra-rare autoimmune syndrome characterized by complement activation leading to the failure of neuromuscular transmission.  Data from a Phase II trial evaluating the safety and efficacy of eculizumab in patients with refractory generalized MG indicated improvement in clinical measures.  In the second quarter of 2014, we commenced a Phase III pivotal trial to evaluate eculizumab as a treatment for patients with refractory generalized MG.  In addition, the FDA, EC and MHLW have granted orphan  drug designation for eculizumab as a treatment for patients with MG.



Asfotase Alfa

Hypophosphatasia (HPP)

HPP is an ultra-rare, genetic, and life-threatening metabolic disease characterized by impaired phosphate and calcium regulation, leading to progressive damage to multiple vital organs including destruction and deformity of bones, profound muscle weakness, seizures, impaired renal function, and respiratory failure.

Asfotase alfa, a targeted enzyme replacement therapy in Phase II clinical trials for patients with HPP, is designed to directly address the morbidities and mortality of HPP by targeting alkaline phosphatase directly to the deficient tissue. In this way, asfotase alfa is designed to normalize the genetically defective metabolic process and prevent or reverse its severe and life-threatening complications in patients with HPP.  Studies with asfotase alfa in HPP patients indicate that the treatment significantly decreases the levels of targeted metabolic substrates.  In 2013, asfotase alfa received Breakthrough Therapy Designation from the FDA. In September 2014, the MHLW granted orphan drug designation to asfotase alfa for the treatment of patients with HPP.

Interim results from a separate multinational Phase II open-label study of infants and children with HPP were presented at the European Society of Pediatric Endocrinology meeting held in September 2013.  Results of 15 enrolled and treated patients representing a range of HPP characteristics were summarized, showing that the primary efficacy endpoint was achieved with a high degree of clinical and statistical significance and several key secondary endpoints were also achieved.  The study continues to enroll and dose patients.

We have completed two natural history studies in infantile-onset patients with HPP and juveniles with HPP.  We have completed our initial analysis for the studies.  We have commenced and completed a rolling submission of our U.S. Biologics License Application (BLA) for asfotase alfa, which allows completed portions of the application to be submitted and reviewed by the FDA on an ongoing basis.  In July 2014, we announced that the European Medicines Agency (EMA) informed us that it had validated our Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) for asfotase alfa for the treatment of HPP.  We believe the analysis of our clinical data supports our regulatory filings in the U.S., EU, and Japan.

In September 2014, results of several HPP trials were presented at the 2014 Annual Meeting of the American Society of Bone and Mineral Research (ASBMR). Results of these trials indicate that in HPP patients at high risk of death, overall survival rates significantly greater in asfotase alfa patients compared with survival in historical control patients. In addition, patients receiving asfotase alfa significantly improved ventilator-free survival.












cPMP (ALXN 1101)

Molybdenum Cofactor Deficiency (MoCD) Disease Type A (MoCD Type A)

MoCD Type A is an ultra-rare metabolic disorder characterized by severe and rapidly progressive neurologic damage and death in newborns.  MoCD Type A results from a genetic deficiency in cyclic Pyranopterin Monophosphate (cPMP), a molecule that enables production of certain enzymes, the absence of which allows neurotoxic sulfite to accumulate in the brain.  To date, there is no approved therapy available for MoCD Type A.  There has been some early clinical experience with the cPMP replacement therapy in a small number of children with MoCD Type A, and we have initiated a natural history study in patients with MoCD Type A.  In October 2013, cPMP received Breakthrough Therapy Designation from the FDA for the treatment of patients with MoCD Type A.  Evaluation of our synthetic cPMP replacement therapy in a Phase I healthy volunteer study is complete. As a result, we have initiated a multi-center, multinational, open-label clinical trial of synthetic cPMP in patients with MoCD Type A being treated with recombinant cPMP.



ALXN 1007

ALXN 1007 is a novel humanized antibody designed to target rare and severe inflammatory disorders and is a product of our proprietary antibody discovery technologies.  We have completed enrollment in both a Phase I single-dose, dose escalating safety and pharmacology study in healthy volunteers, as well as in a multi-dose, dose escalating safety and pharmacology study in healthy volunteers.  As a result of meetings with the FDA, we commenced dosing in the second quarter of 2014 a Phase II proof-of-concept study in patients with anti-phospholipid syndrome (APS). APS is an ultra-rare autoimmune, hypercoagulable state caused by antiphospholipid antibodies. A second proof-of-concept study in patients with another ultra-rare disorder, gastrointestinal graft versus host disease (GI-GVHD) was initiated in September 2014. Patients with GI-GVHD following bone marrow or hematopoietic stem cell transplant experience engrafted hematopoietic cells that attack host gastrointestinal tissues in the first 100 days post-transplant causing damage to the GI tract, liver and skin.

Manufacturing

We currently rely on two manufacturing facilities, Alexion's Rhode Island manufacturing facility (ARIMF) and one facility operated by Lonza Group AG and its affiliates (Lonza), to produce commercial and clinical bulk quantities of Soliris, and we rely on a facility operated by Lonza for clinical quantities of asfotase alfa.  We produce our clinical and preclinical quantities of our other product candidates at ARIMF.  We have entered into an agreement with Lonza to manufacture commercial and clinical supplies of Soliris and asfotase alfa at an additional site. We also depend on a limited number of third party providers for other services with respect to our clinical and commercial requirements, including manufacturing services, product finishing, packaging, filling and labeling.

We have various agreements with Lonza through 2026, with remaining total non-cancellable commitments of approximately$383,500through2018. Our agreements with Lonza also include potential payments totaling up to$5,000that will become payable if and when certain milestones are achieved. If we terminate certain supply agreements with Lonza without cause, we will be required to pay for product scheduled for manufacture under our arrangement.  Under an existing arrangement with Lonza, we also pay Lonza a royalty on sales of Soliris manufactured at ARIMF and a payment with respect to sales of Soliris manufactured at Lonza facilities.

In March 2013, we received a Warning Letter (Warning Letter)from the FDA regarding compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) at ARIMF.  The Warning Letter followed an FDA inspection which concluded in August 2012.  At the conclusion of that inspection, the FDA issued a Form 483 Inspectional Observations, to which we responded in August 2012 and provided additional information to the FDA in September and December 2012.  The observations relate to commercial and clinical manufacture of Soliris at ARIMF.   We responded to the Warning Letter in a letter to the FDA dated in April 2013.  At the conclusion of another inspection of ARIMF in August 2014, the FDA issued a Form 483 with three inspectional observations, none of which were designated as a repeat observation to the Warning Letter.  The observations are inspectional and do not represent a final FDA determination of compliance.  We continue to manufacture products, including Soliris, at ARIMF.  While the resolution of the issues raised in this Warning Letter is difficult to predict, we do not currently believe a loss related to this matter is probable or that the potential magnitude of such loss or range of loss, if any, can be reasonably estimated.  To the extent that circumstances related to this matter change, the impact could have a material adverse effect on our financial operations.

The EMA inspected ARIMF in January 2013 and issued  a cGMP certificate in May 2013.

Unrelated to the Warning Letter,  we initiated voluntary recalls and replacements of certain lots of Soliris in 2013 and 2014 due to the presence of visible particles detected in a limited number of vials in these lots.  These recalls did not interrupt










the supply of Soliris to patients. Following investigation, we believe that we have identified the fill/finish process step at our third party provider that resulted in the presence of the visible particles and we have implemented the changes necessary to modify the process step.  During the fourth quarter of 2013, we recorded expense of$14,277in costs of sales resulting from the disposal of inventory in 2014. Expenses associated with recalls were not material in2014.

In April 2014, we purchased a fill/finish facility in Athlone, Ireland.  Following refurbishment of the facility, and after successful completion of the appropriate validation processes and regulatory approvals, the facility will become our first company-owned fill/finish and packaging facility for Soliris and other clinical and commercial products.  Our plans for future expansion in Ireland also include the construction of office and laboratory facilities on property in Dublin, Ireland, which we purchased in April 2014.

Sales and Marketing

We have established a commercial organization to support current and future sales of Soliris in the United States, Europe, Japan, Asia Pacific countries, and other territories. Our sales force for Soliris is small compared to that of other drugs with similar revenues; however, we believe that a relatively smaller sales force is appropriate to effectively market Soliris due to the incidence and prevalence of PNH and aHUS. If we receive regulatory approval in new territories or for new products or indications, we may expand our own commercial organizations in such territories and market and sell Soliris through our own sales force in these territories. However, we evaluate each jurisdiction on a country-by-country basis, and, in certain territories, we promote Soliris in collaboration with marketing partners or rely on relationships with one or more companies with established distribution systems and direct sales forces in certain countries.

Customers

Our customers are primarily comprised of distributors, pharmacies, hospitals, hospital buying groups, and other health care providers. In some cases, we may also sell Soliris to governments and government agencies.

During2014, sales to our largest customer accounted for18%of our Soliris net product sales.  During2013, sales to our largest customer accounted for20%of our Soliris net product sales.

Because of factors such as the pricing of Soliris, the limited number of patients, the short period from product sale to patient infusion and the lack of contractual return rights, Soliris customers often carry limited inventory. We also monitor inventory within our sales channels to determine whether deferrals are appropriate based on factors such as inventory levels compared to demand, contractual terms and financial strength of distributors.

Please also see "Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Net Product Sales," and Note 17 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for financial information about geographic areas.

Intellectual Property Rights and Market Exclusivity

Patents and other intellectual property rights are important to our business. We own or license a number of patents in the U.S. and foreign countries that cover our products and investigational compounds; also we file and prosecute patent applications covering new technologies and inventions that are meaningful to our business.  In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets, know-how, trademarks, regulatory exclusivity and other forms of intellectual property.  Our intellectual property rights have material value and we act to protect them.

In the biopharmaceutical industry, two forms of intellectual property generally determine the period of a product’s market exclusivity:  patent rights and regulatory forms of exclusivity.  It is during the period of market exclusivity that an innovative product generally realizes most of its commercial value.

Patents provide the owner with a right to exclude others from practicing an invention.  Patents may cover the active ingredients, uses, formulations, doses, administrations, delivery mechanisms, manufacturing processes and other aspects of a product.  The period of patent protection for any given product may depend on the expiration date of various patents and may differ from country to country according to the type of patents, the scope of coverage and the remedies for infringement available in a country.

Most of our products and investigational compounds are protected by patents with varying terms that depend on the type of patent and its filing date.  However, a significant portion of a product's patent life can elapse during the time it takes to develop and obtain regulatory approval of the product.  As compensation, certain developed countries will extend a patent’s term, subject to a number of factors and caps.










With respect to Soliris, we own an issued U.S. patent that covers the product and will expire in 2021, taking into account patent term extension.  We also own a corresponding issued European patent that covers Soliris and will expire in 2015, though in certain European countries where we filed for supplementary protection certificates we expect exclusivity to extend into 2020.  In Japan and other countries where we own patents covering Soliris the patents will expire between 2015 and 2020.  We also own U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications that protect our investigational compounds and product candidates.  At present, it is not known whether any such investigational compound or product candidate will be approved for human use and sale.

Regulatory forms of exclusivity are another source of valuable rights that can contribute toward market exclusivity for an innovative biopharmaceutical product such as Soliris.  Many developed countries provide such non-patent incentives to develop medicines.  In the U.S., Europe and Japan, for instance, regulatory intellectual property rights provide incentives to develop medicines for rare diseases, or orphan drugs, and medicines for pediatric patients.  Those countries and others also provide data protection for a period of time after the approval of a new drug, during which regulatory agencies may not rely on the innovator’s data to approve a biosimilar or generic copy.  Regulatory forms of exclusivity can work in conjunction with patents to strengthen market exclusivity, and in countries where patent protection has expired or does not exist, regulatory forms of exclusivity can extend a product’s market exclusivity period.

With respect to Soliris, we rely on regulatory forms of exclusivity such as data protection and orphan drug protection to support the product’s market exclusivity.  Specific aspects of the laws governing regulatory exclusivity vary by country, but most forms of regulatory exclusivity do not prevent competitive products from gaining regulatory approval on the basis of the competitor’s own safety and efficacy data, even when the competitive product is a biosimilar or generic copy.   In certain countries, however, orphan drugs can obtain a period of exclusivity during which no competitive product containing the same drug may be approved for the same orphan indication.

Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and regulatory protections for our products and investigational compounds, to preserve our trade secrets and other proprietary rights, to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties, and to prevent third parties from circumventing our rights. Due to the time and expense of bringing new products through development and regulatory approval to the marketplace, there is particular importance in obtaining patent and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes. As ofDecember 31, 2014, we owned or in-licensed patents and patent applications that relate to C5 inhibitors, high throughput screening, biologic manufacturing processes, vectors, cancer, recombinant antibodies, bone delivery conjugates, nucleic acid-based therapies, natriuretic peptides, human molybdenum cofactor deficiency, targeted complement inhibitors, and other technologies.

Significant legal questions exist concerning the extent and scope of patent protection for biopharmaceutical products and processes in the United States and elsewhere. Accordingly, there is no certainty that patent applications owned or licensed by us will issue as patents, or that our issued patents will afford meaningful protection against competitors.  Once issued, patents are subject to challenge through both administrative and judicial proceedings in the U.S. and other countries. Such proceedings include re-examinations, inter partes reviews, post-grant reviews and interference proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, as well as opposition proceedings before the European Patent Office.  Litigation may be required to enforce, defend or obtain our patent and other intellectual property rights. Any administrative proceeding or litigation could require a significant commitment of our resources and, depending on outcome, could adversely affect the scope, validity or enforceability of certain of our patent or other proprietary rights.

In regard to third party intellectual property, we have in the past received, and may in the future receive, notices claiming infringement of their patents.  We are aware of other patents owned by third parties that the owners might claim to be infringed by the development and commercialization of Soliris or some of our investigational compounds.  We have obtained licenses to some of those patents and may obtain licenses to others.  In other instances, we have determined in our judgment that:

•our products and investigational compounds do not infringe the patents;

•the patents are not valid or enforceable; or

•we have identified and are testing various alternatives that should not infringe the patents and which should permit continued development and commercialization of our products and investigational compounds.

If a patent holder successfully challenges our judgment that our products do not infringe their patents or that their patents are invalid, we could be required to pay costly damages or to obtain a license to sell or develop our products. A required license may be costly or may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all.  A costly license or inability to obtain a necessary license could materially and adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products, including Soliris.










On a quarterly basis, we review the status of each significant matter and assess its potential financial exposure.  If the potential loss from any claim, asserted or unasserted, or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss.  Because of uncertainties related to claims and litigation, accruals are based on our best estimates based on available information.  On a periodic basis, as additional information becomes available, or based on specific events such as the outcome of litigation or settlement of claims, we may reassess the potential liability related to these matters and may revise these estimates, which could result in a material adjustment to our operating results.

The market exclusivity of our products may be impacted by competitive products that are either innovative or biosimilar or generic copies.  In our industry, the potential for biosimilar challenges has been an increasing risk to product market exclusivity.  U.S. law enacted in 2010 created a new approval pathway for biosimilar versions of innovative biological products.  Prior to that time, innovative biologics had essentially unlimited regulatory exclusivity.  Under the new pathway, the FDA may approve products that are similar to (but not generic copies of) innovative biologics on the basis of less extensive data than is required by a full biologic license application.  After an innovator has marketed its product for four years, other manufacturers may apply for approval of a biosimilar version of the innovator product.  However, qualified innovative biological products will receive 12 years of regulatory exclusivity, meaning that the FDA may not actually approve a biosimilar version until 12 years after the innovative product received its approval.  The law also provides a mechanism for innovators to enforce their patents that protect their products and for biosimilar applicants to challenge the patents.  Such litigation may begin as early as four years after the innovative biological product is first approved by the FDA.  Pathways for biosimilar products also exist in many other markets also, including Europe and Japan.

We estimate the market exclusivity period for our products solely for business planning purposes.  The actual length of market exclusivity for any product is impossible to predict with certainty due to the complex interaction between patent and regulatory factors and the inherent uncertainties of litigation.

License and Collaboration Agreements

In January 2015, we entered into a license agreement with a third party to obtain certain intellectual property rights and technology related to specific therapeutic compounds.  The agreement provides an exclusive research, development and commercial license for products to be developed using such compounds.  Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, we made an upfront payment of$50,000during the first quarter 2015.  We could be required to pay up to an additional$213,000in development and regulatory milestones related to a product developed under the agreement for a single disease indication.  An additional$437,000in milestone payments could be due if certain development and regulatory milestones are achieved for additional disease indications.  The agreement also provides for royalty payments and potential milestone payments of up to$180,000on commercial sales of products developed under the agreement.

In December 2014, we entered into an agreement with X-Chem Pharmaceuticals (X-Chem) that allows us to identify novel drug candidates from X-Chem's proprietary drug discovery engine. Alexion will have the exclusive worldwide rights to develop and commercialize up tothreetargets arising from the collaboration. Due to the early stage of these assets, we recorded expense for an upfront payment of$8,000. In addition, for each drug target, to a maximum ofthreetargets,  we could be required to make additional payments upon the achievement of specified research, development and regulatory milestones up to$75,000, as well as royalties on commercial sales.

In January 2014, we entered into an agreement with Moderna Therapeutics, Inc. (Moderna) that provides the option to purchase drug products for clinical development and commercialization of Moderna's messenger RNA (mRNA) therapeutics to treat rare diseases.  Due to the early stage of these assets, we recorded expense for an upfront payment of$100,000in 2014.  We will also be responsible for funding research activities under the program.  In addition, for each drug target, up to a maximum oftentargets, would could be required to make an option exercise payment of$15,000and to pay up to an additional$120,000with respect to a rare disease product and$400,000with respect to a non-rare disease product in development and sales milestones if the specific milestones are met over time as well as royalties on commercial sales.

In July 2013, we entered into a license and collaboration agreement with Ensemble Therapeutics Corporation for the identification, development and commercialization of therapeutic candidates based on specific drug targets.  Due to the early stage of these assets, we recorded expense for an upfront payment of$11,500during the third quarter of 2013.  We will also be responsible for funding research activities under the program.  In addition, for each drug target, up to a maximum offourtargets, we could be required to pay up to an additional$90,750in development milestones as the specific milestones are met over time.  The agreement also provides for royalty payments on commercial sales of each product developed under the agreement.










In January 2013, we entered into a license agreement for a technology, which provides an exclusive research license and an option for an exclusive commercial license for specific targets and products to be developed.   Due to the early stage of this asset, we recorded expense for an upfront payment of$3,000during the first quarter of 2013.  We will also be required to pay annual maintenance fees during the term of the arrangement.  In addition, for each target, up to a maximum ofsixtargets we develop, we could be required to pay up to an additional$70,500in license fees, development and sales milestones as the specific milestones are met over time.

In October 2012, we entered into a settlement and non-exclusive license agreement with a third party.  Under the terms of the agreement, we made an upfront payment and will pay royalties on sales of Soliris through 2018 in accordance with the terms of the agreement.

In March 1996, we entered into a license agreement with the Medical Research Council (MRC) whereby MRC granted to us worldwide non-exclusive rights to certain patents related to the humanization and production of monoclonal antibodies. The license agreement requires us to pay MRC royalties on a quarterly basis with respect to sales of Soliris in the United States and Canada, as well as foreign sales of Soliris for product manufactured and vialed in the U.S. The royalty is payable until the expiration of the last patent covered by the license agreement, which is expected to be in 2015, except that royalties for sales in Canada will continue until January 2017. MRC may terminate the license if we file for bankruptcy or become insolvent, or if we fail to perform our obligations under the agreement and such failure is not remedied within three months after delivery of notice. Under the agreement, we agreed to (a) make royalty payments with respect to sales of licensed products, (b) promote the sale of Soliris of good marketable quality, and (c) use reasonable endeavors to meet market demand for licensed products.

Government Regulation

Drug Development and Approval in the U.S.

The preclinical studies and clinical testing, manufacture, labeling, storage, record keeping, advertising, promotion, export, and marketing, among other things, of our products and product candidates, including Soliris, are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States, the European Union and other territories. In the United States, pharmaceutical products are regulated by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and other laws, including, in the case of biologics, the Public Health Service Act. Soliris is regulated by the FDA as a biologic. Biologics require the submission of a Biologics License Application (BLA) and approval by the FDA prior to being marketed in the United States. Manufacturers of biologics may also be subject to state regulation. Failure to comply with FDA requirements, both before and after product approval, may subject us and/or our partners, contract manufacturers, and suppliers to administrative or judicial sanctions, including FDA refusal to approve applications, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, fines and/or criminal prosecution.

The process for obtaining regulatory approval to market a biologic is expensive, often takes many years, and can vary substantially based on the type, complexity, and novelty of the product candidates involved.  The steps required before a biologic may be approved for marketing of an indication in the United States generally include:

(1) preclinical laboratory tests and animal tests;

(2) submission to the FDA of an IND for human clinical testing, which must become effective before human clinical trials may commence;

(3) adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the product for its intended use;

(4) submission to the FDA of a BLA or supplemental BLA;

(5) FDA pre-approval inspection of the manufacturing sites identified in the BLA; and

(6) FDA review and approval of the BLA or supplemental BLA. Preclinical studies include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry and formulation, as well as toxicological and pharmacological animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product candidate. Preclinical safety tests intended for submission to FDA must be conducted in compliance with FDA’s Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) regulations and the United States Department of Agriculture’s Animal Welfare Act. The results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information and analytical data, are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND which must become effective before human clinical trials may be commenced. The investigational new drug (IND) will automatically become effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA before that time raises concerns about the drug candidate or the conduct of the trials as outlined in the IND. The IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns










before clinical trials can proceed. We cannot assure you that submission of an IND will result in FDA authorization to commence clinical trials or that once commenced, other concerns will not arise.  FDA may stop the clinical trials by placing them on “clinical hold” because of concerns about the safety of the product being tested, or for other reasons.

Clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap and different trials may be initiated with the same drug candidate within the same phase of development in similar or differing patient populations. Phase I studies may be conducted in a limited number of patients, but are usually conducted in healthy volunteer subjects. The drug is usually tested for safety and, as appropriate, for absorption, metabolism, distribution, excretion, pharmaco-dynamics and pharmaco-kinetics. Phase II usually involves studies in a larger, but still limited patient population to evaluate preliminarily the efficacy of the drug candidate for specific, targeted indications; to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage; and to identify possible short-term adverse effects and safety risks.

Phase III trials are undertaken to gather additional information to evaluate the product’s overall risk-benefit profile, and to provide a basis for physician labeling. Phase III trials evaluate clinical efficacy of a specific endpoint and test further for safety within an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical study sites. Phase I, Phase II or Phase III testing might not be completed successfully within any specific time period, if at all, with respect to any of our product candidates. Results from one trial are not necessarily predictive of results from later trials. Furthermore, the FDA, sponsor or institutional review board may suspend clinical trials at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk.

We must register each controlled clinical trial, other than Phase I trials, on a website administered by National Institutes of Health (NIH) (http://clinicaltrials.gov).  Registration must occur not later than 21 days after the first patient is enrolled, and the submission must include descriptive information (e.g., a summary in lay terms of the study design, type and desired outcome), recruitment information (e.g., target number of participants and whether healthy volunteers are accepted), location and contact information, and other administrative data (e.g., FDA identification numbers). Within one year of a trial’s completion, information about the trial including characteristics of the patient sample, primary and secondary outcomes, trial results written in lay and technical terms, and the full trial protocol must be submitted to the FDA. The results information is posted to the website unless the drug has not yet been approved, in which case the FDA posts the information shortly after approval. A BLA, BLA supplement, and certain other submissions to the FDA require certification of compliance with the FDAAA clinical trials database requirements.  There are proposals to expand these registration requirements to additional studies.

The results of the preclinical studies and clinical trials, together with other detailed information, including information on the manufacture and composition of the product, are submitted to the FDA as part of a BLA requesting approval to market the product candidate for a proposed indication. Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, as amended, the fees payable to the FDA for reviewing a BLA, as well as annual fees for commercial manufacturing establishments and for approved products, can be substantial. The BLA review fee alone can exceed $2,000 subject to certain limited deferrals, waivers and reductions that may be available. Each BLA submitted to the FDA for approval is typically reviewed for administrative completeness and reviewability within 60 days following submission of the application. If the FDA finds the BLA sufficiently complete, the FDA will “file” the BLA, thus triggering a full review of the application. The FDA may refuse to file any BLA that it deems incomplete or not properly reviewable at the time of submission. FDA performance goals provide for action on an application










within 12 months of submission. The FDA, however, may not approve a drug within these established goals and its review goals are subject to change from time to time because the review process is often significantly extended by FDA requests for additional information or clarification. As part of its review, the FDA may refer the BLA to an advisory committee composed of outside experts for evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. Although the FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee, the agency usually has followed such recommendations.

Further, the outcome of the review, even if generally favorable, may not be an actual approval but instead a “complete response letter” communicating the FDA's decision not to approve the application, outlining the deficiencies in the BLA, and identifying what information and/or data (including additional pre-clinical or clinical data) is required before the application can be approved. Even if such additional information and data are submitted, the FDA may decide that the BLA still does not meet the standards for approval. Data from clinical trials are not always conclusive and the FDA may interpret data differently than we do.

In 2010, the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act (BPCI) was enacted, creating a statutory pathway for licensure, or approval, of biological products that are biosimilar to, and possibly interchangeable with, reference biological products licensed under the Public Health Service Act. Under the BPCI, innovator manufacturers of original reference biological products are granted 12 years of exclusive use before biosimilar versions of such products can be licensed for marketing in the United States. This means that the FDA may not approve an application for a biosimilar version of a reference biological product until 12 years after the date of approval of the reference biological product (with a potential six-month extension of exclusivity if certain pediatric studies are conducted and the results reported to FDA), although a biosimilar application may be submitted four years after the date of licensure of the reference biological product. Additionally, the BPCI establishes procedures by which the biosimilar applicant must provide information about its application and product to the reference product sponsor, and by which information about potentially relevant patents is shared and litigation over patents may proceed in advance of approval.  The BPCI also provides a period of exclusivity for the first biosimilar to be determined by the FDA to be interchangeable with the reference product.

Both before and after the FDA approves a product, the manufacturer and the holder or holders of the BLA for the product are subject to comprehensive regulatory oversight. If ongoing regulatory requirements are not satisfied or if safety problems occur after the product reaches the market, the FDA may at any time withdraw its product approval or take actions that would










suspend marketing. For example, quality control and manufacturing procedures must conform, on an ongoing basis, to cGMP requirements, and the FDA periodically subjects manufacturing facilities to unannounced inspections to assess compliance with cGMP. Failure to comply with applicable cGMP requirements and other conditions of product approval may lead the FDA to seek sanctions, including fines, recalls, civil penalties, injunctions, suspension of manufacturing operations, operating restrictions, withdrawal of FDA approval, seizure or recall of products, and criminal prosecution. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to spend time, money and effort to maintain cGMP compliance.

Orphan Drug Designation in the United States, the European Union and Other Foreign Jurisdictions










basis of available evidence that the original orphan medicinal product is sufficiently profitable not to justify maintenance of market exclusivity.

Soliris has received orphan drug designation for the treatment of PNH and aHUS in the United States, the European Union, and in several other territories, for the prevention of delayed graft function in renal transplant patients in the United States, for the treatment of patients with myasthenia gravis in the United States, Japan, and the European Union, and for prevention of graft rejection and delayed graft rejection following solid organ transplantation in the European Union.  Orphan drug designation provides certain regulatory and filing fee advantages, including market exclusivity, except in limited circumstances, for several years after approval. In 2008, asfotase alfa received orphan drug designation for the treatment of patients with hypophosphatasia in the United States and the European Union, and in Japan in November 2014.



Breakthrough Designation in the United States



Foreign Regulation of Drug Development and Approval

In addition to regulations in the United States, we are subject to a variety of foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials, marketing approval, and post-marketing regulation for drugs. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with FDA approval set forth above, as well as additional country-specific regulations. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we must obtain approval of a product by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. Approval by one regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions.  The approval process varies from country to country, can involve additional testing beyond that required by FDA, and may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing, and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country.

Similarly to the U.S., both marketing authorization holders and manufacturers of medicinal products are subject to comprehensive regulatory oversight by the EMA and the competent authorities of the individual European Union member states both before and after grant of the manufacturing and marketing authorizations. This includes European Union cGMP rules,










which govern quality control of the manufacturing process and require documentation policies and procedures. We and our third party manufacturers are required to ensure that all of our processes, methods, and equipment are compliant with cGMP.

Failure by us or by any of our third party partners, including suppliers, manufacturers, and distributors to comply with European Union laws and the related national laws of individual European Union member states governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing approval, marketing authorization of medicinal products and marketing of such products, both before and after grant of marketing authorization, may result in administrative, civil or criminal penalties. These penalties could include delays or refusal to authorize the conduct of clinical trials or to grant marketing authorization, product withdrawals and recalls, product seizures, suspension, withdrawal, or variation of the marketing authorization, total or partial suspension of production, distribution, manufacturing, or clinical trials, operating restrictions, injunctions, suspension of licenses, fines and criminal penalties.

The European Union has had an established regulatory pathway for biosimilars since 2005 and has approved several biosimilar products. The approval of a biosimilar of one of our products marketed in the European Union could have a material impact on our business. The biosimilar may be significantly less costly to bring to market and may be priced significantly lower than our products.



Pharmaceutical Pricing and Reimbursement

Sales of pharmaceutical products depend in significant part on the extent of coverage and reimbursement from government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid in the United States, and other third party payers.  Third party payers are sensitive to the cost of drugs and are increasingly seeking to implement cost containment measures to control, restrict access to, or influence the purchase of drugs, biologicals, and other health care products and services. Governments may regulate reimbursement, pricing, and coverage of products in order to control costs or to affect levels of use of certain products.  Private health insurance plans may restrict coverage of some products, such as by using payer formularies under which only selected drugs are covered, variable co-payments that make drugs that are not preferred by the payer more expensive for patients, and by employing utilization management controls, such as requirements for prior authorization or prior failure on another type of treatment. Payers may especially impose these obstacles to coverage for higher-priced drugs such as Soliris.  Consequently, Soliris may be subject to payer-driven restrictions, rendering patients responsible for a higher percentage of the total cost of drugs in the outpatient setting.  This can lower the demand for our products if the increased patient cost-sharing obligations are more than they can afford.

Medicare Part D coverage is available through private plans, and the list of prescription drugs covered by Part D plans varies by plan. However, drug lists maintained by individual plans are required by statute to cover certain therapeutic categories and classes of drugs or biologicals and to have at least two drugs in each unique therapeutic category or class, with certain exceptions.

Medicare Part A covers inpatient hospital benefits.  Hospitals typically receive a single payment for an inpatient stay depending on the Medicare Severity Diagnosis Related Group (MS-DRG) to which the inpatient stay is assigned.  The MS-DRG for a hospital inpatient stay varies based on the patient’s condition.  Hospitals generally do not receive separate payment for drugs and biologicals administered to patients during an inpatient hospital stay.  As a result, hospitals may not have a financial incentive to utilize Soliris for inpatients.

Beginning April 1, 2013, the Budget Control Act of 2011, Pub. L. No. 112-25, as amended by the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, Pub. L. 112-240, required Medicare payments for all items and services, including drugs and biologicals, to










be reduced by 2% under the sequestration (i.e., automatic spending reductions).  This 2% reduction was extended to 2023 by the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013, Pub. L. No. 113-67.    This 2% reduction in Medicare payments affects all Parts of the Medicare program and could impact sales of Soliris.

Medicaid is a government health insurance program for low-income children, families, pregnant women, and people with disabilities. It is jointly funded by the federal and state governments, and it is administered by individual states within parameters established by the federal government. Coverage and reimbursement for drugs and biologicals thus varies by state. Drugs and biologicals may be covered under the medical or pharmacy benefit. State Medicaid programs may impose utilization management controls, such as prior authorization, step therapy, or quantity limits on drugs and biologicals. Medicaid also includes the Drug Rebate Program, under which we are required to pay a rebate to each state Medicaid program for quantities of Soliris that are dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries and paid for by a state Medicaid program as a condition of having federal funds being made available to the states for Soliris under Medicaid and Medicare Part B. Those rebates are based on pricing data reported by us on a monthly and quarterly basis to CMS. These data include the average manufacturer price and the best price for Soliris.  As further described below under “U.S. Healthcare Reform and Other U.S. Healthcare Laws,”  the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the PPACA), made significant changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program that could negatively impact our results of operations.

In order to be eligible to have our products paid for with federal funds under the Medicaid program and purchased by certain federal agencies, we participate in the Department of Veterans Affairs Federal Supply Schedule, or FSS, pricing program, established by Section 603 of the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992.  Under this program, we are obligated to make our product available for procurement on an FSS contract and charge a price to four federal agencies, Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense, Public Health Service and Coast Guard that is no higher than the statutory Federal Ceiling Price, or FCP.  The FCP is based on the non-federal average manufacturer price, or Non-FAMP, which we calculate and report to the Department of Veterans Affairs on a quarterly and annual basis. We also participate in the Tricare Retail Pharmacy program, established by Section 703 of the National Defense Authorization Act for FY 2008 and related regulations, under which we pay quarterly rebates on utilization of innovator products that are dispensed through the Tricare Retail Pharmacy network to Tricare beneficiaries. The rebates are calculated as the difference between Annual Non-FAMP and FCP.

Payors also are increasingly considering new metrics as the basis for reimbursement rates, such as ASP, average manufacturer price, and actual acquisition cost. The existing data for reimbursement based on these metrics is relatively limited, although certain states have begun to survey acquisition cost data for the purpose of setting Medicaid reimbursement rates.  CMS has begun posting drafts of this retail survey price information on at least a monthly basis in the form of draft National Average Drug Acquisition Cost, or NADAC, files, which reflect retail community pharmacy invoice costs, and National Average Retail Price, or NARP, files, which reflect retail community pharmacy prices to consumers.  In July 2013, CMS suspended the publication of draft NARP data, pending funding decisions.  In November 2013, CMS moved to publishing final rather than draft NADAC data and has since made updated NADAC data publicly available on a weekly basis.  Therefore, it may be difficult to project the impact of these evolving reimbursement mechanics on the willingness of payors to cover Soliris.

In addition, in some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. For example, in the European Union the sole legal instrument at the European Union level governing the pricing and reimbursement of medicinal products is Council Directive 89/105/EEC (the Price Transparency Directive). The aim of the Price Transparency Directive is to ensure that pricing and reimbursement mechanisms established in European Union member states are transparent and objective, do not










hinder the free movement and trade of medicinal products in the European Union and do not hinder, prevent or distort competition on the market. The Price Transparency Directive does not, however, provide any guidance concerning the specific criteria on the basis of which pricing and reimbursement decisions are to be made in individual European Union member states. Neither does it have any direct consequence for pricing or levels of reimbursement in individual European Union member states. The national authorities of the individual European Union member states are free to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices and/or reimbursement of medicinal products for human use. Individual European Union member states adopt policies according to which a specific price or level of reimbursement is approved for the medicinal product. Other European Union member states adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market, including volume-based arrangements and reference pricing mechanisms.

Health Technology Assessment (HTA) of medicinal products is becoming an increasingly common part of the pricing and reimbursement procedures in some European Union member states. These countries include the United Kingdom, France, Germany and Sweden. The HTA process in the European Union member states is governed by the national laws of these countries. HTA is the procedure according to which the assessment of the public health impact, therapeutic impact and the economic and societal impact of the use of a given medicinal product in the national healthcare systems of the individual country is conducted. HTA generally focuses on the clinical efficacy and effectiveness, safety, cost, and cost-effectiveness of individual medicinal products as well as their potential implications for the healthcare system. Those elements of medicinal products are compared with other treatment options available on the market.

The outcome of HTA will often influence the pricing and reimbursement status for specific medicinal products within individual European Union member states. The extent to which pricing and reimbursement decisions are influenced by the HTA of a specific medicinal product vary between the European Union member states.

In 2011, Directive 2011/24/EU was adopted at the European Union level. This Directive concerns the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare. The Directive is intended to establish rules for facilitating access to safe and high-quality cross-border healthcare in the European Union. It also provides for the establishment of a voluntary network of national authorities or bodies responsible for HTA in the individual European Union member states. The purpose of the network is to facilitate and support the exchange of scientific information concerning HTAs. This could lead to harmonization of the criteria taken into account in the conduct of HTA and their impact on pricing and reimbursement decisions between European Union member states.

On a continuous basis, we engage with appropriate authorities on the operational, reimbursement, price approval and funding processes that are separately required in each country.



Fraud and Abuse

Pharmaceutical companies participating in federal healthcare programs like Medicare or Medicaid are subject to various U.S. federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare “fraud and abuse,” including anti-kickback and false claims laws.   Violations of U.S. federal and state fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal, civil and administrative sanctions, including fines, damages, civil monetary penalties and exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid).  Applicable U.S. statutes, include, but are not limited to, the following:

•The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things,  knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving, or paying any remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward purchasing, ordering or arranging for or recommending the purchase or order of any item or service for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, under a federal healthcare program such as Medicare and Medicaid.  Liability may be established without a person or entity having actual knowledge of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, PPACA amended the Social Security Act to provide that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal civil False Claims Act.  A conviction for violation of the Anti-kickback Statute requires mandatory exclusion from participation in federal health care programs.

•The federal civil False Claims Act (“FCA”) prohibits, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented claims for payment of government funds that are  false or fraudulent, or knowingly making, using or causing to be made or used a false record or statement material to an obligation to pay money to the government or knowingly concealing or knowingly and improperly avoiding, decreasing, or concealing an obligation to pay money to the federal government.  This statute permits a private individual acting as a “whistleblower” to bring actions on behalf of the federal government alleging violations of the FCA and to share in any monetary recovery.  Government enforcement










agencies and private whistleblowers have asserted liability under the FCA for, among others, claims submitted involving inadequate or medically unnecessary care or items or services, kickbacks, promotion of off-label uses, and misreporting of drug prices to federal agencies.

•The federal False Statements Statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing, or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement or representation, or making or using any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement or entry, in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items, or services.

•The federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which authorizes the imposition of substantial civil monetary penalties against an entity, such as a pharmaceutical manufacturer, that engages in activities including, among others (1) knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a claim for services not provided as claimed or that is otherwise false or fraudulent in any way; (2) arranging for or contracting with an individual or entity that is excluded from participation in federal health care programs to provide items or services reimbursable by a federal health care program;  (3) violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute; or (4) failing to report and return a known overpayment.

•Analogous state laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental payers, including private insurers.  Some of these state laws may be broader in scope than their federal analogues, such as state false claims laws that apply where a claim is submitted to any third-party payer, regardless of whether the payer is a private health insurer or a government healthcare program, state laws that prohibit certain marketing-related activities including the provision of gifts, meals or other items to certain health care providers, and state laws that require pharmaceutical companies to implement compliance programs or codes of conduct governing their sales and marketing activities.

Federal and state authorities are continuing to devote significant attention and resources to enforcement of fraud and abuse laws within the pharmaceutical industry, and private individuals have been active in alleging violations of the law and bringing suits on behalf of the government under the FCA. These laws are broad in scope and there may not be regulations, guidance, or court decisions that definitively interpret these laws and apply them to particular industry practices. In addition, these laws and their interpretations are subject to change.



U.S. Healthcare Reform and Other U.S. Healthcare Laws

PPACA was adopted in the United States in March 2010.  This law substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers in the U.S., and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry.  PPACA contains a number of provisions that are expected to impact our business and operations.  Changes that may affect our business include those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes, rules regarding prescription drug benefits under the health insurance exchanges, expansion of the 340B program, expansion of state Medicaid programs, and fraud and abuse and enforcement.  These changes will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs, including Medicare payment for performance initiatives and improvements to the physician quality reporting system and feedback program.

Additional provisions of PPACA, some of which became effective in 2011, may negatively affect manufacturer's revenues in the future. For example, as part of PPACA’s provisions closing a coverage gap that currently exists in the Medicare Part D










prescription drug program (commonly known as the “donut hole”), manufacturers are required to provide a 50% discount on branded prescription drugs dispensed to beneficiaries within this donut hole.

Finally, numerous federal and state laws, including state security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws, and federal and state consumer protection laws govern the collection, use, and disclosure of personal information. In addition, most healthcare providers who prescribe and dispense our products and research institutions with whom we collaborate for our sponsored clinical trials are subject to privacy and security requirements under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (“HITECH”), and its implementing regulations. Although we are neither a “covered entity” nor a “business associate” under HIPAA, and these privacy and security requirements do not apply to us, the regulations may affect our interactions with health care providers, health plans, and research institutions from whom we obtain patient health information. Further, we could be subject to criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain individually identifiable health information from a HIPAA covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by HIPAA or for aiding and abetting the violation of HIPAA.

Other Regulations

We are also subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act (U.K. Bribery Act), and other anti-corruption laws and regulations pertaining to our financial relationships with foreign government officials.  The FCPA prohibits U.S. companies and their representatives from paying, offering to pay, promising, or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party, or political candidate to obtain or retain business or to otherwise seek favorable treatment. In many countries in which we operate or sell Soliris, the health care professionals with whom we interact may be deemed to be foreign government officials for purposes of the FCPA.  The U.K. Bribery Act, which applies to any company incorporated or doing business in the UK,  prohibits giving, offering, or promising bribes in the public and private sectors, bribing a foreign public official or private person, and failing to have adequate procedures to prevent bribery amongst employees and other agents. Penalties under the Bribery Act include potentially unlimited fines for companies and criminal sanctions for corporate officers under certain circumstances. Liability in relation to breaches of the Bribery Act is strict. This means that it is not necessary to demonstrate elements of a corrupt state of mind. However, a defense of having in place adequate procedures designed to prevent bribery is available.

Our present and future business has been and will continue to be subject to various other laws and regulations. Laws, regulations and recommendations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory practices, the experimental use of animals, and the purchase, storage, movement, import and export and use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances,










including radioactive compounds, used in connection with our research work are or may be applicable to our activities.  We cannot predict the impact of government regulation, which may result from future legislation or administrative action, on our business.

Competition

There are currently no approved drugs other than Soliris for the treatment of PNH and aHUS. However, many companies, including major pharmaceutical and chemical companies as well as specialized biotechnology companies, are engaged in activities similar to our activities. Universities, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations also conduct research and may market commercial products on their own or through joint ventures. Some of these entities may have:

•substantially greater financial and other resources;

•larger research and development staffs;

•lower labor costs; and/or

•more extensive marketing and manufacturing organizations.

Many of these companies and organizations have significant experience in preclinical testing, human clinical trials, product manufacturing, marketing, sales and distribution and other regulatory approval and commercial procedures. They may also have a greater number of significant patents and greater legal resources to seek remedies for cases of alleged infringement of their patents by us to block, delay or compromise our own drug development process.

We compete with large pharmaceutical companies that produce and market synthetic compounds and with specialized biotechnology firms in the United States, Europe and in other countries and regions, as well as a growing number of large pharmaceutical companies that are developing biotechnology products. A number of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies are developing new products for the treatment of the same diseases being targeted by us; in some instances, these products have already entered clinical trials or are already being marketed. Other companies are engaged in research and development based on complement proteins.

Several companies have either publicly announced their intentions to develop drugs which target the inflammatory effects of complement in the immune system or have had programs to develop complement inhibitor therapies. We believe that Soliris differs substantially from compounds of our potential competitors because Soliris has demonstrated to be safe and effective in two clinical indications by regulators in many jurisdictions around the world.

Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2014, we had2,273full-time, world-wide employees, of which914were engaged in research, product development, manufacturing, and clinical development,880in sales and marketing, and479in administration, human resources, information technology and finance. Our U.S. employees are not represented by any collective bargaining unit, and we regard the relationships with all our employees as satisfactory.










EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The executive officers of the Company and their respective ages and positions as ofFebruary 3, 2015are as follows:



NameAgePosition with AlexionLeonard Bell, M.D.56Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerDavid L. Hallal48Chief Operating Officer and CEO-electClare Carmichael55Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources OfficerMartin Mackay58Executive Vice President and Global Head of Research and DevelopmentJohn B. Moriarty, J.D.47Executive Vice President and General CounselJulie O'Neill48Executive Vice President of Global OperationsVikas Sinha, M.B.A., C.A., C.P.A.51Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerSaqib Islam45Senior Vice President and Chief Strategy and Portfolio OfficerEdward Miller50Senior Vice President and Global Chief Compliance OfficerDominique Monnet54Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing OfficerCarsten Thiel, Ph.D.51Senior Vice President EMEA and Asia Pacific



Leonard Bell, M.D.is the principal founder of Alexion and has been a director of Alexion since February 1992 and the Company’s Chief Executive Officer since January 1992 and Chairman since October 2014. From 1991 to 1992, Dr. Bell was an Assistant Professor of Medicine and Pathology and co-Director of the program in Vascular Biology at the Yale University School of Medicine. From 1990 to 1992, Dr. Bell was an attending physician at the Yale-New Haven Hospital and an Assistant Professor in the Department of Internal Medicine at the Yale University School of Medicine. Dr. Bell was a recipient of the Physician Scientist Award from the National Institutes of Health and Grant-in-Aid from the American Heart Association as well as various honors and awards from academic and professional organizations. His work has resulted in more than 20 scientific publications and 9 patent applications. Dr. Bell received his A.B. from Brown University and M.D. from Yale University School of Medicine. Dr. Bell is currently an Adjunct Assistant Professor of Medicine and Pathology at the Yale University School of Medicine.

David L. Hallalhas been with Alexion since June 2006 and has served as Chief Operating Officer since September 2014.  On January 29, 2015, Alexion announced that Mr. Hallal was appointed Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Mr. Hallal will become CEO of Alexion effective April 1, 2015.  Mr. Hallal has also been a member of the Board of Directors since September 2014.  Since joining Alexion, Mr. Hallal has served in senior commercial positions, including Senior Vice President, US Commercial Operations from June 2006 until November 2008, Senior Vice President, Commercial Operations Americas from November 2008 to May 2010, Senior Vice President, Global Commercial Operations from May 2010 until October 2012 and then Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer from October 2012 to September 2014. Prior to joining Alexion, Mr. Hallal served as Vice President, Sales at OSI Eyetech from April 2004 until June 2006, where he led the U.S. launch of a first-in-class anti-VEGF therapy for age-related macular degeneration. Prior to OSI Eyetech, from 1992 until 2004, Mr. Hallal held various sales and marketing leadership positions at Amgen and Biogen Idec, where he was involved in multiple product launches in the areas of hematology, oncology, nephrology and immunology. Mr. Hallal received a B.A. in Psychology from the University of New Hampshire.

Clare Carmichaelhas been with Alexion since August 2011 and has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since September 2014.  From August 2011 to September 2014, Ms. Carmichael served as Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer. From August 2008 to March 2011, Ms. Carmichael served as Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources at Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc., where she established and executed global HR strategies. From December 2005 to August 2008, Ms. Carmichael held various human resources positions of increasing responsibility at Schering-Plough Corporation, including Vice President of Global Human Resources at the Schering-Plough Research Institute. From December 2003 to December 2005, Ms. Carmichael was Vice President of Human Resources at Eyetech Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Prior to Eyetech, she held various positions of increasing responsibility in human resources at Pharmacia Corporation. Ms. Carmichael received a B.A. in Psychology from Rider University.

Martin Mackayhas been Executive Vice President, Global Head of Research & Development since joining Alexion in May 2013. Prior to joining Alexion, Dr. Mackay served as President, Research and Development at AstraZeneca from June 2010 to February 2012, where he led all R&D functions worldwide, including discovery research, clinical development, regulatory affairs and key related R&D functions. From April 1995 to May 2010, he held various positions of increasing responsibility at Pfizer,










including President, Head of Pfizer Pharmatherapeutics, R&D, where he oversaw all aspects of small molecule discovery and development across multiple therapeutic areas. Dr. Mackay has also worked in the CIBA organization, now Novartis, and held positions within academia.  Dr. Mackay received a Microbiology First Class Honors Degree from Heriot-Watt University, Scotland, and a Ph.D. in Molecular Genetics from the University of Edinburgh, Scotland.

John B. Moriarty, J.D.has been with Alexion since December 2012 and has served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel since September 2014.  From  December 2012 to September 2014, Mr. Moriarty served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel.  From December 2010 to December 2012, Mr. Moriarty served as General Counsel and Chief Legal Officer at Elan Corporation plc, an Irish public limited company traded on the New York and Irish Stock Exchanges, and also served as a member of Elan's Executive Management team.  Prior to assuming the role of General Counsel, Mr. Moriarty served as Senior Vice President of Law, Litigation and Commercial Operations at Elan from December 2008 to December 2010.  From 2002 to 2008, Mr. Moriarty held various positions with Amgen, Inc., including Executive Director and Associate General Counsel, Global Commercial Operations - Amgen Oncology and Senior Counsel, Complex Litigation, Products Liability and Government Investigations. Between 1994 and 2002, Mr. Moriarty served in various capacities in private practice focused on healthcare and as a healthcare fraud prosecutor in the U.S. Attorney's Office and the Virginia Attorney General's Office.  Mr. Moriarty received his J.D., cum laude, from the University of Georgia School of Law and his B.A., with distinction, from the University of Virginia

Julie O'Neillhas been with Alexion since February 2014 and has served as Executive Vice President of Global Operations since January 2015.  From January 2014 to January 2015, Ms. O'Neill was Senior Vice President Global Manufacturing Operations and General Manager of Alexion  Pharma International Trading.  Prior to joining Alexion, Ms. O'Neill served in various leadership positions at Gilead Sciences from February 1997 to February 2014 including Vice President of Operations and General Manager of Ireland from 2011 to 2014.  Prior to Gilead Sciences, Ms. O'Neill held leadership positions in operations, manufacturing and quality functions at Burnil Pharmacies and Helsinn Birex Pharmaceuticals.  She is the Chairperson for the National Standards Authority of Ireland and is a member of the Governing Body of University College Cork.  Ms. O'Neill received a Bachelor's of Science in Pharmacy from University of Dublin, Trinity College and a Masters of Business Administration from University College Dublin (Smurfit School of Business).

Vikas Sinha, M.B.A., C.A., C.P.A.has been with Alexion since September 2005 and has served as Alexion's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since October 2012.  From September 2005 to October 2012, Mr. Sinha was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.  Prior to joining Alexion, Mr. Sinha held various positions with Bayer AG in the United States, Japan, Germany, and Canada, including Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Bayer Pharmaceuticals Corporation, USA, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Bayer Yakuhin Ltd., in Japan, and Manager, Mergers and Acquisitions with Bayer AG in Germany.  He also was a member of the Pharmaceutical Management Committee for North America.   Prior to Bayer, Mr. Sinha held several positions of increasing responsibilities with ANZ Bank and Citibank in South Asia. Mr. Sinha holds a Masters of Business Administration from the Asian Institute of Management which included an exchange program with the University of Western Ontario (Richard Ivey School of Business). He is also a qualified Chartered Accountant from the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and a Certified Public Accountant in the United States.

Saqib Islamhas been Senior Vice President, Chief Strategy and Portfolio Officer since joining Alexion in April 2013.  Prior to joining Alexion, Mr. Islam worked for 18 years in international business management with a focus on business development, strategic decision-making and planning, and capital markets, and most recently as Managing Director, Head of Healthcare and Diversified Industrials Capital Markets at Credit Suisse Securities from November 2009 until April 2013.  Prior to Credit Suisse, Mr. Islam held various positions of increasing responsibility in the investment banking divisions of Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley and provided strategic analysis and advice to client firms across diverse industry segments for The Boston Consulting Group.  Mr. Islam received a Bachelor of Commerce from McGill University, where he was a Faculty and University Scholar, and a J.D. from Columbia Law School, where he was a Harlan Fiske Stone Scholar.

Edward Millerhas been Senior Vice President and Global Chief Compliance Officer since joining Alexion in September 2014.  Prior to joining Alexion, Mr. Miller served in various compliance and legal leadership positions at Boehringer Ingelheim from 2000 to August 2014, including Vice President, Associate General Counsel, Global Head of Litigation and Government Investigations; Vice President and Acting Global Compliance Officer and Vice President, Chief Compliance Officer and Head of Litigation.  Prior to Boehringer Ingelheim, Mr. Miller was a Senior Trial Attorney at the U. S. Department of Justice in Washington, D.C.  Mr. Miller received a Bachelors Degree from Princeton University and  his J.D. from Rutgers University School of Law.

Dominique Monnethas been Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer since joining Alexion in May 2014.  Prior to joining Alexion,  Mr. Monnet served in various marketing leadership positions at Amgen, Inc from 2002 to 2013, including Vice President and General Manager, Inflammation Business Unit, Vice President  and Head of Global Marketing and Commercial Development and Vice President  International Marketing and Business Operations. Prior to Amgen, Mr. Monnet










held positions of increasing responsibility at Schering-Plough, including General Manager for the company’s UK and Ireland entity.  Mr. Monnet earned his undergraduate business degree from EDHEC Business School in Lille, France, and his MBA from INSEAD in Fontainebleau, France.

Carsten Thiel, Ph.D.has been with Alexion since September 2014 and has served as Senior Vice President EMEA and Asia Pacific since January 2015.  From September 2014 to January 2015, Mr. Thiel was Senior Vice President EMEA and Australasia-Canada.  Prior to joining Alexion, Mr. Thiel served in various senior leadership positions at Amgen from 2002 to 2014, including Vice President, Head of Europe, General Manager, Germany, General Manager, CEE and Head of the Oncology Franchise in Europe.  Prior to Amgen, Mr. Thiel held several sales and marketing leadership roles across Europe at Roche.  Mr. Thiel has a Ph.D. in Molecular Biology and Biochemistry from the Max Planck Institute, Germany, and a Master’s Degree in Biochemistry from the University of Marburg, Germany.

Available Information

Our internet website address is http://www.alexion.com. Through our website, we make available, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, any amendments to those reports, proxy and registration statements, and all of our insider Section 16 reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These SEC reports can be accessed through the “Investors” section of our website. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. Paper copies of our SEC reports are available free of charge upon request in writing to Investor Relations, Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 352 Knotter Drive, Cheshire, CT 06410.  In addition, any document we file may be inspected, without charge, at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549, or at the SEC’s internet address at http://www.sec.gov. (This website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information contained in the SEC’s website is not intended to be a part of this filing).  Information related to the operation of the SEC’s public reference room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 800-SEC-0330 (800-732-0330).
















