Item 1.BUSINESS.

Overview

Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. was incorporated in Delaware in 1992. We are a
biopharmaceutical company engaged in the discovery, development and commercialization of biologic therapeutic products aimed at treating patients with severe and life-threatening disease states, including hematologic, kidney and neurologic diseases,
transplant rejection, cancer and autoimmune disorders. Our marketed product Soliris®(eculizumab) is the first
and only therapy approved for the treatment of patients with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria, or PNH.






Soliris is designed to inhibit a specific aspect of the complement component of the immune
system and thereby treat inflammation associated with chronic hematologic, kidney and neurological disorders, transplant rejection, and autoimmune disorders. Soliris is a humanized monoclonal antibody that generally blocks complement activity for
one to two weeks after a single dose at the doses currently prescribed. The initial indication for which we received approval for Soliris is PNH. PNH is a rare, debilitating and life-threatening, acquired genetic deficiency blood disorder defined by
the destruction of red blood cells, or hemolysis. The chronic hemolysis in patients with PNH may be associated with life-threatening thromboses, recurrent pain, kidney disease, disabling fatigue, impaired quality of life, severe anemia, pulmonary
hypertension, shortness of breath and intermittent episodes of dark-colored urine (hemoglobinuria).

Soliris was granted
marketing approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and by the European Commission, or E.C., in 2007 and now has received approval in several other countries worldwide. Additionally, Soliris was granted orphan drug designation for
the treatment of PNH in the United States, Europe, Japan and several other territories.

In April 2009 and August 2009, the
FDA and E.C., respectively, granted Soliris orphan drug designation for the treatment of patients with atypical Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome, or aHUS, a rare, inherited, and life-threatening complement-inhibitor deficiency disease that often progresses
to end-stage kidney disease or failure. Alexion is currently enrolling patients in four clinical studies of Soliris as an investigational treatment for adolescent and adult patients with aHUS.

Recent Developments

In December 2009, our Rhode Island manufacturing facility received regulatory approval from the E.C. for the production of Soliris. In the fourth quarter of 2009, the FDA commenced its inspection of our Rhode Island manufacturing facility
and requested additional information regarding our manufacturing processes which we plan to address in 2010.

In January 2010,
we amended and restated our existing credit agreement with Bank of America, N.A. to, among other things, increase our revolving credit facility by $25 million. The amended agreement provides for a $50 million revolving credit facility, with up to a
$20 million sublimit for letters of credit that can be used for working capital requirements and other general corporate purposes. With the consent of the lenders and the administrative agent and subject to satisfaction of certain conditions, we may
increase the facility to $75 million in accordance with its terms.

Products and Development Programs

The human immune system defends the body from attack or invasion by infectious agents or pathogens. This is accomplished through a complex
system of proteins and cells, primarily complement proteins, antibodies and white blood cells, each with a specialized function. Under normal circumstances, complement proteins, together with antibodies and white blood cells, act to protect the body
by removing:



•harmful micro-organisms;



•cells containing foreign proteins known as antigens; and



•potential disease-causing combinations of antigens and antibodies known as immune complexes.






When activated by stimuli, the immune system triggers a series of enzymatic and biochemical
reactions called the complement cascade that results in an inflammatory response. This inflammatory response is one of the immune system’s weapons against foreign pathogens or otherwise diseased tissue. However, under certain circumstances, the
complement cascade may cause excessive or inappropriate activation, which may result in acute and chronic inflammatory conditions and damage to healthy tissues.

Some of the hematologic, autoimmune, or inflammatory diseases in which the complement cascade is activated include:



•PNH;



•atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome;



•transplantation;



•myasthenia gravis;



•multifocal motor neuropathy;



•asthma;



•autoimmune and other hemolytic anemias;



•cold agglutinin disease;



•membranoproliferative glomerulonephropathy type II (dense deposit disease)



•Guillain-Barré syndrome;



•rheumatoid arthritis;



•age-related macular degeneration;



•antiphospholipid antibody syndrome including the catastrophic form;



•autoimmune kidney disease;



•lupus;



•inflammatory skin and muscle disorders; and



•specific types of multiple sclerosis.

We have focused our product development programs on anti-inflammatory therapeutics for diseases for which we believe current treatments are either non-existent or inadequate. Eculizumab is an antibody
known as a C5 complement inhibitor, or a C5 Inhibitor, which is designed to selectively block the production of inflammation-causing proteins of the complement cascade. We believe that selective suppression of this immune response may provide a
significant therapeutic advantage relative to existing therapies. In addition to PNH, for which the use of eculizumab has been approved in the United States, Europe and several other territories, we believe that C5 Inhibitors may be useful in the
treatment of a variety of other serious diseases and conditions resulting from aberrant complement response.






Our clinical programs, including investigator sponsored clinical programs, are as follows:



ProductDevelopment AreaIndicationDevelopment StageSolirisParoxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria (PNH)CommercialSolirisNephrologyAtypical HUSPhase IIMPGN II (Dense Deposit Disease*)Phase IITransplantPresensitized Renal Transplant*Phase IIPresensitized Cardiac TransplantPreclinicalNeurologyMyasthenia GravisPhase IINeuromyelitis Optica*Phase IIMultifocal Motor Neuropathy*Phase IIDry Age-Related Macular Degeneration (AMD)*Phase IIHematologyCold agglutinin diseasePreclinicalCatastrophic Antiphospholipid SyndromePreclinicalSamalizumabOncologyChronic Lymphocytic LeukemiaPhase I/IIMultiple MyelomaPhase I/II



*Investigator Initiated Trial

C5
Inhibitors

Complement proteins are a series of inactive proteins circulating in the blood. When activated by stimuli,
including those associated with both acute and chronic inflammatory disorders, these inactive complement proteins are split by enzymes known as convertases into activated by-products through the complement cascade.

Some of these by-products, notably C3b, are helpful in fighting infections and inhibiting autoimmune disorders. However, the by-products
generated by the cleavage of C5, known as C5a and C5b-9, generally cause harmful inflammation if inappropriately or over-activated. The inflammatory by-products of C5 cause:



•lysis, or destruction, of red blood cells that are deficient in complement inhibitors;



•activation of platelets, white blood cells, and blood-vessel lining endothelial cells that are deficient in complement inhibitors;



•activation and destruction of muscle and other tissue cells;



•activation of white blood cells;



•attraction of white blood cells into inflamed tissues;






•production of inflammatory chemicals including tumor necrosis factor-alpha;



•activation of blood-clotting systems;



•activation of blood vessel-lining cells called endothelial cells, allowing leakage of white blood cells into tissue;



•activation of kidney cells; and



•initiation of cell suicide programs in heart cells.

The following diagram illustrates the complement cascade:



Because of the generally beneficial effects of the components of the complement cascade prior to C5 and the
potent inflammatory, destructive and disease-promoting effects of the cleavage products of C5, we have identified C5 as an effective anti-inflammatory drug target. Our C5 Inhibitor, eculizumab, specifically and tightly binds to C5 blocking its
cleavage into harmful by-products, which inhibits subsequent damage from the downstream inflammatory mediators.

In human
studies, eculizumab, which we sell under the name Soliris, had the following effects in patients with PNH:



•reduction of red blood cell destruction (hemolysis);



•reduction in incidence of life-threatening blood clots (thromboses);



•improvement of severe anemia;



•improvement of disabling fatigue and other quality of life outcomes;



•decrease or elimination of blood transfusion requirements;



•reduction of inflammation and blood clotting activation;






•reduction in chronic kidney disease; and



•reduction in incidence of high blood pressure in the lungs (pulmonary hypertension).

In addition, in laboratory and animal models of human disease, we have published results that the administration of eculizumab has
demonstrated the following:



•prevention and amelioration of asthmatic attacks;



•enhancement of survival in organ transplantation models;



•prevention of kidney damage and preservation of kidney function in a model of complement inhibitor deficiency;



•prevention of nerve degeneration and improvement in function in myasthenia gravis models;



•prevention of nerve degeneration and improvement in function in multifocal motor neuropathy model;



•reduction of brain damage in cerebral ischemia, or reduced blood flow to brain tissue;



•enhancement of survival in a model of lupus; and



•preservation of kidney function in nephritis, or inflammation of kidney tissue.

Soliris

Soliris is
designed to inhibit a specific aspect of the complement component of the immune system and thereby treat inflammation related to chronic hematologic, neurologic and autoimmune disorders and transplant rejection. Soliris is a humanized antibody
which, administered at the doses currently prescribed, generally blocks complement activity for one to two weeks after a single dose.

Soliris was granted marketing approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and by the European Commission, or E.C., in 2007 and now has received approval in several other countries worldwide. Additionally, Soliris was granted
orphan drug designation for the treatment of PNH in the United States, Europe, Japan and several other territories.

Orphan
drug designation generally entitles us to exclusivity for certain periods of time, subject to limited circumstances. However, if a competitive product that is the same as Soliris, as defined under the applicable regulations, is shown to be
clinically superior to our product in the treatment of PNH, or if a competitive product is different from Soliris, as defined under the applicable regulations, the orphan drug exclusivity we have obtained may not block the approval of such
competitive product.

About Paroxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria, or PNH

PNH is a rare, debilitating and life-threatening, acquired genetic deficiency blood disorder defined by the destruction of red blood cells.
Patients with PNH have an acquired genetic deficiency in certain protective proteins on the surface of their blood cells, allowing their own complement system to attack and destroy these blood cells. Patients with PNH suffer from chronic complement
activation of some of their blood cells and hemolysis, or destruction of red blood cells caused by the C5 cleavage product C5b-9. This hemolysis is believed to lead to further clinical complications including thromboses, kidney disease, liver
dysfunction, disabling fatigue, impaired quality of life, recurrent pain, shortness of breath, pulmonary hypertension, intermittent






episodes of dark colored urine (hemoglobinuria), and anemia. The red blood cell destruction may be sufficiently large that recurrent blood transfusions are necessary to support normal red blood
cell function. The prevalence, or number of affected patients at any one time, has not been definitively determined but has been estimated at approximately 8,000 – 10,000 total patients in North America and Western Europe. Approximately
one-half of the patients with PNH die from the disease within 10-15 years of diagnosis. Soliris is the only therapy approved for PNH.

Eculizumab Development Programs

We believe that eculizumab may be useful in treating other complement
mediated diseases and conditions. Our ongoing eculizumab development programs include:

Eculizumab Lead Development Area: Nephrology

Lead Program—Atypical Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome (aHUS)

Atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS) is a rare life-threatening disease characterized by the triad of microangiopathic hemolytic anemia,
low platelet count and acute renal failure. It is a disorder of the regulation of the alternative complement pathway; many patients exhibit genetic mutations in complement inhibitor genes. It is a thrombotic microangiopathy that affects small
blood vessels leading to chronic intravascular hemolysis, consumption of platelets, and clots in kidney blood vessels, resulting in renal failure. The prognosis for patients with aHUS is generally poor. Approximately 70% of patients with the
most common mutation experience chronic renal insufficiency, chronic dialysis, or death by one year after the first clinical episode. Atypical HUS commonly recurs in patients who undergo renal transplantation. In addition, depending on the
mutation, the disease can lead to loss of the transplanted kidney in up to approximately 90% of aHUS patients who undergo kidney transplantation.

Approximately 50% of patients with aHUS have been identified to have genetic mutations in one of the complement control proteins or neutralizing autoantibodies to complement regulatory factors, which can
lead to uncontrolled complement activation. Excessive complement activation may contribute to the blood vessel inflammation and clotting by stimulating activation of white blood cells, platelets, and the endothelial lining of blood vessels.

In 2009, the FDA and E.C. granted Soliris orphan drug designation for the treatment of patients with aHUS. We are currently
enrolling in our multi-national, multi-center clinical trials evaluating eculizumab for the treatment of both plasma-sensitive and plasma-resistant adolescent and adult patients with aHUS.

Dense Deposit Disease (DDD)

Dense deposit disease, or DDD, also called Type II membrano-proliferative glomerulonephritis, is a rare form of glomerulonephritis, associated with genetic mutations in complement inhibitor genes leading to sustained complement activation
and inflammation. Clinically, it is characterized by the onset of severe proteinuria (excess protein in the urine), often accompanied by nephrotic syndrome which is refractory to immunosuppressant therapy. In most cases, the disease evolves into
chronic renal failure, requiring dialysis and renal transplantation.

We are aware that independent investigators have
commenced a study to evaluate eculizumab in patients with dense deposit disease.






Eculizumab Lead Development Area: Transplant

Lead Program—Acute Humoral Rejection (AHR) in Presensitized Kidney Transplant Patients

Patients undergoing solid organ transplantation may experience severe acute humoral rejection (AHR) in the early post-transplant period. For
example, in a patient undergoing a kidney transplant this may be characterized by the acute onset of renal dysfunction and rapid progression to destruction of the transplanted kidney.

AHR results when antibodies in the transplant recipient vigorously attacks the blood vessels of the donor kidney. During severe AHR, these
donor specific antibodies bind to the blood vessel lining of the donor organ and initiate activation of the complement cascade, resulting in severe blood vessel inflammation and clotting. Administration of a C5 inhibitor in animal models of AMR
inhibits complement activation, tissue damage and transplant rejection.

We are aware that independent investigators are
continuing to enroll patients in clinical trials to evaluate eculizumab in presensitized renal transplant patients at elevated risk for AHR.

We are developing protocols to initiate multi-national, multi-site controlled clinical trials of eculizumab in this clinical setting and are further considering expansion of development efforts to include
investigation of eculizumab as a treatment for patients undergoing transplantation of other organs.

Other Eculizumab Development
Programs:

Myasthenia Gravis (MG)

Myasthenia gravis (MG) is a rare autoimmune syndrome characterized by autoantibodies attacking a specific target in the nerve-muscle junctions leading to failure of neuromuscular transmission. Patients
with MG initially experience weakness in their ocular, or eye muscles, and the disease typically progresses to head, spinal, limb and respiratory muscles. Symptoms can include drooping eyelid, blurred vision, slurred speech, difficulty chewing or
swallowing, weakness in the arms and legs and difficulty breathing.

In an experimental animal model of MG, administration of
a C5 Inhibitor was found to prevent experimentally acquired MG and to inhibit disease progression.

In the third quarter of
2007, we filed an IND with the FDA to initiate clinical development and received authorization from the FDA in July 2008. Patient enrolment is currently ongoing in this Phase II clinical trial in the US, and we are opening sites in Europe as well.

Multifocal Motor Neuropathy (MMN)

Multifocal motor neuropathy, or MMN, is a rare autoimmune disorder in which autoantibodies attack the nerve-muscle junctions. Patients with MMN demonstrate a slow progressive asymmetrical weakness of
limbs without sensory loss. Antibodies and complement activation products have been identified at the nerve-muscle junctions in diseases similar to MMN. Complement inhibition has recently been shown to be protective in animal models of MMN.

We are aware that independent investigators are examining the role of eculizumab for the treatment of patients with
multifocal motor neuropathy.






Neuromyelitis Optica (NMO)

Neuromyelitis optica (NMO) is a rare autoimmune disease of the central nervous system (CNS) that affects the optic nerves and spinal cord.
Individuals with NMO develop optic neuritis, which causes pain in the eye and vision loss, and transverse myelitis, which causes weakness, numbness, and sometimes paralysis of the arms and legs, along with sensory disturbances and loss of bladder
and bowel control. In the past, NMO was considered to be a severe variant of multiple sclerosis (MS) because both can cause attacks of optic neuritis and myelitis. The recent discovery of an antibody in the blood of individuals with NMO gives
doctors a reliable biomarker to distinguish NMO from MS.

We are aware that independent investigators are examining the role
of eculizumab for the treatment of patients with neuromyelitis optica.

Cold Agglutinin Disease (CAD)

Cold Agglutinin Disease (CAD) is a rare autoimmune hemolytic anaemia characterized by activation of the complement cascade and sticking
together (agglutination) of red blood cells. Patients may be typically first afflicted after reaching the age of sixty.

As
blood is cooled during circulation through the distal parts of the arms and legs, specific antibodies bind to the red blood cells resulting in activation of the complement cascade and sticking together (agglutination) of red blood cells leading to
hemolysis. Clinical manifestations of CAD include symptoms of chronic hemolysis such as fatigue, dyspnea, weakness, hemoglobinuria, kidney damage, pallor and jaundice as well as cold-induced circulatory symptoms ranging from mild discomfort to
severe pain in affected limbs and tissues. In the most severe cases, complications of progressive hemolysis or anemia, or complications of blood transfusions, may result in death. Current therapies, including cold avoidance, corticosteroids,
immunosuppressive drugs, intravenous immunoglobulin G (IgG) and chemotherapy agents are largely ineffective in controlling hemolysis in patients with CAD.

We are considering clinical development of eculizumab for the treatment of patients with cold agglutinin disease.

Age Related Macular Degeneration (Dry Form) (AMD)

Age-related macular
degeneration is a chronic eye disease marked by deterioration of tissue in the part of the eye responsible for central vision. The deterioration occurs in the macula, which is in the center of the retina—the layer of tissue on the inside back
wall of the eye. Macular degeneration can lead to total blindness, and early in the progression of the disease can worsen a patient’s quality of life by blurring or causing a blind spot in a patient’s central vision. Macular degeneration
tends to affect adults age 50 and older. Dry macular degeneration, in which tissue deterioration is not accompanied by bleeding, is the most common form of the disease.

We are aware that an independent investigator is examining eculizumab in patients with the dry form of age-related macular degeneration.

Catastrophic Antiphospholipid Syndrome (CAPS)

Antiphospholipid syndrome,
or APS, is an autoimmune condition characterized by blood vessel clotting in the presence of antibodies that target specific proteins (antiphospholipid, or aPL). Catastrophic antiphospholipid






syndrome, or CAPS, is a rare and extreme form of APS characterized by near simultaneous clotting of blood vessels in multiple organs leading to multiorgan failure. Initial mortality in patients
experiencing a first episode of CAPS is approximately one-quarter to one-half and treatment with anticoagulants may be ineffective.

In pregnant patients with APS, activated complement proteins are identified in the placenta. In animal models of APS, inhibition of complement rather than anticoagulation is required to block fetal loss. C5 inhibitor treatment in animal
models of APS was shown to inhibit blood clotting and tissue damage.

Oncology Program: Samalizumab (Anti-CD200 Antibody)

The FDA authorized our IND to evaluate the activity of samalizumab, an antibody to the immune regulator CD200, in
patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, or CLL. We continue dosing of CLL patients with samalizumab, which commenced in the second quarter of 2008, and have begun to screen and enroll patients with multiple myeloma as we expand our samalizumab
clinical program.

Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a type of cancer of the blood and bone marrow. Chronic lymphocytic
leukemia most commonly affects older adults, though it may occur at any age and rarely can affect children.

Multiple myeloma,
also known as plasma cell myeloma, is the second-most common cancer of the blood. It is the most common type of plasma cell neoplasm. Multiple myeloma accounts for approximately 1% of all cancers and 2% of all deaths from cancer.

Manufacturing

We currently
rely on two facilities, including our own facility in Rhode Island, for commercial quantities of Soliris. We obtain drug product to meet our requirements for clinical studies using both internal and third-party contract manufacturing capabilities.
For both clinical and commercial requirements, we have contracted and expect to continue contracting for product finishing, vial filling and packaging through third parties.

In July 2006, we acquired a manufacturing plant in Smithfield, Rhode Island for the future commercial production of Soliris and development
and manufacturing of future products. We submitted a supplemental BLA during the third quarter of 2009 for commercial production of eculizumab at this facility. In December 2009, our Rhode Island manufacturing facility received regulatory approval
from the E.C. for the production of Soliris. In the fourth quarter of 2009, the FDA commenced its inspection of our Rhode Island manufacturing facility and requested additional information regarding our manufacturing processes which we plan to
address in 2010.

We also use our Rhode Island facility for the production and purification of certain of our product
candidates for clinical studies.

Our most significant agreement with a third party manufacturer is the large-scale product
supply agreement with Lonza Sales AG, or Lonza, dated December 18, 2002, which has been amended from time to time. This agreement, the Lonza Agreement, relates to the manufacture of eculizumab. An amendment to the Lonza Agreement, dated
June 8, 2007, provides for additional production and minimum quantity purchase commitments of Soliris of $30 million to $35 million from 2009 through 2013. Such commitments may be cancelled only in limited circumstances. If we terminate the
Lonza Agreement without cause, we will be required to pay for






product scheduled for manufacture under our arrangement. Under an existing arrangement with Lonza, we expect to pay Lonza a royalty on sales of Soliris manufactured at our Rhode Island facility.

Sales and Marketing

We have established an organization to support current and future sales of Soliris in the United States, in the major markets in Europe, Latin America and in Japan and the Asia Pacific region. Our sales force is small compared to other
drugs with similar gross revenues; however, we believe that a relatively smaller sales force is appropriate to effectively market Soliris due to the limited PNH patient population. If we receive regulatory approval in new territories, we may expand
our own commercial organizations in such territories and market and sell Soliris through our own sales force in these territories. However, we will evaluate each jurisdiction on a country-by-country basis, and it is possible that we will promote
Soliris in collaboration with marketing partners or rely on relationships with one or more companies with established distribution systems and direct sales forces in certain countries.

Customers

In the United States, our customers are primarily specialty
distributors and specialty pharmacies which supply physician office clinics, hospital outpatient clinics, infusion clinics or home health care providers. We also sell Soliris to government agencies. Outside the United States, our customers are
primarily hospitals, hospital buying groups, pharmacies, other health care providers and distributors.

During 2009 and 2008,
sales to our single largest customer, AmerisourceBergen, accounted for 20% and 21%, respectively, of our Soliris net product sales, and no other customer individually accounted for more than 10% of total net product sales.

Because of the pricing of Soliris, the limited number of patients, the short period from sale of product to patient infusion and the lack of
contractual return rights, Soliris customers generally carry limited inventory. We monitor inventory within our distribution channel to determine whether deferral of sales is required. To date, actual refunds and returns have been negligible.

Please also see Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Revenues, and Note 16 of the Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this Form 10-K, for financial information about geographic areas.

Patents and Proprietary Rights

Patents and other proprietary rights are important to our business. Our policy is to file patent applications to protect technology,
inventions and improvements to our technologies that are considered important to the development of our business. We also rely upon our trade secrets, know-how, and continuing technological innovations, as well as patents that we have licensed or
may license from other parties, to develop and maintain our competitive position.

We have filed several U.S. patent
applications and international counterparts of certain of these applications. In addition, we have in-licensed several additional U.S. and international patents and patent applications. As of December 31, 2009, we own or in-license over 74
U.S. patents and 35 U.S. patent applications. These patents and patent applications relate to technologies or products in the C5 Inhibitor program, high throughput screening, vectors, cancer, recombinant antibodies, and other technologies. We
own or in-license 39 foreign patents and






146 pending foreign patent applications. We owe royalties to a third party and other fees to owners of one or more patents in connection with the manufacture and sale of Soliris for PNH, and
we may owe royalties and fees to other third parties with respect to any future commercial manufacture and sale of Soliris and our product candidates.

We are aware of broad patents owned by others relating to the manufacture, use and sale of recombinant humanized antibodies, recombinant
human antibodies, and recombinant human single chain antibodies. Soliris and our product candidates are either genetically engineered antibodies, including recombinant humanized antibodies, recombinant human antibodies, or recombinant human single
chain antibodies. We have received notices from the owners of patents claiming that their patents may be infringed by the development, manufacture or sale of Soliris or some of our drug candidates. We are also aware of other patents owned by third
parties that might be claimed by such third parties to be infringed by the development and commercialization of Soliris or some of our drug candidates. In respect to some of these patents, we have obtained licenses, or expect to obtain licenses.
However, with regard to such other patents, we have determined in our judgment that:



•our products do not infringe the patents;



•the patents are not valid; or



•we have identified and are testing various modifications that we believe should not infringe the patents and which should permit commercialization of
our product candidates.

If any patent holder successfully challenges our judgment that our products do not
infringe their patents or that their patents are invalid, we could be required to pay costly damages or to obtain a license to sell or develop our drugs. A required license may be costly or may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A
costly license, or inability to obtain a necessary license, could materially and adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products, including Soliris.

We record actual and estimated royalties to third parties related to the sale and commercial manufacture of Soliris. These estimates are influenced by our assessment of the likelihood of third parties
asserting that their patents are infringed by the manufacture or sale of Soliris and the likely outcome of any such assertion. On a periodic basis and based on specific events such as the outcome of litigation, we may reassess these estimates,
resulting in adjustments to cost of sales.






It is our policy to require our employees, consultants and parties to collaborative
agreements to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of employment or consulting relationships or collaborations with us. These agreements generally provide that all confidential information developed or made known during the
course of the relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not to be disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances. In the case of employees, the agreements also provide that all inventions resulting from work performed for us,
utilizing our property or relating to our business and conceived or completed by the individual during employment shall be our exclusive property to the extent permitted by applicable law.

License Agreements

In
March 1996, we entered into a license agreement with the Medical Research Council, or MRC, whereby MRC granted to us worldwide non-exclusive rights to certain patents related to the humanization and production of monoclonal antibodies. We pay MRC
royalties on a quarterly basis with respect to sales of Soliris. The royalty is payable until the last to expire of the patents covered by the license agreement, which is expected to be in 2015. MRC may terminate the license if we file for
bankruptcy or become insolvent, or if we fail to perform its obligations under the agreement and such failure is not remedied within three months after delivery of notice. Under the agreement, we agreed to (a) make royalty payments with respect
to sales of licensed products, (b) promote the sale of Soliris of good marketable quality, and (c) use reasonable endeavors to meet market demand for licensed products.

In December 2008, we entered into a patent license agreement with PDL BioPharma, or PDL, in connection with the resolution of all civil
claims previously filed by PDL and all counterclaims previously filed by Alexion. Pursuant to the license agreement, we paid $25 million for a nonexclusive, irrevocable, perpetual worldwide license to some claims of certain PDL patents and a
covenant not to sue from PDL for other claims of such PDL patents, in each case for the commercialization of Soliris for all indications.

We are party to other license agreements related to the manufacture and sale of Soliris; however, as with the PDL license agreement, we do not currently pay royalties under such agreements with respect to
sales of Soliris. In the future, we expect to pay Lonza a royalty on sales of Soliris manufactured at our Rhode Island manufacturing facility.

Government Regulation

The preclinical studies and clinical testing, manufacture, labeling, storage, record
keeping, advertising, promotion, export, and marketing, among other things, of our products and product candidates, including Soliris, are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the U.S. and other countries. In the U.S.,
pharmaceutical products are regulated by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and other laws, including, in the case of biologics, the Public Health Service Act. Soliris is regulated by the FDA as a biologic. Biologics require the
submission of a Biologics License Application, or BLA, and approval by FDA prior to being marketed in the United States. Manufacturers of biologics may also be subject to state regulation. Failure to comply with FDA requirements, both before and
after product approval, may subject us and/or our partners, contract manufacturers, and suppliers to administrative or judicial sanctions, including FDA refusal to approve applications, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or
partial suspension of production or distribution, fines and/or criminal prosecution.






The steps required before a biologic may be approved for marketing in the U.S. generally
include:

(1) preclinical laboratory tests and animal tests;

(2) submission to the FDA of an Investigational New Drug Application for human clinical testing, which must become effective
before human clinical trials may commence;

(3) adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish
the safety and efficacy of the product;

(4) submission to the FDA of a BLA;

(5) FDA pre-approval inspection of product manufacturers; and

(6) FDA review and approval of BLA.

Preclinical studies include laboratory evaluation, as well as animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product candidate. Preclinical safety tests must be conducted in compliance
with FDA regulations regarding good laboratory practices. The results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information and analytical data, are submitted to the FDA as part of an Investigational New Drug Application, or IND, which
must become effective before human clinical trials may be commenced. The IND will automatically become effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA before that time raises concerns about the drug candidate or the conduct of the
trials as outlined in the IND. The IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before clinical trials can proceed. We cannot assure you that submission of an IND will result in FDA authorization to commence clinical trials or that
once commenced, other concerns will not arise.

Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational product to
healthy volunteers or to patients, under the supervision of qualified principal investigators. Each clinical study at each clinical site must be reviewed and approved by an independent institutional review board, prior to the recruitment of
subjects.

Clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap and different trials
may be initiated with the same drug candidate within the same phase of development in similar or differing patient populations. Phase I studies may be conducted in a limited number of patients, but are usually conducted in healthy volunteer
subjects. The drug is usually tested for safety and, as appropriate, for absorption, metabolism, distribution, excretion, pharmaco-dynamics and pharmaco-kinetics.

Phase II usually involves studies in a larger, but still limited patient population to evaluate preliminarily the efficacy of the drug candidate for specific, targeted indications; to determine dosage
tolerance and optimal dosage; and to identify possible short-term adverse effects and safety risks.

Phase III trials are
undertaken to further evaluate clinical efficacy of a specific endpoint and to test further for safety within an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical study sites. Phase I, Phase II or Phase III testing might not be
completed successfully within any specific time period, if at all, with respect to any of our product candidates. Results from one trial are not necessarily predictive of results from later trials. Furthermore, the FDA may suspend clinical trials at
any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk.

The results of the preclinical studies and clinical trials, together with other detailed information, including information on the manufacture and composition of the product, are submitted to the FDA as part of a BLA requesting approval to
market the product candidate. Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, as amended, the






Both before and after
the FDA approves a product, the manufacturer and the holder or holders of the BLA for the product are subject to comprehensive regulatory oversight. For example, quality control and manufacturing procedures must conform, on an ongoing basis, to cGMP
requirements, and the FDA periodically inspects manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMP. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to spend time, money and effort to maintain cGMP compliance.






Orphan Drug Designation

Soliris has received orphan drug designation from the FDA for the treatment of PNH and aHUS. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs intended to treat a “rare
disease or condition,” which generally is a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting a BLA. After the FDA grants orphan drug designation,
the generic identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use are publicly disclosed by the FDA. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process. If a
product which has an orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to an orphan exclusivity period, in which the FDA may not approve any other
applications to market the same drug for the same indication for seven years, except in limited circumstances.

Soliris has
also received orphan drug designation for the treatment of PNH in several other territories, including Europe, Australia and South Korea, which provides certain regulatory and filing fee advantages, including market exclusivity, except in limited
circumstances, for several years after approval. In 2009, the FDA and E.C. also granted Soliris orphan drug designation for the treatment of patients with aHUS.

Foreign Regulation

In addition to regulations in the United States, we are
subject to a variety of foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials and marketing approval for drugs. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with FDA approval set forth above, as well as
additional country-specific regulations. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we must obtain approval of a product by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of
the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country, and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and
reimbursement vary greatly from country to country.

For example, under European Union regulatory systems, we may submit
marketing authorizations either under a centralized or decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization that is valid for all European Union member states. The decentralized procedure
provides for mutual recognition of national approval decisions, and the holder of a national marketing authorization may submit an application to the remaining member states. We submitted our Marketing Authorization Application for Soliris for the
treatment of PNH to the European Medicines Agency, or EMEA, using the centralized procedure.

Reimbursement

Sales of pharmaceutical products depend in significant part on the coverage and reimbursement policies of government programs, including
Medicare and Medicaid in the United States, and other third party payors. These health insurance programs may restrict coverage of some products by using payor formularies under which only selected drugs are covered, variable co-payments that make
drugs that are not preferred by the payor more expensive for patients, and by using utilization management controls, such as requirements for prior authorization or prior failure on another type of treatment. Payors may especially impose these
obstacles to coverage for higher priced drugs, and consequently Soliris may be subject to payor-driven restrictions.






In furtherance of our efforts to facilitate access to Soliris, we have created the Soliris
OneSource™ Treatment Support Program in the United States, a treatment support service for patients with PNH and their healthcare providers. Alexion case managers provide education about PNH and Soliris and help facilitate solutions for
reimbursement, coverage and access.

In addition, in some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved
before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. For example, the European Union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their
national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices and/or reimbursement of medicinal products for human use. A member state may approve a specific price or level of reimbursement for the medicinal product, or it may
instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. Following E.C. approval of Soliris for patients with PNH in June 2007, we engaged with appropriate authorities on
the operational, reimbursement, price approval and funding processes that are separately required in each country and have initiated commercialization in those countries where this process is completed.

Competition

There are
currently no approved drugs other than Soliris for the treatment of PNH. However, many companies, including major pharmaceutical and chemical companies as well as specialized biotechnology companies, are engaged in activities similar to our
activities. Universities, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations also conduct research and may market commercial products on their own or through joint ventures. Many of these entities may have:



•substantially greater financial and other resources;



•larger research and development staffs;



•lower labor costs; and/or



•more extensive marketing and manufacturing organizations.

Many of these companies and organizations have significant experience in preclinical testing, human clinical trials, product manufacturing,
marketing, sales and distribution and other regulatory approval and commercial procedures. They may also have a greater number of significant patents and greater legal resources to seek remedies for cases of alleged infringement of their patents by
us to block, delay or compromise our own drug development process.

We compete with large pharmaceutical companies that
produce and market synthetic compounds and with specialized biotechnology firms in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere, as well as a growing number of large pharmaceutical companies that are applying biotechnology to their operations. A number of
biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies are developing new products for the treatment of the same diseases being targeted by us; in some instances, these products have already entered clinical trials or are already being marketed. Other companies
are engaged in research and development based on complement proteins.

Several companies have either publicly announced their
intentions to develop drugs which target the inflammatory effects of complement in the immune system or have had programs to develop complement inhibitor therapies. We believe that our potential C5 Inhibitors differ substantially from those of our
potential competitors due to our compounds’ demonstrated ability to specifically intervene in the complement cascade, for






potentially prolonged periods of time. We believe this action to be the optimal point so that the disease-causing actions of complement proteins are inhibited, while the normal disease-preventing
functions of complement proteins and other aspects of immune function remain intact.

Employees

As of December 31, 2009, we had 673 full-time, world-wide employees, of which 315 were engaged in research, product development,
manufacturing, and clinical development, 234 in sales and marketing, and 124 in administration, business development and finance. Our U.S. employees are not represented by any collective bargaining unit, and we regard the relationships with all our
employees as satisfactory.

Available Information

Our internet website address is http://www.alexionpharma.com. Through our website, we make available, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K, any amendments to those reports, proxy and registration statements, and all of our insider Section 16 reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. These SEC
reports can be accessed through the “Investors” section of our website. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. Paper copies of our SEC reports are available free
of charge upon request in writing to Investor Relations, Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 352 Knotter Drive, Cheshire, CT 06410.






