Item 1.BUSINESS.

(dollars and shares in thousands)



Overview

We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on serving patients with devastating and ultra-rare disorders through the innovation, development and commercialization of life-transforming therapeutic products.

In our complement franchise, Soliris is the first and only therapeutic approved for patients with either paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH), a life-threatening and ultra-rare genetic blood disorder, or atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS), a life-threatening and ultra-rare genetic disease.  PNH and aHUS are two severe and ultra-rare disorders resulting from chronic uncontrolled activation of the complement component of the immune system.










In our metabolic franchise, we market Strensiq for the treatment of patients with Hypophosphatasia (HPP) and Kanuma for the treatment of patients with Lysosomal Acid Lipase Deficiency (LAL-D).  HPP is a genetic ultra-rare disease characterized by defective bone mineralization that can lead to deformity of bones and other skeletal abnormalities.  LAL-D is a serious, life threatening ultra-rare disease in which genetic mutations result in decreased activity of the Lysosomal Acid Lipase (LAL) enzyme leading to marked accumulation of lipids in vital organs, blood vessels and other tissues.

We are also evaluating additional potential indications for eculizumab in other severe and devastating diseases in which uncontrolled complement activation is the underlying mechanism, and we are progressing in various stages of development with additional product candidates as potential treatments for patients with severe and life-threatening rare disorders.

We were incorporated in 1992.  In June 2015, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Synageva BioPharma Corp. (Synageva), a publicly-held clinical-stage biotechnology company.  The acquisition furthered our objective to develop and commercialize life-transforming therapies for an increasing number of patients with devastating and rare diseases.

Products and Development Programs

We focus our product development programs on life-transforming therapeutics for devasting and ultra-rare diseases for which current treatments are either non-existent or inadequate.

Marketed Products

Our marketed products include the following:ProductDevelopment AreaIndicationDevelopment StageSoliris (eculizumab)HematologyParoxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria (PNH)CommercialPNH RegistryPhase IVHematology/NephrologyAtypical Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome (aHUS)CommercialaHUS RegistryPhase IVStrensiq (asfotase alfa)Metabolic DisordersHypophosphatasia (HPP)CommercialHPP RegistryPhase IVKanuma (sebelipase alfa)Metabolic DisordersLysosomal Acid Lipase Deficiency (LAL-D)CommercialLAL-D RegistryPhase IV

Soliris (eculizumab)

Soliris is designed to inhibit a specific aspect of the complement component of the immune system and thereby treat inflammation associated with chronic disorders in several therapeutic areas, including hematology, nephrology, transplant rejection and neurology. Soliris is a humanized monoclonal antibody that effectively blocks terminal complement activity at the doses currently prescribed. The initial indication for which we received approval for Soliris is PNH.

Paroxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria (PNH)

PNH is a debilitating and life-threatening, ultra-rare genetic blood disorder defined by chronic uncontrolled complement activation leading to the destruction of red blood cells (hemolysis). The chronic hemolysis in patients with PNH may be associated with life-threatening thromboses, recurrent pain, kidney disease, disabling fatigue, impaired quality of life, severe anemia, pulmonary hypertension, shortness of breath and intermittent episodes of dark-colored urine (hemoglobinuria).  We continue to work with researchers to expand the base of knowledge in PNH and the utility of Soliris to treat patients with PNH.  Soliris is approved for the treatment of PNH in the United States, Europe, Japan and in several other territories.  We are sponsoring a multinational registry to gather information regarding the natural history of patients with PNH and the longer term outcomes during Soliris treatment. In April 2015, the European Commission (EC) approved an update to the European Union (EU) label that supports Soliris treatment for patients with PNH regardless of history of transfusion and additional updates to inform physicians to make treatment decisions based on elevated hemolysis and the presence of common symptoms associated with PNH.  Additionally, Soliris has been granted orphan drug designation for the treatment of PNH in the United States, Europe, Japan and several other territories.










Atypical Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome (aHUS)

aHUS is a severe and life-threatening genetic ultra-rare disease characterized by chronic uncontrolled complement activation and thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA), the formation of blood clots in small blood vessels throughout the body, causing a reduction in platelet count (thrombocytopenia) and life-threatening damage to the kidney, brain, heart and other vital organs. Soliris is approved for the treatment of pediatric and adult patients with aHUS in the United States, Europe and Japan.  In April 2015, the EC approved an update to the EU label for Soliris treatment for patients with aHUS that included new efficacy data which specifies that longer-term treatment with Soliris is associated with a greater proportion of patients achieving clinically significant benefits, including complete TMA response and hematologic normalization, as well as the importance of sustained Soliris therapy.  In addition, the FDA and EC have granted Soliris orphan drug designation for the treatment of patients with aHUS.

Strensiq (asfotase alfa)

Hypophosphatasia (HPP)

HPP is an ultra-rare genetic and progressive metabolic disease in which patients experience devastating effects on multiple systems of the body, leading to debilitating or life-threatening complications. HPP is characterized by defective bone mineralization that can lead to deformity of bones and other skeletal abnormalities, as well as systemic complications such as profound muscle weakness, seizures, pain, and respiratory failure leading to premature death in infants.

Strensiq, a targeted enzyme replacement therapy, is the first and only approved therapy for patients with HPP, and is designed to directly address underlying causes of HPP by aiming to restore the genetically defective metabolic process, thereby preventing or reversing the severe and potentially life-threatening complications in patients with HPP.  In July 2015,  Japan’s Ministry of Health. Labour and Welfare (MHLW) approved Strensiq for the treatment of patients with HPP. On September 1, 2015, we announced that the EC granted marketing authorization for Strensiq for the treatment of patients with pediatric-onset HPP.  On October 23, 2015, we announced that the FDA approved Strensiq for patients with perinatal-, infantile- and juvenile-onset HPP.

Kanuma (sebelipase alfa)

Lysosomal Acid Lipase Deficiency (LAL Deficiency or LAL-D)

LAL-D is a serious, life-threatening ultra-rare disease associated with premature mortality and significant morbidity. LAL-D is a chronic disease in which genetic mutations result in decreased activity of the LAL enzyme that leads to marked accumulation of lipids in vital organs, blood vessels, and other tissues, resulting in progressive and systemic organ damage including hepatic fibrosis, cirrhosis, liver failure, accelerated atherosclerosis, cardiovascular disease, and other devastating consequences.

Kanuma, a recombinant form of the human LAL enzyme, is the only enzyme-replacement therapy that is approved for the treatment for patients with LAL-D. On September 1, 2015, Alexion announced that the EC granted marketing authorization of Kanuma for long-term enzyme replacement therapy in patients of all ages with LAL-D.  On December 8, 2015, we announced that the FDA approved Kanuma for the treatment of patients with LAL-D.  In addition, a New Drug Application (NDA) for Kanuma has been submitted to Japan’s MHLW.










Clinical Development Program

Our programs, including investigator sponsored clinical programs, include the following:

ProductDevelopment AreaIndicationDevelopment StageSoliris (eculizumab)NeurologyMyasthenia Gravis (MG)Phase IIINeuromyelitis Optica Spectrum Disorder (NMOSD)Phase IIITransplantDelayed Kidney Transplant Graft Function (DGF)Phase IIIAntibody Mediated Rejection (AMR) Presensitized Renal Transplant - Living DonorPhase IIAntibody Mediated Rejection (AMR) Presensitized Renal Transplant - Deceased DonorPhase IITreatment of Antibody Mediated Rejection (AMR) Following Renal Transplantation*Phase IIcPMP (ALXN 1101)Metabolic DisordersMoCD Type APhase II / IIIALXN 1007Inflammatory DisordersGI Graft versus Host DiseasePhase IIAnti-phospholipid SyndromePhase IISBC-103Metabolic DisordersMucopolysaccharidoses IIIB(MPS IIIB)Phase I / IIALXN 1210Next Generation Complement InhibitorParoxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria (PNH)Phase I / IIALXN 5500Next Generation Complement InhibitorPhase I

* Investigator Initiated Trial



Soliris (eculizumab)

Neurology

Myasthenia Gravis (MG)

MG is an ultra-rare autoimmune syndrome characterized by complement activation leading to the failure of neuromuscular transmission.  We have completed enrollment of patients in a Phase III multinational, placebo-controlled registration trial of eculizumab in patients with refractory generalized MG, and dosing continues. The FDA, EC and MHLW have granted orphan drug designation for eculizumab as a treatment for patients with MG.

Neuromyelitis Optica Spectrum Disorder (NMOSD)

NMOSD is a severe and ultra-rare autoimmune disease of the central nervous system (CNS) that primarily affects the optic nerves and spinal cord.  Enrollment and dosing are ongoing in a global, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled to evaluate eculizumab as a treatment for patients with relapsing NMOSD. The FDA, EC, and MHLW have each granted orphan designation for eculizumab as a treatment for patients with NMOSD.

Transplant

Delayed Kidney Transplant Graft Function (DGF)

DGF is the term used to describe the failure of a kidney or other organs to function immediately after transplantation due to ischemia-reperfusion and immunological injury.  Enrollment is complete in a single, multinational, placebo-controlled DGF registration trial and patient follow-up is ongoing. Eculizumab has been granted orphan drug designation for DGF by the FDA and the EC granted orphan drug designation to eculizumab for prevention of DGF after solid organ transplantation.










Antibody Mediated Rejection (AMR) in Presensitized Kidney Transplant Patients

AMR is the term used to describe a type of transplant rejection that occurs when the recipient has antibodies to the donor organ. Enrollment in a multi-national, multi-center controlled clinical trial of eculizumab in presensitized kidney transplant patients at elevated risk for AMR who received kidneys from deceased organ donors was completed in March 2013 and patient follow-up in the trial is continuing.  In September 2013, researchers presented positive preliminary data from the eculizumab deceased-donor AMR kidney transplant study.  In May 2015, new data from the Phase II single-arm deceased-donor transplant trial of eculizumab in prevention of acute AMR was presented and was consistent with previous positive reports.

In January 2015, we reported results from a randomized, open-label, multicenter Phase II clinical trial of eculizumab  presensitized kidney transplant patients at an elevated risk of AMR who received kidneys from living donors. The primary composite endpoint of the trial did not reach statistical significance.  Patient follow-up and data analyses are ongoing and based on discussions with regulators, we are developing plans for next steps for eculizumab in AMR.

The EC granted orphan drug designation to eculizumab for the prevention of graft rejection following solid organ transplantation.



cPMP (ALXN 1101)

Molybdenum Cofactor Deficiency (MoCD) Disease Type A (MoCD Type A)

MoCD Type A is an ultra-rare metabolic disorder characterized by severe and rapidly progressive neurologic damage and death in newborns.  MoCD Type A results from a genetic deficiency in cyclic Pyranopterin Monophosphate (cPMP), a molecule that enables the function of certain enzymes and the absence of which allows neurotoxic sulfite to accumulate in the brain.  To date, there is no approved therapy available for MoCD Type A.  There has been some early clinical experience with the recombinant cPMP replacement therapy in a small number of children with MoCD Type A, and we have completed enrollment in a natural history study in patients with MoCD Type A.  In October 2013, cPMP received Breakthrough Therapy Designation from the FDA for the treatment of patients with MoCD Type A.  Evaluation of our synthetic form of cPMP replacement therapy in a Phase I healthy volunteer study is complete. In addition, we completed enrollment in a multi-center, multinational open-label clinical trial of synthetic cPMP in patients with MoCD Type A switched from treatment with recombinant cPMP. Activities have commenced for the Phase II/III pivotal open-label, single-arm trial of ALXN1101 for treatment-naïve neonates with MoCD Type A.



ALXN 1007

ALXN 1007 is a novel humanized antibody designed to target rare and severe inflammatory disorders and is a product of our proprietary antibody discovery technologies.  We have completed enrollment in both a Phase I single-dose, dose escalating safety and pharmacology study in healthy volunteers, as well as in a multi-dose, dose escalating safety and pharmacology study in healthy volunteers.  A proof-of-concept study in patients with an ultra-rare disorder, gastrointestinal graft versus host disease (GI-GVHD), is ongoing. Acute GI-GVHD is an immune-mediated disease and a complication of stem cell transplantation occurring in 10-12 percent of allogenic hematopoietic stem cell transplants.  Patients with severe acute GI-GVHD have a 30-40 percent mortality rate within the first six months post-transplant.  The study is evaluating patients with GI-GVHD following bone marrow or hematopoietic stem cell transplant experience engrafted hematopoietic cells that attack host gastrointestinal tissues in the first 100 days post-transplant causing damage to the GI tract, liver and skin. In December 2015, we announced that interim data from a Phase II study showed an overall 28 day acute GI-GVHD response rate of 80 percent, which supports the continued advancement of ALXN 1007 in GI-GVHD.

In addition, enrollment in a Phase II proof-of-concept study in patients with non-criteria manifestations of anti-phospholipid syndrome (APS) was discontinued early due to recruitment difficulties. The study is ongoing for initially enrolled patients. APS is an ultra-rare autoimmune, hypercoagulable state caused by antiphospholipid antibodies.



SBC-103

Mucopolysaccharidosis IIIB (MPS IIIB)

MPS IIIB is a rare, devastating and life-threatening disease which typically presents in children during the first few years of life. Genetic mutations result in decreased activity of the alpha-N-acetyl-glucosaminidase (NAGLU) enzyme, which leads to a buildup of abnormal amounts of heparan sulfate (HS) in the brain and throughout the body. Over time, this unrelenting systemic accumulation of HS causes progressive and severe cognitive decline, behavioral problems, speech loss, increasing loss










of mobility, and premature death. Current treatments are palliative for the behavioral problems, sleep disturbances, seizures, and other complications, and these treatments do not address the root cause of MPS IIIB or stop disease progression.

SBC-103, a recombinant form of natural human NAGLU is designed to replace the missing (or deficient) NAGLU enzyme. SBC-103 was granted orphan drug designation by the FDA in April 2013 and by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) in June 2013. It received Fast Track designation by the FDA in January 2015. In June 2015, the first-in-human trial of patients with MPS IIIB reached its targeted enrollment of nine patients, and the trial is ongoing. In December 2015, we announced interim data in the Phase I/II trial showing a dose-dependent reduction of heparin sulfate in cerebrospinal fluid across three dosing cohorts.  Escalated dosing of SBC-103 will commence in the first half of 2016.

ALXN 1210

ALXN 1210 is a next-generation complement inhibitor in development for PNH and other indications. Phase I data from the first-in-human single-ascending dose study of ALXN 1210 was published in the journal Blood in December 2015.  Results showed that ALXN 1210 was well-tolerated in healthy volunteers and the mean terminal half-life was extended to 32 days, compared to Soliris, which has a terminal half-life of 9 days. Based upon longer terminal half-life and healthy volunteer studies, ALXN 1210 is suitable for longer dosing intervals than Soliris.  A multiple-ascending dose study of ALXN 1210 is ongoing to further evaluate the safety and efficacy of ALXN 1210.

In addition, we have two ongoing clinical studies of ALXN 1210 in patients with PNH. Preliminary data in a Phase I/II dose-escalating study showed a rapid reduction of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) following the initial dose. Alexion also has initiated an open-label, multi-dose Phase II study of ALXN 1210 in patients with PNH that is designed to measure change in LDH levels and safety in several dosing cohorts and intervals.

Manufacturing

We currently rely on internal manufacturing facilities and third party contract manufacturers, including Lonza Group AG and its affiliates (Lonza) to supply clinical and commercial quantities of our commercial products and product candidates. Our internal manufacturing facilities include our Rhode Island manufacturing facility (ARIMF), and facilities in Massachusetts and Georgia. We also utilize third party contract manufacturers for other manufacturing services including purification, product filling, finishing, packaging, and labeling.

We have various agreements with Lonza through2028, with remaining total non-cancellable commitments of approximately$1,156,980. If we terminate certain supply agreements with Lonza without cause, we will be required to pay for product scheduled for manufacture under our arrangements.  Under an existing arrangement with Lonza, we also pay Lonza a royalty on sales of Soliris manufactured at ARIMF and a payment with respect to sales of Soliris manufactured at Lonza facilities. During 2015, we entered into a new supply agreement with Lonza whereby Lonza will construct a new manufacturing facility dedicated to Alexion manufacturing at its existing Portsmouth, New Hampshire facility.

In addition to Lonza, we have non-cancellable commitments of approximately$36,400through 2019 with other third party manufacturers.

InMarch 2013, we received a Warning Letter (Warning Letter) from the FDA regarding compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) at ARIMF.  The Warning Letter followed receipt of a Form 483 Inspectional Observations by the FDA in connection with an FDA inspection that concluded in August 2012.   The observations relate to commercial and clinical manufacture of Soliris at ARIMF.   We responded to the Warning Letter in a letter to the FDA dated in April 2013.  As previously announced, the FDA issued Form 483s in August 2014 and August 2015 relating to observations at ARIMF. The inspectional observations from the August 2015 letter have since been closed out by the FDA.  The observations are inspectional and do not represent a final FDA determination of compliance. We continue to manufacture products, including Soliris, in this facility. While the resolution of the issues raised in the Warning Letter is difficult to predict, we do not currently believe a loss related to this matter is probable or that the potential magnitude of such loss or range of loss, if any, can be reasonably estimated.

In April 2014, we purchased a fill/finish facility in Athlone, Ireland.  Following refurbishment of the facility, and after successful completion of the appropriate validation processes and regulatory approvals, the facility will become our first company-owned fill/finish facility for our commercial and clinical products. In November 2015, the construction of office, laboratory and packaging facilities in Dublin, Ireland was completed.  In May 2015, we announced plans to construct a new biologics manufacturing facility on our existing property in Dublin, Ireland, which is expected to be completed by 2020.










Sales and Marketing

We have established a commercial organization to support current and future sales of our products in the United States, Europe, Japan, Asia Pacific countries, and other territories. Our sales force is small compared to that of other drugs with similar revenues; however, we believe that a relatively smaller sales force is appropriate to effectively market our products due to the incidence and prevalence of rare diseases. If we receive regulatory approval in new territories or for new products or indications, we may expand our own commercial organizations in such territories and market and sell our products through our own sales force in these territories. However, we evaluate each jurisdiction on a country-by-country basis, and, in certain territories, we promote our products in collaboration with marketing partners or rely on relationships with one or more companies with established distribution systems and direct sales forces in certain countries.

Customers

Our customers are primarily comprised of distributors, pharmacies, hospitals, hospital buying groups, and other health care providers. In some cases, we may also sell our products to governments and government agencies.

During2015and2014, sales to our largest customer accounted for18%of net product sales.

Because of factors such as the pricing of our products, the limited number of patients, the short period from product sale to patient use and the lack of contractual return rights, customers often carry limited inventory. We also monitor inventory within our sales channels to determine whether deferrals are appropriate based on factors such as inventory levels compared to demand, contractual terms and financial strength of distributors.

Please also see "Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Net Product Sales," and Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for financial information about geographic areas.

Intellectual Property Rights and Market Exclusivity

Patents and other intellectual property rights are important to our business. We own or license a number of patents in the U.S. and foreign countries that cover our products and investigational compounds; also we file and prosecute patent applications covering new technologies and inventions that are meaningful to our business. In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets, know-how, trademarks, regulatory exclusivity and other forms of intellectual property. Our intellectual property rights have material value and we act to protect them.

In the biopharmaceutical industry, two forms of intellectual property generally determine the period of a product’s market exclusivity: patent rights and regulatory forms of exclusivity. During the period of market exclusivity an innovative product generally realizes most of its commercial value.

Patents provide the owner with a right to exclude others from practicing an invention. In our business, patents may cover the active ingredients, uses, formulations, doses, administrations, delivery mechanisms, manufacturing processes and other aspects of a product. The period of patent protection for any given product may depend on the expiration date of various patents and may differ from country to country according to the type of patents, the scope of coverage and the remedies for infringement available in a country.

Most of our products and investigational compounds are protected by patents with varying terms that depend on the type of patent and its filing date. However, a significant portion of a product's patent life can elapse during the time it takes to develop and obtain regulatory approval of the product. As compensation for such delay certain countries will extend a patent’s term, subject to a number of factors and caps.

Regulatory forms of exclusivity are another source of valuable rights that can contribute toward market exclusivity for an innovative biopharmaceutical product. Many developed countries provide such non-patent incentives to develop medicines. In the U.S., Europe and Japan, for instance, regulatory intellectual property rights provide incentives to develop medicines for rare diseases, or orphan drugs, and medicines for pediatric patients. Those countries and others also provide data protection for a period of time after the approval of a new drug, during which regulatory agencies may not rely on the innovator’s data to approve a biosimilar or generic copy. Regulatory forms of exclusivity can work in conjunction with patents to strengthen market exclusivity, and in countries where patent protection has expired or does not exist, regulatory forms of exclusivity can extend a product’s market exclusivity period.

Soliris Exclusivity

With respect to Soliris, we own an issued U.S. patent that covers the eculizumab composition of matter and will expire in 2021, taking into account patent term extension. Soliris is also protected in the U.S. by regulatory data exclusivity until 2019










and by orphan drug exclusivity for treating aHUS until 2018. In Europe we have supplementary protection certificates that extend rights associated with a composition of matter patent until 2020 in certain countries. Soliris is also protected in Europe by orphan drug exclusivity until 2019 for PNH and until 2023 for aHUS. In addition to the foregoing patent and regulatory protections, we own pending patent applications that are directed to various aspects of using and making eculizumab and which may provide additional protection for Soliris.

Strensiq Exclusivity

With respect to Strensiq, we own an issued U.S. patent that covers the asfotase alfa composition of matter and will expire in 2026. We are applying for an extension of the U.S. patent term.  Strensiq is also protected in the U.S. by orphan drug exclusivity until 2022 and by regulatory data exclusivity until 2027.  In Europe, we own two issued  patents that cover the asfotase alfa composition of matter and will expire in 2025 and 2028. We are applying for supplementary protection certificates in the European countries.  Strensiq is also protected in Europe by orphan drug exclusivity and regulatory data exclusivity until 2025. In other countries we own corresponding patents that will expire between 2025 and 2028, not including possible extensions.

Kanuma Exclusivity

With respect to Kanuma, we own issued patents in the U.S., Europe adn other countries that cover methods of using the product to treat LAL-D and will expire in 2031. The European patent is under challenge in an administrative opposition proceeding.   An exclusively licensed composition of matter patent also protects Kanuma in certain European countries until it expires in 2021, though we are also applying for supplementary protection certificates in those countries. In the U.S. Kanuma also is protected by orphan drug exclusivity until 2022 and by regulatory data exclusivity until 2027. In Europe it is protected by orphan drug exclusivity and regulatory data exclusivity until 2025.

Soliris, Strensiq, and Kanuma Regulatory Protection

As noted above, for each of Soliris, Strensiq and Kanuma we rely on regulatory forms of exclusivity such as data protection and orphan drug protection to support the product’s market exclusivity. Specific aspects of the laws governing regulatory exclusivity vary by country, but most forms of regulatory exclusivity do not prevent competitive products from gaining regulatory approval on the basis of the competitor’s own safety and efficacy data, even when the competitive product is a biosimilar or generic copy. In certain countries, however, orphan drugs can obtain a period of exclusivity during which no competitive product containing the same drug may be approved for the same orphan indication.

We also own U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications that protect our investigational compounds and product candidates. At present, it is not known whether any such investigational compound or product candidate will be approved for human use and sale.

License and Collaboration Agreements

In March2015, we entered into an agreement with a third party that allowed us to exercise an option with another third party for exclusive, worldwide, perpetual license rights to a specialized technology and other intellectual property, and we simultaneously exercised the option. Due to the early stage of these assets, we recorded expense for the payments of$47,000during the first quarter2015.

In March2015, we entered into a collaboration agreement with a third party that allows us to identify and optimize drug candidates. Alexion will have the exclusive worldwide rights to develop and commercialize products arising from the collaboration.  Due to the early stage of the assets we are licensing in connection with the collaboration, we recorded expense for the upfront payment of$15,000during the first quarter2015.  In addition, we could be required to pay up to an additional$250,750if certain development, regulatory, and commercial milestones are met over time, as well as royalties on commercial sales.

In January2015, we entered into a license agreement with a third party to obtain an exclusive research, development and commercial license for specific therapeutic molecules.  Due to the early stage of these assets, we recorded expense for the upfront payment of$50,000during the first quarter2015.  In addition, we could be required to pay up to an additional$822,000if certain development, regulatory, and commercial milestones are met over time, as well as royalties on commercial sales.

In December 2014, we entered into an agreement with X-Chem Pharmaceuticals (X-Chem) that allows us to identify novel drug candidates from X-Chem's proprietary drug discovery engine. Alexion will have the exclusive worldwide rights to develop and commercialize up tothreetargets arising from the collaboration. Due to the early stage of these assets, we recorded expense for an upfront payment of$8,000. In addition, for each drug target, to a maximum ofthreetargets, we could be










required to make additional payments upon the achievement of specified research, development and regulatory milestones up to$75,000, as well as royalties on commercial sales.

In January 2014, we entered into an agreement with Moderna Therapeutics, Inc. (Moderna) that provides the option to purchase drug products for clinical development and commercialization of Moderna's messenger RNA (mRNA) therapeutics to treat rare diseases.  Due to the early stage of these assets, we recorded expense for an upfront payment of$100,000in 2014.  We will also be responsible for funding research activities under the program.  In addition, for each drug target, up to a maximum oftentargets, would could be required to make an option exercise payment of$15,000and to pay up to an additional$120,000with respect to a rare disease product and$400,000with respect to a non-rare disease product in development and sales milestones if the specific milestones are met over time as well as royalties on commercial sales.

In July 2013, we entered into a license and collaboration agreement with Ensemble Therapeutics Corporation for the identification, development and commercialization of therapeutic candidates based on specific drug targets.  Due to the early stage of these assets, we recorded expense for an upfront payment of$11,500during the third quarter of 2013.  We will also be responsible for funding research activities under the program.  In addition, for each drug target, up to a maximum offourtargets, we could be required to pay up to an additional$90,750in development milestones as the specific milestones are met over time.  The agreement also provides for royalty payments on commercial sales of each product developed under the agreement.

In January 2013, we entered into a license agreement for a technology, which provides an exclusive research license and an option for an exclusive commercial license for specific targets and products to be developed.   Due to the early stage of this asset, we recorded expense for an upfront payment of$3,000during the first quarter of 2013.  We will also be required to pay annual maintenance fees during the term of the arrangement.  In addition, for each target, up to a maximum ofsixtargets we develop, we could be required to pay up to an additional$70,500in license fees, development and sales milestones as the specific milestones are met over time.

Government Regulation

Drug Development and Approval in the U.S.

The preclinical studies and clinical testing, manufacture, labeling, storage, record keeping, advertising, promotion, export, and marketing, among other things, of our products and product candidates , including Soliris®, Strensiq® and Kanuma™, are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States, the European Union and other territories. In the United States, pharmaceutical products are regulated by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and other laws, including, in the case of biologics, the Public Health Service Act. Our three approved products are regulated by the FDA as biologics. Biologics require the submission of a Biologics License Application (BLA) and approval by the FDA prior to being marketed in the United States. In the case of Kanuma, which is derived from egg whites from select hens, we also submitted a New Animal Drug Application (NADA) for approval by the FDA.  Manufacturers of biologics and drugs derived from animal origin may also be subject to state regulation. Failure to comply with FDA requirements, both before and after product approval, may subject us and/or our partners, contract manufacturers, and suppliers to administrative or judicial sanctions, including FDA refusal to approve applications, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, fines and/or criminal prosecution.

The process for obtaining regulatory approval to market a biologic is expensive, often takes many years, and can vary substantially based on the type, complexity, and novelty of the product candidates involved. The steps required before a biologic may be approved for marketing of an indication in the United States generally include:

(1) preclinical laboratory tests and animal tests;

(2) submission to the FDA of an investigational new drug (IND) application for human clinical testing, which must become effective before human clinical trials may commence;

(3) adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the product for its intended use;

(4) submission to the FDA of a BLA or supplemental BLA;

(5) FDA pre-approval inspection of the manufacturing sites identified in the BLA; and

(6) FDA review and approval of the BLA or supplemental BLA.

Preclinical studies include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry and formulation, as well as toxicological and pharmacological animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product candidate. Preclinical safety tests










intended for submission to FDA must be conducted in compliance with FDA’s Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) regulations and the United States Department of Agriculture’s Animal Welfare Act. The results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information and analytical data, are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND application which must become effective before human clinical trials may be commenced. The IND will automatically become effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA before that time raises concerns about the drug candidate or the conduct of the trials as outlined in the IND. The IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before clinical trials can proceed. We cannot assure you that submission of an IND will result in FDA authorization to commence clinical trials or that once commenced, other concerns will not arise. FDA may stop the clinical trials by placing them on “clinical hold” because of concerns about the safety of the product being tested, or for other reasons.

Clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap and different trials may be initiated with the same drug candidate within the same phase of development in similar or differing patient populations. Phase I studies may be conducted in a limited number of patients, but are usually conducted in healthy volunteer subjects. The drug is usually tested for safety and, as appropriate, for absorption, metabolism, distribution, excretion, pharmaco-dynamics and pharmaco-kinetics. Phase II usually involves studies in a larger, but still limited patient population to evaluate preliminarily the efficacy of the drug candidate for specific, targeted indications; to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage; and to identify possible short-term adverse effects and safety risks.

Phase III trials are undertaken to gather additional information to evaluate the product’s overall risk-benefit profile, and to provide a basis for physician labeling. Phase III trials evaluate clinical efficacy of a specific endpoint and test further for safety within an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical study sites. Phase I, Phase II or Phase III testing might not be completed successfully within any specific time period, if at all, with respect to any of our product candidates. Results from one trial are not necessarily predictive of results from later trials. Furthermore, the FDA, sponsor or institutional review board may suspend clinical trials at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk.

We must register each controlled clinical trial, other than Phase I trials, on a website administered by National Institutes of Health (NIH) (http://clinicaltrials.gov). Registration must occur not later than 21 days after the first patient is enrolled, and the submission must include descriptive information (e.g., a summary in lay terms of the study design, type and desired outcome), recruitment information (e.g., target number of participants and whether healthy volunteers are accepted), location and contact information, and other administrative data (e.g., FDA identification numbers). Within one year of a trial’s completion, information about the trial including characteristics of the patient sample, primary and secondary outcomes, trial results written in lay and technical terms, and the full trial protocol must be submitted to the FDA. The results information is posted to the website unless the drug has not yet been approved, in which case the FDA posts the information shortly after approval. A BLA, BLA supplement, and certain other submissions to the FDA require certification of compliance with these clinical trials database requirements. There are proposals to expand these registration requirements to additional studies.

The results of the preclinical studies and clinical trials, together with other detailed information, including information on the manufacture and composition of the product and proposed labeling for the product, are submitted to the FDA as part of a BLA requesting approval to market the product candidate for a proposed indication. Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, as amended, the fees payable to the FDA for reviewing a BLA, as well as annual fees for commercial manufacturing establishments and for approved products, can be substantial. The BLA review fee alone can exceed $2,000 subject to certain










limited deferrals, waivers and reductions that may be available. Each BLA submitted to the FDA for approval is typically reviewed for administrative completeness and reviewability within 60 days following submission of the application. If the FDA finds the BLA sufficiently complete, the FDA will “file” the BLA, thus triggering a full review of the application. The FDA may refuse to file any BLA that it deems incomplete or not properly reviewable at the time of submission. FDA performance goals provide for action on an applicationwithin 12 months of submission. The FDA, however, may not approve a drug within these established goals and its review goals are subject to change from time to time because the review process is often significantly extended by FDA requests for additional information or clarification. As part of its review, the FDA may refer the BLA to an advisory committee composed of outside experts for evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. Although the FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee, the agency usually has followed such recommendations.

Further, the outcome of the review, even if generally favorable, may not be an actual approval but instead a “complete response letter” communicating the FDA's decision not to approve the application, outlining the deficiencies in the BLA, and identifying what information and/or data (including additional pre-clinical or clinical data) is required before the application can be approved. Even if such additional information and data are submitted, the FDA may decide that the BLA still does not meet the standards for approval. Data from clinical trials are not always conclusive and the FDA may interpret data differently than we do.

FDA has released guidance documents interpreting the BPCI in each of the last four years. These guidance documents, among other things, elaborate on the definition of a biosimilar as a biological product that is highly similar to an already approved biological product, notwithstanding minor differences in clinically inactive components, and for which there are no clinically meaningful differences between the biosimilar and the approved biological product in terms of the safety, purity, and potency. More recently, FDA has released guidance on the assignment of nonproprietary, clearly distinguishable product names for both biologic and biosimilar products.

The FDA approved the first biosimilar product under the BPCI in 2015, and the agency continues to refine the procedures and standards it will apply in implementing this approval pathway. We anticipate that contours of the BPCI will continue to be defined as the statute is implemented over a period of years. This likely will be accomplished by a variety of means, including










FDA issuance of guidance documents, proposed regulations, and decisions in the course of considering specific applications. The approval of a biologic product biosimilar to one of our products could have a material impact on our business because it may be significantly less costly to bring to market and may be priced significantly lower than our products.

Both before and after the FDA approves a product, the manufacturer and the holder or holders of the BLA, and in the case of Kanuma, the NADA, for the product are subject to comprehensive regulatory oversight. If ongoing regulatory requirements are not satisfied or if safety problems occur after the product reaches the market, the FDA may at any time withdraw its  approval or take actions that would suspend marketing. For example, quality control and manufacturing procedures must conform, on an ongoing basis, to cGMP requirements, and the FDA periodically subjects manufacturing facilities to unannounced inspections to assess compliance with cGMP. Failure to comply with applicable cGMP requirements and other conditions of product approval may lead the FDA to take regulatory action, including fines, recalls, civil penalties, injunctions, suspension of manufacturing operations, operating restrictions, withdrawal of FDA approval, seizure or recall of products, and criminal prosecution. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to spend time, money, and effort to maintain cGMP compliance.

Orphan Drug Designation in the United States, the European Union and Other Foreign Jurisdictions

Medicinal products: (a) that are used to treat or prevent life-threatening or chronically debilitating conditions that affect no more than five in 10,000 people in the European Union; or (b) that are used to treat or prevent life-threatening or chronically debilitating conditions and that, for economic reasons, would be unlikely to be developed without incentives; and (c) where no satisfactory method of diagnosis, prevention or treatment of the condition concerned exists, or, if such a method exists, the medicinal product would be of significant benefit to those affected by the condition, may be granted an orphan designation in the European Union.  The application for orphan designation must be submitted to the EMA and approved before an application is made for marketing authorization for the product.  Once authorized, orphan medicinal products are entitled to ten years of market exclusivity.  During this ten year period, with a limited number of exceptions, neither the competent authorities of the










European Union member states, the EMA, or the European Commission are permitted to accept applications or grant marketing authorization for other similar medicinal products with the same therapeutic indication.  However, marketing authorization may be granted to a similar medicinal product with the same orphan indication during the ten year period with the consent of the marketing authorization holder for the original orphan medicinal product or if the manufacturer of the original orphan medicinal product is unable to supply sufficient quantities.  Marketing authorization may also be granted to a similar medicinal product with the same orphan indication if this latter product is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior to the original orphan medicinal product.  The period of market exclusivity may, in addition, be reduced to six years if it can be demonstrated on the basis of available evidence that the original orphan medicinal product is sufficiently profitable not to justify maintenance of market exclusivity.

Soliris has received orphan drug designation for (a) the treatment of PNH and aHUS in the United States, the European Union, and in several other territories; (b) the prevention of delayed graft function in renal transplant patients in the United States; (c) the treatment of patients with myasthenia gravis in the United States, Japan, and the European Union; and (d) the prevention of graft rejection and delayed graft rejection following solid organ transplantation in the European Union. In 2008, Strensiq received orphan drug designation for the treatment of patients with HPP in the United States and the European Union, and in Japan in November 2014. Furthermore, in 2010, Kanuma received orphan drug designation for the treatment of LAL-D in the United States and the European Union. Orphan drug designation provides certain regulatory and filing fee advantages, including market exclusivity, except in limited circumstances, for several years after approval.

Breakthrough Designation in the United States

Foreign Regulation of Drug Development and Approval

In addition to regulations in the United States, we are subject to a variety of foreign regulatory requirements including governing human clinical trials, marketing approval, and post-marketing regulation for drugs. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with FDA approval set forth above, as well as additional country-specific regulations. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we must obtain approval of a product by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. Approval by one regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. The approval process varies from country to country, can involve additional testing beyond that required by FDA, and may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing, and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country.

Under the European Union regulatory system, we may submit applications for marketing authorizations either under a centralized, decentralized, or mutual recognition marketing authorization procedure. The centralized procedure provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization for a medicinal product by the European Commission on the basis of a positive opinion by the EMA. A centralized marketing authorization is valid for all European Union member states and three of the four EFTA States (Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway). The decentralized procedure and the mutual recognition procedure apply between European Union member states. The decentralized marketing authorization procedure involves the submission of an application for marketing authorization to the competent authority of all European Union member states in which the product is to be marketed. One national competent authority, selected by the applicant, assesses the application for marketing authorization. The competent authorities of the other European Union member states are subsequently required to grant marketing authorization for their territory on the basis of this assessment, except where grounds of potential serious risk to










public health require this authorization to be refused. The mutual recognition procedure provides for mutual recognition of marketing authorizations delivered by the national competent authorities of European Union member states by the competent authorities of other European Union member states. The holder of a national marketing authorization may submit an application to the competent authority of a European Union member state requesting that this authority recognize the marketing authorization delivered by the competent authority of another European Union member state for the same medicinal product.

Similarly to the U.S., both marketing authorization holders and manufacturers of medicinal products are subject to comprehensive regulatory oversight by the EMA and the competent authorities of the individual European Union member states both before and after grant of the manufacturing and marketing authorizations. This includes control of compliance by the entities with European Union cGMP rules, which govern quality control of the manufacturing process and require documentation policies and procedures. We and our third party manufacturers are required to ensure that all of our processes, methods, and equipment are compliant with cGMP.

Failure by us or by any of our third party partners, including suppliers, manufacturers, and distributors to comply with European Union laws and the related national laws of individual European Union member states governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing approval, marketing authorization of medicinal products, both before and after grant of marketing authorization, and marketing of such products following grant of authorization may result in administrative, civil, or criminal penalties. These penalties could include delays in or refusal to authorize the conduct of clinical trials or to grant marketing authorization, product withdrawals and recalls, product seizures, suspension, or variation of the marketing authorization, total or partial suspension of production, distribution, manufacturing, or clinical trials, operating restrictions, injunctions, suspension of licenses, fines, and criminal penalties.

The European Union has had an established regulatory pathway for biosimilars since 2005 and has approved several biosimilar products. The approval of a biosimilar of one of our products marketed in the European Union could have a material impact on our business. The biosimilar may be less costly to bring to market, may be priced significantly lower than our products, and result in a reduction in the pricing and reimbursement of our products.



Pharmaceutical Pricing and Reimbursement

Sales of pharmaceutical products depend in significant part on the extent of coverage and reimbursement from government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid in the United States, and other third party payers. Third party payers are sensitive to the cost of drugs and are increasingly seeking to implement cost containment measures to control, restrict access to, or influence the purchase of drugs, biologicals, and other health care products and services. Governments may regulate reimbursement, pricing, and coverage of products in order to control costs or to affect levels of use of certain products. Private health insurance plans may restrict coverage of some products, such as by using payer formularies under which only selected drugs are covered, variable co-payments that make drugs that are not preferred by the payer more expensive for patients, and by employing utilization management controls, such as requirements for prior authorization or prior failure on another type of treatment. Payers may especially impose these obstacles to coverage for higher-priced drugs such as those we sell. Consequently, all our products may be subject to payer-driven restrictions, rendering patients responsible for a higher percentage of the total cost of drugs in the outpatient setting. This can lower the demand for our products if the increased patient cost-sharing obligations are more than they can afford.

Medicare is a U.S. federal government insurance program that covers individuals aged 65 years or older, as well as individuals of any age with certain disabilities, and individuals with End-Stage Renal Disease. The primary Medicare programs that may affect reimbursement for Soliris are Medicare Part B, which covers physician services and outpatient care, and Medicare Part D, which provides a voluntary outpatient prescription drug benefit.  Medicare Part B provides limited coverage of certain outpatient drugs and biologicals that are reasonable and necessary for diagnosis or treatment of an illness or injury. Under Part B, reimbursement for most drugs is based on a fixed percentage above the applicable product’s average sales price (ASP). Manufacturers calculate ASP based on a statutory formula and must report ASP information to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), the federal agency that administers Medicare and the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, on a quarterly basis. The current reimbursement rate for drugs and biologicals in both the hospital outpatient department setting and the physician office setting is ASP + 6%.The rate for the physician clinic setting is set by statute, but CMS has the authority to adjust the rate for the hospital outpatient setting on an annual basis. This reimbursement rate may decrease in the future. In both settings, the amount of reimbursement is updated quarterly based on the manufacturer’s submission of new ASP information.

Medicare Part D is a prescription drug benefit available to all Medicare beneficiaries.  It is a voluntary benefit that is implemented through private plans under contractual arrangements with the federal government.  Similar to pharmaceutical coverage through private health insurance, Part D plans negotiate discounts from drug manufacturers.  Medicare Part D coverage is available through private plans, and the list of prescription drugs covered by Part D plans varies by plan. However,










individual plans are required by statute to cover certain therapeutic categories and classes of drugs or biologicals and to have at least two drugs in each unique therapeutic category or class, with certain exceptions.

Medicare Part A covers inpatient hospital benefits. Hospitals typically receive a single payment for an inpatient stay depending on the Medicare Severity Diagnosis Related Group (MS-DRG) to which the inpatient stay is assigned. The MS-DRG for a hospital inpatient stay varies based on the patient’s condition. Hospitals generally do not receive separate payment for drugs and biologicals administered to patients during an inpatient hospital stay. As a result, hospitals may not have a financial incentive to utilize our products for inpatients.

Beginning April 1, 2013, the Budget Control Act of 2011, Pub. L. No. 112-25, as amended by the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, Pub. L. 112-240, required Medicare payments for all items and services, including drugs and biologicals, to be reduced by 2% under sequestration (i.e., automatic spending reductions).  Subsequent legislation extended the 2% reduction, on average, to 2025. This 2% reduction in Medicare payments affects all Parts of the Medicare program and could impact sales of our products.

In order to be eligible to have our products paid for with federal funds under the Medicaid and Medicare Part B programs and purchased by certain federal agencies, we participate in the Department of Veterans Affairs Federal Supply Schedule, or FSS, pricing program, established by Section 603 of the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992. Under this program, we are obligated to make our product available for procurement on an FSS contract and charge a price to four federal agencies, Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense, Public Health Service and Coast Guard that is no higher than the statutory Federal Ceiling Price, or FCP. The FCP is based on the non-federal average manufacturer price, or Non-FAMP, which we calculate and report to the Department of Veterans Affairs on a quarterly and annual basis. We also participate in the Tricare Retail Pharmacy program, established by Section 703 of the National Defense Authorization Act for FY 2008 and related regulations, under which we pay quarterly rebates on utilization of innovator products that are dispensed through the Tricare Retail Pharmacy network to Tricare beneficiaries. The rebates are calculated as the difference between Annual Non-FAMP and FCP.

Payers also are increasingly considering new metrics as the basis for reimbursement rates, such as ASP, average manufacturer price, and actual acquisition cost. The existing data for reimbursement based on these metrics is relatively limited, although certain states have begun to survey acquisition cost data for the purpose of setting Medicaid reimbursement rates. CMS surveys and publishes retail community pharmacy acquisition cost information in the form of National Average Drug










Acquisition Cost, or NADAC, files to provide state Medicaid agencies with a basis of comparison for their own reimbursement and pricing methodologies and rates.  It may be difficult to project the impact of these evolving reimbursement mechanics on the willingness of payers to cover our products.

Federal law requires that for a company to be eligible to have its products paid for with federal funds under the Medicaid program as well as to be purchased by certain federal agencies and grantees, it also must participate in the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Federal Supply Schedule (FSS) pricing program. To participate, we are required to enter into an FSS contract with the VA, under which we must make our innovator "covered drugs" available to the "Big Four" federal agencies - the VA, the Department of Defense (DoD) the Public Health Service, and the Coast Guard - at pricing that is capped pursuant to a statutory federal ceiling price, or FCP, formula set forth in Section 603 of the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 (VHCA). The FCP is based on a weighted average non-federal average manufacturer price (Non-FAMP) which manufacturers are required to report on a quarterly and annual basis to the VA. If a company misstates Non-FAMPs or FCPs it must restate these figures. Pursuant to the VHCA, knowing provision of false information in connection with a Non-FAMP filing can subject a manufacturer to penalties of $100 for each item of false information.

FSS contracts are federal procurement contracts that include standard government terms and conditions, separate pricing for each product, and extensive disclosure and certification requirements. All items on FSS contracts are subject to a standard FSS contract clause that requires FSS contract price reductions under certain circumstances where pricing is reduced to an agreed "tracking customer." Further, in addition to the "Big Four" agencies, all other federal agencies and some non-federal entities are authorized to access FSS contracts. FSS contractors are permitted to charge FSS purchasers other than the Big Four agencies "negotiated pricing" for covered drugs that is not capped by the FCP; instead, such pricing is negotiated based on a mandatory disclosure of the contractor’s commercial "most favored customer" pricing. We offer dual pricing on our FSS contract.

In addition, pursuant to regulations issued by the DoD TRICARE Management Activity, now the Defense Health Agency, to implement Section 703 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, each of our covered drugs is listed on a Section 703 Agreement under which we have agreed to pay rebates on covered drug prescriptions dispensed to TRICARE beneficiaries by TRICARE network retail pharmacies. Companies are required to list their innovator products on Section 703 Agreements in order for those products to be eligible for DoD formulary inclusion. The formula for determining the rebate is established in the regulations and our Section 703 Agreement and is based on the difference between the annual Non-FAMP and the FCP (as described above, these price points are required to be calculated by us under the VHCA).

Health Technology Assessment (HTA) of medicinal products is becoming an increasingly common part of the pricing and reimbursement procedures in some European Union member states. These countries include the United Kingdom, France, Germany and Sweden. The HTA process in the European Union member states is governed by the national laws of these countries. HTA is the procedure according to which the assessment of the public health impact, therapeutic impact and the economic and societal impact of the use of a given medicinal product in the national healthcare systems of the individual country is conducted. HTA generally focuses on the clinical efficacy and effectiveness, safety, cost, and cost-effectiveness of individual medicinal products as well as their potential implications for the national healthcare system. Those elements of medicinal products are compared with other treatment options available on the market.










The outcome of HTA may influence the pricing and reimbursement status for specific medicinal products within individual European Union member states. The extent to which pricing and reimbursement decisions are influenced by the HTA of a specific medicinal product vary between the European Union member states.

In 2011, Directive 2011/24/EU was adopted at the European Union level. This Directive concerns the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare. The Directive is intended to establish rules for facilitating access to safe and high-quality cross-border healthcare in the European Union. It also provides for the establishment of a voluntary network of national authorities or bodies responsible for HTA in the individual European Union member states. The purpose of the network is to facilitate and support the exchange of scientific information concerning HTAs. This could lead to harmonization of the criteria taken into account in the conduct of HTA between European Union member states in pricing and reimbursement decisions and negatively impact price in at least some European Union member states.

On a continuous basis, we engage with appropriate authorities in individual countries on the operational, reimbursement, price approval and funding processes that are separately required in each country.



Fraud and Abuse

Pharmaceutical companies participating in federal healthcare programs like Medicare or Medicaid are subject to various U.S. federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare “fraud and abuse,” including anti-kickback and false claims laws. Violations of U.S. federal and state fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal, civil and administrative sanctions, including fines, damages, civil monetary penalties and exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). Applicable U.S. statutes, include, but are not limited to, the following:





•



•The federal civil False Claims Act (FCA) prohibits, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented claims for payment of government funds that are false or fraudulent, or knowingly making, using or causing to be made or used a false record or statement material to such a false or fraudulent claim, or knowingly concealing or knowingly and improperly avoiding, decreasing, or concealing an obligation to pay money to the federal government. This statute also permits a private individual acting as a “whistleblower” to bring actions on behalf of the federal government alleging violations of the FCA and to share in any monetary recovery. Government enforcement agencies and private whistleblowers have investigated pharmaceutical companies for or asserted liability under the FCA for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; providing consulting fees and other benefits to physicians to induce them to prescribe products; engaging in promotion for “off-label” uses; and submitting inflated best price information to the Medicaid Rebate Program.



•The federal False Statements Statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing, or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement or representation, or making or using any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement or entry, in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items, or services.



•The federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law authorizes the imposition of substantial civil monetary penalties against an entity, such as a pharmaceutical manufacturer, that engages in activities including, among others (1) knowingly










presenting, or causing to be presented, a claim for services not provided as claimed or that is otherwise false or fraudulent in any way; (2) arranging for or contracting with an individual or entity that is excluded from participation in federal health care programs to provide items or services reimbursable by a federal health care program; (3) violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute; or (4) failing to report and return a known overpayment.



•The majority of states also have statutes similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws that apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer.



•The federal Open Payments program requires manufacturers of products for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the State Children’s Health Insurance Program, to track and report annually to the federal government (for disclosure to the public) certain payments and other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals.  In addition, several U.S. states and localities have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state, and/or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities.  Other state laws prohibit certain marketing-related activities including the provision of gifts, meals or other items to certain health care providers.  Many of these laws and regulations contain ambiguous requirements that government officials have not yet clarified. Given the lack of clarity in the laws and their implementation, our reporting actions could be subject to the penalty provisions of the pertinent federal and state laws and regulations.

Sanctions under federal and state fraud and abuse laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer's products from reimbursement under government programs, monetary damages, criminal fines, and imprisonment.

Federal and state authorities are continuing to devote significant attention and resources to enforcement of fraud and abuse laws within the pharmaceutical industry, and private individuals have been active in alleging violations of the law and bringing suits on behalf of the government under the FCA.  For example, federal enforcement agencies recently have investigated certain pharmaceutical companies’ product and patient assistance programs, including manufacturer reimbursement support services and relationships with specialty pharmacies.  Some of these investigations have resulted in significant civil and criminal settlements.  Moreover, the Office of Inspector General for the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has refined its guidance with respect to manufacturer grants to independent charitable foundations that provide financial support to financially needy patients, and has issued new or revised advisory opinions containing updated guidance on the government’s view of such programs.  Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements continue to comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations could be costly.



U.S. Healthcare Reform and Other U.S. Healthcare Laws

PPACA was adopted in the United States in March 2010. This law substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers in the U.S., and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry. PPACA contains a number of provisions that are expected to impact our business and operations. Changes that may affect our business include those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes, rules regarding prescription drug benefits under the health insurance exchanges, expansion of the 340B program, expansion of state Medicaid programs, and fraud and abuse and enforcement. These changes will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs, including Medicare payment for performance initiatives and improvements to the physician quality reporting system and feedback program.

PPACA contains several provisions that have or could potentially impact our business. PPACA made significant changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. Effective March 23, 2010, rebate liability expanded from fee-for-service Medicaid utilization to include the utilization of Medicaid managed care organizations as well. With regard to the amount of the rebates owed, PPACA increased the minimum Medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1% of the average manufacturer price for most innovator products; changed the calculation of the rebate for certain innovator products that qualify as line extensions of existing drugs; and capped the total rebate amount for innovator drugs at 100% of the average manufacturer price. In addition, PPACA and subsequent legislation changed the definition of average manufacturer price. On January 21, 2016, CMS issued final regulations to implement the changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program under PPACA.  These regulations become effective on April 1, 2016.  We are evaluating the impact of these regulations on our business and operations.  . Finally, PPACA requires pharmaceutical manufacturers of branded prescription drugs to pay a branded prescription drug fee to the federal government. Each individual pharmaceutical manufacturer pays a prorated share of the branded prescription drug fee of $3.0 billion in 2016 (and set to increase in ensuing years), based on the dollar value of its branded prescription drug sales to certain










federal programs identified in the law. Sales of “orphan drugs” are excluded from this fee.  “Orphan drugs” are specifically defined for purposes of the fee.  For each indication approved by the FDA for the drug, such indication must have been designated as orphan by the FDA under section 526 of the FDCA, an orphan drug tax credit under section 45C of the Internal Revenue Code must have been claimed with respect to such indication, and such tax credit must not have been disallowed by the Internal Revenue Service. Finally, the FDA must not have approved the drug for any indication other than an orphan indication for which a section 45C orphan drug tax credit was claimed (and not disallowed).

Additional provisions of PPACA may negatively affect manufacturer's revenues in the future. For example, as part of PPACA’s provisions closing a coverage gap that currently exists in the Medicare Part Dprescription drug program (commonly known as the “donut hole”), manufacturers of branded prescription drugs are required to provide a 50% discount on branded prescription drugs dispensed to beneficiaries within this donut hole.

PPACA also expanded the Public Health Service’s 340B drug pricing discount program. The 340B pricing program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily-defined covered entities no more than the 340B “ceiling price” for the manufacturer’s covered outpatient drugs. PPACA expanded the 340B program to include additional types of covered entities: certain free-standing cancer hospitals, critical access hospitals, rural referral centers and sole community hospitals, each as defined by PPACA. PPACA exempts “orphan drugs”-those designated under section 526 of the FDCA, such as our products-from the ceiling price requirements for these newly-eligible entities.

Finally, numerous federal and state laws, including state security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws, and federal and state consumer protection laws govern the collection, use, and disclosure of personal information. In addition, most healthcare providers who prescribe and dispense our products and research institutions with whom we collaborate for our sponsored clinical trials are subject to privacy and security requirements under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (“HITECH”), and its implementing regulations. Although we are neither a “covered entity” nor a “business associate” under HIPAA, and these privacy and security requirements do not apply to us, the regulations may affect our interactions with health care providers, health plans, and research institutions from whom we obtain patient health information. Further, we could be subject to criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain individually identifiable health information from a HIPAA covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by HIPAA or for aiding and abetting the violation of HIPAA.

Other Regulations

We are also subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act (U.K. Bribery Act), and other anti-corruption laws and regulations pertaining to our financial relationships with foreign government officials. The FCPA prohibits U.S. companies and their representatives from paying, offering to pay, promising, or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party, or political candidate to obtain or retain business or to otherwise seek favorable treatment. In many countries in which we operate or sell our products, the health care professionals with whom we interact may be deemed to be foreign government officials for purposes of the FCPA. The U.K. Bribery Act, which applies to any company incorporated or doing business in the UK, prohibits giving, offering, or promising bribes in the public and private sectors, bribing a foreign public official or private person, and failing to have adequate procedures to prevent bribery amongst employees and other agents. Penalties under the Bribery Act include potentially unlimited fines for companies and criminal sanctions for corporate officers under certain circumstances. Liability in relation to breaches of the Bribery Act is strict. This means that it is not necessary to demonstrate elements of a corrupt state of mind. However, a defense of having in place adequate procedures designed to prevent bribery is available.

Recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity by U.S. regulators, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the DOJ and the SEC, increased enforcement activity by non-U.S. regulators, and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. Increasing regulatory scrutiny of the promotional activities of pharmaceutical companies also has been observed in a number of EU member states.

Similar strict restrictions are imposed on the promotion and marketing of drug products in the EU, where a large portion of our non-U.S. business is conducted, and other territories. Laws in the EU, including in the individual EU member states, require promotional materials and advertising for drug products to comply with the product's Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC), which is approved by the competent authorities. Promotion of a medicinal product which does not comply with the SmPC is considered to constitute off-label promotion. The off-label promotion of medicinal products is prohibited in the EU and in other territories. The promotion of medicinal products that are not subject to a marketing authorization is also prohibited in the EU. Laws in the EU, including in the individual EU member states, also prohibit the










direct-to-consumer advertising of prescription-only medicinal products. Violations of the rules governing the promotion of medicinal products in the EU and in other territories could be penalized by administrative measures, fines and imprisonment.

Interactions between pharmaceutical companies and physicians are also governed by strict laws, regulations, industry self-regulation codes of conduct and physicians' codes of professional conduct in the individual European Union member states. The provision of any inducements to physicians to prescribe, recommend, endorse, order, purchase, supply, use or administer a medicinal product is prohibited. A number of European Union member states have introduced additional rules requiring pharmaceutical companies to publicly disclose their interactions with physicians and to obtain approval from employers, professional organizations and/or competent authorities before entering into agreements with physicians. These rules have been supplemented by provisions of related industry codes, including the EFPIA Disclosure Code on Disclosure of Transfers of Value from Pharmaceutical Companies to Healthcare Professionals and Healthcare Organisations and related codes developed at national level in individual European Union member states. Additional countries may consider or implement similar laws and regulations. Violations of these rules could lead to reputational risk, public reprimands, and/or the imposition of fines or imprisonment.

Our present and future business has been and will continue to be subject to various other laws and regulations. Laws, regulations and recommendations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory practices, the experimental use of animals, and the purchase, storage, movement, import and export and use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, including radioactive compounds, used in connection with our research work are or may be applicable to our activities. We cannot predict the impact of government regulation, which may result from future legislation or administrative action, on our business.

Competition

Soliris is currently the only approved therapy for the treatment of PNH and aHUS.  We are in advanced clinical studies of Soliris for the treatment of other indications, and there are currently no competitors for the patient segments we target.  Strensiq is currently the only product approved for the treatment of HPP and Kanuma is the only product approved for the treatment of LAL-D. Many pharmaceutical and biotech companies have publicly announced intention to establish or develop rare disease programs that may be competitive with ours.  We also experience competition in drug development from universities and other research institutions, and pharmaceutical companies compete with us to attract universities and academic research institutions as drug development partners, including for licensing their proprietary technology. Some of these entities may have:

•greater financial and other resources;

•larger research and development staffs;

•lower labor costs; and/or

•more extensive marketing and manufacturing organizations.

Many of these companies and organizations have significant experience in preclinical testing, human clinical trials, product manufacturing, marketing, sales and distribution and other regulatory approval and commercial procedures. They may also have a greater number of significant patents and greater legal resources to seek remedies for cases of alleged infringement of their patents by us to block, delay or compromise our own drug development process.

We compete with large pharmaceutical companies that produce and market synthetic compounds and with specialized biotechnology firms in the United States, Europe and in other countries and regions, as well as a growing number of large pharmaceutical companies that are developing biotechnology products. A number of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies are developing new products for the treatment of the same diseases being targeted by us.  Other companies have initiated clinical studies for the treatment of PNH, aHUS, AMR, DGF, MG and NMOSD, and we are aware of companies that are planning to initiate studies for diseases we are also targeting. In the future, our products may also compete with biosimilars.

Several biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies have programs to develop complement inhibitor therapies or have publicly announced their intentions to develop drugs which target the inflammatory effects of complement in the immune system or have had programs to develop complement inhibitor therapies. Soliris is the only therapy that has demonstrated to be safe and effective in two clinical indications by regulators in many jurisdictions around the world.

Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2015, we had2,924full-time, world-wide employees, of which1,200were engaged in research, product development, manufacturing, and clinical development,1,131in sales and marketing, and593in administration, human










resources, information technology and finance. Our U.S. employees are not represented by any collective bargaining unit, and we regard the relationships with all our employees as satisfactory.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The executive officers of the Company and their respective ages and positions as ofFebruary 3, 2016are as follows:



NameAgePosition with AlexionDavid L. Hallal49Chief Executive OfficerClare Carmichael56Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources OfficerSaqib Islam46Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy and Portfolio OfficerMartin Mackay59Executive Vice President and Global Head of Research and DevelopmentJohn B. Moriarty, J.D.48Executive Vice President and General CounselJulie O'Neill49Executive Vice President of Global OperationsVikas Sinha, M.B.A., C.A., C.P.A.52Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerCarsten Thiel, Ph.D.52Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial OfficerEdward Miller51Senior Vice President and Global Chief Compliance OfficerHeidi L. Wagner, J.D.51Senior Vice President, Global Governmental Affairs



David L. Hallalhas been with Alexion since June 2006 and has served as Chief Executive Officer (CEO) since April 2015. Mr. Hallal has also been a member of the Board of Directors since September 2014.  Since joining Alexion, Mr. Hallal served as Chief Operating Office from September 2014 to April 2015 and in senior commercial positions, including Senior Vice President, US Commercial Operations from June 2006 until November 2008, Senior Vice President, Commercial Operations Americas from November 2008 to May 2010, Senior Vice President, Global Commercial Operations from May 2010 until October 2012 and then Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer from October 2012 to September 2014. Prior to joining Alexion, Mr. Hallal served as Vice President, Sales at OSI Eyetech from April 2004 until June 2006, where he led the U.S. launch of a first-in-class anti-VEGF therapy for age-related macular degeneration. Prior to OSI Eyetech, from 1992 until 2004, Mr. Hallal held various sales and marketing leadership positions at Amgen and Biogen Idec, where he was involved in multiple product launches in the areas of hematology, oncology, nephrology and immunology. Mr. Hallal received a B.A. in Psychology from the University of New Hampshire.

Clare Carmichaelhas been with Alexion since August 2011 and has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since September 2014.  From August 2011 to September 2014, Ms. Carmichael served as Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer. From August 2008 to March 2011, Ms. Carmichael served as Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources at Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc., where she established and executed global HR strategies. From December 2005 to August 2008, Ms. Carmichael held various human resources positions of increasing responsibility at Schering-Plough Corporation, including Vice President of Global Human Resources at the Schering-Plough Research Institute. From December 2003 to December 2005, Ms. Carmichael was Vice President of Human Resources at Eyetech Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Prior to Eyetech, she held various positions of increasing responsibility in human resources at Pharmacia Corporation. Ms. Carmichael received a B.A. in Psychology from Rider University.

Saqib Islamhas been at Alexion since April 2013 and has served as Executive Vice President, Chief Strategy and Portfolio Officer since February 2015. From April 2013 to February 2015 Mr. Islam served as Senior Vice President, Chief Strategy and Portfolio Officer. Prior to joining Alexion, Mr. Islam worked for 18 years in international business management with a focus on business development, strategic decision-making and planning, and capital markets, and most recently as Managing Director, Head of Healthcare and Diversified Industrials Capital Markets at Credit Suisse Securities from November 2009 until April 2013.  Prior to Credit Suisse, Mr. Islam held various positions of increasing responsibility in the investment banking divisions of Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley and provided strategic analysis and advice to client firms across diverse industry segments for The Boston Consulting Group.  Mr. Islam received a Bachelor of Commerce from McGill University, where he was a Faculty and University Scholar, and a J.D. from Columbia Law School, where he was a Harlan Fiske Stone Scholar.

Martin Mackayhas been Executive Vice President, Global Head of Research & Development since joining Alexion in May 2013. Prior to joining Alexion, Dr. Mackay served as President, Research and Development at AstraZeneca from June 2010 to February 2012, where he led all R&D functions worldwide, including discovery research, clinical development, regulatory affairs










and key related R&D functions. From April 1995 to May 2010, he held various positions of increasing responsibility at Pfizer, including President, Head of Pfizer Pharmatherapeutics, R&D, where he oversaw all aspects of small molecule discovery and development across multiple therapeutic areas. Dr. Mackay has also worked in the CIBA organization, now Novartis, and held positions within academia.  Dr. Mackay received a Microbiology First Class Honors Degree from Heriot-Watt University, Scotland, and a Ph.D. in Molecular Genetics from the University of Edinburgh, Scotland.

John B. Moriarty, J.D.has been with Alexion since December 2012 and has served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel since September 2014.  From December 2012 to September 2014, Mr. Moriarty served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel.  From December 2010 to December 2012, Mr. Moriarty served as General Counsel and Chief Legal Officer at Elan Corporation plc, an Irish public limited company traded on the New York and Irish Stock Exchanges, and also served as a member of Elan's Executive Management team.  Prior to assuming the role of General Counsel, Mr. Moriarty served as Senior Vice President of Law, Litigation and Commercial Operations at Elan from December 2008 to December 2010.  From 2002 to 2008, Mr. Moriarty held various positions with Amgen, Inc., including Executive Director and Associate General Counsel, Global Commercial Operations - Amgen Oncology and Senior Counsel, Complex Litigation, Products Liability and Government Investigations. Between 1994 and 2002, Mr. Moriarty served in various capacities in private practice focused on healthcare and as a healthcare fraud prosecutor in the U.S. Attorney's Office and the Virginia Attorney General's Office.  Mr. Moriarty received his J.D., cum laude, from the University of Georgia School of Law and his B.A., with distinction, from the University of Virginia

Julie O'Neillhas been with Alexion since February 2014 and has served as Executive Vice President of Global Operations since January 2015.  From January 2014 to January 2015, Ms. O'Neill was Senior Vice President Global Manufacturing Operations and General Manager of Alexion Pharma International Trading.  Prior to joining Alexion, Ms. O'Neill served in various leadership positions at Gilead Sciences from February 1997 to February 2014 including Vice President of Operations and General Manager of Ireland from 2011 to 2014.  Prior to Gilead Sciences, Ms. O'Neill held leadership positions at Burnil Pharmacies and Helsinn Birex Pharmaceuticals.  She is the Chairperson for the National Standards Authority of Ireland and is a member of the Boards of the National Institute for Bioprocessing Research & Training and the American Chamber of Commerce, Ireland.  Ms. O'Neill received a Bachelor's of Science in Pharmacy from University of Dublin, Trinity College and a Masters of Business Administration from University College Dublin (Smurfit School of Business).

Vikas Sinha, M.B.A., C.A., C.P.A.has been with Alexion since September 2005 and has served as Alexion's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since October 2012.  From September 2005 to October 2012, Mr. Sinha was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.  Prior to joining Alexion, Mr. Sinha held various positions with Bayer AG in the United States, Japan, Germany, and Canada, including Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Bayer Pharmaceuticals Corporation, USA, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Bayer Yakuhin Ltd., in Japan, and Manager, Mergers and Acquisitions with Bayer AG in Germany.  He also was a member of the Pharmaceutical Management Committee for North America.   Prior to Bayer, Mr. Sinha held several positions of increasing responsibilities with ANZ Bank and Citibank in South Asia. Mr. Sinha holds a Masters of Business Administration from the Asian Institute of Management which included an exchange program with the University of Western Ontario (Richard Ivey School of Business). He is also a qualified Chartered Accountant from the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and a Certified Public Accountant in the United States.

Carsten Thiel, Ph.D.has been with Alexion since September 2014 and has served as Chief Commercial Officer since September 2015.  From January 2015 to September 2015, Mr. Thiel served as Executive Vice President EMEA and Asia Pacific  and from September 2014 to January 2015, Mr. Thiel was Senior Vice President EMEA and Australasia-Canada.  Prior to joining Alexion, Mr. Thiel served in various senior leadership positions at Amgen from 2002 to 2014, including Vice President, Head of Europe, General Manager, Germany, General Manager, CEE and Head of the Oncology Franchise in Europe.  Prior to Amgen, Mr. Thiel held several sales and marketing leadership roles across Europe at Roche.  Mr. Thiel has a Ph.D. in Molecular Biology and Biochemistry from the Max Planck Institute, Germany, and a Master’s Degree in Biochemistry from the University of Marburg, Germany.

Edward Millerhas been Senior Vice President and Global Chief Compliance Officer since joining Alexion in September 2014.  Prior to joining Alexion, Mr. Miller served in various compliance and legal leadership positions at Boehringer Ingelheim from 2000 to August 2014, including Vice President, Associate General Counsel, Global Head of Litigation and Government Investigations; Vice President and Acting Global Compliance Officer and Vice President, Chief Compliance Officer and Head of Litigation.  Prior to Boehringer Ingelheim, Mr. Miller was a Senior Trial Attorney at the U. S. Department of Justice in Washington, D.C.  Mr. Miller received a Bachelor's Degree from Princeton University and  his J.D. from Rutgers University School of Law.

Heidi L. Wagner, J.D.,has been with Alexion since September 2009 and has served as Senior Vice President, Global Governmental Affairs since September 2012. From September 2009 to September 2012, Ms. Wagner served as Vice President, Global Government Affairs.  Prior to joining Alexion,  Ms. Wagner was the Sr. Director of Governmental Affairs for Genentech,










and also consulted for a variety of health plans, biopharmaceutical and other health care-related companies.  Ms. Wagner received a Bachelor of Science degree in Journalism and Mass Communication from the University of Colorado in Boulder, and a law degree from the George Mason University School of Law in Virginia.

Available Information

Our internet website address is http://www.alexion.com. Through our website, we make available, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, any amendments to those reports, proxy and registration statements, and all of our insider Section 16 reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These SEC reports can be accessed through the “Investors” section of our website. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. Paper copies of our SEC reports are available free of charge upon request in writing to Investor Relations, Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 100 College Street, New Haven, Connecticut 06510.  In addition, any document we file may be inspected, without charge, at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549, or at the SEC’s internet address at http://www.sec.gov. (This website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information contained in the SEC’s website is not intended to be a part of this filing).  Information related to the operation of the SEC’s public reference room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 800-SEC-0330 (800-732-0330).
















