Item 1.BUSINESS.

Overview

Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is a
biopharmaceutical company engaged in the discovery, development and commercialization of innovative therapeutic products aimed at treating patients with severe and life-threatening disease states, including those in the therapeutic areas of
hematology, nephrology including transplant rejection, neurology, ophthalmology and cancer. Our marketed product
Soliris®(eculizumab) is the first and only therapy approved for the treatment of patients with paroxysmal
nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH), an ultra-rare and life-threatening blood disorder. We were incorporated in 1992 and began commercial sale of Soliris in 2007.







Soliris is designed to inhibit a specific aspect of the complement component of the immune
system and thereby treat inflammation associated with chronic disorders in the therapeutic areas of hematology, nephrology including transplant rejection, neurology and ophthalmology. Soliris is a humanized monoclonal antibody that generally blocks
complement activity for one to two weeks after a single dose at the doses currently prescribed. The initial indication for which we received approval for Soliris is PNH. PNH is an ultra-rare, debilitating and life-threatening, acquired genetic
deficiency blood disorder defined by uncontrolled complement activation leading to the destruction of red blood cells, or hemolysis. The chronic hemolysis in patients with PNH may be associated with life-threatening thromboses, recurrent pain,
kidney disease, disabling fatigue, impaired quality of life, severe anemia, pulmonary hypertension, shortness of breath and intermittent episodes of dark-colored urine (hemoglobinuria).

Soliris was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the European Commission (E.C.) in 2007, by Japan’s Ministry
of Health, Labour and Welfare (MHLW) in 2010, and has been approved in several other territories. Additionally, Soliris was granted orphan drug designation for the treatment of PNH in the United States, Europe, Japan and several other territories.

In 2009, the FDA and E.C. granted Soliris orphan drug designation for the treatment of patients with atypical Hemolytic
Uremic Syndrome (aHUS), an ultra-rare, inherited and life-threatening complement-inhibitor deficiency disease that often progresses to end-stage kidney disease, kidney failure or death.

Recent Developments

On January 28, 2011, Alexion acquired
Taligen Therapeutics, Inc. (Taligen), a privately held development-stage biotechnology company based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in a transaction accounted for as a business combination. The acquisition was intended to broaden Alexion’s
portfolio of pre-clinical compounds and to expand Alexion’s capabilities in translational medicine. Taligen’s pre-clinical compounds include product candidates for the potential treatment of patients with ophthalmic diseases such as
age-related macular degeneration (AMD), as well as other novel antibody and protein regulators of the complement inflammatory pathways. Alexion made an upfront cash payment of $111,000 for 100 percent of Taligen’s equity interests. Additional
contingent payments would be earned upon reaching various clinical efficacy and product approval milestones in both the U.S. and European Union for up to six product candidates. If all such clinical efficacy and product approval milestones were
achieved in both the U.S. and European Union for six product candidates, the total payments would be $367,000.

On
February 10, 2011, Alexion acquired patents and assets from Germany-based Orphatec Pharmaceuticals GmbH (Orphatec) related to an investigational therapy for patients with Type A molybdenum cofactor deficiency (MoCD), an ultra-rare disorder
characterized by severe brain damage and rapid death in newborn infants. The acquisition will be accounted for as a business combination. Orphatec is a privately held development-stage biotechnology company with headquarters in Cologne, Germany.
Alexion made an upfront cash payment of approximately $3,000. Additional contingent payments of up to $42,000 would be earned upon reaching various development, regulatory and commercial milestones. Alexion also established a research collaboration
with key MoCD researchers from Orphatec to accelerate development of the investigational therapy.

On January 26, 2011,
Novartis Vaccines & Diagnostics, Inc. (Novartis) filed a civil action against Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and other biopharmaceutical companies in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware. Novartis claims willful infringement
by Alexion of U.S. Patent No. 5,688,688. Novartis seeks, among other things, monetary damages.

Products and Development Programs

The human immune system defends the body from attack or invasion by infectious agents or pathogens. This is
accomplished through a complex system of proteins and cells, primarily complement proteins, antibodies







and white blood cells, each with a specialized function. Under normal circumstances, complement proteins, together with antibodies and white blood cells, act to protect the body by removing:



•harmful micro-organisms;



•cells containing foreign proteins known as antigens; and



•potential disease-causing combinations of antigens and antibodies known as immune complexes.

When activated by certain stimuli, the immune system triggers a series of enzymatic and biochemical reactions called the complement
cascade that results in an inflammatory response. This inflammatory response is one of the immune system’s weapons against foreign pathogens or otherwise diseased tissue. However, under certain circumstances, the complement cascade may cause
excessive or inappropriate activation, which may result in acute and chronic inflammatory conditions and damage to healthy tissues.

We have focused certain of our product development programs on anti-inflammatory therapeutics for diseases for which we believe current treatments are either non-existent or inadequate. Eculizumab is an
antibody known as a C5 terminal complement inhibitor (C5 Inhibitor), which is designed to selectively block the production of inflammation-causing proteins of the complement cascade. We believe that selective suppression of this immune response may
provide a significant therapeutic advantage relative to existing therapies. In addition to PNH, for which the use of eculizumab has been approved in the United States, Europe and several other territories, we believe that C5 Inhibitors may be useful
in the treatment of a variety of other serious diseases and conditions resulting from uncontrolled complement activation.

Our
clinical programs, including investigator sponsored clinical programs, are as follows:



ProductDevelopment AreaIndicationDevelopment StageSolirisHematologyParoxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria (PNH)CommercialPNH RegistryPhase IVCold Agglutinin Disease (CAD)*Phase IINephrologyAtypical Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome (aHUS)Phase IIPresensitized Renal Transplant*Phase IIKidney Transplant for Catastrophic Antiphospholipid Syndrome (CAPS)*Phase IIABO Incompatible Renal Transplant*Phase IIMPGN II (Dense Deposit Disease or DDD)*Phase IINeurologyMyasthenia Gravis (MG)Phase IINeuromyelitis Optica (NMO)*Phase IIOphthalmologyDry Age-Related Macular Degeneration (AMD)*Phase IISamalizumabOncologyChronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL)Phase IMultiple MyelomaPhase I



*Investigator Initiated Trial







Soliris

Soliris is designed to inhibit a specific aspect of the complement component of the immune system and thereby treat inflammation associated with chronic disorders in the therapeutic areas of hematology,
nephrology including transplant rejection, neurology and ophthalmology. Soliris is a humanized antibody which, administered at the doses currently prescribed, generally blocks complement activity for one to two weeks after a single dose.

Soliris was approved by the FDA and the E.C. in 2007, by Japan’s MHLW in 2010 and has been approved in several other territories.
Additionally, Soliris was granted orphan drug designation for the treatment of PNH in the United States, Europe, Japan and several other territories.

In 2009, the FDA and E.C. granted Soliris orphan drug designation for the treatment of patients with aHUS an ultra-rare, inherited and life-threatening complement-inhibitor deficiency disease that often
progresses to end-stage kidney disease, kidney failure or death.

Orphan drug designation generally entitles us to exclusivity
for certain periods of time, subject to limited circumstances. However, if a competitive product that is the same as Soliris, as defined under the applicable regulations, is shown to be clinically superior to our product in the treatment of PNH, or
if a competitive product is different from Soliris, as defined under the applicable regulations, the orphan drug exclusivity we have obtained may not restrict the approval of such competitive product.

About Paroxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria (PNH)

PNH is an ultra-rare, debilitating and life-threatening blood disorder in which an acquired genetic deficiency causes uncontrolled complement activation which leads to life-threatening complications.
Patients with PNH have an acquired genetic deficiency in certain protective proteins on the surface of their blood cells, allowing their own complement system to attack and destroy these blood cells. Patients with PNH suffer from chronic complement
activation of some of their blood cells and hemolysis, or destruction of red blood cells caused by the C5 cleavage product C5b-9. This hemolysis is believed to lead to further clinical complications including thromboses, kidney disease, liver
dysfunction, disabling fatigue, impaired quality of life, recurrent pain, shortness of breath, pulmonary hypertension, intermittent episodes of dark colored urine (hemoglobinuria), and anemia. The red blood cell destruction may be sufficiently large
that recurrent blood transfusions are necessary to support normal red blood cell function. Approximately one-half of the patients with PNH die from the disease within 10 to15 years of diagnosis. Soliris is the only therapy approved for the treatment
of patients with PNH.

Eculizumab Development Programs

We believe that eculizumab may be useful in treating other complement-mediated diseases and conditions of uncontrolled complement activation. Our ongoing eculizumab development programs include:

Hematology

Cold
Agglutinin Disease (CAD)

Cold Agglutinin Disease (CAD) is a severe, ultra-rare complement-mediated autoimmune disease
characterized by the presence of high concentrations of circulating complement-activating antibodies directed against red blood cells. As observed with PNH patients, CAD patients also suffer from the clinical consequences of severe hemolysis.

As blood is cooled during circulation through the distal parts of the arms and legs, specific antibodies bind to the red
blood cells resulting in activation of the complement cascade and sticking together (agglutination) of red blood cells leading to hemolysis. Clinical manifestations of CAD include symptoms of chronic hemolysis







such as fatigue, dyspnea, weakness, hemoglobinuria, kidney damage, pallor and jaundice as well as cold-induced circulatory symptoms ranging from mild discomfort to severe pain in affected limbs
and tissues. In the most severe cases, complications of progressive hemolysis or anemia, or complications of blood transfusions, may result in death. Current therapies, including cold avoidance, corticosteroids, immunosuppressive drugs, intravenous
immunoglobulin G (IgG) and chemotherapy agents are largely ineffective in controlling hemolysis in patients with CAD.

We are
aware of an independent investigator who has begun evaluating eculizumab for the treatment of patients with cold agglutinin disease.

Nephrology

Atypical Hemolytic
Uremic Syndrome (aHUS)

In patients with aHUS, deficiency of naturally occurring complement inhibitors causes uncontrolled
complement activation which leads to thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA), the formation of blood clots in small blood vessels throughout the body causing a reduction in platelet count (thrombocytopenia) and life-threatening damage to the kidney, brain,
heart and other vital organs. The prognosis for patients with aHUS is generally poor. Approximately 70% of patients with the most common mutation experience chronic renal insufficiency, chronic dialysis, or death by one year after the first clinical
episode. Atypical HUS commonly recurs in patients who undergo renal transplantation. In addition, depending on the mutation, the disease can lead to loss of the transplanted kidney in up to approximately 90% of aHUS patients who undergo kidney
transplantation.

Approximately 50% of patients with aHUS have been identified to have genetic mutations in at least one of
the complement control proteins or neutralizing autoantibodies to complement regulatory factors, which can lead to uncontrolled complement activation. Excessive complement activation may contribute to the blood vessel inflammation and clotting by
stimulating activation of white blood cells, platelets and the endothelial lining of blood vessels.

In April 2010, we
completed enrollment of two (each with adolescent and adult patients) multi-national, multi-center clinical trials evaluating eculizumab for the treatment of adolescent and adult aHUS patients with evidence of thrombotic microangiopathy (clotting in
small blood vessels). Approximately 37 patients are included in these studies. The studies include patients who had received plasma therapy (PT) chronically and others who were resistant or intolerant to PT. In October 2010, scientific abstracts
were published of interim results from these two trials which indicated that the primary and key secondary endpoints were positive. Updated interim results from the chronic PT trial and final results from the PT-resistant trial were presented at the
2010 American Society of Nephrology scientific meeting and demonstrated that the primary endpoints and key secondary endpoints were achieved in each trial with a high degree of statistical significance. We have commenced a new Phase II, open-label
trial in adult aHUS patients and, separately, we have also commenced a pediatric aHUS study.

Acute Humoral Rejection (AHR) in
Presensitized Kidney Transplant Patients

Patients undergoing solid organ transplantation may experience severe acute
humoral rejection (AHR) in the early post-transplant period. For example, in a patient undergoing a kidney transplant this may be characterized by the acute onset of renal dysfunction and rapid progression to destruction of the transplanted kidney.

AHR results when antibodies in the transplant recipient vigorously attacks the blood vessels of the donor kidney. During
severe AHR, these donor specific antibodies bind to the blood vessel lining of the donor organ and initiate activation of the complement cascade, resulting in severe blood vessel inflammation and clotting. Administration of a C5 inhibitor in animal
models of AHR inhibits complement activation, tissue damage and transplant rejection.







We are aware that independent investigators are continuing to enroll patients in clinical
trials to evaluate eculizumab in presensitized renal transplant patients at elevated risk for AHR as well as transplant patients with catastrophic antiphospholipid syndrome. We are also aware that an independent investigator has begun enrolling
patients in a clinical trial to evaluate eculizumab in kidney transplant patients sensitized to their donor kidney due to an ABO blood group mismatch between donor and recipient. We are developing protocols to initiate multi-national, multi-site
controlled clinical trials of eculizumab in presensitized renal transplant patients at elevated risk for acute humoral rejection and are further considering expansion of development efforts to include investigation of eculizumab as a treatment for
patients undergoing transplantation of other organs.

Dense Deposit Disease (DDD)

Dense deposit disease (DDD) also called Type II membrano-proliferative glomerulonephritis, is a rare form of glomerulonephritis,
associated with genetic mutations in complement inhibitor genes leading to sustained complement activation and inflammation. Clinically, it is characterized by the onset of severe proteinuria (excess protein in the urine), often accompanied by
nephrotic syndrome which is refractory to immunosuppressant therapy. In most cases, the disease evolves into chronic renal failure, requiring dialysis and renal transplantation.

We are aware that independent investigators have commenced studies to evaluate eculizumab in patients with DDD as well as patients with a
similar disease referred to as C3nef-mediated nephropathy.

Neurology

Myasthenia Gravis (MG)

Myasthenia gravis (MG) is a rare autoimmune
syndrome characterized by complement activation leading to failure of neuromuscular transmission. Patients with MG initially experience weakness in their ocular, or eye muscles, and the disease typically progresses to head, spinal, limb and
respiratory muscles. Symptoms can include drooping eyelids, blurred vision, slurred speech, difficulty chewing or swallowing, weakness in the arms and legs and difficulty breathing. In an experimental animal model of MG, administration of a C5
Inhibitor was found to prevent experimentally acquired MG and to inhibit disease progression.

The FDA authorized our
Investigational New Drug Application (IND) for studying the safety and efficacy of eculizumab in treating patients with MG, and enrolment has closed with 14 patients.

Neuromyelitis Optica (NMO)

Neuromyelitis optica (NMO) is a rare autoimmune
disease of the central nervous system (CNS) that affects the optic nerves and spinal cord. Individuals with NMO develop optic neuritis, which causes pain in the eye and vision loss, and transverse myelitis, which causes weakness, numbness, and
sometimes paralysis of the arms and legs, along with sensory disturbances and loss of bladder and bowel control. In the past, NMO was considered to be a severe variant of multiple sclerosis (MS) because both can cause attacks of optic neuritis and
myelitis. The recent discovery of an antibody in the blood of individuals with NMO gives doctors a reliable biomarker to distinguish NMO from MS.

We are aware that independent investigators are examining the role of eculizumab for the treatment of patients with NMO.

Ophthalmology

Dry Age-Related Macular Degeneration (AMD)

Age-related macular degeneration is a medical condition usually affecting older adults in which uncontrolled complement activation results
in a loss of vision in the center of the visual field (the macula) and complement-mediated damage to the retina. It is a major cause of visual impairment in older adults.







We are aware of an independent investigator who continues to enroll patients in a study
evaluating the safety and efficacy of eculizumab as a treatment for the dry form of age-related macular degeneration.

Other Development
Programs

In addition to eculizumab programs, we also have development programs related to the following:

Oncology

The FDA
authorized our IND to evaluate the activity of samalizumab, an antibody to the immune regulator CD200, in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). CLL is a type of cancer of the blood and bone marrow. CLL most commonly affects older adults,
though it may occur at any age and rarely can affect children.

Multiple myeloma, also known as plasma cell myeloma, is the
second-most common cancer of the blood. It is the most common type of plasma cell neoplasm. Multiple myeloma accounts for approximately 1% of all cancers and 2% of all deaths from cancer.

Enrollment and dosing has now been completed in our Phase I dose-escalation clinical study of samalizumab, our anti-CD200 antibody, in
patients with treatment refractory CLL or multiple myeloma. The trial enrolled 26 patients and positive interim results from this trial were reported at the 2010 American Society for Hematology meeting in Orlando, Florida.

Manufacturing

We
currently rely on two facilities, our own facility in Rhode Island and a third party manufacturer, for commercial and clinical quantities of Soliris, as well as for clinical and preclinical quantities of eculizumab, samalizumab and other product
candidates. For both clinical and commercial requirements, we have contracted and expect to continue contracting for product finishing, vial filling and packaging through third parties.

In December 2009 and August 2010, the E.C. and FDA, respectively, approved our Rhode Island manufacturing facility for the production of
Soliris.

Our most significant agreement with a third party manufacturer is the large-scale product supply agreement with
Lonza Sales AG (Lonza), dated December 18, 2002, which has been amended from time to time. This agreement (Lonza Agreement) relates to the manufacture of eculizumab. An amendment to the Lonza Agreement provided for additional production and
minimum quantity purchase commitments of Soliris from 2009 through 2017. This amendment has remaining commitments of approximately $39,000 as of December 31, 2010. Such commitments may be cancelled only in limited circumstances. If we terminate
the Lonza Agreement without cause, we will be required to pay for product scheduled for manufacture under our arrangement. Under an existing arrangement with Lonza, we pay Lonza a royalty on sales of Soliris manufactured at our Rhode Island
facility.

Sales and Marketing

We have established an organization to support current and future sales of Soliris in the United States, in the major markets in Europe, Latin America and in Japan and the Asia Pacific region. Our sales
force is small compared to other drugs with similar gross revenues; however, we believe that a relatively smaller sales force is appropriate to effectively market Soliris due to the limited PNH patient population. If we receive regulatory approval
in new territories, we may expand our own commercial organizations in such territories and market and sell Soliris through our own sales force in these territories. However, we will evaluate each jurisdiction on a country-by-country basis, and it is
possible that we will promote Soliris in collaboration with marketing partners or rely on relationships with one or more companies with established distribution systems and direct sales forces in certain countries.







Customers

In the United States, our customers are primarily specialty distributors and specialty pharmacies which supply physician office clinics, hospital outpatient clinics, infusion clinics or home health care
providers. We also sell Soliris to government agencies. Outside the United States, our customers are primarily hospitals, hospital buying groups, pharmacies, other health care providers and distributors.

During 2010 and 2009, sales to our single largest customer, AmerisourceBergen, accounted for 21% and 20%, respectively, of our Soliris
net product sales, and no other customer individually accounted for more than 10% of total net product sales.

Because of
factors such as the pricing of Soliris, the limited number of patients, the short period from sale of product to patient infusion and the lack of contractual return rights, Soliris customers generally carry limited inventory. We monitor inventory
within our distribution channel to determine whether deferral of sales is required. To date, actual refunds and returns have been negligible.

Please also see Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Revenues, and Note 16 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K, for financial information about geographic
areas.

Patents and Proprietary Rights

Patents and other proprietary rights are important to our business. Our policy is to file patent applications to protect technology, inventions and improvements to our technologies that are considered
important to the development of our business. We also rely upon our trade secrets, know-how, and continuing technological innovations, as well as patents that we have licensed or may license from other parties, to develop and maintain our
competitive position.

We have filed several U.S. patent applications and international counterparts of certain of these
applications. In addition, we have in-licensed several additional U.S. and international patents and patent applications. As of December 31, 2010, we own or in-license over 62 U.S. patents and 35 U.S. patent applications. These patents and
patent applications relate to technologies or products in the C5 Inhibitor program, high throughput screening, vectors, cancer, recombinant antibodies, and other technologies. As of December 31, 2010, we own or in-license 47 foreign
patents and 147 pending foreign patent applications. We owe royalties to a third party and other fees to owners of one or more patents in connection with the manufacture and sale of Soliris for PNH, and we may owe royalties and fees to other third
parties with respect to any previous or future commercial manufacture and sale of Soliris and our product candidates.







We are aware of broad patents owned by others relating to the manufacture, use and sale of
recombinant humanized antibodies, recombinant human antibodies, and recombinant human single chain antibodies. Soliris and some of our product candidates are either genetically engineered antibodies, including recombinant humanized antibodies,
recombinant human antibodies, or recombinant human single chain antibodies. We have received notices from the owners of patents claiming that their patents may be infringed by the development, manufacture or sale of Soliris or some of our drug
candidates. For example, in January 2011, Novartis filed a civil action in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware alleging that the manufacture of Soliris infringes their U.S. patent number 5,688,688. We are also aware of other patents
owned by third parties that might be claimed by such third parties to be infringed by the development and commercialization of Soliris or some of our product candidates. In respect to some of these patents, we have obtained licenses, or expect to
obtain licenses. However, with regard to such other patents, we have determined in our judgment that:



•our products do not infringe the patents;



•the patents are not valid; or



•we have identified and are testing various modifications that we believe should not infringe the patents and which should permit commercialization of
our product candidates.

If any patent holder successfully challenges our judgment that our products do not
infringe their patents or that their patents are invalid, we could be required to pay costly damages or to obtain a license to sell or develop our drugs. A required license may be costly or may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A
costly license, or inability to obtain a necessary license, could materially and adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products, including Soliris.

We record actual and estimated royalties to third parties related to the sale and commercial manufacture of Soliris. These estimates are influenced by our assessment of the likelihood of third parties
asserting that their patents are infringed by the manufacture or sale of Soliris and the likely outcome of any such assertion. On a periodic basis and based on specific events such as the outcome of litigation, we may reassess these estimates,
resulting in adjustments to cost of sales.

It is our policy to require our employees, consultants and parties to
collaborative agreements to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of employment or consulting relationships or collaborations with us. These agreements generally provide that all confidential information developed or made known
during the course of the relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not to be disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances. In the case of employees, the agreements also provide that all inventions resulting from work
performed for us, utilizing our property or relating to our business and conceived or completed by the individual during employment shall be our exclusive property to the extent permitted by applicable law.

License Agreements

In
March 1996, we entered into a license agreement with the Medical Research Council (MRC) whereby MRC granted to us worldwide non-exclusive rights to certain patents related to the humanization and production of monoclonal antibodies. We pay MRC
royalties on a quarterly basis with respect to sales of Soliris. The royalty is payable until the last to expire of the patents covered by the license agreement, which is expected to be in 2015. MRC may terminate the license if we file for
bankruptcy or become insolvent, or if we fail to perform our obligations under the agreement and such failure is not remedied within three months after delivery of notice. Under the agreement, we agreed to (a) make royalty payments with respect
to sales of licensed products, (b) promote the sale of Soliris of good marketable quality, and (c) use reasonable endeavors to meet market demand for licensed products.







In December 2008, we entered into a patent license agreement with PDL BioPharma (PDL) in
connection with the resolution of all civil claims previously filed by PDL and all counterclaims previously filed by Alexion. Pursuant to the license agreement, we paid $25,000 for a nonexclusive, irrevocable, perpetual worldwide license to some
claims of certain PDL patents and a covenant not to sue from PDL for other claims of such PDL patents, in each case for the commercialization of Soliris for all indications.

We are party to other license agreements related to the manufacture and sale of Soliris. Under an existing arrangement with Lonza, we pay Lonza a royalty on sales of Soliris manufactured at our Rhode
Island facility.

Government Regulation

The preclinical studies and clinical testing, manufacture, labeling, storage, record keeping, advertising, promotion, export, and marketing, among other things, of our products and product candidates,
including Soliris, are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the U.S. and other countries. In the U.S., pharmaceutical products are regulated by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and other laws,
including, in the case of biologics, the Public Health Service Act. Soliris is regulated by the FDA as a biologic. Biologics require the submission of a Biologics License Application (BLA) and approval by FDA prior to being marketed in the United
States. Manufacturers of biologics may also be subject to state regulation. Failure to comply with FDA requirements, both before and after product approval, may subject us and/or our partners, contract manufacturers, and suppliers to administrative
or judicial sanctions, including FDA refusal to approve applications, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, fines and/or criminal prosecution.

The steps required before a biologic may be approved for marketing of an indication in the U.S. generally include:

(1) preclinical laboratory tests and animal tests;

(2) submission to the FDA of an IND for human clinical testing, which must become effective before human clinical trials
may commence;

(3) adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of
the product;

(4) submission to the FDA of a BLA or supplemental BLA;

(5) FDA pre-approval inspection of product manufacturers; and

(6) FDA review and approval of the BLA or supplemental BLA.

Preclinical studies include laboratory evaluation, as well as animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product
candidate. Preclinical safety tests must be conducted in compliance with FDA regulations regarding good laboratory practices. The results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information and analytical data, are submitted to the FDA
as part of an IND which must become effective before human clinical trials may be commenced. The IND will automatically become effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA before that time raises concerns about the drug candidate
or the conduct of the trials as outlined in the IND. The IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before clinical trials can proceed. We cannot assure you that submission of an IND will result in FDA authorization to commence
clinical trials or that once commenced, other concerns will not arise.

Clinical trials involve the administration of the
investigational product to healthy volunteers or to patients, under the supervision of qualified principal investigators. Each clinical study at each clinical site must be reviewed and approved by an independent institutional review board, prior to
the recruitment of subjects.

Clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap
and different trials may be initiated with the same drug candidate within the same phase of development in similar or differing







patient populations. Phase I studies may be conducted in a limited number of patients, but are usually conducted in healthy volunteer subjects. The drug is usually tested for safety and, as
appropriate, for absorption, metabolism, distribution, excretion, pharmaco-dynamics and pharmaco-kinetics.

Phase II usually
involves studies in a larger, but still limited patient population to evaluate preliminarily the efficacy of the drug candidate for specific, targeted indications; to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage; and to identify possible short-term
adverse effects and safety risks.

Phase III trials are undertaken to further evaluate clinical efficacy of a specific
endpoint and to test further for safety within an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical study sites. Phase I, Phase II or Phase III testing might not be completed successfully within any specific time period, if at all,
with respect to any of our product candidates. Results from one trial are not necessarily predictive of results from later trials. Furthermore, the FDA may suspend clinical trials at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects
or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk.

As part of
the newly enacted Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (PPACA), Public Law No. 111-148, under the subtitle of Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009 (BPCI), a statutory pathway has been created for licensure, or
approval, of biological products that are biosimilar to, and possibly interchangeable with, earlier biological products licensed under the Public Health Service Act. Also under the BPCI, innovator manufacturers of original reference biological
products are granted 12 years of exclusive use before biosimilars can be approved for marketing in the United States. The objectives of the BPCI are conceptually similar to those of the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984,
commonly







referred to as the ‘Hatch-Waxman Act, which established abbreviated pathways for the approval of drug products. The implementation of an abbreviated approval pathway for biological products
is under the direction of the FDA and is currently being developed. In late 2010, the FDA held a hearing to receive comments from a broad group of stakeholders regarding the implementation of the BCPI. The approval of a biologic product biosimilar
to one of our products could have a material impact on our business and may be significantly less costly to bring to market and may be priced significantly lower than our products.

Both before and after the FDA approves a product, the manufacturer and the holder or holders of the BLA for the product are subject to
comprehensive regulatory oversight. For example, quality control and manufacturing procedures must conform, on an ongoing basis, to cGMP requirements, and the FDA periodically inspects manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMP.
Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to spend time, money and effort to maintain cGMP compliance.

Orphan Drug Designation

Soliris has received orphan drug designation from the FDA for the treatment of PNH and aHUS. Under the Orphan Drug Act,
the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs intended to treat a “rare disease or condition,” which generally is a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. Orphan drug designation must be
requested before submitting a BLA or supplemental BLA. After the FDA grants orphan drug designation, the generic identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use are publicly disclosed by the FDA. Orphan drug designation does not
convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process. If a product which has an orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the indication for which it has such designation, the
product is entitled to an orphan exclusivity period, in which the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug for the same indication for seven years, except in limited circumstances.

Soliris has also received orphan drug designation for the treatment of PNH in several other territories, including Europe, Australia and
South Korea, which provides certain regulatory and filing fee advantages, including market exclusivity, except in limited circumstances, for several years after approval. In 2009, the FDA and E.C. also granted Soliris orphan drug designation for the
treatment of patients with aHUS.

Foreign Regulation

In addition to regulations in the United States, we are subject to a variety of foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials and marketing approval for drugs. The foreign regulatory
approval process includes all of the risks associated with FDA approval set forth above, as well as additional country-specific regulations. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we must obtain approval of a product by the comparable
regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country, and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA
approval. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country.

For example, under European Union regulatory systems, we may submit marketing authorizations either under a centralized or decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure provides for the grant of a
single marketing authorization that is valid for all European Union member states. The decentralized procedure provides for mutual recognition of national approval decisions, and the holder of a national marketing authorization may submit an
application to the remaining member states. We submitted our Marketing Authorization Application for Soliris for the treatment of PNH to the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) using the centralized procedure.







Reimbursement

Sales of pharmaceutical products depend in significant part on the coverage and reimbursement policies of government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid in the United States, and other third party
payors. These health insurance programs may restrict coverage of some products by using payor formularies under which only selected drugs are covered, variable co-payments that make drugs that are not preferred by the payor more expensive for
patients, and by using utilization management controls, such as requirements for prior authorization or prior failure on another type of treatment. Payors may especially impose these obstacles to coverage for higher priced drugs, and consequently
Soliris may be subject to payor-driven restrictions.

In addition, in some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug
must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. For example, the European Union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for
which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices and/or reimbursement of medicinal products for human use. A member state may approve a specific price or level of reimbursement for the medicinal product,
or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. On a continuous basis, we engage with appropriate authorities on the operational, reimbursement, price
approval and funding processes that are separately required in each country.

Competition

There are currently no approved drugs other than Soliris for the treatment of PNH. However, many companies, including major pharmaceutical
and chemical companies as well as specialized biotechnology companies, are engaged in activities similar to our activities. Universities, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations also conduct research and may market
commercial products on their own or through joint ventures. Many of these entities may have:



•substantially greater financial and other resources;



•larger research and development staffs;



•lower labor costs; and/or



•more extensive marketing and manufacturing organizations.

Many of these companies and organizations have significant experience in preclinical testing, human clinical trials, product manufacturing, marketing, sales and distribution and other regulatory approval
and commercial procedures. They may also have a greater number of significant patents and greater legal resources to seek remedies for cases of alleged infringement of their patents by us to block, delay or compromise our own drug development
process.

We compete with large pharmaceutical companies that produce and market synthetic compounds and with specialized
biotechnology firms in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere, as well as a growing number of large pharmaceutical companies that are applying biotechnology to their operations. A number of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies are developing new
products for the treatment of the same diseases being targeted by us; in some instances, these products have already entered clinical trials or are already being marketed. Other companies are engaged in research and development based on complement
proteins.

Several companies have either publicly announced their intentions to develop drugs which target the inflammatory
effects of complement in the immune system or have had programs to develop complement inhibitor therapies. We believe that our potential C5 Inhibitors differ substantially from those of our potential competitors due to our compounds’
demonstrated ability to specifically intervene in the complement cascade, for potentially prolonged periods of time. We believe this action to be the optimal point so that the disease-causing actions of complement proteins are inhibited, while the
normal disease-preventing functions of complement proteins and other aspects of immune function remain intact.







Employees

As of December 31, 2010, we had 792 full-time, world-wide employees, of which 331 were engaged in research, product development, manufacturing, and clinical development, 305 in sales and marketing,
and 156 in administration, business development and finance. Our U.S. employees are not represented by any collective bargaining unit, and we regard the relationships with all our employees as satisfactory.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The executive officers of the Company and their respective ages and positions as of February 11, 2011 are as follows:



NameAgePosition with AlexionLeonard Bell, M.D.52Chief Executive Officer, Secretary, Treasurer, DirectorStephen P. Squinto, Ph.D.54Executive Vice President and Head of Research and DevelopmentPatrice Coissac62Senior Vice President, and President of Alexion Pharma International, SàrlThomas I.H. Dubin, J.D.48Senior Vice President and Chief Legal OfficerDavid L. Hallal44Senior Vice President, Global Commercial OperationsVikas Sinha, M.B.A., C.A., C.P.A.47Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Leonard Bell, M.D.is the principal founder of Alexion, and has been a director of Alexion since February 1992 and the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer, Secretary and Treasurer
from January 1992, and Chief Executive Officer, Secretary and Treasurer since April 2002. From 1991 to 1992, Dr. Bell was an Assistant Professor of Medicine and Pathology and co-Director of the program in Vascular Biology at the Yale
University School of Medicine. From 1990 to 1992, Dr. Bell was an attending physician at the Yale-New Haven Hospital and an Assistant Professor in the Department of Internal Medicine at the Yale University School of
Medicine. Dr. Bell was a recipient of the Physician Scientist Award from the National Institutes of Health and Grant-in-Aid from the American Heart Association as well as various honors and awards from academic and professional
organizations. His work has resulted in more than 20 scientific publications and 9 patent applications. Dr. Bell was also a director of The Medicines Company from May 2000 until April 2005. Dr. Bell received his A.B. from Brown
University and M.D. from Yale University School of Medicine. Dr. Bell is currently an Adjunct Assistant Professor of Medicine and Pathology at the Yale University School of Medicine.

Stephen P. Squinto, Ph.D.is a founder of Alexion and has been Executive Vice President and Head of Research and Development since
June 2007. He held the position of Executive Vice President and Head of Research between August 2000 and June 2007. He also held the positions of Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer from March 1998 to July 2000, Vice President of
Research, Molecular Sciences, from August 1994 to March 1998, Senior Director of Molecular Sciences from July 1993 to July 1994, and Director of Molecular Development from 1992 to July 1993. From 1989 to 1992, Dr. Squinto held various positions
at Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. most recently serving as Senior Scientist and Assistant Head of the Discovery Group. From 1986 to 1989, Dr. Squinto was an Assistant Professor of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology at Louisiana State
University Medical Center and an Adjunct Professor of Neuroscience at the Tulane University Medical School. Dr. Squinto’s work has led to over 70 scientific papers in the fields of gene regulation, growth factor biology and gene transfer.
Dr. Squinto’s work is primarily in the fields of molecular and cellular biology. Dr. Squinto served as a Director of the Biotechnology Research and Development Corporation, a biotechnology consortium, from 1997 to 2003.
Dr. Squinto received his B.A. in Chemistry and Ph.D. in Biochemistry and Biophysics from Loyola University of Chicago.

Patrice Coissachas been Corporate Senior Vice President and President of Alexion Pharma International Sàrl since April
2009. He previously served as Senior Vice President and President of Alexion Europe SAS from November 2005 to March 2009. Before joining Alexion, Mr. Coissac founded and ran his own consulting firm







from 2004-2005. Prior to this time, Mr. Coissac served as President of Pharmacia SAS France and was responsible during his tenure for the integration of Searle (pharma division of Monsato)
with Pharmacia & Upjohn in France. Before 1999 Mr. Coissac held several senior managerial positions at leading pharmaceutical companies as Head of Commercial Operations at Novartis Belgium and President of Boehringer Mannheim
Therapeutics France. In 1994 Mr. Coissac also served as Marketing Senior Vice President for global pharmaceutical operations at Corange International. Previously at Sandoz Pharmaceuticals, he held various global marketing positions in several
countries including Japan where he was posted during several years, Switzerland at Sandoz World Headquarters and France at the beginning of his career.

Thomas I.H. Dubin, J.D.has been Senior Vice President and Chief Legal Officer since January 2010. He was Senior Vice President and General Counsel from August 2005 to December 2009 and Vice
President and General Counsel from January 2001 to July 2005. From February 1999 to September 2000 he served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary for ChiRex Inc., a NASDAQ-traded international corporation providing advanced process
development services and specialty manufacturing to the pharmaceutical industry, which in September 2000 was acquired by and merged into Rhodia. From 1992 to 1999, Mr. Dubin held various positions with Warner-Lambert Company, including
Assistant General Counsel, Pharmaceuticals. Prior to his tenure with Warner-Lambert, Mr. Dubin was a corporate attorney for five years with Cravath, Swaine & Moore in New York. Mr. Dubin received his J.D. from New York University
and his B.A., cum laude, from Amherst College.

David L. Hallalhas been Senior Vice President, Global Commercial
Operations since May 2010. From November 2008 to May 2010, he was Senior Vice President, Commercial Operations Americas, and from June 2006 until November 2008 he served as Senior Vice President, US Commercial Operations. Before joining Alexion,
Mr. Hallal served as Vice President, Sales at OSI Eyetech from April 2004 until June 2006, where he led the U.S. launch of a first-in-class anti-VEGF therapy for age-related macular degeneration. Prior to OSI Eyetech, from 1992 until 2004,
Mr. Hallal held various sales and marketing leadership positions at Amgen and Biogen Idec, where he was involved in multiple product launches in the areas of hematology, oncology, nephrology and immunology. Mr. Hallal received a Bachelor
of Arts degree from the University of New Hampshire.

Vikas Sinha, M.B.A., C.A, CPA.joined Alexion as Senior Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer in September 2005. From June 1994 to August 2005, Mr. Sinha held various positions with Bayer AG in the United States, Japan, Germany, and Canada, most recently serving since February 2001 as Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer of Bayer Pharmaceuticals Corporation, USA. Mr. Sinha has been responsible for financial and business risk management, strategic planning, contracting, customer services, information systems, and supply chain and site
administration in North America. Mr. Sinha was also a member of the Pharmaceutical Management Committee for North America. Prior to his appointment in the United States, Mr. Sinha was Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Bayer
Yakuhin Ltd., in Japan and Manager, Mergers and Acquisitions with Bayer AG in Germany. He began his career at Bayer in Toronto as part of an executive development program in the healthcare division. Prior to Bayer, Mr. Sinha held several
positions of increasing responsibilities with ANZ Bank and Citibank in South Asia. Mr. Sinha holds a Masters of Business Administration from the Asian Institute of Management which included an exchange program with the University of Western
Ontario (Richard Ivey School of Business). He is also a qualified Chartered Accountant from the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and a CPA in the United States.

Available Information

Our internet website address is
http://www.alexionpharma.com. Through our website, we make available, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, any amendments to those reports, proxy and registration statements,
and all of our insider Section 16 reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. These SEC reports can be accessed through the “Investors” section of our website.
The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. Paper copies of our SEC reports are available free of charge upon request in writing to Investor Relations, Alexion Pharmaceuticals,
Inc., 352 Knotter Drive, Cheshire, CT 06410.







