Item 1.BUSINESS.

(dollars and shares in thousands)



Overview

We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on serving patients with severe and ultra-rare disorders through the innovation, development and commercialization of life-transforming therapeutic products. Our marketed product Soliris®(eculizumab) is the first and only therapeutic approved for patients with two severe and ultra-rare disorders resulting from chronic uncontrolled activation of the complement component of the immune system:  paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH), a life-threatening and ultra-rare genetic blood disorder, and atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS), a life-threatening and ultra-rare genetic disease. We are also evaluating additional potential indications for Soliris in severe and ultra-rare diseases in which chronic uncontrolled complement activation is the underlying mechanism, and we are progressing in various stages of development with additional biotechnology product candidates as treatments for patients with severe and ultra-rare disorders.  We were incorporated in 1992 and began commercial sale of Soliris in 2007.

Soliris is designed to inhibit a specific aspect of the complement component of the immune system and thereby treat inflammation associated with chronic disorders in the therapeutic areas of hematology, nephrology, transplant rejection and neurology. Soliris is a humanized monoclonal antibody that effectively blocks terminal complement activity at the doses










currently prescribed. The initial indication for which we received approval for Soliris is PNH. PNH is an ultra-rare, debilitating and life-threatening, genetic deficiency blood disorder defined by chronic uncontrolled complement activation leading to the destruction of red blood cells (hemolysis). The chronic hemolysis in patients with PNH may be associated with life-threatening thromboses, recurrent pain, kidney disease, disabling fatigue, impaired quality of life, severe anemia, pulmonary hypertension, shortness of breath and intermittent episodes of dark-colored urine (hemoglobinuria).

Soliris was approved for the treatment of PNH by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the European Commission (EC) in 2007 and by Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (MHLW) in 2010, and has been approved in several other territories. Additionally, Soliris has been granted orphan drug designation for the treatment of PNH in the United States, Europe, Japan and several other territories.

In September 2011, Soliris was approved by the FDA for the treatment of pediatric and adult patients with aHUS.  aHUS is a genetic ultra-rare disease characterized by chronic uncontrolled complement activation and thrombotic microangiopathy, the formation of blood clots in small blood vessels throughout the body, causing a reduction in platelet count (thrombocytopenia) and life-threatening damage to the kidney, brain, heart and other vital organs.  Also, in November 2011, the EC granted marketing authorization for Soliris to treat pediatric and adult patients with aHUS in Europe.  The FDA and EC have granted Soliris orphan drug designation for the treatment of patients with aHUS.

Significant Developments

Enobia Acquisition

On February 7, 2012, we acquired Enobia Pharma Corp. (Enobia), a privately held clinical-stage biotechnology company based in Montreal, Canada and Cambridge, Massachusetts, in a transaction accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations. Enobia's lead product candidate, asfotase alfa, is a human recombinant targeted alkaline phosphatase enzyme-replacement therapy for patients suffering with hypophosphatasia (HPP), an ultra-rare, life-threatening, genetic metabolic disease for which there are no approved treatments.  We agreed to make an upfront payment of$610,000subject to purchase price adjustments, which resulted in us making a cash payment of$623,876for 100% of Enobia's capital stock.  Additional contingent payments of up to an aggregate of$470,000may be due upon reaching various regulatory and sales milestones.  We financed the acquisition with a combination of existing cash and proceeds from our credit facility.

Credit Facilities

On February 7, 2012, we and our wholly-owned Swiss subsidiary, Alexion Pharma International Sàrl, entered into a Credit Agreement (Credit Agreement) with the lenders party thereto, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, as joint lead arrangers and joint book managers, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as syndication agent and RBS Citizens, National Association and Suntrust Bank as co-documentation agents.  The Credit Agreement provides for a$240,000senior secured term loan facility and a$200,000senior secured revolving credit facility, which includes up to a$60,000sublimit for letters of credit and a$10,000sublimit for swingline loans.  Alexion used the facilities to pay a portion of the consideration for the acquisition of Enobia.  The facilities can also be used for working capital requirements, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes.  Simultaneously with entering into the Credit Agreement, we terminated our Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated March 7, 2011.

Common Stock Offering

In May 2012, in conjunction with our addition into the S&P 500 Index, we completed the sale of5,000shares of our common stock in a public offering.  The net proceeds from the sale of shares in the offering were$462,212.

Products and Development Programs

The human immune system defends the body from attack or invasion by infectious agents or pathogens. This is accomplished through a complex system of proteins and cells, primarily complement proteins, antibodies

and white blood cells, each with a specialized function. Under normal circumstances, complement proteins, together with antibodies and white blood cells, act to protect the body by removing:

•harmful micro-organisms;

•cells containing foreign proteins known as antigens; and

•potential disease-causing combinations of antigens and antibodies known as immune complexes.










When activated by certain stimuli, the immune system triggers a series of enzymatic and biochemical reactions called the complement cascade that results in an inflammatory response. This inflammatory response is one of the immune system’s weapons against foreign pathogens or otherwise diseased tissue. However, under certain circumstances, the complement cascade may cause excessive or inappropriate activation, and/or an individual may be deficient in naturally occurring complement inhibitors, all of which may result in acute and chronic inflammatory conditions and damage to healthy tissues.

We focus our product development programs on life transforming therapeutics for diseases for which we believe current treatments are either non-existent or inadequate. Eculizumab is a humanized antibody known as a C5 terminal complement inhibitor (C5 Inhibitor), which is designed to selectively block the production of inflammation-causing proteins of the complement cascade. We believe that selective suppression of this immune response may provide a significant therapeutic advantage relative to existing therapies. In addition to PNH and aHUS, for which the use of eculizumab has been approved in the United States and Europe, we believe that C5 Inhibitors may be useful in the treatment of a variety of other serious diseases and conditions resulting from uncontrolled complement activation.

Our programs, including investigator sponsored clinical programs, include the following:

ProductDevelopment AreaIndicationDevelopment StageSoliris (eculizumab)HematologyParoxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria (PNH)CommercialPNH RegistryPhase IVPNH Pediatric TrialPhase IICold Agglutinin Disease (CAD)*Phase IIHematology/NephrologyAtypical Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome (aHUS)CommercialaHUS TrialsPhase IVaHUS RegistryPhase IVNephrologySTEC-HUS (Shiga-toxin producing E. Coli Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome)Phase IIMPGN II/C3 Nephropathy*Phase IIPresensitized Renal Transplant - Living DonorPhase IIPresensitized Renal Transplant - Deceased DonorPhase IIDelayed Kidney Transplant Graft Function*Phase IIABO Incompatible Renal Transplant*Phase IINeurologyNeuromyelitis Optica (NMO)*Phase IIMyasthenia Gravis (MG)Phase IIAsfotase alfaMetabolic DisordersHypophosphatasia (HPP)Phase IIcPMPMetabolic DisordersMoCD Type APreclinicalALXN 1102/1103HematologyPNHPhase IALXN 1007Inflammatory DisordersPhase I

*Investigator Initiated Trial



Our most advanced programs focus on two therapeutic areas:  hematology and nephrology.  We are also advancing our pipeline programs with a focus primarily on neurology and metabolic disorders.












Soliris (eculizumab)

Soliris is designed to inhibit a specific aspect of the complement component of the immune system and thereby treat inflammation associated with chronic disorders in the therapeutic areas of hematology, nephrology including transplant rejection, and neurology. Soliris is a humanized antibody which, administered at the doses currently prescribed, generally blocks complement activity for one to two weeks after a single dose.

Soliris was approved for the treatment of PNH by the FDA and the EC in 2007, by Japan’s MHLW in 2010 and has been approved in several other territories. Additionally, Soliris was granted orphan drug designation for the treatment of PNH in the United States, Europe, Japan and several other territories.

Soliris was approved for the treatment of aHUS by the FDA and the EC in 2011.  Soliris was granted orphan drug designation for the treatment of aHUS in the United States and Europe.

Orphan drug designation generally entitles us to exclusivity for certain periods of time, subject to limited circumstances. However, if a competitive product that is the same as Soliris, as defined under the applicable regulations, is shown to be clinically superior to our product in the treatment of PNH, or if a competitive product is different from Soliris, as defined under the applicable regulations, the orphan drug exclusivity we have obtained may not restrict the approval of such competitive product.

Hematology

Paroxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria (PNH)

PNH is an ultra-rare, debilitating and life-threatening blood disorder in which an acquired genetic deficiency causes uncontrolled complement activation which leads to life-threatening complications. Patients with PNH have an acquired genetic deficiency in certain protective proteins on the surface of their blood cells, allowing their own complement system to attack and destroy these blood cells. Patients with PNH suffer from chronic complement activation of some of their blood cells and also hemolysis, or destruction of red blood cells caused by the C5 cleavage product C5b-9. This hemolysis is believed to lead to further clinical complications including thromboses, kidney disease, liver dysfunction, disabling fatigue, impaired quality of life, recurrent pain, shortness of breath, pulmonary hypertension, intermittent episodes of dark colored urine (hemoglobinuria), and anemia. Approximately one-half of the patients with PNH die from the disease within 10 to 15 years of diagnosis.

Our marketed product Soliris is the first and only therapy approved for the treatment of patients with PNH.  We continue to work with researchers to expand the base of knowledge in PNH and the utility of Soliris to treat patients with PNH.  Additionally, we are sponsoring multinational registries to gather information regarding the natural history of patients with PNH and the longer term outcomes during Soliris treatment.

Cold Agglutinin Disease (CAD)

We are aware that dosing is ongoing in an investigator-initiated Phase II study of eculizumab in patients for the treatment of CAD.  CAD is a severe, ultra-rare complement-mediated autoimmune disease characterized by the presence of high concentrations of circulating complement-activating antibodies directed against red blood cells. As observed with PNH patients, CAD patients also suffer from the clinical consequences of severe hemolysis.

As blood is cooled during circulation through the distal parts of the arms and legs, specific antibodies bind to the red blood cells resulting in activation of the complement cascade and red blood cell lysis. Clinical manifestations of CAD include symptoms of chronic hemolysis such as fatigue, dyspnea, weakness, hemoglobinuria, kidney damage, pallor and jaundice. In the most severe cases, complications of progressive hemolysis or anemia may result in death. Current therapies, including cold avoidance, corticosteroids, immunosuppressive drugs, intravenous immunoglobulin G and chemotherapy agents are largely ineffective in controlling hemolysis in patients with CAD.

Hematology/Nephrology

Atypical Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome (aHUS)

aHUS is a  chronic and life-threatening ultra-rare genetic disease in which uncontrolled complement activation causes blood clots in small blood vessels throughout the body (thrombotic microangiopathy, or TMA) leading to kidney failure, stroke, heart attack and death.  Our marketed product Soliris is the first and only therapy approved for the treatment of patients with aHUS.










In patients with aHUS, deficiency of naturally occurring complement inhibitors causes uncontrolled complement activation which leads to systemic TMA, the formation of blood clots in small blood vessels throughout the body causing a reduction in platelet count (thrombocytopenia) and life-threatening damage to the kidney, brain, heart and other vital organs. The prognosis for patients with aHUS is generally poor. Approximately 70% of patients with the most common mutation experience chronic renal insufficiency, chronic dialysis, or death within one year after the first clinical manifestation of TMA. aHUS commonly recurs in patients who undergo renal transplantation and, depending upon the mutation, the disease can lead to loss of the transplanted kidney in up to approximately 90% of aHUS patients who undergo kidney transplantation.

Approximately 50% of patients diagnosed with aHUS have been identified to have genetic mutations in at least one of the complement control proteins or neutralizing autoantibodies to complement regulatory factors, which can lead to uncontrolled complement activation. Excessive complement activation may contribute to the blood vessel inflammation and clotting by stimulating activation of white blood cells, platelets and the endothelial lining of blood vessels.

As a post marketing requirement, we have now completed enrollment in a prospective open-label trial in adult aHUS and, separately, enrollment has been completed in a prospective pediatric aHUS study.



Nephrology



Shiga-toxin producing E. Coli Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome(STEC-HUS)



STEC-HUS is a life-threatening, complement-mediated ultra-rare disorder that results from exposure to Enterohemorrhagic E.Coli, (EHEC).  Our STEC-HUS development program was initiated in connection with the widespread outbreak of EHEC in Germany in May and June 2011. Many EHEC patients rapidly progressed to STEC-HUS during this outbreak.  As in several other conditions with severe and uncontrolled complement activation, including aHUS, complement activation in STEC-HUS results in TMA.  Although aHUS and STEC-HUS exhibit similar life-threatening TMA manifestations, aHUS and STEC-HUS are different disorders.  aHUS is a chronic genetic disease of uncontrolled complement activation, while STEC-HUS is not genetic and follows an isolated episode of infection.  STEC-HUS is an ultra-rare disorder, comprising only a small sub-set of the already rare population of patients with EHEC.  Following an authorization by the Paul-Ehrlich-Institut, Germany's health care regulatory body for biologics, and an access program for patients initiated in May 2011, we initiated an open-label clinical trial to investigate eculizumab as a treatment for patients with STEC-HUS.  Enrollment in this trial has been completed.  The FDA and the EC have each granted orphan designation for eculizumab as a treatment for patients with STEC-HUS.

MPGN II/C3 Nephropathy

We are aware that independent investigators have completed enrollment in studies aimed at evaluating eculizumab in patients with membrano-proliferative glomerulonephritis (MPGN II or dense deposit disease) as well as patients with a similar disease referred to as C3 nephropathy.  MGPN II and C3 nephropathy are ultra-rare forms of glomerulonephritis, associated with genetic mutations in complement inhibitor genes leading to sustained uncontrolled complement activation and inflammation. Clinically, this disease is characterized by the onset of severe proteinuria (excess protein in the urine), often accompanied by nephrotic syndrome which is refractory to immunosuppressant therapy. In most cases, the disease progresses to chronic renal failure, requiring dialysis and renal transplantation.

Acute Humoral Rejection (AHR) in Presensitized Kidney Transplant Patients

Patients undergoing solid organ transplantation may experience severe AHR in the early post-transplant period. For example, in a patient undergoing a kidney transplant this may be characterized by the acute onset of renal dysfunction and rapid progression to destruction of the transplanted kidney.

AHR results when antibodies in the transplant recipient vigorously attack the blood vessels of the donor kidney. During severe AHR, these donor specific antibodies bind to the blood vessel lining of the donor organ and initiate activation of the complement cascade, resulting in severe blood vessel inflammation and clotting. Administration of a C5 inhibitor in animal models of AHR inhibits complement activation, tissue damage and transplant rejection.










We initiated enrollment in a multi-national, multi-site controlled clinical trial of eculizumab in presensitized renal transplant patients at elevated risk for AHR who will receive living donor grafts, and we have initiated enrollment in a multi-national, multi-site controlled clinical trial of eculizumab in presensitized renal transplant patients at elevated risk for AHR who will receive deceased donor grafts.  We are also aware that an independent investigator has started enrolling patients in a clinical trial to evaluate eculizumab in kidney transplant patients sensitized to their donor kidney due to an ABO blood group mismatch between donor and recipient.

Delayed Kidney Transplant Graft Function

We are aware that dosing is ongoing in an investigator-initiated Phase II study of eculizumab in patients at elevated risk for delayed graft function (DGF) following kidney transplant.

DGF is the term used to describe the failure of a kidney or other organs to function immediately after transplantation due to ischemia-reperfusion and immunological injury.  After kidney transplantation, DGF can be considered a form of acute kidney injury post-transplantation and is an important complication of kidney transplantation. The frequency of DGF can be as high as 50% in some kidney transplant settings. DGF complicates post-transplant management, increases morbidity and prolongs patient hospitalization.  In addition to the acute kidney injury, DGF predisposes the transplanted kidney to both acute and chronic rejection and increases the risk of chronic allograft nephropathy and premature graft loss.  Studies have indicated that activation of the complement cascade may be a key early event required for the development of DGF following kidney transplant.  There are currently no accepted or approved therapies for prevention or treatment of DGF following kidney transplantation.

Neurology

Neuromyelitis Optica (NMO)

NMO is a severe and ultra-rare autoimmune disease of the central nervous system (CNS) that primarily affects the optic nerves and spinal cord. Individuals with NMO develop optic neuritis, which causes pain in the eye and vision loss, and transverse myelitis, which causes weakness, numbness, and sometimes paralysis of the arms and legs, weakness or paralysis of respiratory muscles sometimes leading to respiratory failure, along with sensory disturbances and loss of bladder and bowel control.

Preliminary data from the investigator-initiated Phase II clinical trial of eculizumab in severe and relapsing NMO patients was presented to the American Neurological Association (ANA) meeting in October 2012.  The study was reported to have achieved its primary efficacy endpoint with a high degree of clinical and statistical significance and several key secondary endpoints were also achieved.

Myasthenia Gravis (MG)

MG is an ultra-rare autoimmune syndrome characterized by complement activation leading to the failure of neuromuscular transmission. Patients with MG initially experience weakness in their ocular, or eye muscles, and the disease typically progresses to head, spinal, limb and respiratory muscles. Symptoms can include drooping eyelids, blurred vision, slurred speech, difficulty chewing or swallowing, weakness in the arms and legs and difficulty breathing. In an experimental animal model of MG, administration of a C5 Inhibitor was found to prevent experimentally acquired MG and to inhibit disease progression.

Preliminary data from a Phase II trial evaluating the safety and efficacy of eculizumab in patients with severe, refractory MG demonstrated an encouraging disease improvement signal and was presented at the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation Annual Meeting in September 2011. We continue to work with investigators to design the next clinical trial to evaluate eculizumab as a treatment for patients with severe and refractory MG.



Asfotase Alfa



Hypophosphatasia (HPP)

HPP is an ultra-rare, genetic, and life-threatening metabolic disease characterized by impaired phosphate and calcium regulation, leading to progressive damage to multiple vital organs including destruction and deformity of bones, profound muscle weakness, seizures, impaired renal function, and respiratory failure.The severe manifestations of the genetic deficiency in HPP affect people of all ages, and approximately 50% of infants with the disease do not survive past one year of age.HPP is caused by mutations in the gene encoding the enzyme Tissue Nonspecific Alkaline Phosphatase. This enzyme normally breaks










down metabolic substrates such as inorganic pyrophosphate and pyridoxal phosphate.

Asfotase alfa, a targeted enzyme replacement therapy in Phase II clinical trials for patients with HPP, is designed to directly address the morbidities and mortality of HPP by targeting alkaline phosphatase directly to the deficient tissue. In this way, asfotase alfa is designed to normalize the genetically defective metabolic process and prevent or reverse the severe, crippling and life-threatening complications of dysregulated mineral metabolism in patients with HPP.  Initial studies with asfotase alfa in HPP patients indicate that the treatment significantly decreases the levels of targeted metabolic substrates.  We have initiated a natural history study in infants with HPP and are currently dosing patients in a separate global trial of severe infant HPP patients.  We acquired asfotase alfa in February 2012 in connection with our acquisition of Enobia.



cPMP

Molybdenum Cofactor Deficiency (MoCD) Disease Type A (MoCD Type A)

MoCD Type A is a rare metabolic disorder characterized by severe and rapidly progressive neurologic damage and death in newborns.  MoCD Type A results from a genetic deficiency in cyclic Pyranopterin Monophosphate (cPMP), a molecule that enables production of certain enzymes, the absence of which allows neurotoxic sulfite to accumulate in the brain.  To date, there is no approved therapy available for MoCD Type A.  There has been some early clinical experience with the cPMP replacement therapy in a small number of children with MoCD Type A.  We are currently conducting pre-Investigational New Drug (IND) toxicology studies with cPMP replacement therapy.



ALXN 1102/1103

ALXN 1102/1103 is a novel alternative pathway complement inhibitor with a mechanism of action unique from Soliris.  ALXN 1102 is currently being investigated in a Phase I single dose, dose escalating safety and pharmacology study. ALXN 1103 is being dosed in the same Phase I trial as a subcutaneous formulation.



ALXN 1007

ALXN 1007 is a novel humanized antibody designed to target rare and severe inflammatory disorders and is a product of our proprietary antibody discovery technologies.  ALXN 1007 is currently being investigated in a Phase I single dose, dose escalating safety and pharmacology study in healthy volunteers.

Manufacturing

We currently rely on two manufacturing facilities, Alexion's Rhode Island manufacturing facility (ARIMF) and Lonza Group AG and its affiliates (Lonza), to produce commercial and clinical bulk quantities of Soliris, and we rely on Lonza for clinical quantities of asfotase alfa.  We produce our clinical and preclinical quantities of our other product candidates at ARIMF.  We also depend on a limited number of third party providers for other services with respect to our clinical and commercial requirements, including product finishing, packaging, vialing and labeling.

We have various agreements with Lonza, with remaining total commitments of approximately$169,000through 2018.  Such commitments may be canceled only in limited circumstances.  If we terminate certain supply agreements with Lonza without cause, we will be required to pay for product scheduled for manufacture under our arrangement.  Under an existing arrangement with Lonza, we also pay Lonza a royalty on sales of Soliris manufactured at ARIMF.

Sales and Marketing

We have established a commercial organization to support current and future sales of Soliris in the United States, in the major markets in European Union, Japan, Asia Pacific countries, and other territories. Our sales force for Soliris is small compared to that of other drugs with similar gross revenues; however, we believe that a relatively smaller sales force is appropriate to effectively market Soliris due to the limited PNH and aHUS patient populations. If we receive regulatory approval in new territories, we may expand our own commercial organizations in such territories and market and sell Soliris through our own sales force in these territories. However, we will evaluate each jurisdiction on a country-by-country basis, and it is possible that we will promote Soliris in collaboration with marketing partners or rely on relationships with one or more companies with established distribution systems and direct sales forces in certain countries.










Customers

In the United States, our customers are primarily specialty distributors and specialty pharmacies which supply physician office clinics, hospital outpatient clinics, infusion clinics or home health care providers. We also sell Soliris to government agencies. Outside the United States, our customers are primarily hospitals, hospital buying groups, pharmacies, other health care providers and distributors.

During2012, sales to our two largest customers accounted for21%and12%of our Soliris net product sales.  During2011, sales to our two largest customers accounted for19%and12%of our Soliris net product sales.

Because of factors such as the pricing of Soliris, the limited number of patients, the short period from product sale to patient infusion and the lack of contractual return rights, Soliris customers generally carry limited inventory. We also monitor inventory within our sales channels to determine whether deferrals are appropriate based on factors such as inventory levels, contractual terms and financial strength of distributors.

Please also see "Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Net Product Sales," and Note 15 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for financial information about geographic areas.

Patents and Proprietary Rights

Patents and other proprietary rights are important to our business. Our practice is to file patent applications to protect technology, inventions and improvements to our technologies that are considered important to the development of our business. We also rely upon our trade secrets, know-how, and continuing technological innovations, as well as patents that we have licensed or may license from other parties, to develop and maintain our competitive position.

We have filed several U.S. patent applications and international counterparts of certain of these applications. In addition, we have in-licensed several additional U.S. and international patents and patent applications. As ofDecember 31, 2012, we owned or in-licensed89U.S. patents and45U.S. patent applications. These patents and patent applications relate to technologies or products in the C5 Inhibitor program, high throughput screening, vectors, cancer, recombinant antibodies, bone delivery conjugates, natriuretic peptides, human molybdenum cofactor deficiency, targeted complement inhibitors, and other technologies. As ofDecember 31, 2012, we owned or in-licensed93foreign patents and370pending foreign patent applications.

With respect to Soliris, we have an issued U.S. patent that will expire in 2021, taking into account patent term extension.  In Europe, a corresponding issued patent covering Soliris expires in 2015 and, taking into account the Supplementary Protection Certificates (SPC) that we have filed for in various European countries, exclusivity for Soliris will extend into 2020 in those countries in which an SPC is granted.  Patents covering Soliris in Japan and other countries expire between 2015 and 2020.  We owe royalties and other fees to owners of one or more patents in connection with the manufacture and sale of Soliris for PNH and aHUS, and we may owe royalties and fees to other third parties with respect to any previous or future manufacture and sale of Soliris and our product candidates.

We also own U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications for our product candidates other than Soliris.  At present, each such product candidate is in early stage development, and it is not known whether any such product candidate will ever be approved for human use and sale.










We are aware of broad patents owned by others relating to the manufacture, use and sale of recombinant humanized antibodies, recombinant human antibodies, and recombinant human single chain antibodies. Soliris and many of our product candidates are either genetically engineered antibodies, including recombinant humanized antibodies, recombinant human antibodies, or recombinant human single chain antibodies. We have received notices from the owners of patents claiming that their patents may be infringed by the development, manufacture or sale of Soliris or some of our drug candidates. For example, in January 2011, Novartis Vaccines & Diagnostics, Inc. (Novartis) filed a civil action in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware alleging that the manufacture of Soliris infringes their U.S. patent number 5,688,688. We are also aware of other patents owned by third parties that might be claimed by such third parties to be infringed by the development and commercialization of Soliris or some of our product candidates. In respect to some of these patents, we have obtained licenses, or expect to obtain licenses. However, with regard to such other patents, we have determined in our judgment that:

•our products do not infringe the patents;

•the patents are not valid; or

•we have identified and are testing various modifications that we believe should not infringe the patents and which should permit commercialization of our product candidates.

If any patent holder successfully challenges our judgment that our products do not infringe their patents or that their patents are invalid, we could be required to pay costly damages or to obtain a license to sell or develop our drugs. A required license may be costly or may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A costly license, or inability to obtain a necessary license, could materially and adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products, including Soliris.

On a quarterly basis, we review the status of each significant claim or legal proceeding and assess its potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim, asserted or unasserted, or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Because of uncertainties related to claims and litigation, accruals are based on our best estimates based on available information. On a periodic basis, as additional information becomes available, or based on specific events such as the outcome of litigation or settlement of claims, we may reassess the potential liability related to these matters and may revise these estimates, which could result in a material adverse adjustment to our operating results.

It is our policy to require our employees, consultants and parties to collaborative agreements to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of employment or consulting relationships or collaborations with us. These agreements generally provide that all confidential information developed or made known during the course of the relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not to be disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances. In the case of employees, the agreements also provide that all inventions resulting from work performed for us, utilizing our property or relating to our business and conceived or completed by the individual during employment shall be our exclusive property to the extent permitted by applicable law.

License Agreements

In March 1996, we entered into a license agreement with the Medical Research Council (MRC) whereby MRC granted to us worldwide non-exclusive rights to certain patents related to the humanization and production of monoclonal antibodies. We pay MRC royalties on a quarterly basis with respect to sales of Soliris. The royalty is payable until the expiration of the last patent covered by the license agreement, which is expected to be in 2015, except that royalties for sales in Canada will continue until January of 2017. MRC may terminate the license if we file for bankruptcy or become insolvent, or if we fail to perform our obligations under the agreement and such failure is not remedied within three months after delivery of notice. Under the agreement, we agreed to (a) make royalty payments with respect to sales of licensed products, (b) promote the sale of Soliris of good marketable quality, and (c) use reasonable endeavors to meet market demand for licensed products.

We are party to other license agreements related to the manufacture and sale of Soliris. Under an existing arrangement with Lonza, Lonza produces commercial and clinical bulk quantities of Soliris.  We pay Lonza royalties on a quarterly basis with respect to sales of Soliris manufactured at ARIMF.  We have various agreements with Lonza, with commitments through 2018.  Such commitments may be canceled only in limited circumstances.  If we terminate certain supply agreements with Lonza without cause, we will be required to pay for product scheduled for manufacture under our arrangement.

In October 2012, we entered into a settlement and non-exclusive license agreement with a third party.  Under the terms of the agreement, we made an upfront payment of approximately$38,000in the fourth quarter of 2012 and will pay royalties on sales of Soliris in accordance with the terms of the agreement.










Government Regulation

The preclinical studies and clinical testing, manufacture, labeling, storage, record keeping, advertising, promotion, export, and marketing, among other things, of our products and product candidates, including Soliris, are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States, the European Union and other territories. In the United States, pharmaceutical products are regulated by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and other laws, including, in the case of biologics, the Public Health Service Act. Soliris is regulated by the FDA as a biologic. Biologics require the submission of a Biologics License Application (BLA) and approval by the FDA prior to being marketed in the United States. Manufacturers of biologics may also be subject to state regulation. Failure to comply with FDA requirements, both before and after product approval, may subject us and/or our partners, contract manufacturers, and suppliers to administrative or judicial sanctions, including FDA refusal to approve applications, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, fines and/or criminal prosecution.

The steps required before a biologic may be approved for marketing of an indication in the United States generally include:

(1) preclinical laboratory tests and animal tests;

(2) submission to the FDA of an IND for human clinical testing, which must become effective before human clinical trials may commence;

(3) adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the product;

(4) submission to the FDA of a BLA or supplemental BLA;

(5) FDA pre-approval inspection of product manufacturers; and

(6) FDA review and approval of the BLA or supplemental BLA.

Preclinical studies include laboratory evaluation, as well as animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product candidate. Preclinical safety tests must be conducted in compliance with FDA regulations regarding good laboratory practices. The results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information and analytical data, are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND which must become effective before human clinical trials may be commenced. The IND will automatically become effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA before that time raises concerns about the drug candidate or the conduct of the trials as outlined in the IND. The IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before clinical trials can proceed. We cannot assure you that submission of an IND will result in FDA authorization to commence clinical trials or that once commenced, other concerns will not arise.

Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational product to healthy volunteers or to patients, under the supervision of qualified principal investigators. Each clinical study at each clinical site must be reviewed and approved by an independent institutional review board, prior to the recruitment of subjects.

Clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap and different trials may be initiated with the same drug candidate within the same phase of development in similar or differing patient populations. Phase I studies may be conducted in a limited number of patients, but are usually conducted in healthy volunteer subjects. The drug is usually tested for safety and, as appropriate, for absorption, metabolism, distribution, excretion, pharmaco-dynamics and pharmaco-kinetics. Phase II usually involves studies in a larger, but still limited patient population to evaluate preliminarily the efficacy of the drug candidate for specific, targeted indications; to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage; and to identify possible short-term adverse effects and safety risks.

Phase III trials are undertaken to further evaluate clinical efficacy of a specific endpoint and to test further for safety within an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical study sites. Phase I, Phase II or Phase III testing might not be completed successfully within any specific time period, if at all, with respect to any of our product candidates. Results from one trial are not necessarily predictive of results from later trials. Furthermore, the FDA, sponsor or institutional review board may suspend clinical trials at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk.

The results of the preclinical studies and clinical trials, together with other detailed information, including information on the manufacture and composition of the product, are submitted to the FDA as part of a BLA requesting approval to market the product candidate for a proposed indication. Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, as amended, the fees payable to the FDA for reviewing a BLA, as well as annual fees for commercial manufacturing establishments and for approved products, can be substantial. The BLA review fee alone can exceed $1,500, subject to certain limited deferrals, waivers and reductions that may be available. Each BLA submitted to the FDA for approval is typically reviewed for administrative completeness and










reviewability within 60 days following submission of the application. If found sufficiently complete, the FDA will “file” the BLA, thus triggering a full review of the application. The FDA may refuse to file any BLA that it deems incomplete or not properly reviewable at the time of submission. The FDA’s established goal is to review 90% of Priority BLA applications and original efficacy supplements within six months and 90% of Standard applications and original efficacy supplements in ten months, whereupon a review decision is to be made. The FDA, however, may not approve a drug within these established goals and its review goals are subject to change from time to time because the review process is often significantly extended by FDA requests for additional information or clarification.  As part of its review, the FDA may refer the BLA to an advisory committee for evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved.  Although the FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee, the agency usually has followed such recommendations.

Further, the outcome of the review, even if generally favorable, may not be an actual approval but instead a “complete response letter” communicating the FDA's decision not to approve the application, outlining the deficiencies in the BLA, and identifying what information and/or data (including additional pre-clinical or clinical data) is required before the application can be approved. Even if such additional information and data are submitted, the FDA may decide that the BLA still does not meet the standards for approval.  Data from clinical trials are not always conclusive and the FDA may interpret data differently than us.

In 2010, the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act (BPCI) was enacted, creating a statutory pathway  for licensure, or approval, of biological products that are biosimilar to, and possibly interchangeable with, reference biological products licensed under the Public Health Service Act. Also under the BPCI, innovator manufacturers of original reference biological products are granted 12 years of exclusive use before biosimilars can be approved for marketing in the United States. This means that the FDA may not approve a biosimilars application until 12 years after the date of approval of the original reference biological product date (with a potential six-month extension of exclusivity if certain pediatric studies are conducted and the results reported to FDA), although a biosimilar application may be submitted four years after the date of approval of the original reference biological product.

The objectives of the BPCI are conceptually similar to those of the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, commonly referred to as the ‘Hatch-Waxman Act, which established abbreviated pathways for the approval of small molecule drug products. The implementation of an abbreviated approval pathway for biological products is under the direction of the FDA and is currently being developed. In February of 2012, the FDA published draft guidance documents on biosimilar product development.  The guidance defines a biosimilar as a biological product that is highly similar to an already approved biological product, notwithstanding minor differences in clinically inactive components, and for which there are no clinically meaningful differences between the biosimilar and the approved biological product in terms of the safety, purity, and potency.  Under this proposed approval pathway, biological products are approved based on demonstrating they are biosimilar to, or interchangeable with, a biological product that is already approved by the FDA, which is called a reference product.  The approval of a biologic product biosimilar to one of our products could have a material impact on our business because it may be significantly less costly to bring to market and may be priced significantly lower than our products.

Both before and after the FDA approves a product, the manufacturer and the holder or holders of the BLA for the product are subject to comprehensive regulatory oversight. If ongoing regulatory requirements are not satisfied or if safety problems occur after the product reaches the market, the FDA may at any time withdraw its product approval or take actions that would suspend marketing.  For example, quality control and manufacturing procedures must conform, on an ongoing basis, to cGMP requirements, and the FDA periodically inspects manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMP. Failure to comply with applicable cGMP requirements and conditions of product approval may lead the FDA to seek sanctions, including fines,










civil penalties, injunctions, suspension of manufacturing operations, operating restrictions, withdrawal of FDA approval, seizure or recall of products, and criminal prosecution.  Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to spend time, money and effort to maintain cGMP compliance.



Orphan Drug Designation in the United States, the European Union and other foreign jurisdictions

Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs intended to treat a “rare disease or condition,” which generally is a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting a BLA or supplemental BLA. After the FDA grants orphan drug designation, the generic identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use are publicly disclosed by the FDA. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process. If a product which has an orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to an orphan exclusivity period, in which the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug for the same indication for seven years, except in limited circumstances.

Medicinal products used to treat life-threatening or chronically debilitating conditions that affect no more than five in 10,000 people in the European Union and medicinal products which, for economic reasons, would be unlikely to be developed without incentives may be granted an orphan designation in the European Union. The application for orphan designation is submitted to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) before an application is made for marketing authorization. Once authorized, orphan medicinal products are entitled to ten years of market exclusivity. During this ten year period, with a limited number of exceptions, neither the competent authorities of the European Union member states nor the EMA are permitted to accept applications or grant marketing authorization for other similar medicinal products with the same orphan indication. However, marketing authorization may be granted to a similar medicinal product with the same orphan indication during the ten year period with the consent of the marketing authorization holder for the original orphan medicinal product or if the manufacturer of the original orphan medicinal product is unable to supply sufficient quantities. Marketing authorization may also be granted to a similar medicinal product with the same orphan indication if this product is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior to the original orphan medicinal product.

Soliris has received orphan drug designation for the treatment of PNH in the United States and in several other territories, including the European Union, Australia and South Korea, which provides certain regulatory and filing fee advantages, including market exclusivity, except in limited circumstances, for several years after approval. In 2009, Soliris also received orphan drug designation for the treatment of patients with aHUS in the United States and the European Union.  Soliris received marketing authorization for the treatment of PNH in 2007 and for aHUS in 2011.  In 2008, asfotase alfa received orphan drug designation for the treatment of patients with hypophosphatasia in the United States and the European Union.

Foreign Regulation

In addition to regulations in the United States, we are subject to a variety of foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials and marketing approval for drugs. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with FDA approval set forth above, as well as additional country-specific regulations. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we must obtain approval of a product by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. The approval process varies from










country to country, and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country.

For example, in the European Union, applications for marketing authorization are based on the ICH Common Technical Document and must include a demonstration that the applicant has conducted studies with the medicinal product in the pediatric population as provided by a Pediatric Investigation Plan (PIP) approved by the Pediatric Committee of the EMA. Alternatively, confirmation that the applicant has been granted a waiver or deferral for the conduct of these studies must be provided.

Similarly to the U.S., both marketing authorization holders and manufacturers of medicinal products are subject to comprehensive regulatory oversight by the EMA and the competent authorities of the individual European Union member states both before and after grant of the manufacturing and marketing authorizations. This includes control of compliance by these entities with European Union cGMP rules.

Failure to comply with European Union laws and the related national laws of individual European Union member states governing the conduct of clinical trials, marketing authorization of medicinal products and marketing of such products, both before and after grant of marketing authorization, may result in administrative, civil or criminal penalties. These penalties could include refusal to authorize the conduct of clinical trials, refusal to grant marketing authorization, product withdrawals and recalls, product seizures, suspension or withdrawal of the marketing authorization, fines and criminal penalties.

We submitted our Marketing Authorization Application for Soliris for the treatment of PNH and aHUS to the EMA using the centralized marketing authorization procedure.

The European Union has had an established regulatory pathway for biosimilars since 2005 and has approved several biosimilar products.  The approval of a biologic product biosimilar to one of our products marketed in the European Union could have a material impact on our business. The biologic product biosimilar may be significantly less costly to bring to market and may be priced significantly lower than our products.

Reimbursement

Sales of pharmaceutical products depend in significant part on the coverage and reimbursement policies of government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid in the United States, and other third party payers. All third party payers are sensitive to the cost of drugs and have taken efforts to control those costs and will continue to do so in the future.  Private health insurance plans may restrict coverage of some products by using payer formularies under which only selected drugs are covered, variable co-payments that make drugs that are not preferred by the payer more expensive for patients, and by using utilization management controls, such as requirements for prior authorization or prior failure on another type of treatment. Payers may especially impose these obstacles to coverage for higher priced drugs, and consequently Soliris may be subject to payer-driven restrictions.

Medicare is a government insurance program for U.S. citizens age 65 and older and younger individuals with disabilities.  For Medicare beneficiaries, Soliris may be covered under Part B, which reimburses physicians and hospital outpatient departments for furnishing drugs, or Part A, which is the inpatient hospital benefit.  Under Part B, reimbursement is based on average sales price (ASP).  Manufacturers must report ASP information to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), on a quarterly basis.  In the physician office setting, the reimbursement rate for drugs and biologics is ASP + 6%.  For 2013, in the hospital outpatient department setting, the reimbursement rate for drugs and biologics is ASP + 6%.  This reimbursement rate may decrease in the future.  In both settings, the reimbursement rate is updated quarterly based on the










submission of new ASP information.  Hospital inpatient services are covered under Medicare Part A.  Hospitals typically receive a single payment for an inpatient stay depending on the Medicare Severity Diagnosis Related Group (MS-DRG) to which the inpatient stay is assigned.  The MS-DRG for a hospital inpatient stay varies based on the patient's condition.  In general, hospitals do not receive separate payment for drugs and biologicals administered to patients during a hospital stay.

Medicaid is a government insurance program for certain low-income individuals, including children.  It is jointly funded by the federal and state governments and it is administered by the states within parameters established by the federal government.  Coverage and reimbursement for drugs and biologics thus varies by state.  Drugs and biologics may be covered under the medical or pharmacy benefit.  State Medicaid programs may impose utilization management controls, such as prior authorization, step therapy, or quantity limits on drugs and biologics.  As a result of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability of 2010 (collectively, the PPACA), many states are expanding their Medicaid programs.  The manner in which this expansion occurs may affect beneficiary access to prescription drugs and the types of utilization management controls that apply.

Health Technology Assessment (HTA) of medicinal products is becoming an increasingly common part of the pricing and reimbursement procedures in some European Union member states. These countries include the United Kingdom, France, Germany and Sweden. The HTA process in the European Union member states is governed by the national laws of these countries. HTA is the procedure according to which the assessment of the public health impact, therapeutic impact and the economic and societal impact of the use of a given medicinal product in the national healthcare systems of the individual country is conducted. HTA generally focuses on the clinical efficacy and effectiveness, safety, cost, and cost-effectiveness of individual medicinal products as well as their potential implications for the healthcare system. Those elements of medicinal products are compared with other treatment options available on the market.

The outcome of HTA regarding specific medicinal products will often influence the pricing and reimbursement status granted to these medicinal products by the competent authorities of individual European Union member states. The extent to which pricing and reimbursement decisions are influenced by the HTA of a specific medicinal product vary between the European Union member states.

In 2011, Directive 2011/24/EU was adopted at the European Union level. This Directive concerns the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare. The Directive is intended to establish rules for facilitating access to safe and high-quality cross-border healthcare in the European Union. It also provides for the establishment of a voluntary network of national authorities or bodies responsible for HTA in the individual European Union member states. The purpose of the network is to facilitate and support the exchange of scientific information concerning HTAs. This could lead to harmonization of the criteria taken into account in the conduct of HTA and their impact on pricing and reimbursement decisions between European Union member states.



On a continuous basis, we engage with appropriate authorities on the operational, reimbursement, price approval and funding processes that are separately required in each country.










Competition

There are currently no approved drugs other than Soliris for the treatment of PNH and aHUS. However, many companies, including major pharmaceutical and chemical companies as well as specialized biotechnology companies, are engaged in activities similar to our activities. Universities, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations also conduct research and may market commercial products on their own or through joint ventures. Many of these entities may have:

•substantially greater financial and other resources;

•larger research and development staffs;

•lower labor costs; and/or

•more extensive marketing and manufacturing organizations.

Many of these companies and organizations have significant experience in preclinical testing, human clinical trials, product manufacturing, marketing, sales and distribution and other regulatory approval and commercial procedures. They may also have a greater number of significant patents and greater legal resources to seek remedies for cases of alleged infringement of their patents by us to block, delay or compromise our own drug development process.

We compete with large pharmaceutical companies that produce and market synthetic compounds and with specialized biotechnology firms in the United States, Europe and in other countries and regions, as well as a growing number of large pharmaceutical companies that are applying biotechnology to their operations. A number of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies are developing new products for the treatment of the same diseases being targeted by us; in some instances, these products have already entered clinical trials or are already being marketed. Other companies are engaged in research and development based on complement proteins.

Several companies have either publicly announced their intentions to develop drugs which target the inflammatory effects of complement in the immune system or have had programs to develop complement inhibitor therapies. We believe that our potential C5 Inhibitors differ substantially from those of our potential competitors due to our compounds’ demonstrated ability to specifically intervene in the complement cascade, for potentially prolonged periods of time. We believe this action to be the optimal point so that the disease-causing actions of complement proteins are inhibited, while the normal disease-preventing functions of complement proteins and other aspects of immune function remain intact.

Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2012, we had1,373full-time, world-wide employees, of which574were engaged in research, product development, manufacturing, and clinical development,552in sales and marketing, and247in administration, human resources, information technology and finance. Our U.S. employees are not represented by any collective bargaining unit, and we regard the relationships with all our employees as satisfactory.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The executive officers of the Company and their respective ages and positions as ofFebruary 11, 2013are as follows:



NameAgePosition with AlexionLeonard Bell, M.D.54Chief Executive Officer, Treasurer and DirectorStephen P. Squinto, Ph.D.56Executive Vice President and Head of Research and DevelopmentDavid L. Hallal46Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial OfficerVikas Sinha, M.B.A., C.A., C.P.A.49Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerClare Carmichael53Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources OfficerJohn B. Moriarty, J.D.45Senior Vice President and General CounselFrank J. Wright65Senior Vice President and President of Alexion Pharma International Sàrl



Leonard Bell, M.D.is the principal founder of Alexion and has been a director of Alexion since February 1992 and the Company’s Chief Executive Officer since January 1992. From 1991 to 1992, Dr. Bell was an Assistant Professor of Medicine and Pathology and co-Director of the program in Vascular Biology at the Yale University School of Medicine. From 1990 to 1992, Dr. Bell was an attending physician at the Yale-New Haven Hospital and an Assistant Professor in the Department of










Internal Medicine at the Yale University School of Medicine. Dr. Bell was a recipient of the Physician Scientist Award from the National Institutes of Health and Grant-in-Aid from the American Heart Association as well as various honors and awards from academic and professional organizations. His work has resulted in more than 20 scientific publications and 9 patent applications. Dr. Bell received his A.B. from Brown University and M.D. from Yale University School of Medicine. Dr. Bell is currently an Adjunct Assistant Professor of Medicine and Pathology at the Yale University School of Medicine.

Stephen P. Squinto, Ph.D.is a founder of Alexion and has been Executive Vice President and Head of Research and Development since June 2007. He held the position of Executive Vice President and Head of Research between August 2000 and June 2007. He also held the positions of Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer from March 1998 to July 2000, Vice President of Research, Molecular Sciences, from August 1994 to March 1998, Senior Director of Molecular Sciences from July 1993 to July 1994, and Director of Molecular Development from 1992 to July 1993. From 1989 to 1992, Dr. Squinto held various positions at Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. including as Senior Scientist and Assistant Head of the Discovery Group. From 1986 to 1989, Dr. Squinto was an Assistant Professor of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology at Louisiana State University Medical Center and an Adjunct Professor of Neuroscience at the Tulane University Medical School. Dr. Squinto’s work has led to over 70 scientific papers in the fields of gene regulation, growth factor biology and gene transfer. Dr. Squinto’s work is primarily in the fields of molecular and cellular biology. Dr. Squinto served as a Director of the Biotechnology Research and Development Corporation, a biotechnology consortium, from 1997 to 2003. Dr. Squinto received his B.A. in Chemistry and Ph.D. in Biochemistry and Biophysics from Loyola University of Chicago.

David L. Hallalhas been Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer since October 2012.  From May 2010 and October 2012, he was Senior Vice President , Global Commercial Operations. From November 2008 to May 2010, he was Senior Vice President, Commercial Operations Americas, and from June 2006 until November 2008 he served as Senior Vice President, US Commercial Operations. Before joining Alexion, Mr. Hallal served as Vice President, Sales at OSI Eyetech from April 2004 until June 2006, where he led the U.S. launch of a first-in-class anti-VEGF therapy for age-related macular degeneration. Prior to OSI Eyetech, from 1992 until 2004, Mr. Hallal held various sales and marketing leadership positions at Amgen and Biogen Idec, where he was involved in multiple product launches in the areas of hematology, oncology, nephrology and immunology. Mr. Hallal received a B.A. in Psychology from the University of New Hampshire.

Vikas Sinha, M.B.A., C.A., C.P.A.

Clare Carmichaelhas been Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer, since August 2011. From August 2008 to March 2011, Ms. Carmichael served as Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources at Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc., where she established and executed global HR strategies. From December 2005 to August 2008, Ms. Carmichael held various human resources positions of increasing responsibility at Schering-Plough Corporation, including Vice President of Global Human Resources at the Schering-Plough Research Institute. From December 2003 to December 2005, Ms. Carmichael was Vice President of Human Resources at Eyetech Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Prior to Eyetech, she held various positions of increasing responsibility in human resources at Pharmacia Corporation. Ms. Carmichael received a B.A. in Psychology from Rider University.

John B. Moriarty, J.D.has been Senior Vice President and General Counsel since December 2012.  From December 2010 to December 2012, Mr. Moriarty served as General Counsel and Chief Legal Officer at Elan Corporation plc, an Irish public limited company traded on the New York and Irish Stock Exchanges, and also served as a member of Elan's Executive Management team.  Prior to assuming the role of General Counsel, Mr. Moriarty served as Senior Vice President of Law, Litigation and Commercial Operations at Elan from December 2008 to December 2010.  From 2002 to 2008, Mr. Moriarty held various positions with Amgen, Inc., including Executive Director and Associate General Counsel, Global Commercial Operations - Amgen Oncology and Senior Counsel, Complex Litigation, Products Liability and Government Investigations. Between 1994 and 2002, Mr. Moriarty served in various capacities in private practice focused on healthcare and as a healthcare










fraud prosecutor in the U.S. Attorney's Office and the Virginia Attorney General's Office.  Mr. Moriarty received his J.D., cum laude, from the University of Georgia School of Law and his B.A., with distinction, from the University of Virginia.

Frank J. Wrighthas been Senior Vice President and President of Alexion Pharma International Sàrl since January 2013.  Before joining Alexion, from August 2011 to February 2012, Mr. Wright served as Interim President of the Clinical Trials Distribution Unit at Marken Limited, a global clinical supply chain solutions provider.  Mr. Wright co-founded Aptuit LLC in 2004, a provider of integrated drug discovery and development services, and from 2004 to 2010 served as its Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer. From 2000 to 2004, he was an independent consultant advising pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and private equity firms with respect to acquisitions, asset valuation and emerging markets.  From 1994 to 2000, Mr. Wright held various positions of increasing responsibility at ChiRex, Inc., a Nasdaq-listed services company providing process research and development and contract manufacturing services, acquired by Rhodia Pharma in 2000, including as Co-Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer.  Prior to joining ChiRex, Mr. Wright served at Glaxo for 15 years in various operational management, outsourcing and procurement positions.  Mr. Wright studied Mechanical Engineering at the University of Strathclyde, Glasgow.

Available Information

Our internet website address is http://www.alxn.com. Through our website, we make available, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, any amendments to those reports, proxy and registration statements, and all of our insider Section 16 reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These SEC reports can be accessed through the “Investors” section of our website. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. Paper copies of our SEC reports are available free of charge upon request in writing to Investor Relations, Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 352 Knotter Drive, Cheshire, CT 06410.














