Item 1.BUSINESS.

(dollars and shares in thousands)



Overview

We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on serving patients with severe and ultra-rare disorders through the innovation, development and commercialization of life-transforming therapeutic products. Our marketed product Soliris is the first and only therapeutic approved for patients with either of two severe and ultra-rare disorders resulting from chronic uncontrolled activation of the complement component of the immune system:  paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH), a life-threatening and ultra-rare genetic blood disorder, and atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS), a life-threatening and ultra-rare genetic disease. We are also evaluating additional potential indications for Soliris in severe and ultra-rare diseases in which we believe that uncontrolled complement activation is the underlying mechanism, and we are progressing in various stages of development with additional biotechnology product candidates as treatments for patients with severe and life-threatening ultra-rare disorders.  We were incorporated in 1992 and began commercial sale of Soliris in 2007.










Soliris is designed to inhibit a specific aspect of the complement component of the immune system and thereby treat inflammation associated with chronic disorders in several therapeutic areas, including hematology, nephrology, transplant rejection and neurology. Soliris is a humanized monoclonal antibody that effectively blocks terminal complement activity at the doses currently prescribed. The initial indication for which we received approval for Soliris is PNH. PNH is a debilitating and life-threatening, ultra-rare genetic blood disorder defined by chronic uncontrolled complement activation leading to the destruction of red blood cells (hemolysis). The chronic hemolysis in patients with PNH may be associated with life-threatening thromboses, recurrent pain, kidney disease, disabling fatigue, impaired quality of life, severe anemia, pulmonary hypertension, shortness of breath and intermittent episodes of dark-colored urine (hemoglobinuria).

Soliris was approved for the treatment of PNH by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the European Commission (EC) in 2007 and by Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (MHLW) in 2010, and has been approved in several other territories. Additionally, Soliris has been granted orphan drug designation for the treatment of PNH in the United States, Europe, Japan and several other territories.

In September and November 2011, Soliris was approved by the FDA and EC, respectively, for the treatment of pediatric and adult patients with aHUS in the United States and Europe.  In September 2013, the MHLW approved Soliris for the treatment of pediatric and adult patients with aHUS in Japan.  aHUS is a severe and life-threatening genetic ultra-rare disease characterized by chronic uncontrolled complement activation and thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA), the formation of blood clots in small blood vessels throughout the body, causing a reduction in platelet count (thrombocytopenia) and life-threatening damage to the kidney, brain, heart and other vital organs.  In addition, the FDA and EC have granted Soliris orphan drug designation for the treatment of patients with aHUS.

Products and Development Programs

The human immune system defends the body from attack or invasion by infectious agents or pathogens. This is accomplished through a complex system of proteins and cells, primarily complement proteins, antibodies and white blood cells, each with a specialized function. Under normal circumstances, complement proteins, together with antibodies and white blood cells, act to protect the body by removing:

•harmful micro-organisms;

•cells containing foreign proteins known as antigens; and

•potential disease-causing combinations of antigens and antibodies known as immune complexes.

When activated by certain stimuli, the immune system triggers a series of enzymatic and biochemical reactions called the complement cascade that results in an inflammatory response. This inflammatory response is one of the immune system’s weapons against foreign pathogens or otherwise diseased tissue. However, under certain circumstances, the complement cascade may cause excessive or inappropriate activation, and/or an individual may be deficient in naturally occurring complement inhibitors, all of which may result in acute and chronic inflammatory conditions and damage to healthy tissues.

We focus our product development programs on life transforming therapeutics for severe and life-threatening ultra-rare diseases for which we believe current treatments are either non-existent or inadequate. Eculizumab is a humanized antibody known as a C5 terminal complement inhibitor (C5 Inhibitor), which is designed to selectively block the production of inflammation-causing proteins of the complement cascade. We believe that selective suppression of this immune response may provide a significant therapeutic advantage relative to existing therapies. In addition to PNH and aHUS, for which the use of eculizumab has been approved in the United States, Europe and Japan, we believe that C5 Inhibitors may be useful in the treatment of a variety of other serious diseases and conditions resulting from uncontrolled complement activation.










Marketed Products

Our marketed products include the following:ProductDevelopment AreaIndicationDevelopment StageSoliris (eculizumab)HematologyParoxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria (PNH)CommercialPNH RegistryPhase IVHematology/NephrologyAtypical Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome (aHUS)CommercialaHUS Adult and Long-term Follow-upPhase IVaHUS RegistryPhase IV

Paroxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria (PNH)

Soliris is the first and only therapy approved for the treatment of patients with PNH, a debilitating and life-threatening ultra-rare blood disorder in which an acquired genetic deficiency causes uncontrolled complement activation which leads to life-threatening complications.  We continue to work with researchers to expand the base of knowledge in PNH and the utility of Soliris to treat patients with PNH.  In 2013, the EC extended the Soliris label to include pediatric patients with PNH.  The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) recommends that the renewal be granted with unlimited validity.  Additionally, we are sponsoring a multinational registry to gather information regarding the natural history of patients with PNH and the longer term outcomes during Soliris treatment.

Atypical Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome (aHUS)

aHUS is a chronic and life-threatening ultra-rare genetic disease in which uncontrolled complement activation causes blood clots in small blood vessels throughout the body (thrombotic microangiopathy, or TMA) leading to kidney failure, stroke, heart attack and death.  Soliris is the first and only therapy approved for the treatment of patients with aHUS.  Pursuant to a post marketing requirement imposed by the FDA, we have now completed enrollment in a prospective open-label trial in adults with aHUS and, separately, enrollment has been completed in a prospective trial of pediatric patients with aHUS.










Clinical Development Program

Our programs, including investigator sponsored clinical programs, include the following:

ProductDevelopment AreaIndicationDevelopment StageSoliris (eculizumab)NephrologyAcute Antibody Mediated Rejection (AMR) Presensitized Renal Transplant - Living DonorPhase IIAcute Antibody Mediated Rejection (AMR) Presensitized Renal Transplant - Deceased DonorPhase IIDelayed Kidney Transplant Graft Function*Phase IISTEC-HUS (Shiga-toxin producing E. Coli Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome)Phase IINeurologyNeuromyelitis Optica (NMO)*Phase IIMyasthenia Gravis (MG)Phase IIHematologyCold Agglutinin Disease (CAD)*Phase IIAsfotase alfaMetabolic DisordersHypophosphatasia (HPP)Phase IIcPMP (ALXN 1101)Metabolic DisordersMoCD Type APhase IALXN 1102/1103HematologyPNHPhase IALXN 1007Inflammatory DisordersPhase I

* Investigator Initiated Trial



Soliris (eculizumab)



Nephrology

Acute Antibody Mediated Rejection (AMR) in Presensitized Kidney Transplant Patients

Enrollment is complete in a multi-national, multi-site controlled clinical trial of eculizumab in presensitized kidney transplant patients at elevated risk for AMR who received kidneys from deceased organ donors. AMR is the term used to describe a type of transplant rejection that occurs when the recipient has antibodies to the donor organ.  Enrollment is ongoing in a multi-national, multi-site randomized controlled clinical trial of eculizumab in presensitized kidney transplant patients at elevated risk for AMR who received kidneys from living donors.

In September, researchers presented positive preliminary data from the eculizumab deceased-donor AMR kidney transplant study at the European Society of Organ Transplant (ESOT) in Vienna, Austria.

Delayed Kidney Transplant Graft Function

Enrollment has been completed in an investigator-initiated Phase II study of eculizumab in patients at elevated risk for delayed graft function (DGF) following kidney transplant.  DGF is the term used to describe the failure of a kidney or other organs to function immediately after transplantation due to ischemia-reperfusion and immunological injury.  We have been granted orphan drug designation from the FDA and received a positive opinion on orphan drug designation for eculizumab in DGF from the Commission on Orphan Medical Products (COMP).

Shiga-toxin producingE. coliHemolytic Uremic Syndrome (STEC-HUS)

STEC-HUS is an ultra-rare disorder, comprising only a small sub-set of the already rare population of patients with enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli (EHEC).  Following an authorization by the Paul-Ehrlich-Institut, Germany's health care regulatory body for biologics, and an access program for patients initiated in May 2011, we initiated an open-label clinical trial to investigate eculizumab as a treatment for patients with STEC-HUS.  Enrollment in this trial has been completed.  We are










obtaining and analyzing additional control clinical outcome data from an epidemiologic study in approximately 400 STEC-HUS patients who received only best supportive care. The FDA and the EC have each granted orphan designation for eculizumab as a treatment for patients with STEC-HUS.

Neurology

Neuromyelitis Optica (NMO)

NMO is a severe and ultra-rare autoimmune disease of the central nervous system (CNS) that primarily affects the optic nerves and spinal cord.  In an investigator-initiated Phase II clinical trial of eculizumab in severe and relapsing NMO, eculizumab reduced the median number of NMO attacks at 12 months with a high degree of statistical significance.  A single pivotal trial in patients with relapsing NMO is expected to start in early 2014.  The FDA and the EC have each granted orphan designation for eculizumab as a treatment for patients with NMO.

Myasthenia Gravis (MG)

MG is an ultra-rare autoimmune syndrome characterized by complement activation and the subsequent failure of neuromuscular transmission.  Data from a Phase II trial evaluating the safety and efficacy of eculizumab in patients with refractory generalized MG demonstrated an encouraging disease improvement signal.  We have completed collaborations with investigators on the design of a Phase III trial to evaluate eculizumab as a treatment for patients with refractory generalized MG, and this trial is expected to start in early 2014.

Hematology

Cold Agglutinin Disease (CAD)

We are aware that dosing is ongoing in an investigator-initiated Phase II study of eculizumab in patients for the treatment of CAD.  CAD is a severe, ultra-rare complement-mediated autoimmune disease characterized by the presence of high concentrations of circulating complement-activating antibodies directed against red blood cells. As observed with PNH patients, CAD patients also suffer from the clinical consequences of severe hemolysis.



Asfotase Alfa

Hypophosphatasia (HPP)

HPP is an ultra-rare, genetic, and life-threatening metabolic disease characterized by impaired phosphate and calcium regulation, leading to progressive damage to multiple vital organs including destruction and deformity of bones, profound muscle weakness, seizures, impaired renal function, and respiratory failure.

Asfotase alfa, a targeted enzyme replacement therapy in Phase II clinical trials for patients with HPP, is designed to directly address the morbidities and mortality of HPP by targeting alkaline phosphatase directly to the deficient tissue. In this way, asfotase alfa is designed to normalize the genetically defective metabolic process and prevent or reverse its severe, crippling and life-threatening complications in patients with HPP.  Initial studies with asfotase alfa in HPP patients indicate that the treatment significantly decreases the levels of targeted metabolic substrates.

We have completed enrollment in a natural history study in infantile-onset patients with HPP and have completed our initial analysis for the study.  We believe that the analysis is supportive of our anticipated filing.  We continue to enroll and dose patients in a separate multinational Phase II open-label study of infants and children with HPP.  Interim results of this trial were presented at the European Society of Pediatric Endocrinology meeting held in September 2013 in Milan, Italy.  Results of 15 enrolled and treated patients representing a range of HPP characteristics were summarized, showing that the primary efficacy endpoint was achieved with a high degree of clinical and statistical significance and several key secondary endpoints were also achieved.  These results provide data in a broader patient population of infants and children.  Earlier in the year, asfotase alfa received Breakthrough Therapy Designation from the FDA.



cPMP (ALXN 1101)

Molybdenum Cofactor Deficiency (MoCD) Disease Type A (MoCD Type A)

MoCD Type A is a rare metabolic disorder characterized by severe and rapidly progressive neurologic damage and death in newborns.  MoCD Type A results from a genetic deficiency in cyclic Pyranopterin Monophosphate (cPMP), a molecule that enables production of certain enzymes, the absence of which allows neurotoxic sulfite to accumulate in the brain.  To date, there is no approved therapy available for MoCD Type A.  There has been some early clinical experience with cPMP replacement










therapy in a small number of children with MoCD Type A, and we have initiated a natural history study in patients with MoCD Type A.  In October, 2013, cPMP received Breakthrough Therapy Designation from the FDA for the treatment of patients with MoCD Type A.  Evaluation of our synthetic cPMP replacement therapy in healthy volunteers is ongoing.



ALXN 1102/1103

ALXN 1102/1103 is a novel alternative pathway complement inhibitor with a mechanism of action unique from Soliris.  ALXN 1102 is currently being investigated in a Phase I single dose, dose escalating safety and pharmacology study. ALXN 1103 is being dosed in the same Phase I trial as a subcutaneous or intravenous formulation.



ALXN 1007

ALXN 1007 is a novel humanized antibody designed to target rare and severe inflammatory disorders and is a product of our proprietary antibody discovery technologies.  We have completed enrollment in both a Phase I single-dose, dose escalating safety and pharmacology study in healthy volunteers, as well as in a multi-dose, dose escalating safety and pharmacology study in healthy volunteers.  Results are currently being analyzed.  We also completed successful meetings with the FDA to discuss initiation of proof of concept studies.  As a result, proof of concept studies in two severe life-threatening and ultra-rare conditions are expected to start in early 2014.

Manufacturing

We currently rely on three manufacturing facilities, Alexion's Rhode Island manufacturing facility (ARIMF) and two facilities operated by Lonza Group AG and its affiliates (Lonza), to produce commercial and clinical bulk quantities of Soliris, and we rely on a facility operated by Lonza for clinical quantities of asfotase alfa.  We produce our clinical and preclinical quantities of our other product candidates at ARIMF.  We also depend on a limited number of third party providers for other services with respect to our clinical and commercial requirements, including manufacturing services, product finishing, packaging, vialing and labeling.

We have various agreements with Lonza, with remaining total commitments of approximately$147,000through 2019.  Such commitments may be canceled only in limited circumstances.  If we terminate certain supply agreements with Lonza without cause, we will be required to pay for product scheduled for manufacture under our arrangement.  Under an existing arrangement with Lonza, we also pay Lonza a royalty on sales of Soliris manufactured at ARIMF.

In March 2013, we received a Warning Letter from the FDA regarding compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) at ARIMF.  The Warning Letter followed an FDA inspection which concluded in August 2012.  At the conclusion of that inspection, the FDA issued a Form 483 Inspectional Observations, to which we responded in August 2012 and provided additional information to the FDA in September and December 2012.  The observations relate to commercial and clinical manufacture of Soliris at ARIMF.   We responded to the Warning Letter in a letter to the FDA dated in April 2013. We continue to manufacture products, including Soliris, in this facility.  While the resolution of the issues raised in this Warning Letter is difficult to predict, we do not currently believe a loss related to this matter is probable or that the potential magnitude of such loss or range of loss, if any, can be reasonably estimated.  To the extent that circumstances related to this matter change, the impact could have a material adverse effect on our financial operations.

The European Medicines Agency (EMA) inspected ARIMF in January 2013, and a GMP certificate was issued in May 2013.

In August 2013, we initiated a voluntary recall and replacement of the remaining vials of a single lot of Soliris due to the presence of visible particles in a limited number of vials in the lot. The recall did not interrupt the supply of Soliris to patients and had no material impact on operations or financial results.  Subsequently, in November 2013, we initiated a voluntary recall and replacement of a limited number of vials of Soliris due to the presence of similar visible particles.  Following investigation, we believe that we have identified the filling process step that resulted in the presence of the visible particles and we are implementing the changes necessary to modify the process step.  During the fourth quarter of 2013, we recorded expense of$14,277in costs of sales resulting from the expected disposal of inventory in 2014.










Sales and Marketing

We have established a commercial organization to support current and future sales of Soliris in the United States, in the major markets in European Union, Japan, Asia Pacific countries, and other territories. Our sales force for Soliris is small compared to that of other drugs with similar gross revenues; however, we believe that a relatively smaller sales force is appropriate to effectively market Soliris due to the incidence and prevalence of PNH and aHUS. If we receive regulatory approval in new territories, we may expand our own commercial organizations in such territories and market and sell Soliris through our own sales force in these territories. However, we will evaluate each jurisdiction on a country-by-country basis, and it is possible that we will promote Soliris in collaboration with marketing partners or rely on relationships with one or more companies with established distribution systems and direct sales forces in certain countries.

Customers

Our customers are primarily comprised of distributors, pharmacies, hospitals, hospital buying groups, and other health care providers. In some cases, we may also sell Soliris to governments and government agencies.

During2013, sales to our largest customer accounted for20%of our Soliris net product sales.  During2012, sales to our two largest customers accounted for21%and12%, respectively, of our Soliris net product sales.

Because of factors such as the pricing of Soliris, the limited number of patients, the short period from product sale to patient infusion and the lack of contractual return rights, Soliris customers often carry limited inventory. We also monitor inventory within our sales channels to determine whether deferrals are appropriate based on factors such as inventory levels compared to demand, contractual terms and financial strength of distributors.

Please also see "Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Net Product Sales," and Note 17 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for financial information about geographic areas.

Intellectual Property Rights and Market Exclusivity

Patents and other intellectual property rights are important to our business. We own or license a number of patents in the U.S. and foreign countries that cover our products and investigational compounds; also we file and prosecute patent applications covering new technologies and inventions that are meaningful to our business.  In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets, know-how, trademarks, regulatory exclusivity and other forms of intellectual property.  Our intellectual property rights have material value and we act to protect them.

In the biopharmaceutical industry, two forms of intellectual property generally determine the period of a product’s market exclusivity:  patent rights and regulatory forms of exclusivity.  It is during the period of market exclusivity that an innovative product generally realizes most of its commercial value.

Patents provide the owner with a right to exclude others from practicing an invention.  Patents may cover the active ingredients, uses, formulations, doses, administrations, delivery mechanisms, manufacturing processes and other aspects of a product.  The period of patent protection for any given product may depend on the expiration date of various patents and may differ from country to country according to the type of patents, the scope of coverage and the remedies for infringement available in a country.

Most of our products and investigational compounds are protected by patents with varying terms that depend on the type of patent and its filing date.  However, a significant portion of a product's patent life can elapse during the time it takes to develop and obtain regulatory approval of the product.  As compensation, certain developed countries will extend a patent’s term, subject to a number of factors and caps.

With respect to Soliris, we own an issued U.S. patent that covers the product and will expire in 2021, taking into account patent term extension.  We also own a corresponding issued European patent that covers Soliris and will expire in 2015, though in certain European countries where we filed for supplementary protection certificates we expect exclusivity to extend into 2020.  In Japan and other countries where we own patents covering Soliris the patents will expire between 2015 and 2020.  We also own U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications that protect our investigational compounds and product candidates.  At present, it is not known whether any such investigational compound or product candidate will be approved for human use and sale.

Regulatory forms of exclusivity are another source of valuable rights that can contribute toward market exclusivity for an innovative biopharmaceutical product such as Soliris.  Many developed countries provide such non-patent incentives to develop medicines.  In the U.S., Europe and Japan, for instance, regulatory intellectual property rights provide incentives to develop










medicines for rare diseases, or orphan drugs, and medicines for pediatric patients.  Those countries and others also provide data protection for a period of time after the approval of a new drug, during which regulatory agencies may not rely on the innovator’s data to approve a biosimilar or generic copy.  Regulatory forms of exclusivity can work in conjunction with patents to strengthen market exclusivity, and in countries where patent protection has expired or does not exist, regulatory forms of exclusivity can extend a product’s market exclusivity period.

With respect to Soliris, we rely on regulatory forms of exclusivity such as data protection and orphan drug protection to support the product’s market exclusivity.  Specific aspects of the laws governing regulatory exclusivity vary by country, but most forms of regulatory exclusivity do not prevent competitive products from gaining regulatory approval on the basis of the competitor’s own safety and efficacy data, even when the competitive product is a biosimilar or generic copy.   In certain countries, however, orphan drugs can obtain a period of exclusivity during which no competitive product containing the same drug may be approved for the same orphan indication.

Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and regulatory protections for our products and investigational compounds, to preserve our trade secrets and other proprietary rights, to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties, and to prevent third parties from circumventing our rights. Due to the time and expense of bringing new products through development and regulatory approval to the marketplace, there is particular importance in obtaining patent and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes. As ofDecember 31, 2013, we owned or in-licensed95U.S. patents,126foreign patents,69U.S. patent applications and450foreign patent applications.  These patents and patent applications relate to C5 inhibitors, high throughput screening, vectors, cancer, recombinant antibodies, bone delivery conjugates, natriuretic peptides, human molybdenum cofactor deficiency, targeted complement inhibitors, and other technologies.

Significant legal questions exist concerning the extent and scope of patent protection for biopharmaceutical products and processes in the United States and elsewhere. Accordingly, there is no certainty that patent applications owned or licensed by us will issue as patents, or that our issued patents will afford meaningful protection against competitors.  Once issued, patents are subject to challenge through both administrative and judicial proceedings in the U.S. and other countries. Such proceedings include inter partes reviews, post-grant reviews and interference proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, as well as opposition proceedings before the European Patent Office.  Litigation may be required to enforce, defend or obtain our patent and other intellectual property rights. Any administrative proceeding or litigation could require a significant commitment of our resources and, depending on outcome, could adversely affect the scope, validity or enforceability of certain of our patent or other proprietary rights.

In regard to third party intellectual property, we have in the past received, and may in the future receive, notices claiming infringement of their patents.  For example, in January 2011, Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics, Inc. (Novartis) filed an action against us and other biopharmaceutical companies in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware claiming willful infringement by us of U.S. Patent No. 5,688,688 (688 Patent).  In October 2013, we and Novartis agreed to resolve all claims asserted by Novartis in the action.  We are aware of other patents owned by third parties that the owners might claim to be infringed by the development and commercialization of Soliris or some of our investigational compounds.  We have obtained licenses to some of those patents and may obtain licenses to others.  In other instances, we have determined in our judgment that:

•our products and investigational compounds do not infringe the patents;

•the patents are not valid or enforceable; or

•we have identified and are testing various alternatives that we believe should not infringe the patents and which should permit continued development and commercialization of our products and investigational compounds.

If a patent holder successfully challenges our judgment that our products do not infringe their patents or that their patents are invalid, we could be required to pay costly damages or to obtain a license to sell or develop our products. A required license may be costly or may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all.  A costly license or inability to obtain a necessary license could materially and adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products, including Soliris.

On a quarterly basis, we review the status of each significant matter and assess its potential financial exposure.  If the potential loss from any claim, asserted or unasserted, or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss.  Because of uncertainties related to claims and litigation, accruals are based on our best estimates based on available information.  On a periodic basis, as additional information becomes available, or based on specific events such as the outcome of litigation or settlement of claims, we may reassess the potential liability related to these matters and may revise these estimates, which could result in a material adjustment to our operating results.










The market exclusivity of our products may be impacted by competitive products that are either innovative or biosimilar or generic copies.  In our industry, the potential for biosimilar challenges has been an increasing risk to product market exclusivity.  U.S. law enacted in 2010 created a new approval pathway for biosimilar versions of innovative biological products.  Prior to that time, innovative biologics had essentially unlimited regulatory exclusivity.  Under the new pathway, the FDA may approve products that are similar to (but not generic copies of) innovative biologics on the basis of less extensive data than is required by a full biologic license application.  After an innovator has marketed its product for four years, other manufacturers may apply for approval of a biosimilar version of the innovator product.  However, qualified innovative biological products will receive 12 years of regulatory exclusivity, meaning that the FDA may not actually approve a biosimilar version until 12 years after the innovative product received its approval.  The law also provides a mechanism for innovators to enforce their patents that protect their products and for biosimilar applicants to challenge the patents.  Such litigation may begin as early as four years after the innovative biological product is first approved by the FDA.  A pathway for biosimilars also exists in certain other countries markets, including Europe.

We estimate the market exclusivity period for our products solely for business planning purposes.  The actual length of market exclusivity for any product is impossible to predict with certainty due to the complex interaction between patent and regulatory factors and the inherent uncertainties of litigation.

License Agreements

In March 1996, we entered into a license agreement with the Medical Research Council (MRC) whereby MRC granted to us worldwide non-exclusive rights to certain patents related to the humanization and production of monoclonal antibodies. The license agreement requires us to pay MRC royalties on a quarterly basis with respect to sales of Soliris. The royalty is payable until the expiration of the last patent covered by the license agreement, which is expected to be in 2015, except that royalties for sales in Canada will continue until January 2017. MRC may terminate the license if we file for bankruptcy or become insolvent, or if we fail to perform our obligations under the agreement and such failure is not remedied within three months after delivery of notice. Under the agreement, we agreed to (a) make royalty payments with respect to sales of licensed products, (b) promote the sale of Soliris of good marketable quality, and (c) use reasonable endeavors to meet market demand for licensed products.

In October 2012, we entered into a settlement and non-exclusive license agreement with a third party.  Under the terms of the agreement, we made an upfront payment and will pay royalties on sales of Soliris in accordance with the terms of the agreement.

In January 2013, we entered into a license agreement for a technology, which provides an exclusive research license and an option for an exclusive commercial license for specific targets and products to be developed.   Due to the early stage of this asset, we recorded expense for an upfront payment of$3,000during the first quarter of 2013.  We will also be required to pay annual maintenance fees during the term of the arrangement.  In addition, for each target, up to a maximum ofsixtargets we develop, we could be required to pay up to an additional$70,500in license fees, development and sales milestones as the specific milestones are met over time.

In July 2013, we entered into a license and collaboration agreement with Ensemble Therapeutics Corporation for the identification, development and commercialization of therapeutic candidates based on specific drug targets.  Due to the early stage of these assets, we recorded expense for an upfront payment of$11,500during the third quarter of 2013.  We will also be responsible for funding research activities under the program.  In addition, for each drug target, up to a maximum offourtargets, we could be required to pay up to an additional$90,750in development milestones as the specific milestones are met over time.  The agreement also provides for royalty payments on commercial sales of each product developed under the agreement.

In January 2014, we entered into an agreement with Moderna Therapeutics, Inc. (Moderna) that provides the option to purchase drug products for clinical development and commercialization of Moderna's messenger RNA (mRNA) therapeutics to treat rare diseases.  Due to the early stage of these assets, we recorded expense for an upfront payment of $100,000 in 2014.  We will also be responsible for funding research activities under the program.  In addition, for each drug target, up to a maximum oftentargets, would could be required to make an option exercise payment of$15,000and to pay up to an additional$120,000with respect to a rare disease product and$400,000with respect to a non-rare disease product in development and sales milestones if the specific milestones are met over time as well as royalties on commercial sales.  In addition to the option agreement, we purchased$25,000of preferred equity of Moderna LLC, Moderna's parent company.










Government Regulation



Drug Development and Approval in the U.S.

The preclinical studies and clinical testing, manufacture, labeling, storage, record keeping, advertising, promotion, export, and marketing, among other things, of our products and product candidates, including Soliris, are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States, the European Union and other territories. In the United States, pharmaceutical products are regulated by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and other laws, including, in the case of biologics, the Public Health Service Act. Soliris is regulated by the FDA as a biologic. Biologics require the submission of a Biologics License Application (BLA) and approval by the FDA prior to being marketed in the United States. Manufacturers of biologics may also be subject to state regulation. Failure to comply with FDA requirements, both before and after product approval, may subject us and/or our partners, contract manufacturers, and suppliers to administrative or judicial sanctions, including FDA refusal to approve applications, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, fines and/or criminal prosecution.

The process for obtaining regulatory approval to market a biologic is expensive, often takes many years, and can vary substantially based on the type, complexity, and novelty of the product candidates involved.  The steps required before a biologic may be approved for marketing of an indication in the United States generally include:

(1) preclinical laboratory tests and animal tests;

(2) submission to the FDA of an IND for human clinical testing, which must become effective before human clinical trials may commence;

(3) adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the product for its intended use;

(4) submission to the FDA of a BLA or supplemental BLA;

(5) FDA pre-approval inspection of the manufacturing sites identified in the BLA; and

(6) FDA review and approval of the BLA or supplemental BLA.

Preclinical studies include laboratory evaluation, as well as animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product candidate. Preclinical safety tests intended for submission to FDA must be conducted in compliance with FDA regulations regarding good laboratory practices. The results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information and analytical data, are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND which must become effective before human clinical trials may be commenced. The IND will automatically become effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA before that time raises concerns about the drug candidate or the conduct of the trials as outlined in the IND. The IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before clinical trials can proceed. We cannot assure you that submission of an IND will result in FDA authorization to commence clinical trials or that once commenced, other concerns will not arise.

Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational product to healthy volunteers or to patients, under the supervision of qualified principal investigators. Clinical trials are conducted in accordance with protocols that detail the objectives of the study, the criteria for determining subject eligibility, the dosing plan, patient monitoring requirements and other elements necessary to ensure patient safety, and any efficacy criteria to be evaluated.  Each protocol must be submitted to FDA as part of the IND; further, each clinical study at each clinical site must be reviewed and approved by an independent institutional review board, prior to the recruitment of subjects.  The institutional review board’s role is to protect the rights and welfare of human subjects involved in clinical studies by evaluating, among other things, the potential risks and benefits to subjects, processes for obtaining informed consent, monitoring of data to ensure subject safety, and provisions to protect the subjects’ privacy.

Clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap and different trials may be initiated with the same drug candidate within the same phase of development in similar or differing patient populations. Phase I studies may be conducted in a limited number of patients, but are usually conducted in healthy volunteer subjects. The drug is usually tested for safety and, as appropriate, for absorption, metabolism, distribution, excretion, pharmaco-dynamics and pharmaco-kinetics. Phase II usually involves studies in a larger, but still limited patient population to evaluate preliminarily the efficacy of the drug candidate for specific, targeted indications; to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage; and to identify possible short-term adverse effects and safety risks.

Phase III trials are undertaken to further evaluate clinical efficacy of a specific endpoint and to test further for safety within an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical study sites. Phase I, Phase II or Phase III testing










might not be completed successfully within any specific time period, if at all, with respect to any of our product candidates. Results from one trial are not necessarily predictive of results from later trials. Furthermore, the FDA, sponsor or institutional review board may suspend clinical trials at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk.

Under the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 (FDAAA), we must register each controlled clinical trial, other than Phase I trials, on a website administered by National Institutes of Health (NIH).  Registration must occur not later than 21 days after the first patient is enrolled, and the submission must include descriptive information (e.g., a summary in lay terms of the study design, type and desired outcome), recruitment information (e.g., target number of participants and whether healthy volunteers are accepted), location and contact information, and other administrative data (e.g., FDA identification numbers). Within one year of a trial’s completion, information about the trial including characteristics of the patient sample, primary and secondary outcomes, trial results written in lay and technical terms, and the full trial protocol must be submitted to the FDA. The results information is posted to the website unless the drug has not yet been approved, in which case the FDA posts the information shortly after approval. A BLA, BLA supplement, and certain other submissions to the FDA require certification of compliance with the FDAAA clinical trials database requirements.

Further, the outcome of the review, even if generally favorable, may not be an actual approval but instead a “complete response letter” communicating the FDA's decision not to approve the application, outlining the deficiencies in the BLA, and identifying what information and/or data (including additional pre-clinical or clinical data) is required before the application can be approved. Even if such additional information and data are submitted, the FDA may decide that the BLA still does not meet the standards for approval. Data from clinical trials are not always conclusive and the FDA may interpret data differently than us.

Before approving a BLA, the FDA typically will inspect the facilities at which the product is manufactured and will not approve the product unless cGMP compliance is satisfactory. The FDA may deny approval of a BLA if applicable statutory or regulatory criteria are not satisfied, or may require additional testing or information, which can delay the approval process. FDA approval of any application may include many delays or never be granted. If a product is approved, the approval will impose limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed, may require that warning statements be included in the product labeling, and may require that additional studies be conducted following approval as a condition of the approval.   FDA also may impose restrictions and conditions on product distribution, prescribing or dispensing in the form of a Risk Evaluation Mitigation Strategies (REMS), or otherwise limit the scope of any approval. To market a product for other indicated uses, or to make certain manufacturing or other changes requires FDA review and approval of a BLA Supplement or new BLA. Further post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of a product may be required. In addition, new government requirements may be established that could delay or prevent regulatory approval of our product candidates under development.

In 2010, the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act (BPCI) was enacted, creating a statutory pathway for licensure, or approval, of biological products that are biosimilar to, and possibly interchangeable with, reference biological products licensed under the Public Health Service Act. Also under the BPCI, innovator manufacturers of original reference biological products are granted 12 years of exclusive use before biosimilar versions of such products can be approved for marketing in the United States. This means that the FDA may not approve an application for a biosimilar version of a reference










biological product until 12 years after the date of approval of the reference biological product (with a potential six-month extension of exclusivity if certain pediatric studies are conducted and the results reported to FDA), although a biosimilar application may be submitted four years after the date of approval of the reference biological product.

The objectives of the BPCI are conceptually similar to those of the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, commonly referred to as the "Hatch-Waxman Act", which established abbreviated pathways for the approval of small molecule drug products. The FDA is currently in the process of establishing the procedures and standards it will apply in implementing the abbreviated approval pathway for biological products created by the BPCI. In February 2012, the FDA published draft guidance documents on biosimilar product development. The guidance defines a biosimilar as a biological product that is highly similar to an already approved biological product, notwithstanding minor differences in clinically inactive components, and for which there are no clinically meaningful differences between the biosimilar and the approved biological product in terms of the safety, purity, and potency. Under this proposed approval pathway, biological products are approved based on demonstrating they are biosimilar to, or interchangeable with, a biological product that is already approved by the FDA, which is called a reference product. The approval of a biologic product biosimilar to one of our products could have a material impact on our business because it may be significantly less costly to bring to market and may be priced significantly lower than our products.

Both before and after the FDA approves a product, the manufacturer and the holder or holders of the BLA for the product are subject to comprehensive regulatory oversight. If ongoing regulatory requirements are not satisfied or if safety problems occur after the product reaches the market, the FDA may at any time withdraw its product approval or take actions that would suspend marketing. For example, quality control and manufacturing procedures must conform, on an ongoing basis, to cGMP requirements, and the FDA periodically subjects manufacturing facilities to unannounced inspections to assess compliance with cGMP. Failure to comply with applicable cGMP requirements and other conditions of product approval may lead the FDA to seek sanctions, including fines, civil penalties, injunctions, suspension of manufacturing operations, operating restrictions, withdrawal of FDA approval, seizure or recall of products, and criminal prosecution. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to spend time, money and effort to maintain cGMP compliance.

Orphan Drug Designation in the United States, the European Union and Other Foreign Jurisdictions










application.  In addition, the FDA will typically coordinate with the sponsor on research study design for an orphan drug and may exercise its discretion to grant marketing approval on the basis of more limited product safety and efficacy data than would ordinarily be required.

Medicinal products used to treat life-threatening or chronically debilitating conditions that affect no more than five in 10,000 people in the European Union and medicinal products which, for economic reasons, would be unlikely to be developed without incentives may be granted an orphan designation in the European Union. The application for orphan designation is submitted to the EMA before an application is made for marketing authorization. Once authorized, orphan medicinal products are entitled to ten years of market exclusivity. During this ten year period, with a limited number of exceptions, neither the competent authorities of the European Union member states nor the EMA are permitted to accept applications or grant marketing authorization for other similar medicinal products with the same orphan indication. However, marketing authorization may be granted to a similar medicinal product with the same orphan indication during the ten year period with the consent of the marketing authorization holder for the original orphan medicinal product or if the manufacturer of the original orphan medicinal product is unable to supply sufficient quantities. Marketing authorization may also be granted to a similar medicinal product with the same orphan indication if this product is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior to the original orphan medicinal product.

Soliris has received orphan drug designation for the treatment of PNH and aHUS in the United States, the European Union, and in several other territories, and for the prevention of delayed graft function in renal transplant patients in the United States.  Orphan drug designation provides certain regulatory and filing fee advantages, including market exclusivity, except in limited circumstances, for several years after approval. In 2008, asfotase alfa received orphan drug designation for the treatment of patients with hypophosphatasia in the United States and the European Union.



Breakthrough Designation in the United States





Foreign Regulation of Drug Development and Approval

In addition to regulations in the United States, we are subject to a variety of foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials, marketing approval, and postmarketing regulation for drugs. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with FDA approval set forth above, as well as additional country-specific regulations. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we must obtain approval of a product by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. Approval by one regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions.  The approval process varies from country to country, can involve additional testing beyond that required by FDA, and may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing, and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country.

Under the European Union regulatory system, we may submit applications for marketing authorizations either under a centralized or decentralized marketing authorization procedure. The centralized procedure provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization for a medicinal product by the EC on the basis of an opinion by the EMA. A centralized marketing authorization is valid for all European Union member states and three of the four EFTA States (Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway). The decentralized procedure and the mutual recognition procedure apply between European Union member states. The decentralized marketing authorization procedure involves the submission of an application for marketing authorization to the approval authority of all European Union member states in which the product is to be marketed. One national approval










authority, selected by the applicant, assesses the application for marketing authorization. The authorities of the other European Union member states subsequently decide whether to grant or refuse marketing authorization for their territory on the basis of this assessment. The mutual recognition procedure provides for mutual recognition of marketing authorizations delivered by the national approval authorities of European Union member states by the approval authorities of other European Union member states. The holder of a national marketing authorization may submit an application to the approval authority of a European Union member state requesting that this authority recognize the marketing authorization delivered by the approval authority of another European Union member state.

Similarly to the U.S., both marketing authorization holders and manufacturers of medicinal products are subject to comprehensive regulatory oversight by the EMA and the competent authorities of the individual European Union member states both before and after grant of the manufacturing and marketing authorizations. This includes control of compliance by these entities with European Union cGMP rules.

Failure to comply with European Union laws and the related national laws of individual European Union member states governing the conduct of clinical trials, marketing authorization of medicinal products and marketing of such products, both before and after grant of marketing authorization, may result in administrative, civil or criminal penalties. These penalties could include refusal to authorize the conduct of clinical trials, refusal to grant marketing authorization, product withdrawals and recalls, product seizures, suspension or withdrawal of the marketing authorization, fines and criminal penalties.

We submitted our Marketing Authorization Application for Soliris for the treatment of PNH and aHUS to the EMA using the centralized marketing authorization procedure.

The European Union has had an established regulatory pathway for biosimilars since 2005 and has approved several biosimilar products. The approval of a biologic product biosimilar to one of our products marketed in the European Union could have a material impact on our business. The biologic product biosimilar may be significantly less costly to bring to market and may be priced significantly lower than our products.



Reimbursement

Sales of pharmaceutical products depend in significant part on the extent of coverage and reimbursement from government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid in the United States, and other third party payers. Third party payers are sensitive to the cost of drugs and are taking efforts to control those costs, including cost containment measures to control, restrict access to, or influence the purchase of drugs, biologics, and other health care products and services. Governments may regulate reimbursement, pricing, and coverage of products in order to control costs or to affect levels of use of certain products.  Private health insurance plans may restrict coverage of some products, such as by using payer formularies under which only selected drugs are covered, variable co-payments that make drugs that are not preferred by the payer more expensive for patients, and by employing utilization management controls, such as requirements for prior authorization or prior failure on another type of treatment. Payers may especially impose these obstacles to coverage for higher-priced drugs such as Soliris.  Consequently, Soliris may be subject to payer-driven restrictions.

Medicaid is a government insurance program for certain low-income and disabled individuals, including children. It is jointly funded by the federal and state governments and it is administered by individual states within parameters established by the federal government. Coverage and reimbursement for drugs and biologics thus varies by state. Drugs and biologics may be










covered under the medical or pharmacy benefit. State Medicaid programs may impose utilization management controls, such as prior authorization, step therapy, or quantity limits on drugs and biologics. Medicaid also includes the Drug Rebate Program, which requires manufacturers provide states rebates for products covered and reimbursed by state Medicaid programs.  As a result of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the PPACA), many states are expanding their Medicaid programs. The manner in which this expansion occurs may affect beneficiary access to prescription drugs and the types of utilization management controls that apply.

Health Technology Assessment (HTA) of medicinal products is becoming an increasingly common part of the pricing and reimbursement procedures in some European Union member states. These countries include the United Kingdom, France, Germany and Sweden. The HTA process in the European Union member states is governed by the national laws of these countries. HTA is the procedure according to which the assessment of the public health impact, therapeutic impact and the economic and societal impact of the use of a given medicinal product in the national healthcare systems of the individual country is conducted. HTA generally focuses on the clinical efficacy and effectiveness, safety, cost, and cost-effectiveness of individual medicinal products as well as their potential implications for the healthcare system. Those elements of medicinal products are compared with other treatment options available on the market.

The outcome of HTA will often influence the pricing and reimbursement status for specific medicinal products within individual European Union member states. The extent to which pricing and reimbursement decisions are influenced by the HTA of a specific medicinal product vary between the European Union member states.

In 2011, Directive 2011/24/EU was adopted at the European Union level. This Directive concerns the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare. The Directive is intended to establish rules for facilitating access to safe and high-quality cross-border healthcare in the European Union. It also provides for the establishment of a voluntary network of national authorities or bodies responsible for HTA in the individual European Union member states. The purpose of the network is to facilitate and support the exchange of scientific information concerning HTAs. This could lead to harmonization of the criteria taken into account in the conduct of HTA and their impact on pricing and reimbursement decisions between European Union member states.

On a continuous basis, we engage with appropriate authorities on the operational, reimbursement, price approval and funding processes that are separately required in each country.



Fraud and Abuse

Pharmaceutical companies participating in federal healthcare programs are subject to various U.S. federal and state laws, as well as foreign laws, pertaining to healthcare “fraud and abuse,” including anti-kickback and false claims laws.   Violations of U.S. federal and state fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties and exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid).  Violations of international fraud and abuse laws could result in similar penalties, including exclusion from participation in health programs outside the U.S.  Applicable U.S. statutes, include, but are not limited to, the following:

•The federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits persons from  knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving, or providing remuneration in exchange for or  to generate business, including the purchase or prescription of a drug, that is reimbursable by a federal healthcare program such as Medicare and Medicaid.










•The federal False Claims Act (“FCA”), which generally prohibits knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented, for payment to the federal government any claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are (1) false or fraudulent; (2) for items or services not provided as claimed; or (3) for medically unnecessary items or services.  This statute permits a private individual acting as a “whistleblower” to bring actions on behalf of the federal government alleging violations of the FCA and to share in any monetary recovery.  Government enforcement agencies and private whistleblowers have asserted liability under the FCA for claims submitted involving inadequate care, kickbacks, improper promotion of off-label uses, and misreporting of drug prices to federal agencies.

•The federal False Statements Statute, which prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing, or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items, or services.

•The federal Prohibition Against Beneficiary Inducements statute, which imposes civil monetary penalties for any offers or transfers of remuneration to any individual eligible for Medicare or Medicaid benefits that are likely to influence the individual to order or receive Medicare- or Medicaid-covered services from a particular provider, practitioner, or supplier.

•The federal Civil Monetary Penalties law, which authorizes the imposition of substantial civil money penalties against an entity, such as a pharmaceutical manufacturer, that engages in activities including (1) knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a claim for services not provided as claimed or that is otherwise false or fraudulent in any way; (2) offering or giving remuneration to any beneficiary of a government-payer program likely to influence the receipt of reimbursable items or services; (3) arranging for reimbursable services with an entity that is excluded from participation from a government-payer healthcare program; or (4) knowingly or willfully soliciting or receiving remuneration for a referral of a federal healthcare program beneficiary.

•Analogous state laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental payers, including private insurers.  Some of these state laws may be broader in scope than their federal analogues, such as state false claims laws that apply where a claim is submitted to any third-party payer, regardless of whether the payer is a private health insurer or a government healthcare program, and state laws that require pharmaceutical companies to certify compliance with the pharmaceutical industry’s voluntary compliance guidelines.

Federal and state authorities are paying increased attention to enforcement of fraud and abuse laws within the pharmaceutical industry, and private individuals have been active in alleging violations of the law and bringing suits on behalf of the government under the FCA. These laws are broad in scope and there may not be regulations, guidance, or court decisions that definitively interpret these laws and apply them to particular industry practices. In addition, these laws and their interpretations are subject to change.



Other U.S. Healthcare Laws

PPACA contains several provisions that have or could potentially impact our business, including (1) an increase in the minimum Medicaid rebate to states participating in the Medicaid program on branded prescription drugs (from 15.6% to 23.1%) (effective January 1, 2010); (2) the extension of the Medicaid rebate to managed care organizations that dispense drugs to Medicaid beneficiaries; (3) the expansion of the 340B Public Health Service Act drug pricing program, which provides outpatient drugs at reduced rates, to include certain children’s hospitals, free standing cancer hospitals, critical access hospitals, and rural referral centers; (4)  the state-based option of the expansion of Medicaid in 2014 to families with incomes up to 133% of U.S. federal poverty levels; and (5) the creation of the individual mandate pursuant to which each U.S. citizen will be required to purchase insurance effective March 31, 2014, and may do so via federally subsidized programs like the healthcare marketplaces, or the exchanges.

Additionally, the federal “sunshine” provisions, enacted in 2010 as part of PPACA, require pharmaceutical manufacturers, among others, to disclose annually to the federal government (for re-disclosure to the public) certain payments made to physicians and certain other healthcare practitioners or to teaching hospitals. State laws may also require disclosure of pharmaceutical pricing information and marketing expenditures and impose penalties for failures to disclose. Many of these laws and regulations contain ambiguous requirements. Given the lack of clarity in the laws and their implementation, our reporting actions could be subject to the penalty provisions of the pertinent federal and state laws and regulations.

Finally, our operations may be affected by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH), and its implementing regulations, which established uniform standards for certain “covered entities” (healthcare providers, health plans and










healthcare clearinghouses) governing the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and protecting the security and privacy of protected health information. Although we believe that we are neither a “covered entity” nor a regulated “business associate” under HIPAA or HITECH, we cannot assure you that regulatory authorities would agree with our assessment; in addition, HIPAA and HITECH may affect our interactions with customers who are covered entities or their business associates.  State laws may also govern the privacy and security of health information in some circumstances and may contain different or broader privacy protections than the federal provisions.

Other Regulations

We are also subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act (U.K. Bribery Act), and other anti-corruption laws and regulations pertaining to our financial relationships with government officials.  The FCPA prohibits U.S. companies and their representatives from paying, offering to pay, promising, or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party, or political candidate to obtain or retain business or to otherwise seek favorable treatment. In many countries in which we operate or sell Soliris, the health care professionals that we interact with may deemed to be a foreign government official for purposes of the FCPA.  The U.K. Bribery Act prohibits giving and receiving bribes in the public and private sectors, bribing a foreign public official, and failing to have adequate procedures to prevent employees and other agents from giving bribes. Penalties under the Bribery Act include potentially unlimited fines for companies and criminal sanctions for corporate officers under certain circumstances.

Our present and future business has been and will continue to be subject to various other laws and regulations. Laws, regulations and recommendations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory practices, the experimental use of animals, and the purchase, storage, movement, import and export and use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, including radioactive compounds, used in connection with our research work are or may be applicable to our activities.  We cannot predict the impact of government regulation, which may result from future legislation or administrative action, on our business.

Competition

There are currently no approved drugs other than Soliris for the treatment of PNH and aHUS. However, many companies, including major pharmaceutical and chemical companies as well as specialized biotechnology companies, are engaged in activities similar to our activities. Universities, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations also conduct research and may market commercial products on their own or through joint ventures. Some of these entities may have:

•substantially greater financial and other resources;

•larger research and development staffs;

•lower labor costs; and/or

•more extensive marketing and manufacturing organizations.

Many of these companies and organizations have significant experience in preclinical testing, human clinical trials, product manufacturing, marketing, sales and distribution and other regulatory approval and commercial procedures. They may also have a greater number of significant patents and greater legal resources to seek remedies for cases of alleged infringement of their patents by us to block, delay or compromise our own drug development process.

We compete with large pharmaceutical companies that produce and market synthetic compounds and with specialized biotechnology firms in the United States, Europe and in other countries and regions, as well as a growing number of large pharmaceutical companies that are applying biotechnology to their operations. A number of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies are developing new products for the treatment of the same diseases being targeted by us; in some instances, these products have already entered clinical trials or are already being marketed. Other companies are engaged in research and development based on complement proteins.

Several companies have either publicly announced their intentions to develop drugs which target the inflammatory effects of complement in the immune system or have had programs to develop complement inhibitor therapies. We believe that Soliris differs substantially from compounds of our potential competitors because Soliris has demonstrated to be safe and effective in two clinical indications by regulators in many jurisdictions around the world.










Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had1,774full-time, world-wide employees, of which759were engaged in research, product development, manufacturing, and clinical development,667in sales and marketing, and348in administration, human resources, information technology and finance. Our U.S. employees are not represented by any collective bargaining unit, and we regard the relationships with all our employees as satisfactory.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The executive officers of the Company and their respective ages and positions as ofFebruary 3, 2014are as follows:



NameAgePosition with AlexionLeonard Bell, M.D.55Chief Executive Officer, Treasurer and DirectorStephen P. Squinto, Ph.D.57Executive Vice President and Chief Global Operations OfficerVikas Sinha, M.B.A., C.A., C.P.A.50Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerDavid L. Hallal47Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial OfficerMartin Mackay57Executive Vice President and Global Head of Research and DevelopmentClare Carmichael54Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources OfficerFrank J. Wright66Senior Vice President and President of Alexion Pharma International SàrlJohn B. Moriarty, J.D.46Senior Vice President and General CounselSaqib Islam44Senior Vice President and Chief Strategy and Portfolio Officer



Leonard Bell, M.D.is the principal founder of Alexion and has been a director of Alexion since February 1992 and the Company’s Chief Executive Officer since January 1992. From 1991 to 1992, Dr. Bell was an Assistant Professor of Medicine and Pathology and co-Director of the program in Vascular Biology at the Yale University School of Medicine. From 1990 to 1992, Dr. Bell was an attending physician at the Yale-New Haven Hospital and an Assistant Professor in the Department of Internal Medicine at the Yale University School of Medicine. Dr. Bell was a recipient of the Physician Scientist Award from the National Institutes of Health and Grant-in-Aid from the American Heart Association as well as various honors and awards from academic and professional organizations. His work has resulted in more than 20 scientific publications and 9 patent applications. Dr. Bell received his A.B. from Brown University and M.D. from Yale University School of Medicine. Dr. Bell is currently an Adjunct Assistant Professor of Medicine and Pathology at the Yale University School of Medicine.

Stephen P. Squinto, Ph.D.is a founder of Alexion and has served as an executive of the Company since 1992.  Since May 2013, he has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Global Operations Officer. From June 2007 to May 2013, Dr. Squinto was Alexion's Executive Vice President and Head of Research and Development, and from August 2000 to June 2007 served as Executive Vice President and Head of Research. Prior to joining Alexion, Dr. Squinto held various positions at Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and was also an Assistant Professor of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology at Louisiana State University Medical Center and an Adjunct Professor of Neuroscience at the Tulane University Medical School. Dr. Squinto’s work has led to over 70 scientific papers in the fields of gene regulation, growth factor biology and gene transfer. Dr. Squinto’s work is primarily in the fields of molecular and cellular biology. Dr. Squinto received his B.A. in Chemistry and Ph.D. in Biochemistry and Biophysics from Loyola University of Chicago.

Vikas Sinha, M.B.A., C.A., C.P.A.has been with Alexion since September 2005 and has served as Alexion's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since October 2012.  From September 2005 to October 2012, Mr. Sinha was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.  Prior to joining Alexion. Mr. Sinha held various positions with Bayer AG in the United States, Japan, Germany, and Canada, including Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Bayer Pharmaceuticals Corporation, USA, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Bayer Yakuhin Ltd., in Japan, and Manager, Mergers and Acquisitions with Bayer AG in Germany.  He also was a member of the Pharmaceutical Management Committee for North America.   Prior to Bayer, Mr. Sinha held several positions of increasing responsibilities with ANZ Bank and Citibank in South Asia. Mr. Sinha holds a Masters of Business Administration from the Asian Institute of Management which included an exchange program with the University of Western Ontario (Richard Ivey School of Business). He is also a qualified Chartered Accountant from the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and a Certified Public Accountant in the United States.

David L. Hallalhas been with Alexion since June 2006 and has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer since October 2012.  Since joining Alexion, Mr. Hallal has served in senior commercial positions, including Senior Vice President, US Commercial Operations from June 2006 until November 2008, Senior Vice President, Commercial Operations










Americas from November 2008 to May 2010, and then Senior Vice President, Global Commercial Operations from May 2010 until October 2012. Prior to joining Alexion, Mr. Hallal served as Vice President, Sales at OSI Eyetech from April 2004 until June 2006, where he led the U.S. launch of a first-in-class anti-VEGF therapy for age-related macular degeneration. Prior to OSI Eyetech, from 1992 until 2004, Mr. Hallal held various sales and marketing leadership positions at Amgen and Biogen Idec, where he was involved in multiple product launches in the areas of hematology, oncology, nephrology and immunology. Mr. Hallal received a B.A. in Psychology from the University of New Hampshire.

Martin Mackayhas been Executive Vice President, Global Head of Research & Development since joining Alexion in May 2013. Prior to joining Alexion, Dr. Mackay served as President, Research and Development at AstraZeneca from June 2010 to February 2012, where he led all R&D functions worldwide, including discovery research, clinical development, regulatory affairs and key related R&D functions. From April 1995 to May 2010, he held various positions of increasing responsibility at Pfizer, including President, Head of Pfizer Pharmatherapeutics, R&D, where he oversaw all aspects of small molecule discovery and development across multiple therapeutic areas. Dr. Mackay has also worked in the CIBA organization, now Novartis, and held positions within academia.  Dr. Mackay received a Microbiology First Class Honors Degree from Heriot-Watt University, Scotland, and a Ph.D. in Molecular Genetics from the University of Edinburgh, Scotland.

Clare Carmichaelhas been Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since joining Alexion in August 2011. From August 2008 to March 2011, Ms. Carmichael served as Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources at Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc., where she established and executed global HR strategies. From December 2005 to August 2008, Ms. Carmichael held various human resources positions of increasing responsibility at Schering-Plough Corporation, including Vice President of Global Human Resources at the Schering-Plough Research Institute. From December 2003 to December 2005, Ms. Carmichael was Vice President of Human Resources at Eyetech Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Prior to Eyetech, she held various positions of increasing responsibility in human resources at Pharmacia Corporation. Ms. Carmichael received a B.A. in Psychology from Rider University.

Frank J. Wrighthas been Senior Vice President and President of Alexion Pharma International Sàrl since joining Alexion in January 2013.  From August 2011 to February 2012, Mr. Wright served as Interim President of the Clinical Trials Distribution Unit at Marken Limited, a global clinical supply chain solutions provider.  Mr. Wright co-founded Aptuit LLC in 2004, a provider of integrated drug discovery and development services, and from 2004 to 2010 served as its Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer. From 2000 to 2004, he was an independent consultant advising pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and private equity firms with respect to acquisitions, asset valuation and emerging markets.  From 1994 to 2000, Mr. Wright held various positions of increasing responsibility at ChiRex, Inc., a NASDAQ-listed services company providing process research and development and contract manufacturing services, acquired by Rhodia Pharma in 2000, including as Co-Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer.  Prior to joining ChiRex, Mr. Wright served at Glaxo for 15 years in various operational management, outsourcing and procurement positions.  Mr. Wright studied Mechanical Engineering at the University of Strathclyde, Glasgow.

John B. Moriarty, J.D.has been Senior Vice President and General Counsel since joining Alexion in December 2012.  From December 2010 to December 2012, Mr. Moriarty served as General Counsel and Chief Legal Officer at Elan Corporation plc, an Irish public limited company traded on the New York and Irish Stock Exchanges, and also served as a member of Elan's Executive Management team.  Prior to assuming the role of General Counsel, Mr. Moriarty served as Senior Vice President of Law, Litigation and Commercial Operations at Elan from December 2008 to December 2010.  From 2002 to 2008, Mr. Moriarty held various positions with Amgen, Inc., including Executive Director and Associate General Counsel, Global Commercial Operations - Amgen Oncology and Senior Counsel, Complex Litigation, Products Liability and Government Investigations. Between 1994 and 2002, Mr. Moriarty served in various capacities in private practice focused on healthcare and as a healthcare fraud prosecutor in the U.S. Attorney's Office and the Virginia Attorney General's Office.  Mr. Moriarty received his J.D., cum laude, from the University of Georgia School of Law and his B.A., with distinction, from the University of Virginia.

Saqib Islamhas been Senior Vice President, Chief Strategy and Portfolio Officer since joining Alexion in April 2013.  Prior to joining Alexion, Mr. Islam worked for 18 years in international business management with a focus on business development, strategic decision-making and planning, and capital markets, and most recently as Managing Director, Head of Healthcare and Diversified Industrials Capital Markets at Credit Suisse Securities from November 2009 until April 2013.  Prior to Credit Suisse, Mr. Islam held various positions of increasing responsibility in the investment banking divisions of Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley and provided strategic analysis and advice to client firms across diverse industry segments for The Boston Consulting Group.  Mr. Islam received a Bachelor of Commerce from McGill University, where he was a Faculty and University Scholar, and a J.D. from Columbia Law School, where he was a Harlan Fiske Stone Scholar.










Available Information

Our internet website address is http://www.alxn.com. Through our website, we make available, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, any amendments to those reports, proxy and registration statements, and all of our insider Section 16 reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These SEC reports can be accessed through the “Investors” section of our website. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. Paper copies of our SEC reports are available free of charge upon request in writing to Investor Relations, Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 352 Knotter Drive, Cheshire, CT 06410.  In addition, any document we file may be inspected, without charge, at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549, or at the SEC’s internet address at http://www.sec.gov. (This website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information contained in the SEC’s website is not intended to be a part of this filing).  Information related to the operation of the SEC’s public reference room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 800-SEC-0330 (800-732-0330).














