Item 1A. Risk Factors

—

U.S. Entitlement Reform

section in this 2019 Form 10-K. Also, the majority of states use preferred drug lists to restrict access to certain pharmaceutical products under Medicaid. Restrictions exist for some Pfizer products under certain state Medicaid programs. As another example, access to our products under the Medicaid managed care program is typically determined by the health plans with which state Medicaid agencies contract to provide services to Medicaid beneficiaries. States continue to explore options for controlling healthcare costs related to Medicaid and other state healthcare programs, including the implementation of supplemental rebate agreements under the Medicaid drug rebate program that are tied to patient outcomes. In addition, we expect that consolidation and integration among pharmacy chains and wholesalers, who collectively are the primary purchasers of our pharmaceutical products in the U.S., and PBMs will increase pricing pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us. For additional information, see the

Item 1A. Risk Factors

—

Managed Care Trends

section in this 2019 Form 10-K.



The potential for additional pricing and access pressures in the commercial sector continues to be significant. Many employers have adopted high deductible health plans, which can increase out-of-pocket costs for medicines. This is a trend that is likely to continue. Private third-party payers, such as health plans, increasingly challenge pharmaceutical product pricing, which could result in lower prices, lower reimbursement rates and a reduction in demand for our products. Pricing pressures for our products may occur as a result of highly competitive insurance markets. Healthcare provider purchasers, directly or through group purchasing organizations, are seeking enhanced discounts or implementing more rigorous bidding or purchasing review processes.



Overall, there is increasing pressure on U.S. providers to deliver healthcare at a lower cost and to ensure that those expenditures deliver demonstrated value in terms of health outcomes. Longer term, we are seeing a shift in focus away from fee-for-service payments towards outcomes-based payments and risk-sharing arrangements that reward providers for cost reductions and improved patient outcomes. These new payment models can, at times, lead to lower prices for, and restricted access to, new medicines. At the same time, these models can also promote utilization of drugs by encouraging physicians to screen and diagnose and consider drugs as a means of forestalling more costly medical interventions.



We believe medicines are the most efficient and effective use of healthcare dollars based on the value they deliver to the overall healthcare system. We work with law makers and advocate for solutions that effectively improve patient health outcomes, lower costs to the healthcare system, and ensure access to medicines within an efficient and affordable healthcare system. In addition, in response to the evolving U.S. and global healthcare spending landscape, we work with health authorities, health technology assessment and quality measurement bodies and major U.S. payers throughout the product-development process to better



Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K15






understand how these entities value our compounds and products. Further, we seek to develop stronger internal capabilities focused on demonstrating the value of the medicines that we discover or develop, register and manufacture, by recognizing patterns of usage of our medicines and competitor medicines along with patterns of healthcare costs.



Healthcare Reform.There have been significant efforts at the federal and state levels to reform the healthcare system by enhancing access to healthcare, improving the delivery of healthcare and further rationalizing payment for healthcare. We face uncertainties due to federal legislative and administrative efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the ACA. There is additional uncertainty given the ruling in December 2019 by the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit inTexas v. Azarthat the individual mandate, which is a significant provision of the ACA, is unconstitutional. The case has been remanded to a lower court to determine whether the individual mandate is inseparable from the entire ACA, in which case the ACA as a whole would be rendered unconstitutional. In the meantime, the remaining provisions of the law remain in effect. The revenues generated for Pfizer by the health insurance exchanges and Medicaid expansion under the ACA are not material, so the impact of full invalidation of the law is expected to be limited. However, any future replacement for the ACA may adversely affect our business and financial results, particularly if the legislation reduces incentives for employer-sponsored insurance coverage or dramatically increases industry taxes and fees. Any future healthcare reform efforts may adversely affect our business and financial results.



Anti-Corruption.The FCPA prohibits U.S. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. The scope of the FCPA includes interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. Other countries have enacted similar anti-corruption laws and/or regulations.



Data Privacy.Pfizer collects personal data as part of its regular business activities. The collection and use of this data is subject to privacy and data security laws and regulations, including oversight by various regulatory or other governmental bodies. For example, we are subject to the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA). The CCPA, which came into effect on January 1, 2020, imposes numerous obligations on us, including a duty to disclose the categories of personal data that we collect, sell, or share about California consumers, and gives those consumers rights regarding their personal data. Noncompliance with any of these laws could result in the imposition of fines, penalties, or orders to stop non-compliant activities, and could damage our reputation and harm our business.



Outside the United States



We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most countries outside the U.S.



New Drug Approvals.In the EU, the approval of new drugs may be achieved using the Mutual Recognition Procedure, the Decentralized Procedure or the EU Centralized Procedure. These procedures apply in the EU member states, plus the European Economic Area countries, Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. The Centralized Procedure, managed by the EMA, results in one single authorization for the whole EU, which provides the most rapid and efficient means of gaining approval across the EU and is the one most commonly used for new products.



In China, the regulatory system historically presented numerous challenges for the pharmaceutical industry, as its requirements for drug development and registration were often inconsistent with U.S. or other international standards. In recent years, however, China has introduced reforms and draft reforms, which are discussed in more detail below, that attempt to address these challenges. Furthermore, in 2017, the China regulatory authority, the National Medical Products Administration (NMPA), became a member of the International Council for Harmonization (ICH), which has resulted in greater adoption of international technical guidelines and practices by the government. 2019 was another active year in this respect, with a number of reforms coming into effect, and more proposals and drafts being issued for consultation.



In Japan, the PMDA is the point of entry for businesses looking to sell drugs in the country. The PMDA, which is involved in a wide range of regulatory activities, including clinical studies, approvals, postmarketing reviews and pharmaceuticals safety, must approve an application before a new drug product may be marketed in Japan. The PMDA also offers consultations on clinical trials of new drugs and provides advice on product classifications and approvals.



Health authorities in many middle and lower income countries require marketing approval by a recognized regulatory authority (i.e., similar to the authority of the FDA or the EMA) before they begin to conduct their application review process and/or issue their final approval. Many authorities also require local clinical data in the country’s population in order to receive final marketing approval.



Pharmacovigilance.In the EU, the EMA’s Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee has the responsibility for reviewing and making recommendations on product safety issues for the EU authorities. EU regulators may require pharmaceutical companies to conduct post-authorization safety and efficacy studies at the time of approval, or at any time afterwards in light of scientific developments. There are also additional extensive requirements regarding adverse drug reaction reporting and additional monitoring of products. Outside developed markets such as the EU and Japan, pharmacovigilance requirements vary and are generally not as extensive, but there is a trend toward increasing regulation.





Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K16






Pricing and Reimbursement.Certain governments, including the different EU member states, the U.K., China, Japan, Canada, South Korea and some other international markets, provide healthcare at low-to-zero direct cost to consumers at the point of care and have significant power as large single payers to regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system, particularly under recent global financing pressures.Governments may use a variety of cost-containment measures for our pharmaceutical products, including price cuts, mandatory rebates, health technology assessments, forced localization as a condition of market access, “international reference pricing” (i.e., the practice of a country linking its regulated medicine prices to those of other countries), quality consistency evaluation processes and volume-based procurement.In addition, the international patchwork of price regulation and differing economic conditions and incomplete value assessments across countries has led to varying access to quality medicines in many markets and some third-party trade in our products between countries.



In particular, international reference pricing adds to the regional impact of price cuts in individual countries and hinders patient access and innovation. Price variations, exacerbated by international reference pricing systems, also have resulted from exchange rate fluctuations. The downward pricing pressure resulting from this dynamic can be expected to continue as a result of reforms to international reference pricing policies and measures targeting pharmaceuticals in some European countries.



In addition, several important multilateral organizations, such as the United Nations, including the World Health Organization (WHO), and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, are increasing scrutiny of international pharmaceutical pricing through issuing reports and policy recommendations. In 2019, the WHO continued exerting pressure on pharmaceutical pricing practices by supporting strategies to reduce medicine prices, including calling for greater transparency around the cost of research and development and production of medicines, as well as disclosure of net prices.



In Japan, the pricing environment for innovative medicines further deteriorated in 2019 with the introduction of a health technology assessment (HTA) system to inform price adjustments of healthcare technologies after launch. Expansion of this system for reimbursement decisions, as seen in other HTA markets, remains a risk. While significant challenges remain, the 2020 Drug Pricing Reform Package, unlike the last reform package in 2018, is not expected to fundamentally change the access landscape. Furthermore, the eligibility criteria for the Price Maintenance Premium, a key policy that protects against price erosion for certain products, is expected to be somewhat enhanced while expedited regulatory pathways are codified in law.



In Canada, the Patented Medicine Prices Review Board (PMPRB) released draft guidelines to implement new pricing regulations in November 2019, which will go into force in July 2020. These regulations drop the U.S. from the reference basket of countries used to determine price and add economic factors for setting ceiling prices for new medicines. An initial analysis of the potential impact of these proposed changes to the PMPRB regulations estimated an approximately $26 billion reduction in industry revenues over the next decade.



China Pricing Pressures.In China, healthcare is largely driven by a public payer system, with public medical insurance as the largest single payer for pharmaceuticals, and pricing pressures have increased in recent years. Government officials have consistently emphasized the importance of improved health outcomes, the need for healthcare reform and decreased drug prices as key indicators of progress towards reform. While the government provides basic health insurance for the vast majority of Chinese citizens, that insurance is not adequate to cover many innovative medicines, and alternative funding sources for innovative medicines remain suboptimal.



In 2019, China’s government negotiated with companies to add approximately 90 innovative drugs (mainly oncology medicines) to the National Reimbursement Drug List. This builds on 60 drugs already added through negotiation in 2017 and 2018. Prices for drugs have been reduced dramatically through this government-led process. While these negotiations have included a path to access for companies, market access is not assured. In addition, significant questions about the processes and negotiations for provincial tendering remain, as well as the need for multi-layered negotiations across provincial, municipal and hospital levels.



In the off-patent space, in 2013, China began to implement a quality consistency evaluation (QCE) process in order to improve the quality of domestically-manufactured generic drugs, primarily by requiring such drugs to pass a test to assess their bioequivalence to a qualified reference drug (typically the originator drug). In 2018, numerous local generics were officially deemed bioequivalent under QCE. A pilot project for centralized volume-based procurement (VBP) was then initiated including 25 molecules of drugs covering 11 major Chinese cities. Under this procurement model, a tender process has been established where a certain portion of included molecule volumes are guaranteed to tender winners. The program is intended to contain healthcare costs by driving utilization of generics that have passed QCE, which has resulted in dramatic price cuts for off-patent medicines.



Upjohn and most off-patent originators were not successful in the first bidding process under this pilot, which was finalized in December 2018 and implemented in March 2019, and most contracts went to local generic companies. The first bidding process resulted in significant price cuts by the successful bidders, with some bidders reducing the price of their products by as much as 96 percent, as companies attempted to secure volumes on the Chinese pharmaceutical market. The drugs that lost the bidding were also requested to reduce their selling price up to 30 percent based on the price difference with the successful bidder. China’s government began nationwide expansion of the VBP pilot in December 2019. The expanded model, which is being implemented nationwide, applies to certain drugs that are purchased for public hospitals as well as some military and private medical institutions. As in the first bidding process, our Upjohn business unit and most originator brands were not successful in



Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K17






the bidding process for this nationwide expansion, and those contracts mostly went to local Chinese generic companies. The QCE-qualified generic makers of atorvastatin and amlodipine bid aggressively, lowering prices even further from the March 2019 tender. Our Upjohn business unit continues to take steps to mitigate the revenue impact of these initiatives but anticipates that they will continue to affect our Upjohn business in China in the future. We expect to utilize our presence in the retail channel, private hospitals and tendering capabilities to mitigate some of these pricing pressures. In addition, we believe that our geographic expansion to under-penetrated and lower-tiered cities and counties and additional focus on non-tendered products will increase sales volumes in greater China and partially mitigate pressures from QCE.



In late 2019, China announced another round of expansion of the national VBP program, which covers 33 new molecules, including Biopharma’s Zithromax tablets and Diflucan tablets and no Upjohn products. Biopharma was not successful in the bidding process for this expansion.



Furthermore, the Chinese government has discussed moving toward efforts to unify the reimbursement price between QCE-approved generic medicines and the applicable original medicines. The government currently plans to implement this universal reimbursement price initiative within the next two to three years. If this policy is implemented, the new reimbursement level for Upjohn’s products will likely be lower than the current reimbursement level, placing additional pressures on price and/or patient copays. There remains uncertainty as to whether, when and how this policy may be officially implemented. The Chinese government could also enact other policies that may increase pricing pressures or have the effect of reducing the volume of sales available to Upjohn’s products. This potential policy, and any other policies like it that could increase pricing and copay pressures on Upjohn’s drug products in China, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The government has indicated that additional post-LOE drugs could be subjected to QCE qualification in future rounds, which could also be tied to volume-based procurement. The scope of future QCE products and timing of any program expansion is currently unknown, making it difficult to determine the impact on Pfizer’s business and financial condition. We will continue to monitor the market for developments.



EU Regulatory Changes.The EU adopted a new Clinical Trials Regulation in May 2014, but its implementation has been delayed by the need for the EU authorities to establish new technical systems. This regulation is aimed at simplifying and harmonizing the administrative processes and governance of clinical trials in the EU and will require increased public posting of clinical trial results. It is currently not anticipated to be fully implemented until the first half of 2022 at the earliest.



Brexit.In June 2016, the U.K. electorate voted in a referendum to leave the EU, which is commonly referred to as “Brexit”.TheU.K. left the EU on January 31, 2020 with status quo arrangements through a transition period scheduled to end on December 31, 2020.The consequences of the U.K. leaving the EU and the terms of the future trading relationship continue to be highly uncertain, which may pose certain implications to our research, commercial and general business operations in the U.K. and the EU, including the approval and supply of our products.However, both the U.K. and the EU have issued detailed guidance for the industry on how medicines, medical devices and clinical trials will be separately regulated in their respective territories. Pfizer has substantially completed its preparations for Brexit, having made the changes necessary to meet relevant regulatory requirements in the EU and the U.K., through the transition period and afterwards, especially in the regulatory, research, manufacturing and supply chain areas. Between 2018 and 2021, we expect to spend up to approximately $60 million in one-time costs to make these adaptations.For additional information on Brexit, see theOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—The Global Economic Environmentsectionin our2019Financial Report.



China Regulatory Changes.In an effort to encourage drug innovation and reduce backlogs for existing applications for drug approval, in recent years, the NMPA has unveiled numerous reform initiatives for China’s drug approval system and engaged in significant efforts to build its capabilities. The NMPA divides drugs into new drugs and generics, with the definition for new drugs changed from “China New” to “Global New.” This means that drugs previously approved in other markets (such as the U.S. or Europe) are not considered new drugs under China’s regulatory regime. This change in definition creates more opportunities for China’s domestic drug manufacturers than for multinational firms, because multinational firms have historically had significant competitive advantage in successfully achieving regulatory approvals for drugs first approved outside of China. Revisions in 2019 made clear, however, that regulatory approval from the FDA or the EMA would no longer be required for approval of imported drugs, though a notable exception persists for imported vaccines, which still require prior approval from a reference regulatory agency such as the FDA. In 2019, China published a revision to its Drug Administration Law and introduced a “marketing authorization holder” system, which grants the NMPA more authority over regulating manufacturers and provides manufacturers more flexibility in contract manufacturing arrangements and manufacturing site transfers.



While challenges remain, a number of other policy changes are streamlining and accelerating approvals of domestic and imported drugs in China. These reforms, along with China’s June 2018 elevation to the ICH Management Committee, are expected to pave the way for integration of Chinese regulations with global practices. These changes include introducing more streamlined processes for maintaining renewal of product registrations, reduction in importing testing requirements, and establishing an expedited registration pathway for drugs to treat rare diseases and serious, life-threatening illnesses with no effective treatment. Though certain details on implementation are unclear (e.g., evolving list of qualified rare diseases and no guidance on what qualifies as serious, life threatening), the NMPA aims to build expedited pathways for certain categories of products similar to the U.S. and European regulatory systems. Additionally, the NMPA published changes to China’s registration requirements that align more with international practices, including a 60-day review timeline for clinical trial authorizations and



Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K18






guidance for acceptance of foreign clinical data and the utilization of real world data in drug development and regulatory decision making.



Although a number of regulatory changes better support China’s inclusion in simultaneous global drug development, unique regulatory requirements continue to pose challenges for multinational companies, including China’s Human Genetic Resources process for exporting clinical trial samples (which adds months to starting a clinical trial in China); mismatched China Pharmacopoeia and manufacturing data requirements that require standards exceeding acceptable practices in the U.S., EU, and Japan; and unpredictable and inconsistent clinical trial inspection practices.



Healthcare Provider Transparency and Disclosures.A number of countries have implemented laws requiring (or their industry associations have recommended) disclosure of transfers of value made by pharmaceutical companies to healthcare providers. For example, the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations’ disclosure code requires all members, including Pfizer, to disclose transfers of value to healthcare professionals and healthcare organizations.



Intellectual Property.The World Trade Organization Agreement on Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (WTO-TRIPS) required participant countries to amend their intellectual property laws to provide patent protection for pharmaceutical products by 2005, with an extension until 2033 for least-developed countries. While we still face patent grant, enforcement and other intellectual property challenges around the world, some countries have made improvements. We include stronger patent protection among the factors we consider for continued business expansion in other participant countries.





As part of the Canada/EU Comprehensive Economic & Trade Agreement (CETA), Canada now providessui generisprotection, commonly referred to as patent term restoration, for patent term extensions for basic patents; however, the extension is capped at two years, whereas the international norm is five years. In addition, the implementing regulations may create obstacles for patentees applying for patent term restoration via a Certificate of Supplementary Protection (CSP), and Canada’s proposed drug pricing reforms may negatively impact the benefit of a CSP. Furthermore, the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) will, when implemented, require Canada and Mexico to make certain improvements to their current intellectual property regimes, including the establishment of patent term adjustment for unreasonable delays in the grant of patents.





In Brazil and other Latin American countries, the role of health regulatory authorities in reviewing patents (e.g., National Health Surveillance Agency in Brazil), restrictive patentability rules, ambiguity regarding the term of certain patents and backlogs at patent agencies may limit our ability to protect our products through patents. The lack of regulatory data protection and difficulties in protecting certain types of inventions, such as new medical uses of drug products, may limit the commercial lifespan of some pharmaceutical products. Additionally, an increased threat of issuance of compulsory licenses for biopharmaceutical products exists, which adds to business uncertainty.



In India, we have seen some progress in terms of expediting patent approval processes to reduce pendency rates and implementing training programs to enhance enforcement. Despite these positive steps, gaps remain in terms of addressing longstanding intellectual property concerns. For example, policies favoring compulsory licensing of patents, the tendency of the



Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K19






Indian Patent Office to revoke pharmaceutical patents in opposition proceedings (both pre- and post-grant), and restrictive standards for patentability of pharmaceutical products have made it difficult to safeguard many of our inventions and our investments in innovation. These policies heighten the risk of additional patent challenges targeting innovative pharmaceutical products, especially in areas perceived as being important to the public health of the population. Challenges against Pfizer patents in India are ongoing.



Data Privacy.Outside of the U.S., many countries where we conduct business, including the EU, have privacy and data security laws and regulations concerning the collection and use of personal data, and we must comply with these laws and regulations as well. One applicable law is the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The GDPR imposes detailed obligations on companies that collect, use, or otherwise process personal data and penalties for noncompliance may include fines of up to 4 percent of the company’s global annual revenue. Additionally, the legislative and regulatory framework for privacy and data protection issues worldwide is rapidly evolving as countries continue to adopt privacy and data security laws. Any inability to comply with applicable laws, regulations, policies, industry standards or other legal obligations regarding data protection or privacy could result in additional costs and liability to Pfizer as well as reputational harm and may adversely affect our business.



ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS



Most of our operations are affected by national, state and/or local environmental laws. We have made, and intend to continue to make, the expenditures necessary for compliance with applicable laws. We also are cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites. See the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 16A3.Contingencies and Certain Commitments—Legal Proceedings––Commercial and Other Mattersin our2019Financial Report. As a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in2019for environmental compliance purposes and for the clean-up of certain past industrial activity as follows:



•environment-related capital expenditures—$31 million; and

•other environment-related expenses—$136 million.



While capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not currently anticipate they will have a material effect on our capital expenditures or competitive position.



Climate change presents risks to our operations, including the potential for additional regulatory requirements and associated costs, and the potential for more frequent and severe weather events and water availability challenges that may impact our facilities and those of our suppliers. For example, in 2017, our manufacturing and commercial operations in Puerto Rico were impacted by hurricanes as our three manufacturing sites in Puerto Rico sustained damage and became inoperable due to issues impacting Puerto Rico overall. All three sites resumed operations, and remediation activities were completed in 2018. We cannot provide assurance that physical risks to our facilities and supply chain due to climate change will not occur in the future; however, we have a program for reviewing our vulnerability to potential weather-related risks and other natural disasters and we update our assessments periodically. To date, we have concluded that, because of our facility locations, our existing distribution networks and our controls, we do not anticipate that these risks will have a material impact on Pfizer in the near term.



TAX MATTERS



The discussion of tax-related matters in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 5.Tax Mattersin our2019Financial Report is incorporated by reference.



EMPLOYEES



In our innovation-intensive business, our employees are vital to our success. We generally believe we have good relationships with our employees. As of December 31,2019, we employed approximately88,300people in our operations throughout the world.



DISCLOSURE PURSUANT TO SECTION 219 OF THE IRAN THREAT REDUCTION AND SYRIA HUMAN RIGHTS ACT OF 2012



Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (ITRSHRA) requires disclosure by public companies of certain transactions involving the Government of Iran, as well as entities and individuals designated under Executive Order 13382 and Executive Order 13224.



As a global biopharmaceutical company, we conduct business in multiple jurisdictions throughout the world. During2019, our activities included supplying medicine and medical products (Pfizer products) for patient and consumer use in Iran. We ship Pfizer products to Iran, and conduct related activities, in accordance with licenses issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control and other U.S. and non-U.S. governmental entities, and in line with our corporate policies. We will continue our global activities to improve the health and well-being of patients and consumers in a manner consistent with applicable laws and our corporate policies. To our knowledge, none of our activities during2019are required to be disclosed pursuant to ITRSHRA.



Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K20








ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS



The statements in this Section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.



Our disclosure and analysis in this


Form 10-K and in our



Form 10-K and the Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook––Our Business Development Initiatives and ––Our Strategy sections and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 1A. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies––Basis of Presentation in our


Financial Report; the expected impact of patent expiries on our business set forth in the Item 1. Business––Patents and Other Intellectual Property Rights section in this


Form 10-K and in the Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook––Our Operating Environment––Industry-Specific Challenges––Intellectual Property Rights and Collaboration/Licensing Rights section in our


Financial Report; the expected competition from certain generic manufacturers in China in the Item 1. Business––Competition––Generic Products and Item 1A. Risk Factors––Generic Competition sections in this 2019 Form 10-K; the anticipated costs related to our preparations for Brexit set forth in the Item 1. Business––Government Regulation and Price Constraints––Outside the United States––Brexit section in this


Form 10-K and the Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook––The Global Economic Environment section in our


Financial Report; the availability of raw materials for 2020 set forth in Item 1. Business––

Raw Materials

in this


Form 10-K; the expected pricing pressures on our products in the U.S. and internationally and the anticipated impact to our business set forth in the Item 1. Business––Government Regulation and Price Constraints and

Item 1A. Risk Factors

––Pricing and Reimbursement sections in this


Form 10-K; the anticipated impact of climate change on Pfizer set forth in Item 1. Business––Environmental Matters in this


Form 10-K; the expected demerger of the GSK Consumer Healthcare joint venture set forth in the

Item 1A. Risk Factors

––Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture with GSK section in this


Form 10-K; the benefits expected from the reorganization of our commercial operations in 2019 and our expectations regarding growth set forth in the

Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook

––

Our Strategy

––

Organizing for Growth

section in our


Financial Report; our anticipated liquidity position set forth in the

Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook

—

The Global Economic Environment

and the

Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources

sections in our


Financial Report; the anticipated costs and savings from certain of our initiatives, including Transforming to a More Focused Company initiative, set forth in the

Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook

—Transforming to a More Focused Company and

Costs and Expenses

—

Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives

sections and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—

Note 3

.

Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives

in our 2019 Financial Report; our plans for increasing investment in the U.S. set forth in the Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook––Our Strategy––Capital Allocation and Expense Management––Increasing Investment in the U.S. section in our


Financial Report; the financial guidance set forth in the

Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook

—

Our Financial Guidance for




section in our


Financial Report; the expected impact of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices recommendation for Prevnar 13 for adults 65 and older on Prevnar 13’s revenues set forth in the Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income––Revenues––Selected Product Discussion––Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 (Biopharma) section in our


Financial Report; the expected impact of updates to the prescribing information for Xeljanz on its growth set forth in the Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income––Revenues––Selected Product Discussion––Xeljanz (Biopharma) section in our


Financial Report; the benefits expected from our business development transactions; the planned capital spending set forth in the

Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources

—

Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources

—

Contractual Obligations

section in our


Financial Report; the expected payments to our unfunded U.S. supplemental (non-qualified) pension plans, postretirement plans and deferred compensation plans and expected funding obligations set forth in the

Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources

—

Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources

—

Contractual Obligations

section; and the voluntary contribution we expect to make during 2020 for the U.S. qualified plans set forth in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—

Note 11

.

Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans

in our


Financial Report.



Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K21








We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. Achievement of anticipated results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements, and you are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements.



We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or by the rules and regulations of the SEC. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects. Also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected, projected or historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties.



RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS, INDUSTRY AND OPERATIONS:



MANAGED CARE TRENDS





GENERIC COMPETITION



Competition from manufacturers of generic drugs is a major challenge for our branded products around the world, and the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights can have a significant adverse effect on our revenues. In addition, our patented products may face generic competition before patent exclusivity expires, including upon the “at-risk” launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a manufacturer of a generic version of one of our patented products. Generic competition could lead to our loss of a major portion of revenues for that product in a very short period of time. A number of our products have experienced significant generic competition over the last few years. For example, Lyrica (a product in our Upjohn business) lost patent protection in the U.S. in June 2019 and multi-source generic competition began in July 2019. Also, the basic product patent for Chantix in the U.S. will expire in November 2020. In China, we are expected to face further intensified competition by certain generic manufacturers, which may result in price cuts and volume loss of some of our products.



Also, generic manufacturers have filed applications with the FDA seeking approval of product candidates that such companies claim do not infringe our patents or that our patents are not valid; these include candidates that would compete with, among other products, Eliquis, Ibrance and Xeljanz. Our licensing and collaboration partners also face challenges by generic drug manufacturers to patents covering products for which we have licenses or co-promotion rights. In addition, our patent-protected products may face competition in the form of generic versions of competitors’ branded products that lose their market exclusivity.





Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K22






COMPETITIVE PRODUCTS



We cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products, including new product entrants, in-line branded products, generic products, private label products, biosimilars and product candidates that treat diseases and conditions similar to those treated by our in-line drugs and drug candidates. The introduction of competitive products can result in erosion of the sales of our existing products and potential sales of products in development, as well as unanticipated product obsolescence. Competitive product launches have occurred in recent years, and certain potentially competitive products are in various stages of development. Some of these have been filed for approval with the FDA and with regulatory authorities in other countries.



We also produce generic and biosimilar pharmaceutical products that compete with products from competitors, including other generic and biosimilar manufacturers. The ability to launch a generic or biosimilar pharmaceutical product at or before the anticipated formation of the generic or biosimilar marketplace is important to that product’s profitability. With increasing competition in the generic or biosimilar product markets, our success will depend on our ability to bring new products to market quickly. The FDA, along with other regulatory agencies around the world, has been experiencing a backlog of generic drug applications, which may result in delayed approvals of new generic products over the next few years. Also, we may face access challenges for our biosimilar products where our product may not receive appropriate coverage/reimbursement access or remains in a disadvantaged position relative to the innovator product. For example, Inflectra has experienced access challenges among commercial payers. In September 2017, Pfizer filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against Johnson & Johnson (J&J) alleging that J&J’s exclusionary contracts and other anticompetitive practices concerning Remicade®(infliximab) violate federal antitrust laws.



DEPENDENCE ON KEY IN-LINE PRODUCTS



We recorded direct product and/or alliance revenues of more than $1 billion for each of eight biopharmaceutical products in 2019: Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13, Ibrance, Eliquis, Lyrica, Xeljanz, Lipitor, Enbrel and Chantix/Champix. Those products accounted for

49%

of our total revenues in


. If these products or any of our other major products were to become subject to problems such as loss of patent protection (if applicable), changes in prescription growth rates, material product liability litigation, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence, pressure from existing competitive products, changes in labeling, pricing and access pressures, supply shortages or, if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the adverse impact on our revenues could be significant. A number of our products have experienced patent-based expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain markets in the last few years, and patents covering a number of our best-selling medicines are, or have been, the subject of pending legal challenges. For example, as a result of a patent litigation settlement, Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. launched a generic version of Viagra (a product in our Upjohn business) in the U.S. in December 2017. In addition, Lyrica (a product in our Upjohn business) lost patent protection in the U.S. in June 2019 and multi-source generic competition began in July 2019. Also, the basic product patent for Chantix in the U.S. will expire in November 2020. In addition, our revenues could be significantly impacted by the timing and rate of commercial acceptance of key new products. For additional information, see the

Item 1. Business––Patents and Other Intellectual Property Rights

section in this


Form 10-K. Further, our Alliance revenues will be adversely affected by the termination or expiration of collaboration and co-promotion agreements that we have entered into and that we may enter into from time to time.



RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENT



The discovery and development of safe, effective new products, as well as the development of additional uses for existing products, are necessary for the continued strength of our businesses. Our product lines must be replenished over time in order to offset revenue losses when products lose their market exclusivity, as well as to provide for earnings growth. Our growth potential depends in large part on our ability to identify and develop new products or new indications for existing products that address unmet medical needs and receive reimbursement from payers, either through internal R&D or through collaborations, acquisitions, joint ventures or licensing or other arrangements with third parties. However, balancing current growth, investment for future growth and the delivery of shareholder return remains a major challenge. The average costs of product development continue to rise, as do the regulatory requirements in many therapeutic areas, which may affect the number of candidates funded as well as the sustainability of the R&D portfolio. Our ongoing investments in new product introductions and in R&D for new products and existing product extensions could exceed corresponding sales growth.



Additionally, our R&D investment plans and resources may not be correctly matched between science and markets, and failure to invest in the right technology platforms, therapeutic segments, product classes, geographic markets and/or in-licensing and out-licensing opportunities could adversely impact the productivity of our pipeline. Further, even if the areas with the greatest market attractiveness are identified, the scientific approach may not succeed for any given program despite the significant investment required for R&D, and the commercial potential of the product may not be as competitive as expected because of the highly dynamic market environment and the hurdles in terms of access and reimbursement.



We continue to strengthen our global R&D organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in R&D to achieve a sustainable pipeline that is positioned to deliver value in the near-term and over time. These strategies may not deliver the desired result, which could affect growth and profitability in the future.



Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K23








BIOSIMILARS



Abbreviated legal pathways for the approval of biosimilars exist in many international markets and, since the passage of the ACA, a framework for such approval exists in the U.S. If competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars referencing our biologic products, our biologic products may become subject to competition from these biosimilars, with attendant competitive pressure, and price reductions could follow. For example, Enbrel faces ongoing biosimilar competition in most European markets. The loss of patent rights, due to patent expiration or litigation, could trigger competition.



We are developing and commercializing biosimilar medicines. Risks related to our commercialization of biosimilars include the potential for steeper than anticipated price erosion due to increased competitive intensity, coupled with intellectual property challenges that may preclude timely commercialization of our potential biosimilar products. There is also a risk of lower uptake for biosimilars due to various factors that may vary for different biosimilars (e.g., anti-competitive practices, physician reluctance to prescribe biosimilars for existing patients taking the originator product, or misaligned financial incentives). See also theCompetitive Productsrisk factor above.



RESEARCH STUDIES



Decisions about research studies made early in the development process of a drug or vaccine candidate can have a substantial impact on the marketing strategy and payer reimbursement possibilities if it receives regulatory approval. For example, a wider range of studies can lead to approval for a broader set of indications that may impact the marketing and payer reimbursement process. However, each additional indication and its reimbursement potential must be balanced against the time and resources required to demonstrate benefit, the increased complexity of development and manufacturing and the potential delays to approval of the lead indication. We try to plan clinical trials prudently and to reasonably anticipate and address challenges, but there is no guarantee that an optimal balance between trial conduct, speed and desired outcome will be achieved each time. The degree to which such potential challenges are foreseen and adequately addressed could affect our future results.



INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS



Our international operations could be affected by currency fluctuations, capital and exchange controls, economic conditions, expropriation and other restrictive government actions, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, and marketing of, reimbursement for and access to our products, as well as by political unrest, unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes. Any of these changes could adversely affect our business.



Many emerging markets have experienced growth rates in excess of developed markets, leading to an increased contribution to the industry’s global performance. As a result, we have been employing strategies to grow in emerging markets. However, our strategies in emerging markets may not be successful and these countries may not continue to sustain these growth rates. For example, even though China is growing faster than most emerging markets, we face certain challenges in China due to government imposed pricing controls affecting certain Pfizer medicines. In addition, some emerging market countries may be particularly vulnerable to periods of financial or political instability or significant currency fluctuations or may have limited resources for healthcare spending. Even though we constantly monitor the evolving emerging markets for any unanticipated risk to Pfizer, certain financial or political events in such markets can adversely affect our results.



SPECIALTY PHARMACEUTICALS



Specialty pharmaceuticals are medicines that treat rare or life-threatening conditions that typically have smaller patient populations. The growing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceuticals, combined with their relative higher cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, has generated payer interest in developing cost-containment strategies targeted to this sector. The impact of payers’ efforts to control access to and pricing of specialty pharmaceuticals is increasing. A number of factors create a more challenging paradigm for Pfizer given our growing specialty business portfolio such as formulary restrictions and increasing use of utilization management tools such as step edits, which can lead to higher negotiated rebates or discounts to health plans and PBMs in the U.S., as well as the increasing use of health technology assessments and government pressures in markets around the world.



PRODUCT MANUFACTURING, SALES AND MARKETING RISKS



Difficulties or delays in product manufacturing, sales or marketing could affect future results through regulatory actions, shut-downs, work stoppages or strikes, approval delays, withdrawals, recalls, penalties, supply disruptions, shortages or stock-outs, reputational harm, product liability or unanticipated costs. Examples of such difficulties or delays include, but are not limited to, the inability to increase production capacity commensurate with demand; the failure to predict market demand for, or to gain market acceptance of, approved products; the possibility that the supply of component materials is delayed or unavailable and that the quality of such materials are substandard and not detected; the possibility that we may fail to maintain appropriate quality standards throughout our internal and external supply network and/or comply with cGMPs and other applicable regulations such as serialization (which allows for track and trace of products in the supply chain to enhance patient safety);



Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K24






risks to supply chain continuity and commercial operations as a result of natural (including hurricanes, earthquakes and floods) or man-made disasters (including arson or terrorist attacks) at our facilities or at a supplier or vendor, including those that may be related to climate change; failure to maintain the integrity of our supply chains against economic adulteration, product diversion, product theft, counterfeit goods and cyberattacks. As an example, we have been experiencing production issues with Genotropin that will decrease revenue from that product.





In addition, in September 2017, Meridian Medical Technologies, Inc., a subsidiary of Pfizer Inc., received a warning letter from the FDA asserting the FDA’s view that certain violations of cGMP and Quality System Regulations exist at Meridian’s manufacturing sites in St. Louis, Missouri and classifying the site as OAI. Meridian responded to the warning letter and committed to making improvements across the sites. We have made considerable progress addressing the concerns raised by the FDA, and communication with the FDA is ongoing. Future FDA inspections and regulatory activities will further assess the adequacy and sustainability of these corrections implemented at the site. As a result of the OAI classification, the FDA may refuse to grant premarket approval of applications and/or the FDA may refuse to grant export certificates related to products manufactured at our St. Louis sites.



COLLABORATIONS AND OTHER RELATIONSHIPS WITH THIRD PARTIES





BIOPHARMACEUTICAL WHOLESALERS



In2019, our largest biopharmaceutical wholesaler accounted for approximately16%of our total revenues (and approximately32%of our total U.S. revenues), and our top three biopharmaceutical wholesalers accounted for approximately37%of our total revenues (and approximately79%of our total U.S. revenues). If one of our significant biopharmaceutical wholesalers should encounter financial or other difficulties, such wholesaler might decrease the amount of business that it does with us, and we might be unable to collect all the amounts that the wholesaler owes us on a timely basis or at all, which could negatively impact



Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K25






our results of operations. In addition, we expect that consolidation and integration of pharmacy chains and wholesalers will increase competitive and pricing pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us.



BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES





COUNTERFEIT PRODUCTS





Pfizer’s global reputation makes its medicines prime targets for counterfeiting organizations. Counterfeit medicines continue to pose a significant risk to patient health and safety because of the conditions under which they are manufactured—often in unregulated, unlicensed, uninspected and unsanitary sites—as well as the lack of regulation of their contents. Counterfeiters have been recently evolving to counterfeit life sustaining medications such as oncology medicines. This shift significantly increases the risk to patients who, for instance, unsuspectingly purchase counterfeit oncology medications from illicit online “pharmacies” operated by criminal counterfeiting organizations. Failure to mitigate this new threat posed by counterfeit biopharma medicines could adversely impact our business, by, among other things, causing the loss of patient confidence in the Pfizer name and in the integrity of our medicines, potentially resulting in lost sales, product recalls, and an increased threat of litigation.



We have an enterprise-wide strategy to counteract the threats associated with counterfeit medicines, and focused on educating patients and health care providers to reduce demand through awareness; increasing engagement and education of global law enforcement, customs and regulatory agencies about the growing prevalence of counterfeit life sustaining medicines; enhancing online identification and disruption efforts in partnership with pharmaceutical associations to optimize resources and impact; educating legislators about the risk to the security of the international drug supply chain by illicit manufacturing and distribution networks operated by transnational criminal organizations; supporting efforts by law enforcement authorities to prosecute counterfeiters; assessing new and existing technologies to seek to make it more difficult for counterfeiters to copy our products and easier for patients and healthcare providers to distinguish authentic from counterfeit medicines; and using data analytics and risk assessment tools to better target the factors that give rise to the counterfeiting problem in the first place. However, our efforts and the efforts of others may not be entirely successful, and the presence of counterfeit medicines may continue to increase.





Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K26






RISKS RELATED TO GOVERNMENT REGULATION AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS:



PRICING AND REIMBURSEMENT



U.S. and international governmental regulations that mandate price controls and limitations on patient access to our products or establish prices paid by government entities or programs for our products impact our business, and our future results could be adversely affected by changes in such regulations or policies.



In the U.S., many of our products are subject to increasing pricing pressures. Pharmaceutical product pricing is subject to enhanced government and public scrutiny and calls for reform. Some states have implemented, and other states are considering, pharmaceutical price controls or patient access constraints under the Medicaid program, and some states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their populations that are not Medicaid-eligible. There have also been recent state legislative efforts to address drug costs, which generally have focused on increasing transparency around drug costs or limiting drug prices. Efforts by government officials or legislators to implement measures to regulate prices or payment for pharmaceutical products, including legislation on drug importation, could adversely affect our business if implemented. See the discussion regarding pricing and reimbursement in theItem 1. Business—Government Regulation and Price Constraints—In the United States—Pricing and Reimbursementsectionin this2019Form 10-K.

We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. In certain international markets, such as the different EU member states, the U.K., China, Japan, Canada and South Korea, governments have significant power as large single payers to regulate prices, access criteria (e.g., through public or private health technology assessments), or other means of cost control, particularly under recent global financing pressures. As a result, we expect that pressures on the pricing component of operating results will continue. For example, China, in 2013, began to implement a QCE process, under which numerous local generics have officially been deemed bioequivalents of a qualified reference drug. China’s government subsequently initiated a pilot project for centralized VBP in 2018, which included 25 molecules of drugs and covered 11 major Chinese cities. Under this procurement model, a tender process was established whereby a certain portion of included molecule volumes were guaranteed to tender winners. This tender process was intended to contain healthcare costs by driving utilization of generics and bioequivalents that had passed QCE, and has resulted in dramatic price cuts for off-patent medicines. China’s government began nationwide expansion of the VBP pilot in December 2019. See the discussion regarding these government initiatives in China in the

Item 1. Business

—

Government Regulation and Price Constraints

—

Outside the United States

—

China Pricing Pressures

section in this 2019 Form 10-K. We anticipate that these initiatives will continue to increase pricing pressures on our drug products in China in the future.



The adoption of restrictive price controls in new jurisdictions or more restrictive ones in existing jurisdictions or the failure to obtain or maintain timely or adequate pricing could also adversely impact revenue. In our vaccines business, we participate in a tender process in many countries for participation in national immunization programs. Failure to secure participation in national immunization programs or to obtain acceptable pricing in the tender process could adversely affect our business.



U.S. HEALTHCARE REFORM



The U.S. healthcare industry is highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial changes. For example, the ACA was enacted by Congress in March 2010 and established a major expansion of healthcare coverage, financed in part by a number of new rebates, discounts, and taxes that had a significant effect on our expenses and profitability. See the discussion in the

Item 1. Business

—

Government Regulation and Price Constraints

—

In the United States

section in this 2019 Form 10-K. We face uncertainties due to federal legislative and administrative efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the ACA. There is additional uncertainty given the ruling in December 2019 by the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in

Texas v. Azar

that the individual mandate, which is a significant provision of the ACA, is unconstitutional. The case has been remanded to a lower court to determine whether the individual mandate is inseparable from the entire ACA, in which case the ACA as a whole would be rendered unconstitutional. In the meantime, the remaining provisions of the law remain in effect. The revenues generated for Pfizer by the health insurance exchanges and Medicaid expansion under the ACA are not material, so the impact of full invalidation of the law is expected to be limited. However, any future replacement of the ACA may adversely affect our business and financial results, particularly if the legislation reduces incentives for employer-sponsored insurance coverage or dramatically increases industry taxes and fees. Any future healthcare reform efforts may adversely affect our business and financial results.



Other U.S. federal or state legislative or regulatory action and/or policy efforts could adversely affect our business, including, among others, general budget control actions, changes in patent laws, the importation of prescription drugs from outside the U.S. at prices that are regulated by governments of various foreign countries (which is among the U.S. Presidential Administration’s policy proposals), revisions to reimbursement of biopharmaceuticals under government programs (such as the implementation of international reference pricing for Medicare Part B drugs, or changes to protected class criteria for Part D drugs), restrictions on U.S. direct-to-consumer advertising, limitations on interactions with healthcare professionals, or the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses primarily on cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical products and restricts access to innovative medicines.





Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K27






U.S. ENTITLEMENT REFORM



In the U.S., government action to reduce federal spending on entitlement programs including Medicare and Medicaid may affect payment for our products or services provided using our products. The Congressional Budget Office routinely releases options for reducing federal spending, and the December 2018 release includes proposals to cap federal Medicaid payments to the states, and to require manufacturers to pay a minimum rebate on drugs covered under Medicare Part D for low-income beneficiaries. Significant Medicare reductions could also result if, for example, Congress proceeds with certain proposals to convert the Medicare fee-for-service program into a premium support program, or Congress chooses to implement the recommendations made annually by the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, which are primarily intended to extend the fiscal solvency of the Medicare program. These and any other significant spending reductions or cost controls affecting Medicare, Medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.



SUBSTANTIAL REGULATION



We are subject to extensive, complex, costly and evolving regulation by federal and state governmental authorities in the U.S., principally by the FDA and the DEA, and foreign regulatory authorities. Failure to comply with all applicable regulatory requirements may subject us to operating restrictions and criminal prosecution, monetary penalties and other disciplinary actions, including, sanctions, warning letters, product seizures, recalls, fines, injunctions, suspension, revocation of approvals, corporate integrity or deferred prosecution agreements or exclusion from future participation in government healthcare programs, as well as reputational harm.



DEVELOPMENT, REGULATORY APPROVAL AND MARKETING OF PRODUCTS



Innovation is critical to the success of our Company, and drug discovery and development are time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable.

Item 1A. Risk Factors

, we may not obtain the approvals we expect within the timeframe we anticipate, or at all.



POST-APPROVAL DATA







Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K28






INTERACTIONS WITH HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONALS AND GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS



Risks and uncertainties apply if we provide, offer, or promise something of value to a healthcare professional, other healthcare provider and/or government official. Requirements or industry standards in the U.S. and certain jurisdictions abroad that require pharmaceutical manufacturers to track and disclose financial interactions with healthcare professionals and healthcare providers increase government and public scrutiny of such financial interactions. If an interaction is found to be improper, government enforcement actions and penalties could result. These risks may increase as both U.S. and foreign enforcement agencies adopt or increase enforcement efforts in respect of existing and new laws and regulations governing product promotion, marketing, anti-bribery and kickbacks, industry regulations, and codes of conduct.



CHANGES IN LAWS AND ACCOUNTING STANDARDS



Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or changes in laws and regulations, including, among others, changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax rate changes, new tax laws, changes to existing tax laws and revised tax law and regulatory clarifications and/or interpretations, including changes affecting the taxation by the U.S. of income earned outside the U.S. that may result from pending and possible future proposals, including further clarifications and/or interpretations of or changes to the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017), competition laws, privacy laws and environmental laws in the U.S. and other countries. For additional information, see theProvision/(Benefit) for Taxes on Income—Changes in Tax LawsandNew Accounting Standardssections, and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 1B.Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies:Adoption of New Accounting Standards in 2019in our2019Financial Report.



LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various legal proceedings, including patent litigation, such as claims that our patents are invalid and/or do not cover the product of the generic drug manufacturer or where one or more third parties seeks damages and/or injunctive relief to compensate for alleged infringement of its patents by our commercial or other activities, product liability and other product-related litigation, including personal injury, consumer, off-label promotion, securities, antitrust and breach of contract claims, commercial, environmental, government investigations, employment, tax litigation and other legal proceedings, including various means for resolving asbestos litigation, that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. Although we believe that our claims and defenses in matters in which we are a defendant are substantial, we could in the future incur judgments, enter into settlements or revise our expectations regarding the outcome of certain matters, and such developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the amounts are accrued and/or our cash flows in the period in which the amounts are paid.



Claims against our patents include challenges to the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various products or processes. Although we believe we have substantial defenses to these challenges with respect to all of our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a loss of patent protection for the product at issue, which could lead to a significant loss of sales of that product and could materially affect future results of operations.



Like other pharmaceutical companies, we are subject to extensive regulation by government agencies in the U.S., other developed markets and multiple emerging markets in which we operate. Criminal charges, substantial fines and/or civil penalties, limitations on our ability to conduct business in applicable jurisdictions, corporate integrity or deferred prosecution agreements, as well as reputational harm and increased public interest in the matter could result from government investigations in the U.S. and other jurisdictions in which we do business. In addition, in a qui tam lawsuit in which the government declines to intervene, the relator may still pursue a suit for the recovery of civil damages and penalties on behalf of the government.



Our activities relating to the sale and marketing and the pricing of our products are subject to extensive regulation under the FFDCA, the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, the FCPA and other federal and state statutes, including those discussed elsewhere in this2019Form 10-K, as well as anti-kickback and false claims laws, and similar laws in international jurisdictions. Like many companies in our industry, we have from time to time received inquiries and subpoenas and other types of information demands from government authorities, and been subject to claims and other actions related to our business activities brought by governmental authorities, as well as by consumers and private payers. In some instances, we have incurred significant expense, civil payments, fines and other adverse consequences as a result of these claims, actions and inquiries. For example, these claims, actions and inquiries may relate to alleged failures to accurately interpret or identify or prevent non-compliance with the laws and regulations associated with the dissemination of product information (approved and unapproved), potentially resulting in government enforcement and damage to our reputation. This risk may be heightened by digital marketing, including social media, mobile applications and blogger outreach.



In connection with the resolution of a U.S. government investigation concerning independent copay assistance organizations that provide financial assistance to Medicare patients, in May 2018, we entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) with the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, which is effective for a period of five



Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K29






years. In the CIA, we agreed to implement and/or maintain certain compliance program elements to promote compliance with federal healthcare program requirements. Breaches of the CIA could result in severe sanctions against us.



For additional information, including information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved in, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 16A.Contingencies and Certain Commitments—Legal Proceedingsin our2019Financial Report.



ENVIRONMENTAL CLAIMS AND PROCEEDINGS



We and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to numerous contingencies arising in the ordinary course of business relating to environmental claims and proceedings.Amounts recorded for legal and environmental contingencies can result from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions.While we have accrued for worldwide environmental liabilities, there is no guarantee that additional costs will not be incurred beyond the amounts accrued. If we fail to properly manage the safety of our facilities and the environmental risks associated therewith or if we are required to increase our accruals for contingencies for environmental claims and proceedings in the future, it could potentially have an adverse effect on our results of operations.



RISKS RELATED TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY:



PATENT PROTECTION



Our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. We rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of intellectual property, including patent, trademark, trade dress, copyright, trade secret and domain name protection laws, as well as confidentiality and license agreements, to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. If we fail to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from launching generic or biosimilar versions of our branded products, using our proprietary technologies or from marketing products that are very similar or identical to ours. Our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, or be granted on a timely basis. Similarly, any term extensions that we seek may not be granted on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or provide us with any competitive advantage, including exclusivity in a particular product area. The scope of our patent claims also may vary between countries, as individual countries have distinct patent laws. We may be subject to challenges by third parties regarding our intellectual property, including, among others, claims regarding validity, enforceability, scope and effective term.



two

patents. In June 2018, the PTAB ruled on another patent, holding that one claim was valid and that all other claims were invalid. The party challenging that patent has appealed the decision. In November 2019, the Federal Circuit vacated the PTAB’s ruling and requested that the PTAB redecide the challenge. In March and June 2019, an additional patent was found invalid in separate proceedings by the PTAB. We have appealed. Challenges to other patents remain pending in jurisdictions outside the U.S. The invalidation of all of these patents in our pneumococcal portfolio could potentially allow a competitor pneumococcal vaccine into the marketplace. Further, if we are unable to maintain our existing license agreements or other agreements pursuant to which third parties grant us rights to intellectual property, including because such agreements expire or are terminated, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.



Likewise, in the U.S. and other countries, we currently hold issued trademark registrations and have trademark applications pending, any of which may be the subject of a governmental or third-party objection, which could prevent the maintenance or issuance of the trademark. As our products mature, our reliance on our trademarks and trade dress to differentiate us from our competitors increases and as a result, if we are unable to prevent third parties from adopting, registering or using trademarks



Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K30






and trade dress that infringe, dilute or otherwise violate our trademark rights, our business could be materially adversely affected. We actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, by requiring our employees, consultants, other advisors and other third parties to execute proprietary information and confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their employment, engagement or other relationship. Despite these efforts and precautions, we may be unable to prevent a third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our trade secrets or our other intellectual property without authorization, and legal remedies in some countries may not adequately compensate us for the damages caused by such unauthorized use. Further, others may independently and lawfully develop substantially similar or identical products that circumvent our intellectual property by means of alternative designs or processes or otherwise.



THIRD PARTY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY CLAIMS



A properly functioning intellectual property regime is essential to our business model. We are committed to respecting the valid intellectual property rights of other companies, but the patent granting process is imperfect. Accordingly,the pursuit of valid business opportunities may require us to challenge intellectual property rights held by other companies that we believe were improperly granted. Such challenges may include negotiation and litigation, which may not always be successful.



Part of our business depends upon successfully identifying generic pharmaceutical product and biosimilar opportunities and launching products to take advantage of those opportunities, which may involve litigation, associated costs and time delays, and may ultimately not be successful. These opportunities may arise in situations where patent protection of equivalent branded products has expired, where patents have been declared invalid, or where products do not infringe the patents of others, and in some circumstances we may take action, such as litigation, asserting that our products do not infringe patents of existing products or that those patents are invalid or unenforceable in order to achieve a “first-to-market” or early market position for our products.



Third parties may claim that our products infringe one or more patents owned or controlled by the third party. Claims of intellectual property infringement can be costly and time-consuming to resolve, may delay or prevent product launches, and may result in significant damages. We are involved in patent-related disputes with third parties over our attempts to market generic pharmaceutical products and biosimilars. Once we have final regulatory approval of the related generic pharmaceuticals products or biosimilars, we may decide to commercially market these products even though associated legal proceedings (including any appeals) have not been resolved (i.e., “at-risk” launch).If one of our marketed products is found to infringe valid patent rights of a third party, such third party may be awarded significant damages, or we may be prevented from further sales of that product. Such damages may be enhanced as much as three-fold in the event that we or one of our subsidiaries, like Hospira, is found to have willfully infringed valid patent rights of a third party.Any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition.



RISK RELATED TO TECHNOLOGY:



INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND SECURITY







Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K31






RISKS RELATED TO OUR STRATEGIC TRANSACTIONS:



STRATEGIC ACQUISITIONS



Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook

––

Our Business Development Initiatives



section in our


Financial Report.



PENDING COMBINATION OF UPJOHN WITH MYLAN



Pfizer, Mylan and Upjohn may be unable to satisfy the conditions or obtain the approvals required to complete the combination of Upjohn with Mylan (the Combination), and regulatory agencies may delay or impose conditions on approval of the Combination, which may diminish the anticipated benefits of the Combination.



The consummation of the Combination is subject to numerous conditions, including the receipt by Pfizer of an Internal Revenue Service ruling and an opinion of its tax counsel to the effect that, among other things, certain transactions related to the Combination and certain related transactions will constitute a tax-free “reorganization” within the meaning of Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code, the approval of the Combination by Mylan shareholders, and other customary conditions, certain of which are dependent upon the actions of third parties. As a result of such conditions, Pfizer cannot make any assurances that the Combination will be consummated on the terms or timeline currently contemplated, or at all.



Completion of the Combination is also conditioned upon the receipt of certain required government consents and approvals, including certain approvals required from regulatory agencies. While Pfizer, Mylan and Upjohn intend to pursue vigorously all required governmental approvals, the requirement to receive these approvals prior to the consummation of the Combination could delay the completion of the Combination, possibly for a significant period of time. Any delay in the completion of the Combination could diminish the anticipated benefits of the Combination or result in additional transaction costs, loss of revenue or other effects associated with uncertainty about the Combination, including delaying Pfizer’s ability to capitalize on its strategy of becoming a more focused, innovative company as well as Upjohn’s ability to optimize the execution of its growth strategies.



Pfizer may be subject to shareholder lawsuit, or other actions filed in connection with or in opposition to the Combination or any related transactions. Such litigation could have an adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of Pfizer and could prevent or delay the consummation of the Combination.



Pfizer has expended and will continue to expend significant management time and resources and has incurred and will continue to incur significant expenses due to legal, advisory, printing and financial services fees related to the Combination, including costs required to obtain the required government consents or defend or settle actions noted above. We expect to incur costs of approximately $500 million in connection with fully separating Upjohn, inclusive of$145 millionincurred in 2019. Such charges will include costs and expenses related to separation of legal entities and anticipated transaction costs. Many of these expenses must be paid regardless of whether the Combination is consummated, and even if the expected benefits of the Combination are not achieved. Additionally, the completion of the Combination, including for example, obtaining regulatory approvals, will require significant time and attention from Pfizer management and may divert attention from the day-to-day operations of our business.



Even if the Combination is completed as anticipated, Pfizer may not realize some or all of the expected benefits. Furthermore, Upjohn may experience operational challenges in integrating the Upjohn and Mylan businesses, which may also diminish the anticipated benefits of the Combination.



Even if the Combination is completed, the anticipated operational, financial, strategic and other benefits of the Combination may not be achieved. There are many factors that could impact the anticipated benefits from the Combination, including, among others, strategic adjustments required to reflect the nature of our business following the Combination, any negative reaction to the Combination by our customers and business partners, and increased risks resulting from Pfizer becoming a company that is more focused on innovative medicines. In addition, Pfizer has agreed to provide certain transition services to the combined company, generally for an initial period of 24 months following the completion of the Combination (with certain possibilities for extension). These obligations under the transition agreements may result in additional expenses and may divert



Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K32






Pfizer’s focus and resources that would otherwise be invested into maintaining or growing Pfizer’s business. An inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated benefits of the Combination, as well as any delays encountered in the process, could have an adverse effect on the revenues, level of expenses and operating results of our business.





CONSUMER HEALTHCARE JOINT VENTURE WITH GSK





Moreover, although we have certain consent, board representation and other governance rights with respect to the joint venture, Pfizer is a minority owner of the joint venture. As a result, Pfizer does not have control over the joint venture, its management or its policies and we may have business interests, strategies and goals that differ in certain respects from those of GSK or the joint venture.



In addition, the joint venture will be subject to the risks associated with the joint venture’s consumer healthcare business, and the business, financial condition and results of operations of the joint venture may be affected by factors that are different from or in addition to those that previously affected the business, financial condition and results of operations of Pfizer’s historical consumer healthcare business. Many of these factors are outside of our and the joint venture’s control, and could materially impact the business, financial condition and results of operations of the joint venture.



The success of the transaction will also depend, in part, on the joint venture’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost synergies from the transaction. These anticipated benefits and cost savings may not be realized or may not be realized within the expected time period. The joint venture’s integration of Pfizer’s and GSK’s historic consumer healthcare businesses may result in material unanticipated problems, costs, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, and loss of customer and other business relationships. Any material unanticipated issues arising from the integration process could negatively impact our stock price and our or the joint venture’s future business and financial results.





Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K33






OTHER RISKS:



THE GLOBAL ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT



Like all businesses of our size, we are exposed to both global and industry-specific economic conditions.Governments, corporations, and insurance companies, which provide insurance benefits to patients, have implemented increases in cost-sharing and restrictions on access to medicines, potentially causing patients to switch to generic or biosimilar products, delay treatments, skip doses or use less effective treatments. As discussed above, government financing pressures can lead to negative pricing pressure in various markets where governments take an active role in setting prices, access criteria (e.g., through public or private health technology assessments), or other means of cost control.



The global economic environment has not had, nor do we anticipate that it will have, a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources. Due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. We monitor our liquidity position continuously in the face of evolving economic conditions, but there can be no guarantee that changes in global financial markets and global economic conditions will not affect our liquidity or capital resources or impact our ability to obtain financing in the future.



We continue to monitor credit, capital restrictions and economic situations in volatile regions and markets, especially where the ability to obtain U.S. dollars for local currency is unpredictable and challenging. We cannot predict the likelihood of future changes in these economic conditions, or what impact they may have on our results of operations, financial condition or business.



In addition, given that a significant portion of our business is conducted in the EU, including the U.K., the formal change in the relationship between the U.K. and the EU caused by Brexit may pose certain implications for our research, commercial and general business operations in the U.K. and the EU, including the approval and supply of our products. Details on how Brexit will be finally executed and the impact on the remaining EU countries will dictate how and whether the broader EU will be impacted and what the resulting impact on our business may be. For additional information, see theOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook––The Global Economic Environmentsection in our2019Financial Report.



Public health epidemics or outbreaks could adversely impact our business. In December 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) emerged in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China.While initially the outbreak was largely concentrated in China and caused significant disruptions to its economy, it has now spread to several other countries and infections have been reported globally. The extent to which the coronavirus impacts our operations will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence, including the duration of the outbreak, new information which may emerge concerning the severity of the coronavirus and the actions to contain the coronavirus or treat its impact, among others. In particular, the continued spread of the coronavirus globally could adversely impact our operations, including among others, our manufacturing and supply chain, sales and marketing and clinical trial operations and could have an adverse impact on our business and our financial results.



We also continue to monitor the global trade environment and potential trade conflicts and impediments. If trade restrictions or tariffs reduce global economic activity, or if other factors lead to a general economic downturn, potential impacts could include declining sales; increased costs; volatility in foreign exchange rates; a decline in the value of our financial assets and pension plan investments; required increases of our pension funding obligations; increased government cost control efforts; delays or failures in the performance of customers, suppliers, and other third parties on whom we may depend for the performance of our business; and the risk that our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be adequate.



FOREIGN EXCHANGE AND INTEREST RATE RISK



Significant portions of our revenues, costs and expenses, as well as our substantial international net assets, are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates.54%of our total2019revenues were derived from international operations, including21%from Europe and24%from China, Japan and the rest of Asia. As we operate in multiple foreign currencies, including the euro, the Chinese renminbi, the Japanese yen, the Canadian dollar, the U.K. pound and approximately 100 other currencies, changes in those currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will impact our revenues and expenses. If the U.S. dollar were to weaken against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would increase, having a positive impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would increase, having a negative impact on earnings. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar were to strengthen against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would decrease, having a negative impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would decrease, having a positive impact on earnings. Therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates can impact our results and our financial guidance.



The impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates or significant exchange fluctuations, including Venezuela and Argentina, can impact our results and financial guidance. For additional information about our exposure to foreign currency risk, see theItem 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Foreign Exchange Risksection in this 2019 Form 10-K and theOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and



Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K34






Outlook––Our Financial Guidance for2020andAnalysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resourcessections in our2019Financial Report.



In addition, our interest-bearing investments and borrowings, and our pension benefit obligations, net, and our postretirement benefit obligations, net, are subject to risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. These risks related to interest-bearing investments and borrowings and the measures we have taken to help contain them are discussed in theItem 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Financial Risk Managementsection in this 2019 Form 10-K. For additional details, see theSignificant Accounting Policies and Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions––Benefit Planssection and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 7F.Financial Instruments:Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activitiesand —Note 11.Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plansin our2019Financial Report, which are incorporated by reference.



From time to time, we issue variable rate debt based on LIBOR, or undertake interest rate swaps that contain a variable element based on LIBOR. The U.K. Financial Conduct Authority announced in July 2017 that it will no longer compel banks to submit rates that are currently used to calculate LIBOR after 2021. Various governing parties, including government agencies, are working on a benchmark transition plan for LIBOR (and other interbank offered rates globally).We are monitoring their progress, and we will likely amend contracts to accommodate any replacement rate where it is not already provided. As a result, our interest expense could increase and our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be adversely affected. Additionally, uncertainty as to the nature of a potential discontinuance, modification, alternative reference rates or other reforms may materially adversely affect the trading market for securities linked to such benchmarks. For additional information, see theAnalysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources—Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources—LIBORsection in our 2019 Financial Report.



Notwithstanding our efforts to foresee and mitigate the effects of changes in external fiscal circumstances, we cannot predict with certainty changes in currency and interest rates, inflation or other related factors affecting our businesses.



MARKET FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR EQUITY INVESTMENTS



In 2018, we adopted a new accounting standard whereby certain equity investments are measured at fair value with changes in fair value now recognized in net income. We expect the adoption of this new accounting standard may increase the volatility of our income in future periods due to changes in the fair value of certain equity investments. For additional information, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 4. Other (Income)/Deductions—Netin our2019Financial Report and theItem 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Financial Risk Managementsection in this 2019 Form 10-K.



Our pension benefit obligations and postretirement benefit obligations, net of our plan assets, are subject to volatility from changes in fair value of equity investments and other investment risk. For additional information, see theSignificant Accounting Policies and Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions—Benefit Planssection and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 11. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plansin our 2019 Financial Report.



COST AND EXPENSE CONTROL/UNUSUAL EVENTS/FAILURE TO REALIZE THE ANTICIPATED BENEFITS OF STRATEGIC INITIATIVES AND ACQUISITIONS



Growth in costs and expenses, changes in product, segment and geographic mix and the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, internal reorganizations, product withdrawals, recalls and other unusual events that could result from evolving business strategies, evaluation of asset realization and organizational restructuring could adversely affect future results. Such risks and uncertainties include, in particular, our ability to realize the projected benefits of (i) our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives; (ii) the reorganization of our commercial operations in 2019; (iii) any other corporate strategic initiatives; and (iv) any acquisitions, divestitures or other initiatives, such as our agreement to combine Upjohn with Mylan, creating a new global pharmaceutical company, which is anticipated to close in mid-2020, our acquisition of Array and the formation of the new consumer healthcare joint venture with GSK.



INTANGIBLE ASSETS, GOODWILL AND EQUITY-METHOD INVESTMENTS



Our consolidated balance sheet contains significant amounts of intangible assets, including goodwill. For IPR&D assets, the risk of failure is significant, and there can be no certainty that these assets ultimately will yield successful products. The nature of the biopharmaceutical business is high-risk and requires that we invest in a large number of projects in an effort to achieve a successful portfolio of approved products. Our ability to realize value on these significant investments is often contingent upon, among other things, regulatory approvals and market acceptance. As such, we expect that many of these IPR&D assets will become impaired and be written off at some time in the future. If the associated R&D effort is abandoned, the related IPR&D assets will likely be written-off, and we will record an impairment charge. For goodwill, all reporting units can confront events and circumstances that can lead to a goodwill impairment charge (such as, among other things, unanticipated competition, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, a significant adverse change in legal matters or in the business climate and/or a failure to replace the contributions of products that lose exclusivity). Any such charge may be significant. Our other intangible



Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K35






assets, including developed technology rights and brands, face similar risks for impairment and charges related to such assets may be significant as well. For additional details, see theSignificant Accounting Policies and Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptionssection in our2019Financial Report.



We also regularly review our equity-method investments for impairment. An impairment charge may result from the occurrence of unexpected adverse events or management decisions that impact our estimates of expected cash flows to be generated from these investments. We may recognize impairment charges as a result of a weak economic environment, events related to particular customers or asset types, challenging market conditions or decisions by management.



TERRORIST ACTIVITY



Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in business, political and economic conditions, including the cost and availability of insurance, due to the threat of terrorist activity in the U.S. and other parts of the world and related U.S. military action overseas.



Pfizer Inc.2019 Form 10-K36








