ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS



The statements in this Section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.



—

Our Financial Guidance for 2014 section of the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report; the anticipated costs and cost savings set forth in the Costs and Expenses

—

Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives section of the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report; the planned capital spending set forth in the Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources—Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources—Contractual Obligations section of the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report; and the contributions that we expect to make from our general assets to the Company

’

s pension and postretirement plans during 2014 set forth in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note



11. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans in our 2013 Financial Report and in the Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources—Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources—Contractual Obligations section of the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report.



We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of anticipated results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements, and you are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements.



We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Form 10-Q and 8-K reports and our other filings with the SEC. Also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties.



U.S. Healthcare Reform/Healthcare Legislation



As mentioned above inItem 1. Businessunder the captionGovernment Regulation and Price Constraints—In the United States, the ACA was enacted by Congress in March 2010 and its provisions become effective on various dates, with the Medicaid and Health Insurance Exchange coverage expansion effective in 2014. We expect that the rebates, discounts, taxes and other costs resulting from the ACA over time will have a significant effect on our expenses and profitability in the future. See the discussion under theOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Operating Environment—Regulatory Environment/Pricing and Access—U.S. Healthcare Legislationsection of the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report and inItem 1. Businessunder the captionGovernment Regulation and Price Constraints—In the United States. Furthermore, if asked to act in 2016 or beyond, the IPAB (created by the ACA to reduce the per capita rate of growth in Medicare spending) could potentially limit access to certain treatments or mandate price controls for our products. Moreover, expanded government investigative authority may increase the costs of compliance with new regulations and programs. We also face the uncertainties that might result from any modification, repeal or invalidation of any of the provisions of the ACA.












U.S. Deficit-Reduction Actions



As discussed above inItem 1. Businessunder the captionGovernment Regulation and Price Constraints—Budget Control Act of 2011, the Budget Control Act spending reductions to date have not had a material adverse impact on our results of operations. However, any significant spending reductions affecting Medicare, Medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented, and/or any significant additional taxes or fees that may be imposed on us, as part of any broader deficit-reduction effort or legislative replacement to the Budget Control Act, or to reform the Sustainable Growth Rate, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.



Pricing Pressures and Government Regulation



U.S. and international governmental regulations mandating price controls and limitations on patient access to our products impact our business, and our future results could be adversely affected by changes in such regulations or policies.





We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. In Europe, Japan, China, Canada and South Korea and some other international markets, governments provide healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for government-sponsored healthcare systems. In particular, there were government-mandated price reductions for certain biopharmaceutical products in Japan and certain European and emerging market countries in 2013, and we anticipate continuing pricing pressures in Japan, Europe and emerging markets in 2014. This international patchwork of price regulation has led to different prices and some third-party trade in our products between countries. As a result, it is expected that pressures on the pricing component of operating results will continue. The adoption of restrictive price controls in new jurisdictions or more restrictive ones in existing jurisdictions, failure to obtain timely or adequate government-approved pricing or formulary placement where required for our products or obtaining such pricing or placement at unfavorable pricing could also adversely impact revenue. In our vaccines business, we participate in a tender process in many countries for participation in national immunization programs. Failure to secure participation in national immunization programs or to obtain acceptable pricing in the tender process could adversely affect our business.



Managed Care Trends














Generic Competition



Competition from manufacturers of generic drugs is a major challenge for us around the world, and the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights can have a significant adverse effect on our revenues. Upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for one of our products, or upon the “at-risk” launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a generic manufacturer of a generic version of one of our patented products, we can lose the major portion of revenues for that product in a very short period of time, which can adversely affect our business. As discussed above, a number of our current products are expected to face significantly increased generic competition over the next few years.



Also, the patents covering several of our medicines, includingViagra,Celebrex,Lyrica,Sutent,EpiPen,Pristiq,Toviaz,TygacilandEmbedaextended-release capsules in the U.S. andLipitorin China are being challenged by generic manufacturers. In addition, our patent-protected products may face competition in the form of generic versions of competitors’ branded products that lose their market exclusivity.



Competitive Products



We cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products, which can result in erosion of the sales of our existing products and potential sales of products in development, as well as unanticipated product obsolescence. Products that compete with ours, including some of our best-selling medicines, are launched from time to time. Competitive product launches have occurred in recent years, and certain potentially competitive products are in various stages of development, some of which have been filed for approval with the FDA and with regulatory authorities in other countries.



Dependence on Key In-Line Products



We recorded direct product revenues of more than $1 billion for each of 10 biopharmaceutical products in 2013:Lyrica, thePrevnarfamily of products,Enbrel,Celebrex,Lipitor,Viagra,Zyvox,Norvasc,Sutent, and thePremarinfamily of products. Those products accounted for 51% of our total biopharmaceutical revenues in 2013. If these products or any of our other major products were to become subject to problems such as loss of patent protection, changes in prescription growth rates, material product liability litigation, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence, pressure from existing competitive products, changes in labeling or, if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the adverse impact on our revenues could be significant. As noted above inItem 1. Businessunder the captionPatents and Other Intellectual Property Rights, patents covering several of our best-selling medicines have recently expired or will expire in the next few years (including some of our billion-dollar and previously billion-dollar products), and patents covering a number of our best-selling medicines are the subject of pending legal challenges. In addition, our revenues could be significantly impacted by the timing and rate of commercial acceptance of key new products.



Further, our Alliance revenues have been and will continue to be adversely affected by the termination or expiration of collaboration and co-promotion agreements that we have entered into and that we may enter into from time to time. For example, our rights toAriceptin Japan returned to Eisai in December 2012; our collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim forSpirivaexpires on a country-by-country basis between 2012 and 2016, including the expiration in certain EU markets, Canada and Australia in early 2013 and in the U.S. and certain other EU markets in early 2014; our U.S. and Canada co-promotion agreement with Amgen Inc. (Amgen) forEnbrelexpired on October 31, 2013 (our exclusive rights toEnbreloutside the U.S. and Canada are not affected by the expiration of the co-promotion agreement with Amgen); and our collaboration agreement with EMD Serono Inc. to co-promoteRebifin the U.S. will expire at the end of 2015. See theAnalysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income—Biopharmaceutical—Selected Product DescriptionsandOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Operating Environment—Intellectual Property Rights and Collaboration/Licensing Rightssections of the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report for additional information on the expirations of these agreements.



Research and Development Investment



The discovery and development of safe, effective new products, and the development of additional uses for existing products, are necessary for the continued strength of our businesses. Our product lines must be replenished over time in order to offset revenue losses when products lose their exclusivity, as well as to provide for earnings growth. Our growth potential depends in large part on our ability to identify and develop new products or new indications for existing products that address unmet medical needs and receive reimbursement from payers, either through internal R&D or through collaborations, acquisitions, joint ventures or licensing or other arrangements with third parties. However, balancing current growth, investment for the future and the delivery of shareholder return remains a major challenge. Our ongoing investments in new










product introductions and in R&D for new products and existing product extensions could exceed corresponding sales growth. This could produce higher costs without a proportional increase in revenues.



Additionally, our R&D investment plans and resources may not be correctly matched between science and markets, and failure to invest in the right technology platforms, therapeutic segments, product classes, geographic markets and/or in-licensing and out-licensing opportunities in order to deliver a robust pipeline could adversely impact the productivity of our pipeline. Further, even if the areas with the greatest market attractiveness are identified, the science may not work for any given program despite the significant investment required for R&D.



We continue to transform our global R&D organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in R&D to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time.  There can be no assurance that this transformation or these strategies will deliver the desired result, which could affect profitability in the future.



Development, Regulatory Approval and Marketing of Products





There are many considerations that can affect the marketing of our products around the world. Regulatory delays, the inability to successfully complete or adequately design and implement clinical trials within the anticipated quality, time and cost guidelines or in compliance with applicable regulatory expectations, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy, new discoveries, patent disputes and claims about adverse side effects are a few of the factors that can adversely affect the realization of R&D and product-related, forward-looking statements. Further, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy can result in a negative impact on product sales, product recalls or withdrawals, and/or consumer fraud, product liability and other litigation and claims. Also, increasing regulatory scrutiny of drug safety and efficacy, with regulatory authorities increasingly focused on product safety and the risk/benefit profile of products as they relate to already-approved products, has resulted in a more challenging, expensive and lengthy regulatory approval process due to requests for, among other things, additional clinical trials prior to granting approval or increased post-approval requirements, such as risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (seePost-Approval Databelow).



In addition, failure to put in place adequate controls and/or resources for effective collection, reporting and management of adverse events from clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance (seePost-Approval Databelow), in compliance with current and evolving regulatory requirements could result in risks to patient safety, regulatory actions and risks to product sales.



Post-Approval Data



As a condition to granting marketing approval of a product, the FDA may require a company to conduct additional clinical trials. The results generated in these Phase IV trials could result in loss of marketing approval, changes in product labeling, and/or new or increased concerns about the side effects or efficacy of a product. The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 (the FDAAA) gave the FDA enhanced post-market authority, including the explicit authority to require post-market studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with FDA-approved risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. The FDA’s exercise of its authority under the FDAAA has in some cases resulted, and in the future could result, in delays or increased costs during product development, clinical trials and regulatory review, increased costs to comply with additional post-approval regulatory requirements and potential restrictions on sales of approved products. Non-U.S. regulatory agencies often have similar authority and may impose comparable costs. For example, a post-marketing study as part of a post-approval commitment to marketing authorization is becoming more










common in China, where the CFDA requires additional clinical data in the Chinese population in order to further assess the safety and efficacy of a product, sometimes independent of the level of global clinical data available. Post-marketing studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and other emerging data about marketed products, such as adverse event reports, may also adversely affect sales of our products. Further, the discovery of significant problems with a product similar to one of our products that implicate (or are perceived to implicate) an entire class of products could have an adverse effect on sales of the affected products. Accordingly, new data about our products, or products similar to our products, could negatively impact demand for our products due to real or perceived side effects or uncertainty regarding efficacy and, in some cases, could result in updated labeling, restrictions on use, product withdrawal or recall. Furthermore, new data and information, including information about product misuse, may lead government agencies, professional societies, practice management groups or organizations involved with various diseases to publish guidelines or recommendations related to the use of our products or the use of related therapies or place restrictions on sales. Such guidelines or recommendations may lead to lower sales of our products.



Patent Protection



Our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. We rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of intellectual property, including patent, trademark, trade dress, copyright, trade secret and domain name protection laws, as well as confidentiality and license agreements with our employees and others, to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. If we fail to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from launching generic versions of our products, using our proprietary technologies or from marketing products that are very similar or identical to ours. Our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, or begrantedon a timely basis. Similarly, any term extensions that we seek may not begrantedon a timely basis, if at all. In addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or provide us with any competitive advantage, including exclusivity in a particular product area. The scope of our patent claims also may vary between countries, as individual countries havedistinctivepatent laws. We may be subject to challenges by third parties regarding our intellectual property, including, among others, claims regarding validity, enforceability, scope and effective term.



Our ability to enforce our patents also depends on the laws of individual countries and each country’s practice with respect to enforcement of intellectual property rights, and the extent to which certain sovereigns mayseek toengage ina policy of routinecompulsory licensing of pharmaceutical intellectual property as a result of local political pressure or in the case of national emergencies. In addition, mechanisms exist in much of the world permitting some form of challenge bycompetitors orgeneric drug marketers to our patents prior to, or immediately following, the expiration of any regulatory exclusivity, and generic companies are increasingly employing aggressive strategies, such as “at risk” launches to challenge our patent rights.Further, if we are unable to maintain our existing license agreements or other agreements pursuant to which third parties grant us rights to intellectual property, including because such agreements expire or are terminated, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.



Likewise, in the U.S. and other countries, we currently hold issued trademark registrations and have trademark applications pending, any of which may be the subject of a governmental or third party objection, which could prevent the maintenance or issuance of the same. As our products mature, our reliance on our trademarks to differentiate us from our competitors increases and as a result, if we are unable to prevent third parties from adopting, registering or using trademarks and trade dress that infringe, dilute or otherwise violate our trademark rights, our business could be materially adversely affected. We actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, by requiring our employees, consultants, other advisors and other third parties to execute proprietary information and confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their employment, engagement or other relationship. Despite these efforts and precautions, we may be unable to prevent a third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our trade secrets or our other intellectual property without authorization, and legal remediesin some countriesmay not adequately compensate us for the damages caused by such unauthorized use. Further, others may independently and lawfully develop substantially similar or identical products that circumvent our intellectual property by means of alternative designs or processes or otherwise.



Biotechnology Products



As discussed above inItem 1. Businessunder the captionsPatents and Other Intellectual PropertyandGovernment Regulation and Price Constraints—Biosimilars, abbreviated legal pathways for the approval of biosimilars exist in certain international markets and, since the passage of the ACA, a framework for such approval exists in the U.S. If competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars referencing our biotechnology products, our biotechnology products may










become subject to competition from biosimilars, with attendant competitive pressure, and price reductions could follow. The expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could trigger this competition, assuming any relevant exclusivity period has expired. We may face more litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biotechnology products with substantial revenue.



We are developing biosimilar medicines. The developing pathway for registration and approval of biosimilar products in the U.S. could diminish the value of our past and future investments in biosimilars. Other risks related to our development of biosimilars include the potential for steeper than anticipated price erosion due to increased competitive intensity, coupled with high costs associated with clinical development or intellectual property challenges that may preclude timely commercialization of our potential biosimilar products. There is also a risk of lower prescriptions of biosimilars due to potential concerns over comparability with innovator medicines.



Research Studies



Decisions about research studies made early in the development process of a drug candidate can have a substantial impact on the marketing strategy and payer reimbursement possibilities once the drug receives approval. For example, more detailed studies can lead to approval for a broader set of indications that may impact the marketing and payer reimbursement process, but each additional indication must be balanced against the time and resources required to demonstrate benefit and the potential delays to approval of the primary indication. We try to plan clinical trials prudently and to reasonably foresee and address challenges, but there is no guarantee that an optimal balance between speed, trial conduct and desired outcome will be achieved each time. The degree to which these challenges are foreseen and addressed could affect our future results.



Foreign Exchange and Interest Rate Risk



Significant portions of our revenues and earnings, as well as our substantial international net assets, are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates.61%of our total 2013 revenues were derived from international operations, including 26% from the Europe region and 21% from Japan and the rest of Asia region. As we operate in multiple foreign currencies, including the euro, the Japanese yen, the Chinese renminbi, the U.K. pound, the Canadian dollar and approximately 100 other currencies, changes in those currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will impact our revenues and expenses. If the U.S. dollar were to weaken against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would increase, having a positive impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would increase, having a negative impact on earnings. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar were to strengthen against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would decrease, having a negative impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would decrease, having a positive impact on earnings. Therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates can impact our results and our financial guidance.



The impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates or significant exchange fluctuations can impact our results and financial guidance. For example, on February 13, 2013, the Venezuelan government devalued its currency from a rate of 4.3 to 6.3 of Venezuelan currency to the U.S. dollar. We have experienced and will continue to experience ongoing adverse impacts to earnings as our revenues and expenses will be translated into U.S. dollars at a lower rate. We cannot predict whether there will be further devaluations of the Venezuelan currency or devaluations of any other currencies.



In addition, our interest-bearing investments and borrowings are subject to risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. These risks and the measures we have taken to help contain them are discussed in theForward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results—Financial Risk Managementsection of the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report. For additional details, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 7E. Financial Instruments: Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activitiesin our 2013 Financial Report. Those sections of our 2013 Financial Report are incorporated by reference.



Notwithstanding our efforts to foresee and mitigate the effects of changes in external fiscal circumstances, we cannot predict with certainty changes in currency and interest rates, inflation or other related factors affecting our businesses.



Risks Affecting International Operations



Our international operations could be affected by currency fluctuations, capital and exchange controls, expropriation and other restrictive government actions, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, and marketing of, reimbursement for and access to our products, as well as by political unrest, unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes. Any of these changes could adversely affect our business.












Many emerging markets have experienced growth rates in excess of developed markets, leading to an increased contribution to the industry’s global performance. As a result, we have been employing strategies to grow in emerging markets, including the full integration of emerging markets into each of our three new businesses—theGlobal Innovative Pharmaceutical business; theGlobal Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare business; and theGlobal Established Pharmaceutical business. However, there is no assurance that our strategies in emerging markets will be successful or that these countries will continue to sustain these growth rates. In addition, some emerging market countries may be particularly vulnerable to periods of financial instability or significant currency fluctuations or may have limited resources for healthcare spending, which, as discussed above, can adversely affect our results.



Specialty Pharmaceuticals



Specialty pharmaceuticals are medicines that treat rare or life-threatening conditions that typically have smaller patient populations. The growing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceuticals, combined with their relative higher cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, has generated payer interest in developing cost-containment strategies targeted to this sector. While the impact on us of payers’ efforts to control access to and pricing of specialty pharmaceuticals has been limited to date, our growing portfolio of specialty products, combined with the increasing use of health technology assessment in markets around the world, and the deteriorating finances of certain governments, may lead to a more significant adverse business impact in the future.



Consumer Healthcare



The Consumer Healthcare business may be impacted by economic volatility, the timing and severity of the cough, cold and flu season, generic or store brand competition affecting consumer spending patterns and market share gains of competitors’ branded products or generic store brands. In addition, regulatory and legislative outcomes regarding the safety, efficacy or unintended uses of specific ingredients in our Consumer Healthcare products may require withdrawal, reformulation and/or relabeling of certain products (e.g., cough/cold products). SeeGlobal Economic Conditionsbelow.



Global Economic Conditions



In addition to industry-specific factors, we, like other businesses, continue to face the effects of the challenging economic environment, which have impacted our biopharmaceutical operations in the U.S., Europe and Japan, and in a number of emerging markets. We believe that patients, experiencing the effects of the challenging economic environment, including high unemployment levels, and increases in co-pays, sometimes switch to generic products, delay treatments, skip doses or use less effective treatments to reduce their costs. Challenging economic conditions in the U.S. also have increased the number of patients in the Medicaid program (and the number will continue to grow as a result of the Medicaid coverage expansion effective in some states in 2014 in accordance with the ACA), under which sales of pharmaceuticals are subject to substantial rebates and, in many states, to formulary restrictions limiting access to brand-name drugs, including ours. In addition, we continue to experience pricing pressure in various markets around the world, including in developed European markets, Japan and in a number of emerging markets, with government-mandated reductions in prices for certain biopharmaceutical products and government-imposed access restrictions in certain countries. Furthermore, some government agencies and third-party payers use health technology assessments in ways that, at times, lead to lower prices for and restricted access to new medicines.



The challenging global economic environment has not had, nor do we anticipate it will have, a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources. Due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. As market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. However, there can be no assurance that possible future changes in global financial markets and global economic conditions will not affect our liquidity or capital resources or impact our ability to obtain financing in the future.



Other potential impacts of these challenging economic conditions include declining sales; increased costs; changes in foreign exchange rates; a decline in the value of, or a lower rate of return on, our financial assets and pension plan investments, which may require us to increase our pension funding obligations; adverse government actions; delays or failures in the performance of customers, suppliers, and other third parties on whom we may depend for the performance of our business; and the risk that our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be adequate.












Outsourcing



We outsource certain services to third parties in areas including transaction processing, accounting, information technology, manufacturing, clinical trial execution, non-clinical research, safety services and other areas. In 2013, we continued to place the majority of our clinical trial execution services with two strategic clinical research organizations (CROs) and we also utilized another CRO to execute early phase development studies. Service performance issues with these CROs may adversely impact the progression of our clinical trial programs. Outsourcing of services to third parties could also expose us to sub-optimal quality of service delivery, which may result in missed deadlines, supply disruptions, non-compliance or reputational harm, all with potential negative implications for our results.



We continue to pursue a multi-year initiative to outsource some transaction-processing activities within certain accounting processes and are migrating to a consistent enterprise resource planning system across the organization. These are enhancements of ongoing activities to support the growth of our financial shared service capabilities and standardize our financial systems. If any difficulties in the migration to or in the operation of the new system were to occur, they could adversely affect our operations, including, among other ways, through a failure to meet demand for our products, or adversely affect our ability to meet our financial reporting obligations.



Interactions with Healthcare Professionals and Government Officials



Risks and uncertainties apply where we provide something of value to a healthcare professional and/or government official, which, if found to be improper, could potentially result in government enforcement actions and penalties. These risks may increase as non-U.S. jurisdictions adopt new anti-bribery laws and regulations.



Difficulties of Our Wholesale Distributors



In 2013, our largest wholesale distributor accounted for approximately 12% of our total revenue (and 30% of our total U.S. revenue), and our top three wholesale distributors accounted for approximately 29% of our total revenue (and 73% of our total U.S. revenue). If one of our significant wholesale distributors should encounter financial or other difficulties, such distributor might decrease the amount of business that it does with us, and we might be unable to collect all the amounts that the distributor owes us on a timely basis or at all, which could negatively impact our results of operations.



Product Manufacturing and Marketing Risks



Difficulties or delays in product manufacturing or marketing could affect future results through regulatory actions, shut-downs, approval delays, withdrawals, recalls, penalties, supply disruptions or shortages, reputational harm, product liability, unanticipated costs or otherwise. Examples of such difficulties or delays include, but are not limited to, the inability to increase production capacity commensurate with demand; the failure to predict market demand for, or to gain market acceptance of, approved products; the possibility that the supply of incoming materials may be delayed or become unavailable and that the quality of incoming materials may be substandard and not detected; the possibility that we may fail to maintain appropriate quality standards throughout the internal and external supply network and/or comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices and other applicable regulations such as serialization (which allows for track and trace of products in the supply chain to enhance patient safety); risks to supply chain continuity as a result of natural or man-made disasters at our facilities or at a supplier or vendor, including those that may be related to climate change; or failure to maintain the integrity of our supply chains against intentional and criminal acts such as economic adulteration, product diversion, product theft, and counterfeit goods.



Counterfeit Products



A counterfeit medicine is one that has been deliberately and fraudulently mislabeled as to its identity and source. A counterfeit Pfizer medicine, therefore, is one manufactured by someone other than Pfizer, but which appears to be the same as an authentic Pfizer medicine. The prevalence of counterfeit medicines is a significant and growing industry-wide issue due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: the widespread use of the internet, which has greatly facilitated the ease by which counterfeit medicines can be advertised, purchased and delivered to individual patients; the availability of sophisticated technology that makes it easier for counterfeiters to make counterfeit medicines; the growing involvement in the medicine supply chain of under-regulated wholesalers and repackagers; the importation of medicines across borders; and the relatively modest risk of penalties faced by counterfeiters. Further, laws against pharmaceutical counterfeiting vary greatly from country to country, and the enforcement of existing law varies greatly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. For example, in some countries, pharmaceutical counterfeiting is not a crime; in others, it may result in only










minimal sanctions. In addition, those involved in the distribution of counterfeit medicines use complex transport routes in order to evade customs controls by disguising the true source of their products.



Counterfeit medicines pose a risk to patient health and safety because of the conditions under which they are manufactured—often in unregulated, unlicensed, uninspected and unsanitary sites—as well as the lack of regulation of their contents. Failure to mitigate the threat of counterfeit medicines, which is exacerbated by the complexity of the supply chain, could adversely impact our business, by, among other things, causing the loss of patient confidence in the Pfizer name and in the integrity of our medicines, potentially resulting in lost sales, product recalls, and an increased threat of litigation.



We undertake significant efforts to counteract the threats associated with counterfeit medicines, including, among other things, working with the FDA and other regulatory authorities and multinational coalitions to combat the counterfeiting of medicines and supporting efforts by law enforcement authorities to prosecute counterfeiters; assessing new and existing technologies to seek to make it more difficult for counterfeiters to copy our products and easier for patients and healthcare providers to distinguish authentic from counterfeit medicines; implementing business practices designed to protect patient health; promoting public policies intended to hinder counterfeiting; and working collaboratively with wholesalers, pharmacies, customs offices, and law enforcement agencies to increase inspection coverage, monitor distribution channels, and improve surveillance of distributors and repackagers. No assurance can be given, however, that our efforts and the efforts of others will be entirely successful, and the presence of counterfeit medicines may continue to increase.



Cost and Expense Control/Unusual Events/Failure to Realize the Anticipated Benefits of Strategic Initiatives and Acquisitions/Intangible Assets and Goodwill



Growth in costs and expenses, changes in product, segment and geographic mix and the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, internal reorganizations, product withdrawals, recalls and other unusual events that could result from evolving business strategies, evaluation of asset realization and organizational restructuring could adversely affect future results. Such risks and uncertainties include, in particular, our ability to realize the projected benefits of (i) our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, including those related to our R&D organization; (ii) our internal separation of our commercial operations into three new, global businesses; (iii) any other corporate strategic initiatives we may pursue in the future; and (iv) any acquisitions, divestitures or other initiatives we may pursue in the future.



In addition, our consolidated balance sheet contains significant amounts of intangible assets, including goodwill. For IPR&D assets, the risk of failure is significant, and there can be no certainty that these assets will ultimately yield successful products. The nature of the biopharmaceutical business is high-risk and requires that we invest in a large number of projects in an effort to achieve a successful portfolio of approved products. Our ability to realize value on these significant investments is often contingent upon, among other things, regulatory approvals and market acceptance. As such, we expect that many of these IPR&D assets will become impaired and be written off at some time in the future. For goodwill, all reporting units can confront events and circumstances that can lead to a goodwill impairment charge (such as, among other things, unanticipated competition, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, a significant adverse change in legal matters or in the business climate and/or a failure to replace the contributions of products that lose exclusivity). Any such charges may be significant.



Changes in Laws and Accounting Standards



Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations, including, among others, changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law and regulatory interpretations, including changes affecting the taxation by the U.S. of income earned outside the U.S. that may result from pending and possible future proposals), competition laws, privacy laws and environmental laws in the U.S. and other countries.



Terrorist Activity



Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in business, political and economic conditions, including the cost and availability of insurance, due to the threat of terrorist activity in the U.S. and other parts of the world and related U.S. military action overseas.



Legal Proceedings



We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various patent, product liability, consumer, commercial, securities, antitrust, environmental, employment and tax litigations and claims, government investigations and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive










verdicts do occur. Although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, we could in the future incur judgments, enter into settlements of claims or revise our expectations regarding the outcomes of certain matters, and such developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the amounts are accrued and/or our cash flows in the period in which the amounts are paid.



Our activities relating to the sale and marketing and the pricing of our products are subject to extensive regulation under the U.S. Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and other federal and state statutes, including those discussed elsewhere in this 2013 Form 10-K, as well as anti-kickback and false claims laws, and similar laws in international jurisdictions. Like many companies in our industry, we have from time to time received inquiries and subpoenas and other types of information demands from government authorities, and been subject to claims and other actions related to our business activities brought by governmental authorities, as well as by consumers and private payers. In some instances, we have incurred significant expense, civil payments, fines and other adverse consequences as a result of these claims, actions and inquiries. For example, these claims, actions and inquiries may relate to alleged failures to accurately interpret or identify or prevent non-compliance with the laws and regulations associated with the dissemination of product information (approved and unapproved), potentially resulting in government enforcement and damage to our reputation. This risk may be heightened by digital marketing, including social media, mobile applications and blogger outreach.



In connection with the resolution of certain U.S. government investigations concerning various products in September 2009, we entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) with the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, which is effective through December 31, 2014. In connection with the resolution of our FCPA matters in August 2012, one of our subsidiaries entered into a Deferred Prosecution Agreement (DPA) with the U.S. Department of Justice, which has a term of approximately two years. In the CIA and DPA, we agreed to implement and/or maintain certain compliance program elements to promote compliance with federal healthcare program and FDA requirements, and anti-bribery and anti-corruption and other applicable laws. A material failure to comply with the CIA or DPA could result in severe sanctions against us.



Patent claims include challenges to the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various products or processes. Although we believe we have substantial defenses to these challenges with respect to all our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a loss of patent protection for the drug at issue, which could lead to a significant loss of sales of that drug and could materially affect future results of operations.



Business Development Activities



We expect to continue to enhance our in-line products and product pipeline through acquisitions, licensing and alliances. See theOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Business Development Initiativessection of the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report, which is incorporated by reference. However, these enhancement plans are subject to the availability and cost of appropriate opportunities, competition from other pharmaceutical companies that are seeking similar opportunities and our ability to successfully identify, structure and execute transactions.



Information Technology and Security












in the loss of critical or sensitive confidential information or intellectual property, and could result in financial, legal, business and reputational harm to us.



Environmental Claims and Proceedings



We and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to contingencies arising in the ordinary course of business relating to environmental claims and proceedings. Amounts recorded for contingencies can result from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. While we have accrued for worldwide environmental liabilities, there is no guarantee that additional costs will not be incurred beyond the amounts accrued. If we fail to properly manage the safety of our facilities and the environmental risks associated therewith or if we are required to increase our accruals for contingencies for environmental claims and proceedings in the future, it could potentially have an adverse effect on our results of operations.














