ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS

The
statements in this Section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

We cannot guarantee that any
forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or
unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider
forward-looking statements, and you are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements.

We
undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Form 10-Q and
8-K reports and our other filings with the SEC. Also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. These are factors that, individually or in the
aggregate, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not
possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties.

U.S. Healthcare Reform/Healthcare Legislation

As mentioned above, the ACA
was enacted by Congress in March 2010 and its provisions are effective on various dates. We expect that the rebates, discounts, taxes and other costs over time will have a significant effect on our expenses and profitability in the future. See the
discussion under theOverview of our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook – Our Operating Environment – U.S. Healthcare Legislationsection of the MD&A in our 2011 Financial Report and inItem 1.
Businessunder the captionGovernment Regulation and Price Constraints. Furthermore, the IPAB created by the ACA, to reduce the per capita rate of growth in Medicare spending, could potentially limit access to certain treatments or
mandate price controls for our products. Moreover, expanded government investigative authority may increase the costs of compliance with new regulations and programs. We also face the uncertainties that might result from any modification, repeal or
invalidation of any of the provisions of the ACA.






Pricing Pressures, Government Regulation and Managed Care Trends

The prohibition on the use of federal funds for reimbursement of erectile dysfunction medications by the Medicaid program, which became effective January 1, 2006, and the similar federal funding
prohibition for the Medicare Part D program, which became effective January 1, 2007, has had an adverse effect on our business. Any prohibitions on the use of federal funds for reimbursement of other classes of drugs in the future may also have
an adverse effect.

We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. In Europe and some other
international markets, governments provide healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for government-sponsored healthcare systems. In particular, there were
government-mandated price reductions for certain biopharmaceutical products in certain European and emerging market countries in 2011, and we anticipate continuing pricing pressures in Europe and emerging markets in 2012. This international
patchwork of price regulation has led to different prices and some third-party trade in our products between countries. As a result, it is expected that pressures on the pricing component of operating results will continue. The adoption of
restrictive price controls in new jurisdictions or more restrictive ones in existing jurisdictions, failure to obtain government-approved pricing or formulary placement where required for our products or obtaining such pricing or placement at
unfavorable pricing could also adversely impact revenue. In our vaccines business, we participate in a tender process in many countries for participation in national immunization programs. Failure to secure participation in national immunization
programs or to obtain acceptable pricing in the tender process could adversely affect our business.

MCOs and other private
insurers frequently adopt their own payment or reimbursement reductions. Consolidation among MCOs has increased the negotiating power of these entities. Private third-party payers, as well as governments, increasingly employ formularies to control
costs by negotiating discounted prices in exchange for formulary inclusion. Private health insurance companies and self-insured employers have been raising co-payments required from beneficiaries, particularly for branded pharmaceuticals and
biotechnology products. Private health insurance companies also are increasingly imposing utilization management tools, such as requiring prior authorization for a branded product if a generic product is available or requiring that patient treatment
first fail on a generic product before permitting access to a branded medicine. As the U.S. payer market concentrates further and more drugs become available in generic form, biopharmaceutical companies may face greater pricing pressure from private
third-party payers, who will continue to drive more of their patients to use lower cost generic alternatives.






Generic Competition

Competition from manufacturers of generic drugs is a major challenge for us around the world. Upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for one of our products, or upon the “at-risk”
launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a generic manufacturer of a generic version of one of our patented products, we can lose the major portion of sales of that product in a very short period, which
can adversely affect our business.

Also, the patents covering several of our medicines, includingLipitor,Viagra,Detrol/Detrol LA,Lyrica,Sutent,Tygacil,Rapamune,Zyvox,Avinza,EpiPen,ToriselandEmbedaare being challenged by generic manufacturers. In addition,
our patent-protected products may face competition in the form of generic versions of competitors’ branded products that lose their market exclusivity.

Competitive Products

We cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact
of the introduction of competitive products or their possible effect on our sales. Products that compete with ours, including some of our best-selling medicines, are launched from time to time. Competitive product launches have occurred in recent
years, and certain potentially competitive products are in various stages of development, some of which have been filed for approval with the FDA and with regulatory authorities in other countries.

Dependence on Key In-Line Products

Lipitor

Lyrica

Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13

Enbrel

Celebrex

Viagra

Norvasc

Zyvox

Xalatan/Xalacom

Sutent

Geodon/Zeldox

Premarin

Lipitor

Lipitor

Lipitor

Lipitor

Lipitor

Lipitor

Lipitor

Xalatan

Xalatan/Xalacom

Geodon

Specialty Pharmaceuticals

Specialty pharmaceuticals are medicines that treat rare or life-threatening conditions that have smaller patient populations, such as
certain types of cancer and multiple sclerosis. The growing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceuticals, combined with their relative higher cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, is beginning to generate
significant payer interest in developing cost-containment strategies targeted to this sector. While the impact on us of payers’ efforts to control access to and pricing of specialty pharmaceuticals has been limited to date, our growing
portfolio of specialty products, combined with the increasing use of health technology assessment in markets around the world and the deteriorating finances of governments, may lead to a more significant adverse business impact in the future.






Research and Development Investment

The discovery and development of safe, effective new products, and the development of additional uses for existing products, are very
important to our success. Our growth potential depends in large part on our ability to identify and develop new products or new indications for existing products that address unmet medical needs and receive reimbursement from payers, either through
internal research and development or through collaborations, acquisitions, joint ventures or licensing or other arrangements with third parties. However, balancing current growth and investment for the future remains a major challenge. Our ongoing
investments in new product introductions and in research and development for new products and existing product extensions could exceed corresponding sales growth. This could produce higher costs without a proportional increase in revenues.

Additionally, our research and development investment plans and resources may not be correctly matched between science and
markets, and failure to invest in the right technology platforms, therapeutic segments, product classes, geographic markets and/or in-licensing and out-licensing opportunities in order to deliver a more robust pipeline could adversely impact the
productivity of our pipeline. Additionally, even if the areas with the greatest market attractiveness are identified, the science may not work for any given program despite the significant investment required for research and development.

We recently announced a focus on fewer disease areas where we believe we can deliver the greatest medical and commercial
success, as well as the implementation of our R&D footprint reduction by moving forward on our productivity initiatives. As a result of these actions, we expect significant reductions in our annual research and development expenses, which are
reflected in our 2012 financial guidance. There can be no assurance that this strategy will deliver the desired result in the targeted timeframe or at all, which could affect profitability in the future.

Development, Regulatory Approval and Marketing of Products

Eliquis

Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13

Xalkori

Inlyta

There are many considerations that can affect marketing of our products around the world. Regulatory delays, delays in or the inability
to successfully complete or adequately design and implement clinical trials, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy, new discoveries, patent disputes and claims about adverse side effects are a few of the factors that can adversely affect the
realization of research and development and product-related, forward-looking statements. Further, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy can result in a negative impact on product sales, product recalls or withdrawals, and/or consumer fraud,
product liability and other litigation and claims. Also, increasing regulatory scrutiny of drug safety and efficacy, with regulatory authorities increasingly focused on product safety and the risk/benefit profile of products as they relate to
already-approved products, has resulted in a more challenging, expensive and lengthy regulatory approval process due to requests for, among other things, additional clinical trials prior to granting approval or increased post-approval requirements,
such as risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (seePost-Approval Databelow).






Post-Approval Data

Patent Protection

Our business also may rely on unpatented proprietary technology, know-how and trade secrets. If the confidentiality of this intellectual property is breached, it could adversely impact our business.

Biotechnology Products

The ACA has created a framework for the approval of biosimilars in the U.S. following the expiration of 12 years of exclusivity for the innovator biologic, with a potential six-month pediatric extension.
Such biosimilars could reference biotechnology products already approved under the U.S. Public Health Service Act. Additionally, the FDA has approved a biosimilar recombinant human growth hormone that referenced our biotechnology product,Genotropin, which was approved under the U.S. Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. In Europe, the European Commission has granted marketing authorizations for several biosimilars pursuant to a set of general






and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past few years, and in Japan, the regulatory authority has granted marketing authorizations for certain biosimilars,
including somatropin (the recombinant human growth hormone in ourGenotropinproduct) pursuant to a guideline for biosimilar approvals issued in 2009. If competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars referencing our
biotechnology products, our biotechnology products may become subject to competition from biosimilars, with the attendant competitive pressure. Expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could generally trigger this competition,
assuming any relevant exclusivity period has expired. We may face more litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biotechnology products with substantial revenue.

Pfizer is developing biosimilar medicines. The developing pathway for registration and approval of biosimilar products in the U.S. could
diminish the value of investments in biosimilars that Pfizer has made, and may continue to make going forward. Other risks include the potential for steeper than anticipated price erosion due to increased competitive intensity, coupled with high
costs associated with clinical development, secondary patents or intellectual property challenges that may preclude timely commercialization, and lower prescriptions of biosimilars due to concerns over protein comparability over innovator medicines.

Research Studies

Decisions about research studies made early in the development process of a drug candidate can have a substantial impact on the marketing strategy and payer reimbursement possibilities once the drug
receives approval. More detailed studies may demonstrate additional benefits that can help in the marketing and payer reimbursement process, but they consume time and resources and can delay submitting the drug candidate for initial approval. We try
to plan clinical trials prudently, but there is no guarantee that a proper balance of speed and testing will be made in each case. The quality of our decisions in this area could affect our future results.

Foreign Exchange and Interest Rate Risk

Significant portions of our revenues and earnings, as well as our substantial international net assets, are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. 60% of our total 2011 revenues were derived from
international operations, including 27% from the Europe region and 20% from the Japan and the rest of Asia region. As we operate in multiple foreign currencies, including the euro, the U.K. pound, the Japanese yen, the Canadian dollar and
approximately 100 other currencies, changes in those currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will impact our revenues and expenses. If the U.S. dollar weakens against a specific foreign currency, our revenues will increase, having a positive impact,
and our overall expenses will increase, having a negative impact, on net income. Likewise, if the U.S. dollar strengthens against a specific foreign currency, our revenues will decrease, having a negative impact, and our overall expenses will
decrease, having a positive impact on net income. Therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates can impact our results and our financial guidance.

In addition, our interest-bearing investments, loans and borrowings are subject to risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. These risks and the measures we have taken to help
contain them are discussed in theFinancial Risk Managementsection of the MD&A in our 2011 Financial Report. For additional details, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements– Note 7E. Financial Instruments –
Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activitiesin our 2011 Financial Report. Those sections of our 2011 Financial Report are incorporated by reference.

Notwithstanding our efforts to foresee and mitigate the effects of changes in fiscal circumstances, we cannot predict with certainty changes in currency and interest rates, inflation or other related
factors affecting our businesses.

Risks Affecting International Operations

Our international operations also could be affected by capital and exchange controls, expropriation and other restrictive government
actions, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, trade regulations






and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, and marketing of, reimbursement for and access to, our products, as well as by political unrest, unstable governments and legal
systems and inter-governmental disputes. Any of these changes could adversely affect our business.

Many emerging markets have
experienced growth rates in excess of the world’s largest markets, leading to an increased contribution to the industry’s global performance. As a result, we have been employing strategies to grow in emerging markets. However, there is no
assurance that our strategies in emerging markets will be successful or that these countries will continue to sustain these growth rates. In addition, some emerging market countries may be particularly vulnerable to periods of financial instability
or significant currency fluctuations or may have limited resources for healthcare spending, which, as discussed above, can adversely affect our results.

Animal Health

Our Animal Health unit may be impacted by challenging
global economic conditions, resulting in high unemployment rates and tight credit conditions. A high unemployment rate typically results in reduced traffic in veterinary clinics, negatively impacting our companion animal business. Tight credit
conditions limit the borrowing power of livestock producers, causing some to switch to lower-priced alternatives. SeeGlobal Economic Conditionsbelow.

Pfizer Nutrition

Pfizer Nutrition may be impacted by challenging global
economic conditions and the resulting effect on consumer spending, both in developed and emerging markets. The Nutrition business may also experience significant financial impact associated with changes in national, regional, and international laws,
rules and guidelines and their enforcement. Our infant and young child nutrition products are subject to an array of rules and regulations enforced by local government entities, as well as treaties, conventions and guidelines from international
authorities. Changes to these requirements can significantly impact costs relating to taxes, tariffs, trade, labeling, marketing, manufacturing, and the overall availability of our products. SeeGlobal Economic Conditionsbelow.

Consumer Healthcare

The Consumer Healthcare unit may be impacted by economic volatility and generic or store brand competition affecting consumer spending
patterns and market share gains of competitors’ branded products or generic store brands. In addition, regulatory and legislative outcomes regarding the safety, efficacy or unintended uses of specific ingredients in our Consumer Healthcare
products may require withdrawal and/or reformulation of certain products (e.g. cough/cold products). SeeGlobal Economic Conditionsbelow.

Global Economic Conditions

In addition to industry-specific factors, we,
like other businesses, continue to face the effects of the challenging economic environment, which have impacted our biopharmaceutical operations in the U.S. and Europe, affecting the performance of products such asLipitor,CelebrexandLyrica. We believe that patients experiencing the effects of the challenging economic environment, including high unemployment levels and increases in co-pays, sometimes switch to generic products, delay treatments, skip doses or use less
effective treatments to reduce their costs. Challenging economic conditions in the U.S. also have increased the number of patients in the Medicaid program, under which sales of pharmaceuticals are subject to substantial rebates and, in many states,
to formulary restrictions limiting access to brand-name drugs, including ours. In addition, we experienced continued pricing pressure in various economic environments around the world, including in Europe and in a number of emerging markets,
resulting in government-mandated reductions in prices for certain biopharmaceutical products, as well as government-imposed access restrictions in certain countries.






The global economic downturn and the challenging global economic environment have not had,
nor do we anticipate they will have, a material impact on our liquidity. Due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe
that we have the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. As market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. However, there can be no assurance that our liquidity will not be affected by possible
future changes in global financial markets and global economic conditions.

Other potential impacts of these challenging
economic conditions include declining sales; increased costs; changes in foreign exchange rates; a decline in the value of, or a lower rate of return on, our financial assets and pension plan investments, which may require us to increase our pension
funding obligations; adverse government actions; delays or failures in the performance of customers, suppliers, and other third parties on whom we may depend for the performance of our business; and the risk that our allowance for doubtful accounts
may not be adequate.

Outsourcing

Outsourcing to third parties in areas including transaction processing, accounting, information technology, manufacturing, clinical trial execution, non-clinical research, safety services and other areas
could expose us to sub-optimal quality, missed deadlines, supply disruptions, non-compliance or reputational harm, all with potential negative implications for our results. For example, we are transitioning our clinical trial execution model from
multiple functional service providers to two strategic partners. Any issues with one or both of these partners or during the transition could adversely impact our business.

Interactions with Healthcare Professionals

Risks and uncertainties apply
where we provide something of value to a healthcare professional and/or government official, which, if found to be improper, could potentially result in government enforcement actions and penalties. These risks may increase as non-U.S. jurisdictions
adopt new anti-bribery laws and regulations.

Difficulties of Our Wholesale Distributors

In 2011, our largest wholesale distributor accounted for approximately 13% of our total revenue (and 30% of our total U.S. revenue), and
our top three wholesale distributors accounted for approximately 32% of our total revenue (and 77% of our total U.S. revenue). If one of our significant wholesale distributors encounters financial or other difficulties, such distributor may decrease
the amount of business that it does with us, and we may be unable to collect all the amounts that the distributor owes us on a timely basis or at all, which could negatively impact our results of operations.

Product Manufacturing and Marketing Risks

Difficulties or delays in product manufacturing or marketing could affect future results through regulatory actions, shut-downs, approval delays, withdrawals, recalls, penalties, supply disruptions or
shortages, reputational harm, product liability, unanticipated costs or otherwise. Examples of such difficulties or delays include, but are not limited to, the inability to increase production capacity commensurate with demand; the failure to
predict market demand for, or to gain market acceptance of, approved products; the possibility that the supply of incoming materials may be delayed or become unavailable and that the quality of incoming materials may be substandard and not detected;
or that we may fail to maintain appropriate quality standards throughout the internal and external supply network and/or comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices and other applicable regulations.

Counterfeit Products

A
counterfeit medicine is one that has been deliberately and fraudulently mislabeled as to its identity and source. A counterfeit Pfizer medicine, therefore, is one manufactured by someone other than Pfizer, but which






appears to be the same as an authentic Pfizer medicine. Counterfeit medicines pose a risk to patient health and safety because of the conditions under which they are manufactured – in
unregulated, unlicensed, uninspected and often unsanitary sites – as well as the lack of regulation of their contents. Failure to mitigate the threat of counterfeit medicines could adversely impact our business, by, among other things, causing
the loss of patient confidence in the Pfizer name and in the integrity of our medicines.

Cost and Expense Control/Unusual
Events/Intangible Assets and Goodwill

Growth in costs and expenses, changes in product, segment and geographic mix and
the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, product withdrawals, recalls and other unusual events that could result from evolving business strategies, evaluation of asset realization and organizational restructuring could adversely
affect future results. Such risks and uncertainties include, in particular, our ability to successfully implement our plans, announced February 1, 2011, regarding our research and development function (seeResearch and Development Investmentabove), as well as our ability to realize the projected benefits of our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, including those related to our research and development function.

In addition, our consolidated balance sheet contains significant amounts of intangible assets, including goodwill. For IPR&D assets,
the risk of failure is significant, and there can be no certainty that these assets will ultimately yield successful products. The nature of the biopharmaceutical business is high-risk and requires that we invest in a large number of projects in an
effort to achieve a successful portfolio of approved products. Our ability to realize value on these significant investments is often contingent upon, among other things, regulatory approvals and market acceptance. As such, we expect that many of
these IPR&D assets will become impaired and be written off at some time in the future.

Further, as discussed above inItem 1. Businessunder the captionOperating Segments, Pfizer used to report all of its biopharmaceutical businesses in a single segment (Biopharmaceutical) and now reports these businesses in three operating segments (Primary
Care; Specialty Care and Oncology; and Emerging Markets and Established Products). As a result of this change, the goodwill previously associated with the single biopharmaceutical operating segment has been allocated among the three new
biopharmaceutical operating segments. While all reporting units can confront events and circumstances that can lead to impairments (such as, among other things, unanticipated competition, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, a significant
adverse change in legal matters or in the business climate and/or a failure to replace the contributions of products that lose exclusivity), in general, our increased number of biopharmaceutical reporting units significantly increases our risk of
goodwill impairment charges as smaller reporting units are inherently less able to absorb negative developments that might affect certain operating assets but not others.

Changes in Laws and Accounting Standards

Our future results could be
adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax-rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law and regulatory interpretations including changes affecting the
taxation by the U.S. of income earned outside the U.S. that may result from pending and possible future proposals), competition laws and environmental laws in the U.S. and other countries.

Terrorist Activity

Our future results could be adversely affected by
changes in business, political and economic conditions, including the cost and availability of insurance, due to the threat of terrorist activity in the U.S. and other parts of the world and related U.S. military action overseas.

Legal Proceedings

We
and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various patent, product liability, consumer, commercial, securities, antitrust, environmental, employment and tax litigations and claims, government investigations and






other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. Although we believe we have
substantial defenses in these matters, we could in the future incur judgments, enter into settlements of claims or revise our expectations regarding the outcome of certain matters, and such developments could have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations or cash flows in the period in which the amounts are paid or accrued.

Our activities relating to the
sale and marketing and the pricing of our products are subject to extensive regulation under the U.S. Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other federal and state
statutes, including anti-kickback and false claims laws, as well as similar laws in foreign jurisdictions. Like many companies in our industry, we have from time to time received inquiries and subpoenas and other types of information demands from
government authorities, and been subject to claims and other actions related to our business activities brought by governmental authorities, as well as by consumers and private payers. In some instances, we have incurred significant expense and
other adverse consequences as a result of these claims, actions and inquiries. For example, these claims, actions and inquiries may relate to alleged failures to accurately interpret or identify or prevent non-compliance with the laws and
regulations associated with the dissemination of product information (approved and unapproved), potentially resulting in government enforcement and damage to our reputation.

Patent claims include challenges to the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various products or processes. Although we believe we have substantial defenses to these challenges with respect to all
our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a loss of patent protection for the drug at issue, which could lead to a significant loss of sales of that drug and
could materially affect future results of operations.

Business Development Activities

We expect to continue to enhance our in-line products and product pipeline through acquisitions, licensing and alliances. See theOverview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook – Our Business Development Initiativessection of the MD&A in our 2011 Financial Report, which is incorporated by reference. However, these enhancement plans
are subject to the availability and cost of appropriate opportunities and competition from other pharmaceutical companies that are seeking similar opportunities and our ability to successfully identify and execute transactions.

Information Technology

We rely to a large extent upon sophisticated information technology systems and infrastructure. The size and complexity of our computer
systems make them potentially vulnerable to service interruption, malicious intrusion and random attack. Likewise, data privacy or security breaches by employees and others with permitted access to our systems, including in some cases third-party
service providers to which we may outsource certain business functions, may pose a risk that sensitive data, including intellectual property or personal information, may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. While we have invested
heavily in the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent service interruptions, or identify breaches in our systems, that could adversely affect our business and/or result in the loss of
critical or sensitive information, which could result in financial, legal, business or reputational harm to us.

Failure to Realize the
Anticipated Benefits of Strategic Initiatives and Acquisitions

Our future results may be affected by (i) the impact
of, and our ability to successfully execute, any strategic alternatives we decide to pursue for our Animal Health and Nutrition businesses, as well as any other corporate strategic initiatives we may pursue in the future, and (ii) our ability
to realize the projected benefits of our acquisition of King Pharmaceuticals, Inc., as well as any other acquisitions we may pursue in the future.






