ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL

Our mission is to enable people and businesses throughout the world to realize their full potential. Since the company was founded in 1975, we have
worked to achieve this mission by creating technology that transforms the way people work, play, and communicate. We develop and market software, services, hardware, and solutions that we believe deliver new opportunities, greater convenience, and
enhanced value to people’s lives. We do business throughout the world and have offices in more than 100 countries.

We generate
revenue by developing, manufacturing, licensing, and supporting a wide range of software products and services for many different types of computing devices. Our software products and services include operating systems for personal computers,
servers, and intelligent devices; server applications for distributed computing environments; information worker productivity applications; business solutions applications; high-performance computing applications; software development tools; and
video games. We provide consulting and product and solution support services, and we train and certify computer system integrators and developers. We also design and sell hardware including the Xbox 360 gaming and entertainment console and
accessories, the Zune digital music and entertainment device and accessories, and Microsoft personal computer (“PC”) hardware products. In addition to selling individual products and services, we offer suites of products and services,
including those discussed below and the enterprise client access license (“eCAL”) suite, which licenses access to Microsoft server software products.

We earn revenues from customers paying a fee to license software; that will continue to be an important part of our business, even as we develop
and deliver “cloud-based” computing services. Cloud-based computing involves providing software, services and content over the Internet by way of shared computing resources located in centralized data centers. Consumers and business
customers access these resources from a variety of devices. Revenues are earned primarily from usage fees and advertising.

Microsoft’s “software plus services” vision reflects our belief that what is most powerful for end users is a computing or
communication device running sophisticated software, interacting with cloud-based resources. Examples of consumer-oriented cloud-based computing services we offer currently include:



•Bing, our Internet search service;



•Windows Live Essentials suite, which allows users to upload and organize photos, make movies, communicate via email and messaging and enhance online safety;
and



•Xbox LIVE service, which enables online gaming, social networking, and content access.











PART IItem 1



Our current cloud-based services for business users include:



•Microsoft Office Web Apps, which are the online companions to Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote;



•our Business Productivity Online Suite, offering communications and collaboration solutions with high availability and simplified enterprise IT management;



•Microsoft Dynamics Online family of customer relationship management (“CRM”) and enterprise resources planning services; and



•our Azure family of services, including a scalable operating system with compute, storage, hosting and management capabilities, a relational database, and a
platform that helps developers connect applications and services in the cloud or on premise.

We also conduct research
and develop advanced technologies for future software products and services. We believe that delivering breakthrough innovation and high-value solutions through our integrated software platform is the key to meeting our customers’ needs and to
our future growth. We believe that we will continue to lay the foundation for long-term growth by delivering new products and services, creating new opportunities for partners, improving customer satisfaction, and improving our internal processes.
Our focus is to build on this foundation through ongoing innovation in our integrated software platforms; by delivering compelling value propositions to customers; by responding effectively to customer and partner needs; and by continuing to
emphasize the importance of product excellence, business efficacy, and accountability.

OPERATING SEGMENTS

We operate our business in five segments: Windows & Windows Live Division, Server and Tools, Online Services Division, Microsoft Business
Division, and Entertainment and Devices Division. Our segments provide management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. The segments enable the alignment of strategies and objectives across the development, sales, marketing, and
services organizations, and they provide a framework for timely and rational allocation of development, sales, marketing, and services resources within businesses.

Windows & Windows Live Division

Windows & Windows Live Division (“Windows Division”) has overall responsibility for development and marketing of the Windows
operating system, Windows Live and Internet Explorer. Windows Division revenue growth is largely correlated to the growth of the PC market, as the original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) distribution channel accounts for approximately 80%
of total Windows Division revenue. In addition to PC market changes, Windows OEM revenue is impacted by:



•hardware market changes driven by shifts between emerging markets and developed market, consumer PCs and business PCs, and the impact of lower cost netbook
PCs;



•the attachment of Windows to PCs shipped and changes in inventory levels within the OEM channel; and



•pricing changes and promotions, the pricing variation associated with OEM channel shifts from local and regional system builders to large, multinational OEMs,
and other pricing factors.

Windows Division offerings consist of premium and standard edition Windows operating
systems and online software and services through Windows Live. Premium Windows operating systems are those that include additional functionality and are sold at a price above our standard editions.

Products and Services:Windows operating system: Windows 7, including Home
Basic, Home Premium, Professional, Ultimate, Enterprise, and Starter Edition; Windows Vista, including Home Basic, Home Premium, Ultimate, Business, Enterprise and Starter Edition; and Windows XP Home. Windows Live suite of applications and web
services.











PART IItem 1



Competition

The Windows operating system faces competition from various commercial software products offered by well-established companies, including Apple and
Google, and from the Linux operating system. Linux is derived from Unix and is available without payment under a General Public License. Partners such as Hewlett-Packard and Intel have been actively working with alternative Linux-based operating
systems.

The Windows operating system also faces competition from alternative platforms and new devices that may reduce consumer demand
for PCs. User and usage volumes on mobile devices are increasing around the world relative to the PC. Competitors such as Apple, Google, Mozilla, and Opera Software Company offer software that competes with the Web browsing capabilities of Internet
Explorer, a component of the Windows operating system. Our operating system products compete effectively by delivering innovative software, giving customers choice and flexibility, a familiar, easy-to-use interface, compatibility with a broad range
of hardware and software applications, and the largest support network for any operating system.

Windows Live software and services
compete with Google, Yahoo!, and a wide array of Web sites and portals that provide communication and sharing tools and services.

Server and Tools

Server and Tools develops and markets server software, software developer tools, services, and solutions that are designed to make
information technology professionals and developers and their systems more productive and efficient. Server software is integrated server infrastructure and middleware designed to support software applications built on the Windows Server operating
system and includes the server platform, database, storage, management and operations, service-oriented architecture platform, security and identity software. Server and Tools also builds standalone and software development lifecycle tools for
software architects, developers, testers, and project managers. Server offerings can be run on-site, in a partner-hosted environment, or in a Microsoft-hosted environment. Our cloud-based services comprise a scalable operating system with compute,
storage, and management capabilities and a relational database, both of which allow customers to run enterprise workloads and web applications in the cloud, as well as a platform that helps developers connect applications and services in the cloud
or on premise.

Server and Tools offers a broad range of enterprise consulting and product support services (“Enterprise
Services”) that assist customers in developing, deploying, and managing Microsoft server and desktop solutions. Server and Tools also provides training and certification to developers and information technology professionals for our Server and
Tools, Microsoft Business Division, and Windows & Windows Live Division products and services.

Approximately 50% of Server and
Tools revenue comes from annuity volume licensing agreements, approximately 30% is purchased through transactional volume licensing programs, retail packaged product and licenses sold to OEMs, and the remainder comes from Enterprise Services.

Products and Services:Windows Server operating system; Windows
Azure; Microsoft SQL Server; SQL Azure; Visual Studio; Silverlight; System Center products; Biz Talk Server; Microsoft Consulting Services; Premier product support services; and other products and services.

Competition

Our server operating system
products face competition from a wide variety of server operating systems and server applications, offered by companies with a variety of market approaches. Vertically integrated computer manufacturers such as Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and Oracle offer
their own versions of the Unix operating system preinstalled on server hardware. Nearly all computer manufacturers offer server hardware for the Linux operating system and many contribute to Linux operating system development. The competitive
position of Linux has also benefited from the large number of compatible applications now produced by many leading commercial and non-commercial software developers. A number of companies supply versions of Linux, including Novell and Red Hat.











PART IItem 1



We have entered into business and technical collaboration agreements with Novell and other Linux
providers to build, market, and support a series of solutions to enhance the interoperability of our products with their virtualization, management, and network security solutions, and to provide each other’s customers with patent coverage for
their respective products.

We compete to provide enterprise-wide computing solutions with several companies that offer solutions and
middleware technology platforms. IBM and Oracle lead a group of companies focused on the Java Platform Enterprise Edition. Commercial software developers that provide competing server applications for PC-based distributed client/server environments
include CA Technologies, IBM, and Oracle. Our Web application platform software competes with open source software such as Apache, Linux, MySQL, and PHP, and we compete against Java middleware such as Geronimo, JBoss, and Spring Framework.

Numerous commercial software vendors offer competing software applications for connectivity (both Internet and intranet), security,
hosting, database, and e-business servers. System Center competes with server management and server virtualization platform providers, such as BMC, CA Technologies, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and VMWare in the management of information technology
infrastructures. Forefront products compete with CA Technologies, IBM, McAfee, Oracle, Symantec, and Trend Micro in protecting both client and server applications. SQL Server competes with products from IBM, Oracle, Sybase, and other companies in
providing database, business intelligence and data warehousing solutions. Our products for software developers compete against offerings from Adobe, Borland, IBM, Oracle, other companies, and open-source projects. Competing open source projects
include Eclipse (sponsored by CA Technologies, IBM, Oracle, and SAP), PHP, and Ruby on Rails, among others.

Our cloud-based services
offerings also have many competitors. Windows Azure faces competition from Google, Salesforce.com, and VMWare. SQL Azure faces competition from IBM and Oracle.

We believe that our server products, cloud-based services and Enterprise Services provide customers with advantages in innovation, performance,
total costs of ownership, and productivity by delivering superior applications, development tools, and compatibility with a broad base of hardware and software applications, security, and manageability.

Online Services Division

The Online
Services Division (“OSD”) consists of online information offerings such as Bing, MSN portals and channels, as well as an online advertising platform with offerings for both publishers and advertisers. We earn revenue primarily from online
advertising, including search, display, and advertiser and publisher tools. We continue to launch updated and new online offerings and expect to continue to do so in the future. During fiscal year 2010, we launched new releases of Bing, MSN and
Advertising Platforms. In addition, on December 4, 2009, we entered into a definitive agreement with Yahoo! whereby Microsoft will provide the exclusive algorithmic and paid search platform for Yahoo! Web sites. We believe this agreement will
allow us over time to improve the effectiveness and increase the value of our search offering through greater scale in search queries and an expanded and more competitive search and advertising marketplace.

Products and Services:Bing; Microsoft adCenter; MSN; and Atlas online tools for
advertisers and publishers.

Competition

OSD competes with Google, Yahoo!, and a wide array of Web sites and portals that provide content and online offerings to end users. We compete with
these organizations to provide advertising opportunities for merchants. Competitors are continuously developing Internet offerings that seek to provide more effective ways of connecting advertisers with audiences. We believe our search engine, Bing,
helps users make faster, more informed decisions by providing relevant search results, expanded search services, and a broad selection of content. We have also enhanced the user interface to bring a richer search experience. We also invest in
improving the scale of our advertising platform to serve both owned and operated, as well as third-party online properties. We will continue to introduce new products and services to improve the user online experience. We believe that we can compete











PART IItem 1



effectively by attracting new users, understanding their intent, and matching their intent with relevant content, advertiser offerings and software services. We will also attract advertisers by
providing them access to targeted end-users on a high traffic network.

Microsoft Business Division

Microsoft Business Division (“MBD”) offerings consist of the Microsoft Office system and Microsoft Dynamics business
solutions. Microsoft Office system products are designed to increase personal, team, and organization productivity through a range of programs, services, and software solutions. Growth of revenue from the Microsoft Office system offerings,
which generate over 90% of MBD revenue, depends on our ability to add value to the core Office product set and to continue to expand our product offerings in other information worker areas such as content management, enterprise search,
collaboration, unified communications, and business intelligence. Microsoft Dynamics products provide business solutions for financial management, customer relationship management (“CRM”), supply chain management, and analytics
applications for small and mid-size businesses, large organizations, and divisions of global enterprises.

Approximately 80% of MBD
revenue is generated from sales to businesses, which includes Microsoft Office system revenue generated through volume licensing agreements and Microsoft Dynamics revenue. Revenue from this category generally depends upon the number of information
workers in a licensed enterprise and is therefore relatively independent of the number of PCs sold in a given year. Approximately 20% of MBD revenue is derived from sales to consumers, which includes revenue from retail packaged product sales
and OEM revenue. This revenue is generally affected by the level of PC shipments and product launches.

Products and Services:Microsoft Office; Microsoft SharePoint; and Microsoft
Dynamics ERP and CRM, as well as Microsoft Office Web Apps, which are the online companions to Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint and OneNote.

Competition

Competitors to the Microsoft
Office system include many software application vendors such as Adobe, Apple, Corel, Google, IBM, Novell, Oracle, Red Hat, Zoho, and local application developers in Asia and Europe. Apple may distribute certain versions of its application software
products with various models of its PCs and through its mobile devices. Corel and IBM have measurable installed bases with their office productivity products. Corel’s suites, and many local software suites around the world, are aggressively
priced for OEMs to preinstall them on low-priced PCs. Google provides a hosted messaging and productivity suite that competes with Microsoft Office, Microsoft Exchange, and Microsoft SharePoint, including its FAST enterprise search
technology. The OpenOffice.org project provides a freely downloadable cross-platform application that also has been adapted by various commercial software vendors to sell under their brands, including IBM, Novell, Oracle, and Red Hat. Web-based
offerings such as 37Signals, Adobe, AjaxWrite, gOffice, ShareOffice, Socialtext, ThinkFree, Zoho, or other small projects competing with individual applications, can also position themselves as alternatives to Microsoft Office system products.

Our Microsoft Dynamics products compete with well-known vendors such as Infor and Sage in the market focused on providing business
solutions for small and mid-sized businesses. The market for large organizations and divisions of global enterprises is intensely competitive with a small number of primary vendors including Oracle and SAP. Additionally,
Salesforce.com’s on-demand customer relationship management offerings compete directly with Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online and Microsoft Dynamics CRM’s on-premise offerings.

As we continue to respond to market demand for additional functionality and products, we will compete with additional vendors, most notably in
content management and enterprise search, collaboration tools, unified communications, and business intelligence. These competitors include Autonomy, Cisco, Endeca, Google, IBM, Oracle, and SAP. We believe our products compete effectively with all
of these vendors based on our strategy of providing flexible, easy to use solutions that work well with technologies our customers already have.











PART IItem 1



Entertainment and Devices Division

The Entertainment and Devices Division (“EDD”) is responsible for developing, producing, and marketing: the Xbox 360 platform, including
the Xbox 360 gaming and entertainment console and accessories, third-party games, games published under the Microsoft brand, and Xbox LIVE services, as well as research, sales, and support of those products and services; PC software games; online
games and services; Mediaroom (our Internet protocol television software); Windows Phone and Windows Embedded device platforms; the Zune digital music and entertainment platform; application software for Apple’s Macintosh computers, Microsoft
PC hardware products and other devices. EDD is also responsible for all retail sales and marketing for retail packaged versions of the Microsoft Office system and the Windows operating systems.

Products and Services:Xbox 360 console and games; Xbox LIVE; Windows Phone;
Windows Embedded device operating system; Zune; Mediaroom; and numerous consumer software and hardware products (such as Mac Office, mice, and keyboards); and Windows Automotive.

Competition

Entertainment and devices
businesses are highly competitive, characterized by rapid product life cycles, frequent introductions of new products and titles, and the development of new technologies. The markets for our products are characterized by significant price
competition. We anticipate continued pricing pressure from our competitors. From time to time, we have responded to this pressure by reducing prices on certain products. Our competitors vary in size from very small companies with limited resources
to very large, diversified corporations with substantial financial and marketing resources. We compete primarily on the basis of product innovation, quality and variety, timing of product releases, and effectiveness of distribution and marketing.

Our Xbox gaming and entertainment business competes with console platforms from Nintendo and Sony, both of which have a large,
established base of customers. The lifecycle for gaming and entertainment consoles averages five to 10 years. We released Xbox 360, our second generation console, in November 2005. Nintendo and Sony released new versions of their game consoles in
late 2006. We believe the success of gaming and entertainment consoles is determined by the availability of games for the console, providing exclusive game content that gamers seek, the computational power and reliability of the console, and the
ability to create new experiences via online services, downloadable content, and peripherals. We think the Xbox 360 is positioned well against competitive console products based on significant innovation in hardware architecture, new developer
tools, online gaming services, and continued strong exclusive content from our own game franchises. In addition to competing against software published for non-Xbox platforms, our games business also competes with numerous companies that we have
licensed to develop and publish software for the Xbox consoles.

Windows Phone faces competition from Apple, Google, Nokia, Openwave
Systems, Palm, QUALCOMM, Research In Motion, and Symbian. The embedded operating system business is highly fragmented with many competitive offerings. Key competitors include IBM, Intel, and versions of embeddable Linux from commercial Linux vendors
such as Metrowerks and MontaVista Software.

Zune competes with Apple and other manufacturers of digital music and entertainment
devices. Our PC hardware products face aggressive competition from computer and other hardware manufacturers, many of which are also current or potential partners. Mediaroom faces competition primarily from a variety of competitors that provide
elements of an Internet protocol television delivery platform, but that do not provide end-to-end solutions for the network operator.

Additional information on our operating segments and geographic and product information is contained in Note 22 – Segment Information and
Geographic Data of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K).











PART IItem 1



OPERATIONS

To serve the needs of customers around the world and to improve the quality and usability of products in international markets, we localize many of
our products to reflect local languages and conventions. Localizing a product may require modifying the user interface, altering dialog boxes, and translating text.

Our operational centers support all operations in their regions, including customer contract and order processing, credit and collections,
information processing, and vendor management and logistics. The regional center in Ireland supports the European, Middle Eastern, and African region; the center in Singapore supports the Japan, Greater China and Asia-Pacific region; and the centers
in Fargo, North Dakota, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, Puerto Rico, Redmond, Washington, and Reno, Nevada support Latin America and North America. In addition to the operational centers, we also operate data centers throughout the United States and in
Europe.

We contract most of our manufacturing activities for Xbox 360 and related games, Zune, various retail software packaged
products, and Microsoft hardware to third parties. Our products may include some components that are available from only one or limited sources. Our Xbox 360 console includes certain key components that are supplied by a single source. The
integrated central processing unit/graphics processing unit is purchased from IBM and the supporting embedded dynamic random access memory chips are purchased from Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company. Although we have chosen to initially
source these key Xbox 360 components from a single supplier, we are under no obligation to exclusively source components from these vendors in the future. Beyond the exceptions noted, we generally have the ability to use other custom manufacturers
if the current vendor becomes unavailable. We generally have multiple sources for raw materials, supplies, and components, and are often able to acquire component parts and materials on a volume discount basis.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

During fiscal years 2010, 2009, and 2008, research and development expense was $8.7 billion, $9.0 billion, and $8.2 billion, respectively.
These amounts represented 14%, 15%, and 14%, respectively, of revenue in each of those years. We plan to continue to make significant investments in a broad range of research and product development efforts.

While most of our software products are developed internally, we also purchase technology, license intellectual property rights, and oversee
third-party development and localization of certain products. We believe we are not materially dependent upon licenses and other agreements with third parties relating to the development of our products. Internal development allows us to maintain
closer technical control over our products. It also gives us the freedom to decide which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should be implemented. Generally, we also create product documentation internally. We strive to
obtain information as early as possible about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software design. Before releasing new software platforms, we provide application vendors with a range of resources and guidelines for
development, training, and testing.

Investing in Business and Product Development

Innovation is the foundation for Microsoft’s success. Our model for growth is based on our ability to initiate and embrace disruptive
technology trends, to enter new markets, both in terms of geographies and product areas, and to drive broad adoption of the products and services we develop and market. We maintain our long-term commitment to research and development across a wide
spectrum of technologies, tools, and platforms spanning communication and collaboration; information access and organization; entertainment; business and e-commerce; advertising; and devices.











PART IItem 1



Increasingly, we are taking a global approach to innovation. While our main research and
development facilities are located in the United States, in Redmond, Washington, we also operate research and development facilities in other parts of the United States and around the world, including Canada, China, Denmark, England, India, Ireland,
and Israel. This global approach will help us remain competitive in local markets and enable us to continue to attract top talent from across the world.

We invest in innovation by focusing on the emerging technology trends and breakthroughs that we believe offer significant opportunities to deliver
value to our customers and growth for the company. Microsoft Research is one of the world’s largest computer science research organizations, and works in close collaboration with top universities around the world to advance the state-of-the-art
in computer science, providing us a unique perspective on future technology trends.

Based on our assessment of key technology trends
and our broad focus on long-term research and development of new products and services, areas where we see significant opportunities to drive future growth include:

Cloud computing and software plus services

The ability to combine the power of desktop and server software with the reach of the Internet is creating important opportunities
for growth in almost every one of our businesses. Accordingly, we are focused on innovation and broadening our platform to develop a cloud computing ecosystem that positions us for success in areas including virtualization, management, and security
identity. We are also focused on delivering end-to-end experiences that connect users to information, communications, entertainment, and people in new ways across their lives at home, at work, and the broadest possible range of mobile scenarios
through investments in datacenters; new versions of Windows and Office that are designed to support a wide range of connected scenarios; solutions for businesses that can be deployed by a customer, by a service provider like Microsoft, or by a
Microsoft partner; tools for developers and Web designers; and consumer products and services including Xbox 360, Xbox LIVE, Windows Live services and Zune.

Natural user interfaces

The next few years will also see dramatic changes in the way people interact with technology as touch, gestures, handwriting, and
speech recognition become a normal part of how we control devices. This will make technology more accessible and simpler to use and will create opportunities to reach new markets and deliver new kinds of computing experiences. Our long-term
investments in natural user interfaces can be seen in products like Windows 7, the Microsoft Auto software platform and Kinect for Xbox 360. We believe sensory input is just one aspect of Natural User Interface technology, and we are researching the
impact of several “interaction paradigms” such as contextual awareness and environmental awareness.

New scenario
innovation in key industries

Continuing improvement in the power of computers and devices and the speed and
ubiquity of networks is creating opportunities to deliver innovation that will transform a number of key industries and address significant global issues including healthcare, environmental sustainability, and education. In healthcare, for example,
computing will connect personal health information to medical research and help make healthcare more preventive, personalized, and cost-effective. Today, Microsoft products such as HealthVault and Amalga help individuals manage their personal health
and enable healthcare professionals to integrate research and health information so they can deliver more effective care. We also believe that we are entering a period where personal computers will play an increasingly important role in virtually
every field of scientific research and discovery.











PART IItem 1



Intelligent computing

As computing power increases, our ability to build software that has the intelligence to understand a user’s preferences based
on the tools and information they have accessed in the past and anticipate their future needs is rapidly improving. This development will enable us to deliver a new generation of software solutions that make people more productive by enabling them
to focus more on what they want to accomplish and less on the steps needed to use technology.

DISTRIBUTION, SALES, AND MARKETING

We market and distribute our products and services primarily through the following channels: OEM; distributors and resellers; and
online.

OEM

We license our
software to OEMs for distribution as pre-installed software on new PCs. The most significant part of the OEM business for us is licensing of the Windows operating system. We also license to OEMs certain server operating systems and desktop
applications such as our Microsoft Office system and consumer software products. In addition to licensing them software, we market through OEMs hardware devices and software as services, including our Windows Live Essentials suite. We have OEM
agreements covering one or more of our products with virtually all of the multinational OEMs, including Acer, ASUSTek, Dell, Fujitsu, Hewlett-Packard, Lenovo, NEC, Samsung, Sony, and Toshiba, and the regional OEMs, including Medion, MSI, and
Positivo. In addition, a portion of the OEM business is also conducted with system builders, which are low-volume, customized PC vendors operating in local markets.

Distributors and Resellers

Our
arrangements for organizations to acquire multiple licenses of products are designed to provide them with a means of doing so without having to acquire separate packaged product through retail channels. In delivering organizational licensing
arrangements to the market, we use different programs designed to provide flexibility for organizations of various sizes. While these programs may differ in various parts of the world, generally they include:

Open licensing

Designed primarily for small-to-medium organizations (5 to over 250 licenses), these programs allow customers to acquire perpetual
or subscription licenses and, at the customer’s election, rights to future versions of software











PART IItem 1



products over a specified time period (two or three years depending on the Open program used). The offering that conveys rights to future versions of certain software products over the contract
period is called software assurance. Software assurance also provides support, tools, and training to help customers deploy and use software efficiently. Under the Open program, customers can acquire licenses only, or licenses with software
assurance. They can also renew software assurance upon the expiration of existing volume licensing agreements.

Select licensing

Designed primarily for medium-to-large organizations (greater than 250 licenses), this program allows customers to
acquire perpetual licenses and, at the customer’s election, software assurance over a specified time period (generally three years or less). Similar to the Open program, the Select program allows customers to acquire licenses only, acquire
licenses with software assurance, or renew software assurance upon the expiration of existing volume licensing agreements.

Enterprise agreement licensing

Enterprise agreements are targeted at medium and large organizations (greater than 250 licenses) that want to acquire licenses to
software products, along with software assurance, for all or substantial parts of their enterprise. Enterprises can elect to either acquire perpetual licenses or, under the Enterprise Subscription program, can acquire non-perpetual, subscription
agreements for a specified time period (generally three years). Online services are also available for purchase through the Enterprise agreement and subscriptions are generally structured with three year terms.

Online

Although client-based software will
continue to be an important part of our business, increasingly we are delivering greater value to customers through cloud-based services. We have an expanding portfolio of products, services, and solutions that we market and distribute online. We
provide online content and services to consumers through Bing, Windows Live Essentials suite, Microsoft Office Web Apps, our MSN portals and channels, and Xbox LIVE. We provide content and services to business users through the Microsoft Online
Services platform, which includes cloud-based services such as Windows Azure, SQL Azure, Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online, SharePoint Online, Exchange Online, and Office Communications. Other services delivered online include our online advertising
platform with offerings for both publishers and advertisers, as well as Microsoft Developer Networks subscription content and updates, periodic product updates, and online technical and practice readiness resources to support our partners in
developing and selling our products and solutions.

CUSTOMERS

Our customers include individual consumers, small-sized and medium-sized organizations, enterprises, governmental institutions, educational
institutions, Internet service providers, application developers, and OEMs. Consumers and small-sized and medium-sized organizations obtain our products primarily through distributors, resellers and OEMs. No sales to an individual customer accounted
for more than 10% of fiscal year 2010, 2009, or 2008 revenue. Our practice is to ship our products promptly upon receipt of purchase orders from customers; consequently, backlog is not significant.











PART IItem 1



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Our executive officers as of July 30, 2010 were as follows:



NameAgePosition with the CompanySteven A. Ballmer54Chief Executive OfficerLisa E. Brummel50Senior Vice President, Human ResourcesStephen A. Elop46President, Microsoft Business DivisionPeter S. Klein47Chief Financial OfficerRobert L. Muglia50President, Server and ToolsCraig J. Mundie61Chief Research and Strategy OfficerSteven Sinofsky44President, Windows & Windows Live DivisionBradford L. Smith51Senior Vice President; General Counsel; SecretaryB. Kevin Turner45Chief Operating Officer



Mr. Ballmer was appointed Chief Executive Officer in January 2000. He served as President from July 1998 to February 2001. Previously, he had
served as Executive Vice President, Sales and Support since February 1992. Mr. Ballmer joined Microsoft in 1980.

Ms. Brummel
was named Senior Vice President, Human Resources in December 2005. She had been Corporate Vice President, Human Resources since May 2005. From May 2000 to May 2005, she had been Corporate Vice President of the Home & Retail
Division. Since joining Microsoft in 1989, Ms. Brummel has held a number of management positions at Microsoft, including general manager of Consumer Productivity business, product unit manager of the Kids business, and product unit manager
of Desktop and Decision reference products.

Mr. Elop was named President, Microsoft Business Division in January 2008. Prior to
joining the Company, Mr. Elop served as Chief Operating Officer of Juniper Networks, Inc. from January 2007 to January 2008. From December 2005 to December 2006, he served as President of Worldwide Field Operations at Adobe Systems Inc.
Mr. Elop joined Adobe following the 2005 acquisition of Macromedia Inc., where he was President and Chief Executive Officer from January 2005 to December 2005. During his almost eight-year tenure at Macromedia, Mr. Elop held many senior
positions, including Chief Operating Officer, Executive Vice President of Worldwide Field Operations and General Manager of Macromedia’s eBusiness division.

Mr. Klein was named Chief Financial Officer in November 2009. He served as Corporate Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Microsoft
Business Division since February 2006 and Chief Financial Officer of the Server and Tools Business Group from July 2003 to February 2006. Mr. Klein joined Microsoft in 2002.

Mr. Muglia was named President, Server and Tools in January 2009. He had been Senior Vice President, Server and Tools since October 2005.
Before holding that position, he had a number of leadership positions at Microsoft, including Senior Vice President, Enterprise Storage Division since November 2001, Group Vice President, Personal Services Group since August 2000, Group Vice
President, Business Productivity since December 1999, Senior Vice President, Business Productivity since March 1999, Senior Vice President, Applications and Tools since February 1998, and Corporate Vice President, Server Applications since 1997.
Mr. Muglia joined Microsoft in 1988.

Mr. Mundie was named Chief Research and Strategy Officer in June 2006. He had been
Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer, Advanced Strategies and Policy since August 2001. He was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms in February 1996. Mr. Mundie joined Microsoft in 1992.

Mr. Sinofsky was named President, Windows & Windows Live Division in July 2009. He served as Senior Vice President of the
Windows and Windows Live Engineering Group since December 2006 and Senior Vice President, Office from December 1999 to December 2006. He had been Vice President, Office since December 1998. Mr. Sinofsky joined the Office team in 1994,
increasing his responsibility with each subsequent release of the desktop suite. Mr. Sinofsky joined Microsoft in 1989.











PART IItem 1



Mr. Smith was named Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary in November 2001.
Mr. Smith was also named Chief Compliance Officer effective July 2002. He had been Deputy General Counsel for Worldwide Sales and previously was responsible for managing the European Law and Corporate Affairs Group, based in Paris.
Mr. Smith joined Microsoft in 1993.

Mr. Turner was named Chief Operating Officer in September 2005. Before joining Microsoft,
he was Executive Vice President of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and President and Chief Executive Officer of the Sam’s Club division. From September 2001 to August 2002, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer of
Wal-Mart’s Information Systems Division. From March 2000 to September 2001, he served as its Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer of the Information Systems Division.

EMPLOYEES

As of
June 30, 2010, we employed approximately 89,000 people on a full-time basis, 54,000 in the United States and 35,000 internationally. Of the total, 35,000 were in product research and development, 25,000 in sales and marketing, 15,000 in product
support and consulting services, 5,000 in manufacturing and distribution, and 9,000 in general and administration. Our success is highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. None of our employees are subject to
collective bargaining agreements.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Our Company Internet address is www.microsoft.com. At our Investor Relations Web site, www.microsoft.com/investor, we make available free of charge
a variety of information for investors. Our goal is to maintain the Investor Relations Web site as a portal through which investors can easily find or navigate to pertinent information about us, including:



•our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably
practicable after we electronically file that material with or furnish it to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”);



•information on our business strategies, financial results, and key performance indicators;



•announcements of investor conferences, speeches, and events at which our executives talk about our product, service, and competitive strategies. Archives of
these events are also available;



•press releases on quarterly earnings, product and service announcements, legal developments, and international news;



•corporate governance information including our articles, bylaws, governance guidelines, committee charters, codes of conduct and ethics, global corporate
citizenship initiatives, and other governance-related policies;



•other news and announcements that we may post from time to time that investors might find useful or interesting; and



•opportunities to sign up for email alerts and RSS feeds to have information pushed in real time.

The information found on our Web site is not part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC.











PART IItem 1A



