
10-K
0001.txt
FORM 10-K


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                    FORM 10-K

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             Washington, D.C. 20549


          [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
              SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                     For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2000

                                       OR

          [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
              SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                          Commission file number 1-5397

                         AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
       Delaware                                     22-1467904
(State or other jurisdiction of             (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 incorporation or organization)

One ADP Boulevard, Roseland, New Jersey                07068
(Address of principal executive offices)             (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code: 973-974-5000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                       Name of each exchange on
         Title of each class                               which registered

      Common Stock, $.10 Par Value                     New York Stock Exchange
               (voting)                                Chicago Stock Exchange
                                                       Pacific Stock Exchange

      Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2012               New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:   NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  Registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2)  has  been  subject  to the  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes x   No
                                      ---    ---

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K (ss.229.405 of this chapter) is not contained  herein and will
not be contained,  to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information  statements  incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

The  aggregate  market value of the voting stock held by  non-affiliates  of the
Registrant  as of  September  6,  2000  was  approximately  $38,792,200,000.  On
September 6, 2000, there were 630,126,931 shares of Common Stock outstanding.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE




                                     Part I

Item 1.  Business

         Automatic  Data  Processing,  Inc.,  incorporated  in  Delaware in 1961
(together  with  its  subsidiaries  "ADP"  or the  "Registrant"),  is one of the
largest providers of computerized  transaction  processing,  data communication,
and information services in the world. For financial  information by segment and
by  geographic  area,  see  Note  11 of the  "Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements"  contained  in ADP's  2000  Annual  Report  to  Shareholders,  which
information is incorporated herein by reference. The following summary describes
ADP's activities.

Employer Services

         ADP Employer  Services offers a comprehensive  range of payroll,  human
resources,  benefits  administration,   time  and  attendance,  tax  filing  and
reporting,  professional  employer  organization ("PEO"), compliance  management
(e.g., new hire reporting and wage  garnishment  processing) and retirement plan
services to 450,000  employers in the United  States,  Canada,  Europe and Latin
America. These services are marketed through ADP's direct marketing sales forces
and through other indirect sales channels such as marketing  relationships  with
banks,  accountants,  and  increasingly,  online  companies  through which ADP's
services  are  marketed  to their  customers.  In  fiscal  2000,  North  America
accounted for 88% of Employer Services' revenues,  with Europe generating 11% of
Employer Services' revenues and Latin America  (principally Brazil) contributing
the remaining 1%.  Further,  with the acquisition of PayConnect in July of 2000,
ADP  entered  into the  payroll  services  market of  Australia,  and  currently
provides payroll and HR solutions to over 7,500 clients in Australia.

         In North  America,  ADP  provides  payroll  services  that  include the
preparation of client employee  paychecks and electronic direct deposits,  along
with supporting  journals,  summaries and management reports.  ADP also supplies
the quarterly and annual social security, Medicare, and federal, state and local
income tax withholding  reports required to be filed by employers and employees.
ADP's tax filing  services  process  federal,  state and local  payroll taxes on
behalf of ADP clients and remit such taxes to the appropriate taxing authorities
when due. Through service  offerings such as new hire reporting,  ADP check/full
service  direct  deposit  (in  conjunction  with major bank  partners)  and wage
garnishment  payment,  the  ADP  Tax  and  Financial  Services  Center  is  also
responsible  for the  efficient  movement  of  funds  and  information  to third
parties.  In Europe and Latin  America,  ADP  Employer  Services  provides  full
departmental outsourcing of payroll services.

         ADP  Employer  Services'  approach to the market is to match a client's
needs  with the  product  that will best meet  expectations.  In North  America,
approximately 30% of Employer  Services' revenue during the past fiscal year was
attributable to its Emerging  Business  Services  (companies with fewer than 100
employees); approximately 34% of such revenue was attributable to Major Accounts
(companies with between 100 and 999 employees);  and  approximately  25% of such
revenue was  attributable  to National  Accounts  (companies  with 1,000 or more
employees).

         ADP's human resource ("HR") services, operating in conjunction  with a
client's  payroll  database,  provide  comprehensive  recordkeeping HR services,
including benefits administration and outsourcing,  applicant tracking, employee
history and position control.

         ADP is in the process of Internet-enabling  existing product offerings,
while  at the  same  time  creating  new  products  expressly  designed  for the
Internet.  This year ADP launched its eBusiness



Services  unit to provide  online  payroll,  HR,  401(k) and other  services  to
smaller companies that use the Internet to staff,  manage,  pay and retain their
employees.  ADP also introduced ADP Enterprise Payroll, an Internet-based system
with  self-service  features  for  large  businesses.  Clients  can  now use ADP
Connection(TM)  to  interface  ADP's  payroll  and  tax  filing  solutions  with
enterprise resource planning applications from Oracle(R), SAP and PeopleSoft(R).
ADP is also  developing an  Internet-based  payroll,  benefits and HR management
system with self-service features for the middle market.

         Emerging Business Services ("EBS") processes payroll for over 370,000
clients.  EBS provides these smaller companies of usually 1-99  employees  with
leading solutions, including a range of value-added services that are
specifically designed for small business clients. Major Accounts
(100-999 employees) offers a full suite of best-of-breed  employer services
solutions for mid-sized companies, including full database and other functional
integration between payroll and HR. Many of the world's largest  corporations
(1000 or more employees) are National Accounts Services clients.  In many cases,
ADP provides system solutions for its clients' entire human resource,  payroll
and benefits needs. For those companies who choose to process these applications
in-house, ADP also delivers stand-alone services  such as payroll tax  filing,
check  printing  and  distribution,  and year-end statements (i.e., W-2's).
Other large clients rely on ADP to design and deliver their own  customized
human resource  information  systems and benefits outsourcing  solutions.
Further, as part of ADP's initiatives to develop online products and services,
this year ADP acquired Business Management Software, LTD, a United Kingdom-based
software  developer  and  long-term  partner  of  ADP, specializing in the
development of payroll and HR applications.

         The ADP Tax and Financial Services Center supports large, mid-sized and
small clients. It provides an electronic interface between approximately 350,000
ADP clients in the United  States and Canada and about 2000  federal,  state and
local tax agencies, from the Internal Revenue Service to local town governments.
In fiscal 2000,  the ADP Tax and  Financial  Service  Center  processed  over 17
million federal and other employer payroll tax returns.

         In 1999,  ADP became the second  largest PEO in the United  States with
the  acquisition  of The  Vincam  Group,  Inc. A PEO  provides a  comprehensive,
bundled  outsourcing  solution,  including  payroll,  HR,  benefits and workers'
compensation to its clients. ADP's combined PEO business, called TotalSource(R),
has 26 offices located in 11 states and supports  approximately 85,000 work-site
employees in 48 states.

         ADP complements  its payroll and HR services with  additional  employer
services  that include  products  ranging from time and  attendance  tracking to
401(k)  recordkeeping.  ADP's unemployment  compensation services aid clients in
managing and reducing unemployment insurance costs. In the last fiscal year, ADP
enhanced its position as a leading  benefits  administration  provider  with the
acquisition of netBOA, Inc., a provider of COBRA administration services.

         The continued  increase in  multinational  companies  makes payroll and
human resource  management  services a global  opportunity.  ADP Europe provides
payroll solutions to nearly 24,000 clients in nine European countries and is the
only  Pan-European  service  provider.  Additionally,  ADP is well positioned in
Latin America to take  advantage of future growth in this market.  As previously
stated,  Employer  Services'  European  and Latin  American  operations  already
comprise 12% of the consolidated  Employer Services worldwide revenues.  As this
business grows,  ADP's Global  Business  Services will provide a dedicated sales
and service organization trained and equipped to handle payroll for clients with
diverse locations in ADP's major world markets.



Brokerage Services

         ADP Brokerage  Services  provides  securities  transaction  processing,
broker  productivity  applications  and investor  communication  services to the
financial  services   industry.   These  services  include  bank  and  brokerage
back-office and related financial  computing  services such as trade processing,
automated  inquiry,  reporting  and record  keeping  services for  virtually all
financial  instruments  including  foreign  currency,  fixed  income,  equities,
commodities and derivatives.

         ADP serves a diverse  client base,  including full service and discount
brokerage firms,  global banks,  and Internet  brokerage  companies,  as well as
corporations,  mutual funds,  institutional investors,  specialty trading firms,
and other providers of financial services.

         In fiscal  2000,  ADP  processed  a  significant  portion  of U.S.  and
Canadian securities  transactions,  with combined daily volumes of more than 1.2
million trades per day, up 50% from the prior year. In addition,  ADP served the
North  American  securities  transaction  processing  needs of most large global
banks.

         This year, ADP processed over 25% of all online trades in North America
and  expanded  its  presence as a leading  service  provider  of  Internet-based
brokerage  services.  ADP also  initiated  new  relationships  with  Web  Street
Securities  and  Millennium  Clearing  Company  LLC, a  subsidiary  of  National
Discount Brokers Group, Inc.

         ADP Brokerage Services also provides computerized proxy vote tabulation
and shareholder communication,  distribution and fulfillment services, including
Internet-enabled  products and  services.  In fiscal 2000,  ADP handled over 680
million  shareholder  communications on behalf of its clients worldwide,  nearly
35% more than fiscal 1999. It also more than doubled  Internet  distribution  of
shareholder  communications  in fiscal 2000. ADP also signed Morgan Stanley Dean
Witter to a new multi-year investor communication services contract.  This year,
ADP created the IRexpress.com(SM) Internet platform suite of services that
allows investor relations  professionals to manage their process,  access
institutional ownership of information, and track institutional portfolios
online.

         Internationally,  ADP  Brokerage  Services  integrated  the delivery of
multiple products and services through its Global Processing  Solution.  ADP now
serves  brokerage and banking  clients in 25 countries,  providing  global trade
processing  and  settlement  systems for  international  securities  in multiple
currencies.  In fiscal 2000, ADP's Wilco Systems strengthened its ability to
adapt to market  changes by setting up a development  center in Hyderabad,
India.  In fiscal 2000,  ADP also  launched  initiatives  to continue  serving
the emerging online  brokerage  markets  internationally,  developing a new
Internet-enabled trading  solution  for  the  European  market,   with  global
straight  through processing  capabilities,  as well as  partnering  with a
leading  provider  of end-to-end  on-line  retail  financial  services  enabling
ADP to offer  turnkey Internet  solutions.  In addition,  ADP  maintained ISO
9002  certification  for shareholder  information  processing, an international
standard for the highest quality.

         In June 2000, ADP acquired Cunningham Graphics  International,  Inc., a
provider  of a wide  range  of  graphic  communications  services  to  financial
services,  insurance,  healthcare,  and  telecommunication  firms,  as  well  as
publishing  houses.  These services  include the production and  distribution of
time sensitive analytical research and marketing  materials,  as well as general
commercial and on-demand  printing  services.  Cunningham  Graphics  operates in
select international markets through its facilities in the United States, United
Kingdom, Canada, Hong Kong, and Singapore.



Dealer Services

         ADP  Dealer  Services  provides  e-business  and  integrated  computing
solutions  for motor vehicle (car and truck)  retailers and their  manufacturers
worldwide. Approximately 40% of the automotive retailers in North America (about
20% globally) and more than 30 vehicle  manufacturers  use ADP's on-site systems
and communications networks to manage sales, operations and marketing, with over
200,000 installed applications.

         ADP offers clients a service solution that includes computer  hardware,
licensed software,  software support,  network  consulting,  design and hardware
maintenance  services.  Clients use ADP's systems to manage business  activities
such as accounting,  inventory,  factory  communications,  scheduling,  finance,
insurance,   sales  and  service.   ADP  designs,   establishes   and  maintains
communications  networks for its clients that allow  interactive  communications
among  multiple  site  locations  for larger  dealers  as well as links  between
franchise  dealers and their respective  manufacturers.  These networks are used
for new vehicle ordering, status inquiry and warranty submission and validation,
parts and vehicle  locating,  credit  application  submissions,  vehicle  repair
estimates, vehicle registration and lienholder information.

         In fiscal 2000, ADP Dealer  Services formed  ChoiceParts,  LLC with ADP
Claims Services and other partners to establish an efficient  parts  procurement
marketplace for auto retailers and collision repair centers.  ADP's  acquisition
last year of Dealer  Solutions,  Inc.,  a  developer  of  Windows  NT(R)  dealer
management systems software, is another significant step in ADP's Internet-based
strategy. This past fiscal year, ADP launched DealerSuite.com(SM), an e-business
portal that provides dealers with quick access to a wide range of Internet-based
products,  services  and  tools,  including  consumer  finance  sources,  online
training,  and ADP customer service.  ADP also introduced  myautogarage.com(SM),
ADP's Internet  initiative  with IBM that links dealers and  manufacturers  with
vehicle owners to create unique brand loyalty relationships.

Claims Services

         ADP Claims Services offers a broad line of claims information  products
to property and casualty insurance companies, claims adjusters, repair shops and
auto parts  recycling  facilities.  These  products  help insurers to accurately
estimate auto damage,  property  damage and bodily injury claims and help repair
shops and recyclers locate parts and manage their  operations.  The products and
services include the following: repair estimating applications and databases for
the  property  and  casualty,   and  collision  repair   industries,   including
wireless-enabled,  digital imaging,  and complete workflow services;  total loss
vehicle  valuations;  body shop management systems;  parts locator systems;  and
medical  cost  containment  applications  and  services  for the auto injury and
workers' compensation markets.

Markets and Marketing Methods

         All of ADP's  services  are sold broadly  across the United  States and
Canada.  Most ADP  services  are  offered  in Western  Europe and some  employer
services are offered in Brazil and Australia.  All services use common marketing
techniques,  including  direct  sales  methodologies  with  emphasis on referral
sources.

         None of ADP's major  business  groups have a single  homogenous  client
base or market.  For example,  while  Brokerage  Services  primarily  serves the
retail  brokerage  market,  it  also  serves  banks,



commodity   dealers,   the   institutional   brokerage   market  and  individual
non-brokerage corporations. Dealer Services primarily serves automobile dealers,
but also serves truck and  agricultural  equipment  dealers,  auto repair shops,
used  car  lots,  state  departments  of motor  vehicles  and  manufacturers  of
automobiles, trucks and agricultural equipment. Claims Services has many clients
who  are  insurance   companies,   but  also  provides  services  to  automobile
manufacturers,  body repair shops,  salvage yards,  distributors of new and used
automobile parts and other non-insurance clients.  Employer Services has clients
from a large  variety of  industries  and  markets.  Within this client base are
concentrations of clients in specific  industries.  Employer Services also sells
to auto dealers,  brokerage clients and insurance clients.  While concentrations
of clients exist, no one business group is material to ADP's overall revenue.

         None of  ADP's  businesses  are  overly  sensitive  to  price  changes.
Economic conditions among selected clients and groups of clients may and do have
a temporary impact on demand for ADP's services.

         ADP enjoys a leadership position in each of its major service offerings
and does not  believe any major  service or  business  unit in ADP is subject to
unique market risk.

Competition

         The computing services industry is highly competitive.  ADP knows of no
reliable statistics by which it can determine the number of its competitors, but
it believes that it is one of the largest providers of computerized  transaction
processing, data communication and information services in the world.

         ADP's  competitors   include  other  independent   computing   services
companies,  divisions of diversified  enterprises and banks. Another competitive
factor in the computing  services industry is the in-house  computing  function,
whereby a company installs and operates its own computing systems.

         Competition in the computing  services  industry is primarily  based on
service responsiveness,  product quality and price. ADP believes that it is very
competitive  in each of these  areas  and that  there are no  material  negative
factors impacting ADP's competitive position in the computing services industry.
No one competitor or group of competitors is dominant in the computing  services
industry.

Clients and Client Contracts

         ADP provides its services to nearly 500,000  clients.  No single client
accounts for revenues in excess of 1% of annual consolidated revenue.

         ADP has no material  "backlog"  because  the period  between the time a
client agrees to use ADP's services and the time the service begins is generally
very short and  because no sale is  considered  firm until it is  installed  and
begins producing revenue.

         ADP's average  client  retention is about 8 years in Employer  Services
and is 10 or more years in Brokerage,  Dealer and Claims Services,  and does not
vary significantly from period to period.

         ADP's services are provided  under written price  quotations or service
agreements  having  varying  terms and  conditions.  No one price  quotation  or
service agreement is material to ADP. Discounts,  rebates and promotions offered
by ADP to clients are not material.



         ADP  offers a service  warranty  to its  clients  that if any errors or
omissions  occur in its  service  offerings,  ADP will  correct  them as soon as
possible. In addition,  ADP provides,  either directly or through third parties,
maintenance  and support  for the  ADP-provided  equipment  and  software  which
facilitates the delivery of its services to clients.

Systems Development and Programming

         During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2000,  1999 and 1998,  ADP spent
$460  million,  $412  million  and  $376  million,   respectively,   on  systems
development  and  programming  activities  for the  development  of new, and the
improvement and maintenance of existing, computing services.

Product Development

         ADP continually  upgrades,  enhances and expands its existing  products
and services.  Generally,  no new product or service has a significant effect on
ADP's revenue or  negatively  impacts its existing  products and  services,  and
ADP's products and services have a significant remaining life cycle.

Licenses

         ADP is the licensee under a number of agreements for computer  programs
and databases. ADP's business is not dependent upon a single license or group of
licenses.  Third-party  licenses,  patents,  trademarks  and  franchises are not
material to ADP's business as a whole.

Number of Employees

         ADP employed approximately 40,000 persons as of June 30, 2000.

Item 2.  Properties

         ADP  leases  space  for  more  than 55 of its  processing  centers.  In
addition, ADP leases numerous small processing centers and sales offices. All of
these leases, which aggregate  approximately 5,800,000 square feet in the United
States,  Canada, Europe, South America, Asia, Australia and South Africa, expire
at various times up to the year 2016. ADP owns 30 of its  processing  facilities
and its corporate  headquarters complex in Roseland, New Jersey, which aggregate
approximately 3,000,000 square feet.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

         None

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

         None


                                     Part II

Item 5.  Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
Matters

         See  "Market  Price,   Dividend  Data  and  Other"   contained  in  the
Registrant's   2000  Annual  Report  to  Shareholders,   which   information  is
incorporated  herein by reference.  As of September 6, 2000,  the Registrant had
33,985  registered  holders of its Common Stock,  par value $.10 per share.  The
Registrant's  Common Stock is traded on the New York,  Chicago and Pacific Stock
Exchanges.

         On July 6, 1999, the Registrant issued 6,317 shares of its Common Stock
in respect of an earnout paid to certain  shareholders  of a company  previously
acquired by the  Registrant  in exchange  for all of the issued and  outstanding
shares of such company pursuant to a stock acquisition agreement dated April 28,
1998. On December 23, 1999, the  Registrant  issued 178,228 shares of its Common
Stock in  respect  of an  earnout  paid to  certain  shareholders  of a  company
previously  acquired by the  Registrant  in  exchange  for all of the issued and
outstanding  shares of such company pursuant to a stock purchase agreement dated
February 11, 1998. On June 30, 2000, the Registrant issued 293,325 shares of its
Common Stock to the  shareholders  of a company  acquired by the  Registrant  in
exchange for all of the issued and  outstanding  shares of the capital  stock of
such company pursuant to the terms of a share purchase agreement. The Registrant
issued the  foregoing  shares of Common  Stock  without  registration  under the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in reliance upon the exemption therefrom set
forth in Section 4(2) of such Act,  relating to sales by an issuer not involving
a public offering.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

         See "Selected Financial Data" contained in the Registrant's 2000 Annual
Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

         See   "Management's   Discussion   and   Analysis"   contained  in  the
Registrant's   2000  Annual  Report  to  Shareholders,   which   information  is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

         Approximately half of the Registrant's  overall investment portfolio is
invested in overnight interest-bearing instruments, which are therefore impacted
immediately  by changes in interest  rates.  The other half of the  Registrant's
investment portfolio is invested in fixed-income securities,  with maturities up
to five and a half  years,  which  are  also  subject  to  interest  rate  risk,
including  reinvestment risk. The Registrant has historically had the ability to
hold these investments until maturity, and therefore this has not had an adverse
impact on income or cash flows.



Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

         The   financial   statements   described   in  Item  14(a)  hereof  are
incorporated herein.

The following supplementary data is incorporated herein by reference:

         Quarterly  Financial  Results  (unaudited) for the two years ended June
         30,  2000  (see  Note  12  of  the  "Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
         Statements" contained in ADP's 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders)

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
            Financial Disclosure

         None


                                    Part III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Executive Officers of the Registrant

         The executive officers of the Registrant, their ages, positions and the
period during which they have been employed by ADP are as follows:



         Messrs. Benson, Berke, Butler, Daly, Durity,  Haviland,  Hogan, Martone
and Weinbach  have each been employed by ADP in senior  executive  positions for
more than the past five years.

         John  D.  Barfitt  joined  ADP  in  1979.  Prior  to his  promotion  to
President,  Claims  Services,  he served as Senior Vice  President -  Automotive
Claims Services at ADP from 1996 to 1998 and Senior Vice President - Value Added
Services at ADP from 1994 to 1996.

         Raymond L. Colotti  joined  ADP in 1995. Prior to his promotion to Vice
President and  Treasurer,  he served as President of ADP Atlantic,  Inc. and its
related companies from 1995 to 1997.

         Karen E.  Dykstra  joined ADP in 1981.  Prior to her  promotion to Vice
President and Controller in 1998, she served as Assistant  Corporate  Controller
from 1996 to 1998 and as Chief Financial Officer of Dealer Services from 1995 to
1996.

         Richard  A.  Douville  joined ADP in 1999 as Vice  President,  Finance.
Prior to joining ADP, he was a Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
of United States Surgical Corporation for six years.

         Russell P. Fradin  joined ADP in 1996.  Prior to his promotion to Group
President,  Employer  Services  -  North  America,  he  served  as  Senior  Vice
President.  Prior to joining ADP, he was a senior  partner of McKinsey & Company
and had been associated with that firm for 18 years.

         Eugene A. Hall joined ADP in 1998 as Senior Vice President. In 2000, he
also became President of Financial and Technology  Services of Employer Services
- - North  America.  Prior to joining  ADP, he was a senior  partner of McKinsey &
Company and had been associated with that firm for 16 years.

         Campbell  Langdon  joined  ADP in  2000 as  Vice  President,  Strategic
Development.  Prior to joining  ADP,  he was a partner of McKinsey & Company and
had been associated with that firm for 11 years.

         Each of ADP's executive  officers is elected for a term of one year and
until  their   successors  are  chosen  and  qualified  or  until  their  death,
resignation or removal.

Directors of the Registrant

         See  "Election of Directors"  in the Proxy  Statement for  Registrant's
2000 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which information is incorporated herein by
reference.



Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance

         See "Section 16(a) Beneficial  Ownership  Reporting  Compliance" in the
Proxy  Statement for  Registrant's  2000 Annual Meeting of  Stockholders,  which
information is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

         See  "Compensation  of Executive  Officers" in the Proxy  Statement for
Registrant's   2000  Annual  Meeting  of  Stockholders,   which  information  is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

         See "Election of Directors - Security  Ownership of Certain  Beneficial
Owners and Managers" in the Proxy Statement for Registrant's 2000 Annual Meeting
of Stockholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

         See "Compensation of Executive Officers - Certain  Transactions" in the
Proxy  Statement for  Registrant's  2000 Annual Meeting of  Stockholders,  which
information is incorporated herein by reference.







                                     Part IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

         (a)1.    Financial Statements

         The  following  reports and  consolidated  financial  statements of the
Registrant  contained in the Registrant's 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders are
also included in Part II, Item 8:


         Statements of Consolidated Earnings - years
                      ended June 30, 2000, 1999 and 1998

         Consolidated Balance Sheets - June 30, 2000 and 1999

         Statements   of  Consolidated  Shareholders'  Equity - years ended June
                      30, 2000, 1999 and 1998

         Statements   of  Consolidated  Cash Flows - years ended June 30,  2000,
                      1999 and 1998

         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

         Report of Management

         Independent Auditors' Report


         Financial   information  of  the  Registrant  is  omitted  because  the
Registrant  is primarily an operating  company.  The  Registrant's  subsidiaries
which are listed on Exhibit 21 attached hereto are wholly-owned.

         2.       Financial Statement Schedules
                                                              Page in Form 10-K
                                                              -----------------

           Independent Auditors' Report on Schedule                    16

           Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts             17

         All other Schedules have been omitted because they are  inapplicable or
are not  required or the  information  is included  elsewhere  in the  financial
statements or notes thereto.

         3.       The following exhibits are filed with this Form 10-K or
incorporated herein by reference to the document set forth next to the exhibit
in the list below:

         3.1      -   Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation dated
                      November 11, 1998 - incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                      3.1 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                      fiscal quarter ended December 31, 1998



         3.2      -   By-Laws as currently in effect (amended May 15, 2000)

         4        -   Indenture dated as of February 20, 1992 between Automatic
                      Data Processing, Inc. and Bankers Trust Company, as
                      trustee, regarding the Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2012
                      of the Registrant - incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                      (4)-#1 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                      fiscal year ended June 30, 1992

         10.1     -   Letter Agreement dated as of August 1, 1996 between
                      Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and Arthur F. Weinbach -
                      incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant's
                      Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June
                      30, 1996 (Management Contract)

         10.2     -   Letter Agreement dated September 14, 1998 between
                      Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and Gary Butler
                      - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
                      Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                      fiscal year ended June 30, 1998 (Management Contract)

         10.4     -   Key Employees' Restricted Stock Plan - incorporated by
                      reference to Registrant's Registration Statement No.
                      33-25290 on Form S-8 (Management Compensatory Plan)

         10.5     -   Supplemental Officers' Retirement Plan, as amended and
                      restated - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)
                      -#5 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                      fiscal year ended June 30, 1993 (Management Compensatory
                      Plan)

         10.5(a)  -   Amendment to Supplemental Officers' Retirement Plan -
                      incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)- #5 to
                      Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                      year ended June 30, 1997 (Management Compensatory Plan)

         10.6     -   1989 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan -
                      incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)-#7
                      to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                      year ended June 30, 1990 (Management Compensatory Plan)

         10.6(a)  -   Amendment to 1989 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan
                      - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(6)(a)- to
                      Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                      year ended June 30, 1997 (Management Compensatory Plan)

         10.7     -   1990 Key Employees' Stock Option Plan - incorporated by
                      reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)-#8 to Registrant's Annual
                      Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30,
                      1990 (Management Compensatory Plan)

         10.7(a)  -   Amendment to 1990 Key Employees' Stock Option Plan -
                      incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(7)(a) to
                      Registrant's Annual Report on Form




                      10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1997
                      (Management Compensatory Plan)

         10.8     -   1994 Directors' Pension Arrangement - incorporated by
                      reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)-#10 to Registrant's Annual
                      Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30,
                      1994 (Management Compensatory Plan)

         10.9     -   1994 Executive Compensation Plan - incorporated by
                      reference to Exhibit A to Registrant's Proxy Statement
                      for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders held November 15,
                      1994 (Management Compensatory Plan)

         10.10    -   2000 Key Employees' Stock Option Plan - incorporated by
                      reference to Exhibit 10.10 to Registrant's Annual Report
                      on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1999
                      (Management Compensatory Plan)

         11       -   Schedule of Calculation of Earnings Per Share

         13       -   Pages 18 - 32 of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders
                      (with the exception of the pages incorporated by reference
                      herein, the Annual Report is not a part of this filing)

         21       -   Subsidiaries of the Registrant

         23       -   Independent Auditors' Consent

         27       -   Financial Data Schedule

         (b)      None.



                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT ON SCHEDULE



To the Board of Directors
 and Shareholders of
Automatic Data Processing, Inc.
Roseland, New Jersey



We  have  audited  the  consolidated  financial  statements  of  Automatic  Data
Processing,  Inc. and subsidiaries as of June 30, 2000 and 1999, and for each of
the three years in the period  ended June 30,  2000,  and have issued our report
thereon dated August 14, 2000; such consolidated financial statements and report
are included in your 2000 Annual  Report to  Shareholders  and are  incorporated
herein by reference.  Our audits also included the financial  statement schedule
of Automatic Data Processing,  Inc., listed in Item 14. This financial statement
schedule is the responsibility of the Company's  management.  Our responsibility
is to express an opinion  based on our audits.  In our opinion,  such  financial
statement  schedule,  when  considered  in  relation  to the basic  consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole,  presents fairly in all material respects
the information set forth therein.


/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
- -------------------------
New York, New York
August 14, 2000







                         AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC.

                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                                 (In thousands)





                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                            AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC.
                                                      (Registrant)

September 12, 2000                          By:  /s/ Arthur F. Weinbach
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Arthur F. Weinbach
                                            Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant in the capacities and on the dates indicated.





