
10-K
10-K




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                    FORM 10-K

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             Washington, D.C. 20549

           [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                     For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1998

                                       OR

           [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

           Commission file number 1-5397

                         AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

             Delaware                                  22-1467904
 (State or other jurisdiction of           (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
  incorporation or organization)

   One ADP Boulevard, Roseland, New Jersey                     07068
   (Address of principal executive offices)                  (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code:   973-994-5000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                    Name of each exchange on
         Title of each class                           which registered

      Common Stock, $.10 Par Value                     New York Stock Exchange
               (voting)                                Chicago Stock Exchange
                                                       Pacific Stock Exchange

      Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2012               New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:   NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to the
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes x  No
                                             ---    ---

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 
of Regulation S-K (Section 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein 
and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in 
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part 
III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant as of September 11, 1998 was approximately $21,830,440,000. On
September 11, 1998, there were 303,200,554 shares of Common Stock outstanding.




                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the Registrant's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders
Parts I, II & IV

Portions of the Registrant's Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Stockholders 
to be held on November 10, 1998.                      
Part III

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



                                     Part I

Item 1.  Business

         Automatic Data Processing, Inc., incorporated in Delaware in 1961, and
its subsidiaries (collectively, "ADP") are engaged in the computing services
business. The following summary describes ADP's activities.

Industry Segment

         All of ADP's computing services enable clients to process and/or
distribute data (their own, ADP's or that of third parties) and/or to
interactively access and utilize ADP and third party databases and information,
utilizing ADP's batch, interactive and client site systems.

Employer Services

         ADP Employer Services offers a comprehensive range of payroll, human
resources, benefits administration, time and attendance and tax filing and
reporting services to more than 400,000 employers in the United States, Canada,
Europe and South America. In addition to its direct marketing, Employer Services
has marketing relationships with many banks and accountants whereby ADP offers
its services to their business clients.

         Payroll and tax filing and reporting services comprise over 80% of
Employer Services' revenue. Payroll services include the preparation of pay
checks and direct deposits (with major bank partners), along with supporting
journals, summaries and management reports. ADP also supplies the quarterly and
annual social security, medicare, and federal, state and local income tax
withholding reports required to be filed by employers and employees. ADP's tax
filing services process federal, state and local payroll taxes on behalf of ADP
clients and remit such taxes to the appropriate taxing authorities when due. As
new products evolve (such as new hire reporting, ADP check/full service direct
deposit and wage garnishment payment), the ADP Tax Filing Center is also
responsible for the efficient movement of funds and information to third
parties.

         ADP's "Payroll AnyWay" strategy presents to businesses of virtually
every size and type an extensive menu of outsourced and on-site payroll
solutions, from simple software packages to turnkey payroll services. ADP's
Employer Services approach to the market is to match a client's needs with the
product that will best meet expectations. Approximately 29% of Employer
Services' payroll and payroll tax filing services revenue during the past fiscal
year was attributable to Emerging Business Services (companies with less than
100 employees); approximately 31% of such revenue was attributable to Major
Accounts (companies with between 100 and 999 employees) and approximately 26% of
such revenue was attributable to National Accounts (companies with 1,000 or more
employees).

         ADP's Human Resources (HR) services, operating in conjunction with a
client's payroll database, provide comprehensive recordkeeping HR services,
including benefits administration and outsourcing, applicant tracking, employee
history and position control. The various HR systems run on standalone PC's,
local or wide area networks or client/server systems.

         Emerging Business Services processes payroll for approximately 325,000
clients. Major 




Accounts offers a robust line of best-of-breed payroll and human resource
solutions for medium-size companies with full database and functional
integration between payroll and HR. Many of the world's largest corporations are
ADP National Accounts clients. In many cases, ADP provides system solutions for
clients' entire human resource, payroll and benefits needs. For those companies
who choose to process these applications in-house, ADP delivers stand-alone
services such as tax filing, check printing and distribution, year-end
statements (W-2's), and benefits administration.

         The ADP Tax Filing Center supports all three market segments. It
provides an electronic interface between approximately 315,000 ADP clients in
the United States and Canada and over 2,000 tax agencies, from the Internal
Revenue Service to town governments.

         ADP complements its payroll and HR services with additional employer
services that include products ranging from time and attendance tracking to
401(k) recordkeeping. ADP's unemployment compensation services aid clients in
managing and reducing unemployment insurance costs. Peachtree and One Write
software business applications are sold to small clients through retail
channels. ADP enhanced its position as a leading benefits administration
provider with the acquisition of the benefits administration business of William
M. Mercer, Incorporated ("Mercer"), and the formation with Mercer of the
Administrative Solutions Group, an alliance providing benefits administration
and consulting services.

         TotalSource-SM-, ADP's professional employer organization, supports
26,000 work-site employees in Florida, Georgia and Illinois and is positioned to
substantially increase its presence in the fast-expanding employee leasing
industry.

         The continued increase in multinational companies makes payroll and
human resource management services a global opportunity. Employer Services
already has 23,000 payroll and HR clients in Belgium, France, Germany, Italy,
the Netherlands, Spain, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and Brazil. In late
1997, ADP acquired the payroll services business of Royal Bank of Canada. The
addition of Royal Bank's payroll clients makes ADP the largest payroll
outsourcer in Canada. ADP's acquisition of a Brazilian computing services
company permits it to offer employer services solutions to many businesses in
Brazil, the world's ninth-largest economy.

Brokerage Services

         ADP's Brokerage Services provides securities processing, desktop
productivity applications, and investor communications services to the financial
services industry. ADP is the largest provider of securities processing services
in North America. In fiscal 1998, ADP processed more than 15% of the retail
equity transactions in the United States and Canada, handling an average of over
620,000 trades per day, and on October 28, 1997, ADP's systems handled more than
one million trades.

         In September 1998, ADP signed an agreement with Bridge Information
Systems, Inc., a global market information and news company, to create a
long-term, strategic alliance to provide market data, desktop applications and
transaction processing services to the financial services industry. As part of
this alliance, Bridge will purchase the market data assets and products of ADP,
which generated approximately $190 million of revenue in fiscal 1998. ADP will
acquire a minority interest in Bridge.

         In addition, ADP signed an agreement with Comprehensive Software
Systems (CSS) to 




exclusively market their BrokerView(TM) desktop product, a browser-based support
tool for retail, discount, or independent brokers and trading desk personnel.
ADP acquired a minority interest in CSS.

         ADP Investor Communications Services (ICS), the largest processor and
provider of shareholder communications services, handles shareholder mailings
and proxy processing for shareholders whose securities are left in "street name"
in the custody of ADP's "nominee" clients (principally brokerage firms and
banks). In fiscal 1998, ADP processed over 360 million shareholder mailings for
over 12,000 publicly-traded companies on behalf of more than 800 brokerage firms
and banks and 450 mutual fund families. Shareholder ballots representing
approximately 250 billion shares were processed.

         ADP provides back-office stock brokerage and related financial
computing services such as trade processing, cage management, stock loan
accounting, on-line inquiry and data collection, portfolio reporting, order
matching and on-line trading. All of these services are offered in the United
States and Canada. ADP's Wilco Systems' Gloss series international trading and
settlement systems offer global multi-instrument, multi-currency trading,
settlement and accounting services.

         As part of its shareholder communication services, StreetLink is a
quickly deliverable laser printed alternative to expensive quarterly mailings to
shareholders. Proxy Edge is an electronic voting service which dramatically
improves voting efficiency and record keeping. PhoneVOTE Services enable mutual
fund shareholders to vote their proxy over the telephone for same-day
tabulation.

Dealer Services

         ADP's Dealer Services provides computing, data and professional
services to automobile and truck dealerships, as well as manufacturers,
world-wide. Over 18,000 dealers use ADP's on-site systems and communications
networks to manage every area of sales and operations in the U.S., Canada,
Europe, Latin America and Taiwan. ADP addresses critical dealership areas and
offers software and professional services to improve consumer loyalty, asset
management, innovative technology, employee productivity training, manufacturer
relations, business improvements and real-time information access.

         ADP offers clients a service solution that includes computer hardware,
licensed software, software support, network consulting, design and hardware
maintenance services. Clients use ADP's systems to manage business activities
such as accounting, inventory, factory communications, scheduling, finance,
insurance, sales and service. ADP designs, establishes and maintains
communications networks for its clients that allow interactive communications
among multiple site locations for larger dealers as well as links between
franchise dealers and their respective manufacturers. These networks are used
for new vehicle ordering, status inquiry and warranty submission and validation,
parts and vehicle locating, credit application submissions, vehicle repair
estimates, vehicle registration and lienholder information.

         ADP continues to automate the business processes for its clients
through value-added products such as electronic parts catalogues, repair shop
pricing and scheduling, laser printing, data archiving and document storage, and
lease fleet management.

         Changes in customers' expectations and manufacturers' requirements 
are modifying how the 




traditional dealership conducts business. In response to these changes, ADP is
providing consulting services to its dealer clients to help them reengineer
their management processes. ADP also offers solutions to help employee
productivity and training, and provides the tools and services necessary to
improve dealership productivity and profitability.

Claims Services

         ADP Claims Services offers a broad line of information products to 
property and casualty insurance companies, claims adjusters, repair shops and 
auto parts recycling facilities. These products help insurers to accurately 
estimate auto damage, bodily injury and property claims and help repairshops 
and recyclers locate parts and manage their operations.

         Claims Services offers a broad range of cost containment products and
services to the automobile physical damage and property claims markets in North
America and Europe. These products and services are designed to assist clients
in determining settlement amounts, to improve work flow efficiency, and to
locate and utilize cost effective parts options. The products and services
include automated collision damage repair estimating products for cars and
trucks, integrated electronic digital imaging and communications services,
vehicle valuation services for total losses, collision repair management systems
products, aftermarket and recycled parts locating and pricing services and
related management information products.

         In 1998, ADP acquired Audatex Holding A.G., the leading provider of
automobile insurance claims estimating services outside of North America. With
Audatex, Claims Services is able to support clients on a worldwide basis.

         ADP Hollander provides inventory management and communications products
and services to the automotive recycling industry. The products are designed to
assist clients in creating and capturing operational efficiencies and expanding
their market and sales through electronic parts locating with other auto
recyclers and their business partners. In connection with a settlement reached
with the Federal Trade Commission, in fiscal 1998 ADP completed the divestiture
of certain assets used to facilitate electronic commerce among automotive parts
recyclers. The remaining business, formerly called the Parts Services unit, was
renamed ADP Hollander.

         Integrated Medical Solutions provides services designed to assist
clients in containing medical expenses and personal injury settlements arising
from auto liability and workers compensation claims. ADP delivers integrated
proprietary and state legislated fee schedules and treatment protocols, personal
injury algorithms, access to preferred provider networks, and medical and bill
review outsourcing services. These products and services are designed to assist
clients in identifying and paying for only medically appropriate treatments.


Nature of Services Provided

         In each of Employer Services, Dealer Services, Claims Services and most
of Brokerage Services, ADP's services primarily involve the processing and
utilization of client and/or third party data. In the front-office component of
the Brokerage Services business, the primary service takes the form of providing
securities, commodities and currencies quotation data (which data is provided by
various exchanges) and news to clients; this front-office component represents
less than 10% of 




consolidated revenue.

         Services to all industries are generally available by the electronic
transmission (through communications lines) of computer-generated data and
information from and to clients. Services are offered through a variety of
systems and networks which run on industry-standard operating systems. Virtually
none of ADP's services require ADP-proprietary hardware and/or operating
systems.

         All of ADP's services utilize somewhat similar facilities, computers,
communications networks, salesforces, and client service support personnel.
ADP's businesses share numerous facilities, selected computer rooms and
communications networks, and ADP occasionally transfers some of its employees
among business units. The input and output of all of ADP's businesses is data
and information. On occasion ADP has transferred services and products between
business units.

         While the labor intensiveness of a service may vary somewhat based on
the degree of automation and complexity in providing the service, all services
use the same basic functions as described above. None of ADP's service offerings
are particularly capital intensive.

Markets and Marketing Methods

         ADP's services are sold broadly across the United States and Canada.
Most ADP services are offered in Western Europe and some employer services are
now offered in Brazil. Services offered outside the United States amounted to 
approximately 16% of fiscal 1998 revenue. All services use common marketing 
techniques, including direct sales methodologies with emphasis on referral 
sources.

         None of ADP's major business groups have a single homogenous client
base or market. For example, while Brokerage Services primarily serves the
retail brokerage market, it also serves banks, commodity dealers, the
institutional brokerage market and individual non-brokerage corporations. Dealer
Services primarily serves automobile dealers, but also serves truck and
agricultural equipment dealers, auto repair shops, used car lots, state
departments of motor vehicles, and manufacturers of automobiles, trucks and
agricultural equipment. Claims Services has many clients who are insurance
companies, but also provides services to automobile manufacturers, body repair
shops, salvage yards, distributors of new and used automobile parts and other
non-insurance clients. Employer Services has clients from a large variety of
industries and markets. Within this client base are concentrations of clients in
specific industries. While concentrations of clients exist, no one business
group is material to ADP's overall revenue. Employer Services also sells to auto
dealers, brokerage clients, and insurance clients.

         None of ADP's businesses are overly sensitive to price changes.
Economic conditions among selected clients and groups of clients may and do have
a temporary impact on demand for ADP's services.

         ADP enjoys a leadership position in each of its major service offerings
and does not believe any major service or business unit in ADP is subject to
unique market risk.

Competition

         The computing services industry is highly competitive. ADP knows of no
reliable statistics by 




which it can determine the number of its competitors, but it believes that it is
one of the largest independent computing services companies in the world.

         ADP's competitors include other independent computing services
companies, divisions of diversified enterprises and banks. Another competitive
factor in the computing services industry is the in-house computing function,
whereby a company installs and operates its own computing systems.

         Competition in the computing services industry is primarily based on
service responsiveness, product quality and price. ADP believes that it is very
competitive in each of these areas and that there are no material negative
factors impacting ADP's competitive position in the computing services industry.
No one competitor or group of competitors is dominant in the computing services
industry.

Clients and Client Contracts

         ADP provides computing services to over 425,000 clients. Annual
revenues attributable to large client accounts range from $1 million to
approximately $45 million per client, while thousands of small client accounts
produce annual revenues of less than $1,000 each. ADP's largest single client
accounts for approximately 1% of its annual revenue.

         ADP has no material "backlog" because the period between the time a
client agrees to use ADP's services and the time the service begins is generally
very short and because no sale is considered firm until it is installed and
begins producing revenue.

         ADP's average client retention is eight years in Employer Services and
is ten or more years in Brokerage, Dealer and Claims Services, and does not vary
significantly from period to period.

         Discounts, rebates and promotions offered by ADP to clients are not
material.

         ADP's services are provided under written Price Quotations or Services
Agreements having varying terms and conditions. No one Price Quotation or
Service Agreement is material to ADP.

Systems Development and Programming

         During the fiscal years ended June 30, 1998, 1997 and 1996, ADP spent
$375,214,000, $296,544,000, and $249,635,000, respectively, on systems
development and programming activities for the development of new, and the
improvement and maintenance of existing, computing services.

Product Development

         ADP continually upgrades, enhances and expands its existing products
and services. Generally, no new product or service has a significant effect on
ADP's revenue or negatively impacts its existing products and services, and each
existing product and service has a significant remaining life cycle.

Licenses

         ADP is the licensee under a number of agreements for computer programs
and databases. ADP's business is not dependent upon a single license or group of
licenses. Licenses, patents, 




trademarks and franchises are not material to ADP's business as a whole.

Compensation of Marketing and Sales Personnel

         The compensation arrangements of ADP's marketing and sales personnel
vary significantly based on the tenure of the particular salesperson, with the
commission-based portion of total compensation averaging approximately 40%. ADP
sets minimum sales quotas on an individual basis.

Computer Systems

         ADP does not manufacture computer systems or act as a distributor of
computer systems. ADP may, however, be deemed to be a value-added reseller of
computer systems insofar as its services often include computer equipment as
part of the total service solution.

         ADP's services are offered on a variety of computer platforms which run
various operating systems. These computer platforms include those offered by
IBM, IBM-compatibles, Digital Equipment Corporation, Apple, Motorola, Hewlett
Packard and McDonnell Douglas. The industry-standard operating systems
supporting such computer platforms include DOS, Windows, OS2, VSE, MVS, VMS,
System 7 OS, Unix, Reality and Pick.

         ADP's service warranty to its clients is that if any errors or
omissions occur in its service offerings, ADP will correct them as soon as
possible. In addition, ADP provides, either directly or through third parties,
maintenance and support for the ADP-provided equipment and software which
facilitates the delivery of its services to clients.

Number of Employees

         ADP employed approximately 34,000 persons as of June 30, 1998.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

         See Item 10 in Part III hereof.

Item 2.  Properties

         ADP leases space for more than 55 of its processing centers. In
addition, ADP leases numerous small processing centers and sales offices. All of
these leases, which aggregate approximately 5,900,000 square feet in the United
States, Canada, Europe, South America, Asia, Australia and South Africa, expire
at various times up to the year 2016. ADP owns 25 of its processing facilities
and its corporate headquarters complex in Roseland, New Jersey, which aggregate
approximately 2,750,000 square feet.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

         None

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders




         None




                                     Part II

Item 5.  Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder 
Matters

         See "Market Price, Dividend Data and Other" on page 18 of the
Registrant's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is
incorporated herein by reference. As of June 30, 1998, the Registrant had
approximately 30,000 registered holders of its Common Stock, par value $.10 per
share. The Registrant's Common Stock is traded on the New York, Chicago and
Pacific Stock Exchanges.

         On February 20, 1998, the Registrant issued an aggregate amount of
158,595 shares of its Common Stock to the two shareholders (one such shareholder
being a limited liability company) of a company acquired by the Registrant in
exchange for all of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of such
company pursuant to the terms of a stock purchase agreement. On April 28, 1998,
the Registrant issued an aggregate amount of 45,978 shares of its Common Stock
to six shareholders of another company acquired by the Registrant in exchange
for all of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of such other
company pursuant to the terms of a stock purchase agreement. No underwriters
were involved in the foregoing sales of securities. The Company issued the
foregoing shares of Common Stock without registration under the Securities Act
of 1933, as amended, in reliance upon the exemption therefrom set forth in
Section 4(2) of such Act, relating to sales by an issuer not involving a public
offering.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

         See "Selected Financial Data" on page 16 of the Registrant's 1998
Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

         See "Management's Discussion and Analysis" on pages 17-18 of the
Registrant's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders, the Letters to Shareholders on
pages 2-4 of such report and the business descriptions on pages 5-15 of such
report, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

         The Registrant's investment portfolio consists primarily of high grade
fixed income investments, such as AA or better rated fixed income municipal
instruments, maturing in less than 7 years, and such portfolio does not subject
the Registrant to material market risk exposures.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

         The financial statements described in Item 14(a) hereof are
incorporated herein.

The following supplementary data is incorporated herein by reference:

                                                    Page in 1998 Annual
                                                    Report to Shareholders
                                                    ----------------------





Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
            Financial Disclosure

         None


                                    Part III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Executive Officers of the Registrant

         The executive officers of the Registrant, their ages, positions and the
period during which they have been employed by ADP are as follows:






         Messrs. Benson, Berke, Butler, Daly, Haviland, Martone and Weinbach
have each been employed by ADP in senior executive positions for more than the
past five years.

         G. Harry Durity joined ADP in August 1994 as Vice President, 
Worldwide Business Development. Prior to joining ADP he was Senior Vice 
President--Corporate Development of Revlon Consumer Products Company. Between 
1990 and February 1993 when he joined Revlon, he was President of The 
Highlands Group, Inc.

         Russell P. Fradin joined ADP in 1996. Prior to his promotion to Group
President, Employer Services, he served as Senior Vice President. Prior to
joining ADP, he was a senior partner of McKinsey & Company and had been
associated with that firm for 18 years.

         Eugene A. Hall joined ADP in 1998 as Senior Vice President. Prior to
joining ADP, he was a senior partner of McKinsey & Company and had been
associated with that firm for 16 years.

         John Hogan joined ADP in 1993. Prior to his promotion to Group
President of the Brokerage Services Group in July 1997, he held various senior
Brokerage Services' positions. Prior to joining ADP in July 1993, he had been
Senior Vice President, Processing Division for Fidelity Investments/National
Financial Services, Inc. for three years.

         Each of ADP's executive officers is elected for a term of one year and
until their successors are chosen and qualified or until their death,
resignation or removal.

Directors of the Registrant

         See "ELECTION OF DIRECTORS" in the Proxy Statement for Registrant's
1998 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which information is incorporated herein by
reference.

Section 16(B) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance

      See "SECTION 16(B) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE" in the Proxy
Statement for Registrant's 1998 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which
information is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

         See "COMPENSATION OF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS" in the Proxy Statement for
Registrant's 1998 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which information is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

         See "ELECTION OF DIRECTORS--Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Owners and Managers" in the Proxy Statement for Registrant's 1998 Annual Meeting
of Stockholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.




Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

         See "COMPENSATION OF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS--Certain Transactions" in the
Proxy Statement for Registrant's 1998 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which
information is incorporated herein by reference.




                                     Part IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

         (a)1.    Financial Statements

         The following consolidated financial statements of Automatic Data
Processing, Inc. and its subsidiaries are included in Part II, Item 8:


         Financial information of the Registrant is omitted because the
Registrant is primarily an operating company. The Registrant's subsidiaries
which are listed on Exhibit 21 attached hereto are wholly-owned.

         2.       Financial Statement Schedules


         All other Schedules have been omitted because they are inapplicable or
are not required or the information is included elsewhere in the financial
statements or notes thereto.

         3. The following exhibits are filed with this Form 10-K or incorporated
herein by reference to the document set forth next to the exhibit in the list
below:

















                    INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT ON SCHEDULE



To the Board of Directors
 and Shareholders of
Automatic Data Processing, Inc.
Roseland, New Jersey



We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Automatic Data
Processing, Inc. as of June 30, 1998 and 1997, and for each of the three years
in the period ended June 30, 1998, and have issued our report thereon dated
August 13, 1998; such consolidated financial statements and report are included
in your 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders and are incorporated herein by
reference. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of
Automatic Data Processing, Inc., listed in Item 14. This financial statement
schedule is the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility
is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such financial
statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects
the information set forth therein.


/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
New York, New York
August 13, 1998




                         AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC.

                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                                 (In thousands)





(A) Doubtful accounts written off, less recoveries on accounts previously
written off. 

(B) Acquired in purchase/pooling transactions.




                                   SIGNATURES

         Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be
    signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                               AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC.
                                                         (Registrant)

September 22, 1998                             By:  /s/ Arthur F. Weinbach
                                                    ----------------------
                                                    Arthur F. Weinbach
                                                    Chairman and Chief Executive
                                                    Officer


         Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
    this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
    Registrant in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
















                                    APPENDIX

             (As required pursuant to Rule 304(a) of Regulation S-T)

         The following is a narrative description of the graphic or image
material that appears in Exhibit 13 to the registrant's Annual Report of Form
10-K (the Form "10-K"). Exhibit 13 contains particular pages from the
Registrant's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders (the "1998 Annual Report") that
are incorporated by reference into the Form 10-K.






















