
10-K405
FORM 10-K




- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                      FORM 10-K

                          SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                               Washington, D.C.  20549

    [X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE 
         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
    
    FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1997

                                          OR

    [  ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-5397

                           AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC.
                (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

        DELAWARE                                        22-1467904
(State or other jurisdiction of             (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 incorporation or organization)

ONE ADP BOULEVARD, ROSELAND, NEW JERSEY                   07068
(Address of principal executive offices)                (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code:   201-994-5000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                            Name of each exchange on
      Title of each class                       which registered

      COMMON STOCK, $.10 PAR VALUE          NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE
              (VOTING)                      CHICAGO STOCK EXCHANGE
                                            PACIFIC STOCK EXCHANGE

      LIQUID YIELD OPTION NOTES DUE 2012    NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:   NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to the filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  / X /  No /   /

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K (Section 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein and
will not be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. / X /

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant as of September 12, 1997 was approximately $13,341,000,000. 
On September 12, 1997, there were 292,353,349 shares of Common Stock 
outstanding.

                         DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the Registrant's 1997 Annual Report to 
Shareholders                                                    Parts I, II & IV
Portions of the Registrant's Proxy Statement for 
Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held                      
on November 11, 1997.                                           Part III

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                        PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
- -----------------

    Automatic Data Processing, Inc., incorporated in Delaware in 1961, and its
subsidiaries (collectively, "ADP") are engaged in the computing services
business.  The following summary describes ADP's activities.

INDUSTRY SEGMENT

    All of ADP's computing services enable clients to process and/or distribute
data (their own, ADP's or that of third parties) and/or to interactively access
and utilize ADP and third party databases and information, utilizing ADP's
batch, interactive and client site systems.

EMPLOYER SERVICES

    ADP's Employer Services offers a comprehensive range of payroll, payroll
tax filing and reporting, human resource (HR), benefits administration, time and
attendance, 401(k) recordkeeping, and unemployment compensation management
services.  These services are provided to over 395,000 clients engaged in a wide
variety of businesses.  In addition to its direct marketing, ADP has marketing
relationships with many banks and accountants whereby ADP offers its services to
their business clients.

    Payroll and tax filing and reporting services comprise over 85% of Employer
Services' revenue.  Payroll services include the preparation of pay checks and
direct deposits (with major bank partners), along with supporting journals,
summaries and management reports.  ADP also supplies the quarterly and annual
social security, medicare, and federal, state and local income tax withholding
reports required to be filed by employers and employees.  ADP's tax filing
services process federal, state and local payroll taxes on behalf of ADP clients
and remit such taxes to the appropriate taxing authorities when due.  As new
products evolve (such as new hire reporting, ADP check/full service direct
deposit and wage garnishment payment), the ADP Tax Filing center is also
responsible for the efficient movement of funds and information to third
parties.

    As market trends increasingly favor both outsourcing and software as
preferred payroll solutions, ADP's "Payroll AnyWay" strategy presents to
businesses of virtually every size and type an extensive menu of outsourced and
on-site payroll solutions, from turnkey service to client-site software. 
Employers are segmented by size and complexity to effectively match their needs
to products and service teams that will best meet their expectations. 
Approximately 35% of Employer Services' payroll and payroll tax filing services
revenue during the past fiscal year was attributable to its Emerging Business
Services (for companies with less than 100 employees); approximately 35% of such
revenue was attributable to Major Accounts (for companies with between 100 and
999 employees) and approximately 30% of such revenue was attributable to
National Accounts (for companies with 1,000 or more employees).

    ADP's HR services, operating in conjunction with a client's payroll
database, provide comprehensive recordkeeping HR services, including benefits
administration and outsourcing, applicant tracking, employee history and
position control.  The various HR systems run on standalone PC's, local or wide
area networks or client/server systems.



                                         -1-


    Emerging Business Services processes payroll for approximately 300,000
clients.  Major Accounts offers a robust line of best-of-breed payroll and human
resource solutions for medium-size companies with full database and functional
integration between payroll and HR.  Many of the world's largest corporations
are ADP National Accounts clients.  In many cases, ADP provides system solutions
for clients' entire human resource, payroll and benefits needs.  For those
companies who choose to process these applications in-house, ADP delivers
stand-alone services such as tax filing, check printing and distribution,
year-end statements (W-2's), and benefits administration.

    The ADP Tax Filing Center, which supports all three market segments,
electronically interfaces with over 2,000 tax agencies from the Internal Revenue
Service to local school districts.  Over 285,000 clients rely on tax filing to
assure regulatory compliance.

    ADP's Electronic Services Division complements Employer Services' market
segments with a product mix that augments ADP's payroll and HR services. 
Included in such product mix are 401(k) recordkeeping and administrative
services (relating to defined benefit plans), flexible spending, healthcare and
other group benefits plans, and a comprehensive time and attendance system fully
integrated into ADP's payroll systems.  ADP's unemployment compensation services
aid clients in managing and reducing unemployment insurance costs.  Peachtree
and One Write software business applications are sold to small clients through
retail channels.

    ADP's penetration of the benefits administration market accelerated with
its acquisition of Health Benefits America, a provider of health care benefits
design and communications programs, COBRA administration and other relevant
services.  ADP has firmly established itself as a leading professional employer
organization through its TotalSource acquisition and positioned itself to
aggressively increase its presence in the fast-expanding employee leasing
industry.

    The continued increase in multinational companies makes payroll and human
resource management services a global opportunity.  This development and a
strong demand for outsourcing makes Europe a particularly attractive
marketplace.  Employer Services already has 35,000 payroll and HR clients in
Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, Switzerland and the
United Kingdom.  The core of ADP's strength in the European market currently is
in the larger company segment - those firms with 1,000 or more employees.  The
goal is to expand Employer Services to all major countries in Europe and be the
leading provider of outsourcing and on-site services for employer solutions in
all market segments.

    ADP has also become the largest provider of payroll services to Canadian
businesses with its recent purchases of the Royal Bank of Canada's and
Scotiabank's payroll businesses.  ADP's recent acquisition of a Brazilian
computing services company gives it a strong initial position in the growing
South American employer services marketplace.

BROKERAGE SERVICES

    ADP's Brokerage Services provides securities processing, real-time market 
information, and investor communications services to the financial services 
industry.  ADP is the largest provider of securities processing services in 
North America.  In fiscal 1997, ADP processed approximately 20% of the retail 
equity transactions in the United States and Canada, handling an average of 
over 475,000 trades per day.  In the market information sector, Brokerage 
Services supports more than 97,000 desktops in over 1,600 firms worldwide.  
ADP provides shareholder communication services, handling all shareholder 
mailings and proxy processing for shareholders whose securities are left in 
"street name" 

                                         -2-


in the custody of ADP's "nominee" clients (principally brokerage firms and
banks).  In fiscal 1997, ADP processed over 285 million shareholder mailings for
over 12,000 publicly-traded companies on behalf of more than 800 brokerage firms
and banks and 400 mutual fund families.  Shareholder ballots representing
approximately 155 billion shares were electronically processed.    

    ADP provides front-office database, news, analytic and quotation services
for the investment and brokerage community through terminals located on brokers'
desks.  ADP provides such services through interactive work stations (utilizing
client-server architecture) for all active equity securities, commodities,
currencies, and interest rate futures.  ADP also offers its international
clients real-time news processing systems, real-time fixed income, foreign
exchange and money market information, and sophisticated analytics.

    ADP provides back-office stock brokerage and related financial computing
services such as trade processing, cage management, stock loan accounting,
on-line inquiry and data collection, portfolio reporting, order matching and
on-line trading.  All of these services are offered in the United States and
Canada.  ADP's Wilco Systems' Gloss series international trading and settlement
systems offer global multi-instrument, multi-currency trading, settlement and
accounting services.

    As part of its shareholder communication services, StreetLink is a quickly
deliverable laser printed alternative to expensive quarterly mailings to
shareholders.  Proxy Edge is an electronic voting service which dramatically
improves voting efficiency and record keeping.  PhoneVOTE Services enable mutual
fund shareholders to vote their proxy over the telephone for same-day
tabulation.

DEALER SERVICES

    ADP's Dealer Services provides computing, data and professional services to
automobile and truck dealers and manufacturers world-wide.  Over 18,000 dealers
use ADP's on-site systems and communications networks to manage every area of
sales and operations in the U.S., Canada, Europe, Mexico and Taiwan.  ADP
addresses critical dealership areas and offers software and professional
services to improve consumer loyalty, asset management, innovative technology,
employee productivity training, manufacturer relations, business improvements
and real-time information access.

    It offers clients a service solution which includes ADP computer hardware,
licensed software, software support and hardware maintenance services.  Clients
use ADP's systems to manage their accounting, inventory, factory communications,
scheduling, leasing, sales and service activities.  ADP establishes and
maintains communications networks for its clients which allow interactive
communications between manufacturers and their respective dealers.  These
communication networks are used for new vehicle ordering, status inquiry and
warranty claims, parts and vehicle locating, credit checks, vehicle repair
estimating, vehicle registration and vehicle lienholder information.

    ADP continues to automate the business processes for its clients through
value-added products such as paperless parts cataloging, repair shop pricing and
scheduling, laser printing, and data archiving and document storage.

    Changes in customer expectations and manufacturer's requirements are
modifying how the traditional dealership conducts business.  In response to
these changes, ADP is providing consulting services to its dealer clients to
help them reengineer their management processes.  It also offers solutions to
help employee productivity and training, and provides the tools and services
necessary to improve dealership productivity and profitability.




                                         -3-


CLAIMS SERVICES

    ADP offers a broad line of claims information products to property and
casualty insurance companies, claims adjusters, repair shops and auto parts
recycling facilities in the United States and Canada to help its clients
accurately estimate auto damage, bodily injury and property claims.  The
services include automated collision damage repair estimating for cars and
trucks, vehicle valuation services for total losses, and parts locating and
pricing services to auto insurers and repairers to facilitate the claims
settlement and parts locating processes.  ADP provides management information
and vehicle damageability and repair cost statistics to insurance companies,
government agencies and automobile manufacturers.  A pen-based, mobile auto
estimating system, using state-of-the-art technology and graphical user
interfaces, has won broad market acceptance.

    ADP provides, through its Integrated Medical Solutions business,
services that evaluate the appropriateness of medical treatment and invoicing
for bodily injury claims arising from motor vehicle accidents.  The core
product, Provider Bill Audit (PBA), is an expert system that performs fee and
utilization audits of medical provider bills involving soft tissue injury and
that provides auto insurers with a consistent methodology for assessing the
proper diagnoses and treatment of automobile-related injuries.  The Injury
Claims Evaluations product compliments the PBA system with proprietary injury
valuations, helping adjusters to make fair and equitable settlements when usual
and customary costs are disputed.

NATURE OF SERVICES PROVIDED

    In each of Employer Services, Dealer Services, Claims Services and most of
Brokerage Services, ADP's services primarily involve the processing and
utilization of client and/or third party data.  In the front-office component of
the Brokerage Services business, the primary service takes the form of providing
securities, commodities and currencies quotation data (which data is provided by
various exchanges) and news to clients; this front-office component represents
less than 10% of consolidated revenue.

    Services to all industries are generally available by the electronic
transmission (through communications lines) of computer-generated data and
information from and to clients.  Services are offered through a variety of
systems and networks which run on industry-standard operating systems. 
Virtually none of ADP's services require ADP-proprietary hardware and/or
operating systems.

    All of ADP's services utilize somewhat similar facilities, computers,
communications networks, salesforces, and client service support personnel. 
ADP's businesses share numerous facilities, selected computer rooms and
communications networks, and ADP occasionally transfers some of its employees
among business units.  The input and output of all of ADP's businesses is data
and information.  On occasion ADP has transferred services and products between
business units.

    While the labor intensiveness of a service may vary somewhat based on the
degree of automation and complexity in providing the service, all services use
the same basic functions as described above.  None of ADP's service offerings
are particularly capital intensive.

MARKETS AND MARKETING METHODS

    All of ADP's services are sold broadly across the United States and Canada. 
Non-North American services amounted to approximately 12.5% of fiscal 1997
revenue.  All services use 



                                         -4-


common marketing techniques, including direct sales methodologies with emphasis
on referral sources.

    None of ADP's major business groups have a single homogenous client base or
market.  For example, while Brokerage Services primarily serves the retail
brokerage market, it also serves banks, commodity dealers, the institutional
brokerage market and individual non-brokerage corporations.  Dealer Services
primarily serves automobile dealers, but also serves truck and agricultural
equipment dealers, auto repair shops, used car lots, state departments of motor
vehicles, and manufacturers of automobiles, trucks and agricultural equipment. 
Claims Services has many clients who are insurance companies, but also provides
services to automobile manufacturers, body repair shops, salvage yards,
distributors of new and used automobile parts and other non-insurance clients. 
Employer Services has clients from a large variety of industries and markets. 
Within this client base are concentrations of clients in specific industries. 
While concentrations of clients exist, no one business group is material to
ADP's overall revenue.  Employer Services also sells to auto dealers, brokerage
clients, and insurance clients.

    None of ADP's businesses are overly sensitive to price changes.  Economic
conditions among selected clients and groups of clients may and do have a
temporary impact on demand for ADP's services.

    ADP enjoys a leadership position in each of its major service offerings and
does not believe any major service or business unit in ADP is subject to unique
market risk.

COMPETITION

    The computing services industry is highly competitive.  ADP knows of no
reliable statistics by which it can determine the number of its competitors, but
it believes that it is one of the largest independent computing services
companies in the United States.

    ADP's competitors include other independent computing services companies,
divisions of diversified enterprises and banks.  Another competitive factor in
the computing services industry is the in-house computing function, whereby a
company installs and operates its own computing systems.

    Competition in the computing services industry is primarily based on 
service responsiveness, product quality and price.  ADP believes that it is 
very competitive in each of these areas and that there are no material 
negative factors impacting ADP's competitive position in the computing 
services industry. No one competitor or group of competitors is dominant in 
the computing services industry.

CLIENTS AND CLIENT CONTRACTS

    ADP provides computing services to over 400,000 clients.  Annual revenues 
attributable to large client accounts range from $1 million to approximately 
$50 million per client, while thousands of small client accounts produce 
annual revenues of less than $1,000 each.  ADP's largest single client 
accounts for approximately 1% of its annual revenue.

    ADP has no material "backlog" because the period between the time a 
client agrees to use ADP's services and the time the service begins is 
generally very short and because no sale is considered firm until it is 
installed and begins producing revenue.

                                         -5-


    ADP's average client retention is seven years in Employer Services and is
ten or more years in Brokerage, Dealer and Claims Services, and does not vary
significantly from period to period.

    Discounts, rebates and promotions offered by ADP to clients are not
material.

    ADP's services are provided under written Price Quotations or Services
Agreements having varying terms and conditions.  No one Price Quotation or
Service Agreement is material to ADP.

SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT AND PROGRAMMING

    During the fiscal years ended June 30, 1997, 1996 and 1995, ADP spent
$296,544,000, $249,635,000 and $193,173,000, respectively, on systems
development and programming activities for the development of new, and the
improvement and maintenance of existing, computing services.

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT

    ADP continually upgrades, enhances and expands its existing products and
services.  Generally, no new product or service has a significant effect on
ADP's revenue or negatively impacts its existing products and services, and each
existing product and service has a significant remaining life cycle.

LICENSES

    ADP is the licensee under a number of agreements for computer programs and
databases.  ADP's business is not dependent upon a single license or group of
licenses. Licenses, patents, trademarks and franchises are not material to ADP's
business as a whole.

COMPENSATION OF MARKETING AND SALES PERSONNEL

    The compensation arrangements of ADP's marketing and sales personnel vary
significantly based on the tenure of the particular salesperson, with the
commission-based portion of total compensation averaging approximately 40%.  ADP
sets minimum sales quotas on an individual basis.

COMPUTER SYSTEMS

    ADP does not manufacture computer systems or act as a distributor of
computer systems.  ADP may, however, be deemed to be a value-added reseller of
computer systems insofar as its services often include computer equipment as
part of the total service solution.

    ADP's services are offered on a variety of computer platforms which run
various operating systems.  These computer platforms include those offered by
IBM, IBM-compatibles, Digital Equipment Corporation, Apple, Motorola, Hewlett
Packard and McDonnell Douglas.  The industry-standard operating systems
supporting such computer platforms include DOS, Windows, OS2, VSE, MVS, VMS,
System 7 OS, Unix, Reality and Pick.

    ADP's service warranty to its clients is that if any errors or omissions
occur in its service offerings, ADP will correct them as soon as possible.  In
addition, ADP provides, either directly or through third parties, maintenance
and support for the ADP-provided equipment and software which facilitates the
delivery of its services to clients.



                                         -6-



NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES

    ADP employed approximately 30,000 persons as of June 30, 1997.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    See Item 10 in Part III hereof.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

    ADP leases space for more than 55 of its processing centers.  In addition,
ADP leases numerous small processing centers and sales offices.  All of these
leases, which aggregate approximately 5,300,000 square feet in the United
States, Canada, Europe, South America and Asia, expire at various times up to
the year 2016.  ADP owns 27 of its processing facilities and its corporate
headquarters complex in Roseland, New Jersey, which aggregate approximately
2,750,000 square feet.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    None

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    None











                                         -7-


                                       PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS

    See "Market Price and Dividend Data" on page 18 of the Registrant's 1997
Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by
reference.  As of August 24, 1997, the Registrant had 28,364 registered holders
of its Common Stock, par value $.10 per share.  The Registrant's Common Stock is
traded on the New York, Chicago and Pacific Stock Exchanges.

    On August 16, 1996, the Registrant issued an aggregate amount of 896,370 
shares of its Common Stock to three shareholders of a company acquired by the 
Registrant in exchange for all of the issued and outstanding shares of 
capital stock of such company pursuant to the terms of a pooling agreement.  
On August 26, 1996, the Registrant issued an aggregate amount of 1,930,212 
shares of its Common Stock to the three principal shareholders (and certain 
related trusts) of another company acquired by the Registrant in exchange for 
all of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of that company 
pursuant to the terms of a merger agreement.  No underwriters were involved 
in the foregoing sales of securities.  The Company issued the foregoing 
shares of Common Stock without registration under the Securities Act of 1933, 
as amended, in reliance upon the exemption therefrom set forth in Section 
4(2) of such Act, relating to sales by an issuer not involving a public 
offering.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA


    See "Selected Financial Data" on page 16 of the Registrant's 1997 Annual
Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS

    See "Management's Discussion and Analysis" on pages 17-18 of the
Registrant's 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders, the Letters to Shareholders on
pages 3-5 of such report and the business descriptions on pages 6-15 of such
report, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
  
ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

    The Registrant's market risk sensitive instruments do not subject the 
Registrant to material market risk exposures.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

    The financial statements described in Item 14(a) hereof are incorporated
herein.

The following supplementary data is incorporated herein by reference:

                                                       Page in 1997 Annual
                                                      Report to Shareholders
                                                      ----------------------

    Quarterly Financial Results (unaudited) for
         the three years ended June 30, 1997                    27

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
       FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    None


                                         -8-


                                       PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    The executive officers of the Registrant, their ages, positions and the
period during which they have been employed by ADP are as follows:


                                                                Employed by
        Name            Age              Position                ADP Since 
- --------------------    ---       -----------------------       -----------
James B. Benson         52        Vice President, General          1977   
                                  Counsel and Secretary

Richard C. Berke        52        Vice President, Human            1989
                                  Resources

Gary C. Butler          50        Group President of               1975   
                                  Employer Services 

Richard J. Daly         44        Co-president of                  1989
                                  Brokerage Services

G. Harry Durity         50        Vice President,                  1994
                                  Worldwide Business
                                  Development

Russell P. Fradin       42        Senior Vice President            1996

Richard J. Haviland     51        Chief Financial Officer          1982

John P. Hogan           49        Co-president of                  1993
                                  Brokerage Services

Peter M. Leger          46        President of                     1992
                                  Dealer Services

S. Michael Martone      49        President of Claims              1987
                                  Services

Arthur F. Weinbach      54        President and                    1980   
                                  Chief Executive Officer

    Messrs. Benson, Berke, Butler, Daly, Haviland, Leger, Martone and Weinbach
have each been employed by ADP in senior executive positions for more than the
past five years.

    G. Harry Durity joined ADP in August 1994 as Corporate Vice President,
Worldwide Business Development.  Prior to joining ADP he was Senior Vice
President - Corporate Development of Revlon Consumer Products Company.  Between
1990 and February 1993 when he joined Revlon, he was President of The Highlands
Group, Inc.


                                         -9-


    Russell P. Fradin joined ADP in 1996 as Senior Corporate Vice President. 
Prior to joining ADP, he was a senior partner of McKinsey & Company and had been
associated with that firm for 18 years.

    John P. Hogan joined ADP in 1993.  Prior to his promotion to Co-president
of the Brokerage Services Group in July 1997, he held various senior Brokerage
Services' positions.  Prior to joining ADP in July 1993, he had been Senior Vice
President, Processing Division for Fidelity Investments/National Financial
Services, Inc. for three years.

    Each of ADP's executive officers is elected for a term of one year and
until their successors are chosen and qualified or until their death,
resignation or removal.

DIRECTORS OF THE REGISTRANT

    See "Election of Directors" in the Proxy Statement for Registrant's 1997
Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which information is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

    See "Compensation of Executive Officers" in the Proxy Statement for
Registrant's 1997 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which information is
incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

    See "Election of Directors--Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
and Managers" in the Proxy Statement for Registrant's 1997 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

    See "Compensation of Executive Officers--Certain Transactions" in the Proxy
Statement for Registrant's 1997 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which
information is incorporated herein by reference.












                                         -10-



                                       PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

    (a)1.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

    The following consolidated financial statements of Automatic Data
Processing, Inc. and its subsidiaries are included in Part II, Item 8:

                                                       Page in 1997 Annual
                                                      Report to Shareholders
                                                      ----------------------

    Independent Auditors' Report                                28

    Consolidated Balance Sheets - June 30, 1997 and 1996        20

    Statements of Consolidated Earnings - years
         ended June 30, 1997, 1996 and 1995                     19

    Statements of Consolidated Shareholders' Equity - 
         years ended June 30, 1997, 1996 and 1995               21

    Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows - years
         ended June 30, 1997, 1996 and 1995                     22

    Notes to Consolidated Statements                         23 - 27

    Financial information of the Registrant is omitted because the Registrant
is primarily an operating company. The Registrant's subsidiaries which are
listed on Exhibit 21 attached hereto are wholly-owned.

    2.   FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
                                                      Page in Form 10-K
                                                      -----------------

    Independent Auditors' Report on Schedule                 14

    Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts          15

    All other Schedules have been omitted because they are inapplicable or are
not required or the information is included elsewhere in the financial
statements or notes thereto.

    3.   The following exhibits are filed with this Form 10-K or incorporated
herein by reference to the document set forth next to the exhibit in the list
below:

3.1      -    Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation dated December
              15, 1994 - incorporated by reference to Exhibit (3)-#1 to
              Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
              June 30, 1995


                                         -11-


3.2      -    By-Laws as currently in effect - incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit (3)-#2 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
              the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 1997

4        -    Indenture dated as of February 20, 1992 between Automatic Data
              Processing, Inc. and Bankers Trust Company, as trustee, regarding
              the Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2012 of the Registrant -
              incorporated by reference to Exhibit (4)-#1 to Registrant's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30,

10.1     -    Letter Agreement dated as of August 1, 1996 between Automatic
              Data Processing, Inc. and Arthur F. Weinbach - incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
              10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1996 (Management
              Contract)

10.2     -    Agreement with Gary C. Butler - incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 10(iii)(A)-#2 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
              for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1991 (Management Contract)

10.3     -    1981 Key Employees' Stock Option Plan - incorporated by reference
              to Registrant's Registration Statement No. 2-75287 on Form S-8
              (Management Compensatory Plan)

10.3(a)  -    Amendment to 1981 Key Employees' Stock Option Plan - incorporated
              by reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              fiscal year ended June 30, 1989 (Management Compensatory Plan)

10.4     -    Key Employees' Restricted Stock Plan - incorporated by reference
              to Registrant's Registration Statement No. 33-25290 on Form S-8
              (Management Compensatory Plan)

10.5     -    Supplemental Officers' Retirement Plan, as amended and restated -
              incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)-#5 to
              Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
              June 30, 1993 (Management Compensatory Plan)

10.5(a)  -    Amendment to Supplemental Officers' Retirement Plan (Management
              Compensatory Plan)

10.6     -    1989 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan - incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)-#7 to Registrant's Annual Report
              on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1990 (Management
              Compensatory Plan)

10.6(a)  -    Amendment to 1989 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan
              (Management Compensatory Plan)


                                         -12-



10.7     -    1990 Key Employees' Stock Option Plan - incorporated by reference
              to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)-#8 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
              10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1990 (Management
              Compensatory Plan)

10.7(a)  -    Amendment to 1990 Key Employees' Stock Option Plan (Management
              Compensatory Plan)

10.8     -    1994 Directors' Pension Arrangement - incorporated by reference
              to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)-#10 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
              10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1994 (Management
              Compensatory Plan)

10.9     -    1994 Executive Compensation Plan - incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit A to Registrant's Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting
              of Stockholders held November 15, 1994 (Management Compensatory
              Plan)

11       -    Schedule of Calculation of Earnings Per Share

13       -    Pages 3-28 of the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders (with the
              exception of the pages incorporated by reference herein, the
              Annual Report is not a part of this filing)

21       -    Subsidiaries of the Registrant

23       -    Independent Auditors' Consent

27       -    Financial Data Schedule

(b)           None.






                                         -13-


                    INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT ON SCHEDULE



To the Board of Directors
 and Shareholders of
Automatic Data Processing, Inc.
Roseland, New Jersey  



We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Automatic Data
Processing, Inc. as of June 30, 1997 and 1996, and for each of the three years
in the period ended June 30, 1997, and have issued our report thereon dated
August 13, 1997; such consolidated financial statements and report are included
in your 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders and are incorporated herein by
reference.  Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of
Automatic Data Processing, Inc., listed in Item 14.  This financial statement
schedule is the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility
is to express an opinion based on our audits.  In our opinion, such financial
statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects
the information set forth therein.


/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
New York, New York
August 13, 1997








                                         -14-


                           AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC.

                                   AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                                    (In thousands)



(A) Doubtful accounts written off, less recoveries on accounts previously 
    written off.
(B) Acquired in purchase/pooling  transactions.




                                         -15-


                                      SIGNATURES
                                           
    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                  AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC.
                                           (Registrant)
              
September 18, 1997                By:  /s/ Arthur F. Weinbach               
                                       -------------------------------------
                                       Arthur F. Weinbach
                                       President and Chief Executive Officer


    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

SIGNATURE                             TITLE                             DATE
- ---------                             -----                             ----

/s/ Arthur F. Weinbach       President, Chief             September 18, 1997
- --------------------------   Executive Officer,
   (Arthur F. Weinbach)      and Director
                             (Principal Executive Officer)


/s/ Richard J. Haviland      Chief Financial Officer         September 18, 1997
- -------------------------    (Principal Financial Officer)
   (Richard J. Haviland) 


/s/ Gary C. Butler           Director                        September 18, 1997
- -------------------------
   (Gary C. Butler)



- -------------------------    Director                        September   , 1997
(Joseph A. Califano, Jr.)


/s/ Leon G. Cooperman        Director                        September 18, 1997
- -------------------------
   (Leon G. Cooperman)


- -------------------------    Director                        September   , 1997
(George H. Heilmeier)


/s/ Ann Dibble Jordan        Director                        September 18, 1997
- -------------------------
   (Ann Dibble Jordan)



                                         -16-



/s/ Harvey M. Krueger        Director                      September 18, 1997
- -------------------------
   (Harvey M. Krueger)


/s/ Charles P. Lazarus       Director                      September 18, 1997
- -------------------------
(Charles P. Lazarus)


/s/ Fred V. Malek            Director                      September 18, 1997
- -------------------------
(Frederic V. Malek)


/s/ Henry Taub               Director                      September 18, 1997
- -------------------------
   (Henry Taub)


/s/ Laurence A. Tisch        Director                      September 18, 1997
- -------------------------
(Laurence A. Tisch)


/s/ Josh S. Weston           Director                      September 18, 1997
- -------------------------
   (Josh S. Weston)







                                         -17-


