Item 1.Business



General Corporate Overview



The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC), headquartered in San Francisco, California, was incorporated in 1986 and engages, through its
subsidiaries (together referred to as the Company, and primarily located in San Francisco except as indicated), in securities brokerage, banking, money management, and financial advisory services. At December 31, 2012, the Company had
$1.95 trillion in client assets, 8.8 million active brokerage accounts(a), 1.6 million corporate retirement plan participants, and 865,000 banking accounts.



Significant business subsidiaries of CSC include:



•Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (Schwab), which was incorporated in 1971, is a securities broker-dealer with over 300 domestic branch offices in 45
states, as well as a branch in each of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and London, U.K., and serves clients in Hong Kong through one of CSC’s subsidiaries;



•Charles Schwab Bank (Schwab Bank), which commenced operations in 2003, is a federal savings bank located in Reno, Nevada; and



•Charles Schwab Investment Management, Inc. (CSIM), which is the investment advisor for Schwab’s proprietary mutual funds, referred to as the
Schwab Funds®, and Schwab’s exchange-traded funds, referred to as the Schwab ETFs™.



The Company provides financial services to
individuals and institutional clients through two segments – Investor Services and Institutional Services. The Investor Services segment provides retail brokerage and banking services to individual investors. The Institutional Services segment
provides custodial, trading, and support services to independent investment advisors (IAs). The Institutional Services segment also provides retirement plan services, specialty brokerage services, and mutual fund clearing services. For financial
information by segment for the three years ended December 31, 2012, see “Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – 25. Segment Information.”



As of December 31, 2012, the Company had full-time, part-time and
temporary employees, and persons employed on a contract basis that represented the equivalent of about 13,800 full-time employees.



Business Acquisitions



On December 14, 2012, the Company acquired ThomasPartners, Inc., a growth and dividend income-focused asset management firm.



In September 2011, the Company acquired
optionsXpress Holdings, Inc. (optionsXpress), an online brokerage firm primarily focused on equity option securities and futures. The optionsXpress®brokerage platform provides active investors and traders trading tools, analytics and education to execute a variety of investment strategies. optionsXpress, Inc., a
wholly-owned subsidiary of optionsXpress, is a securities broker-dealer.



In November 2010, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of Windward Investment Management, Inc. (Windward), an investment advisory firm that managed diversified investment portfolios
comprised primarily of exchange-traded fund securities. As a result of the acquisition, Windhaven Investment Management, Inc. (Windhaven) was formed as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Schwab Holdings, Inc.



Business Strategy and Competitive Environment



The Company’s purpose is to champion every
client’s goals with passion and integrity, believing that the best long-term strategy is one that puts clients first. Seeing the Company’s business “through clients’ eyes” helps it earn its clients’ trust as





(a)Accounts with balances or activity within the preceding eight months.



- 1 -




THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION



the Company strives daily to fulfill its purpose and act according to its values. The Company’s values are to serve its clients in an ethical, empathetic and proactive way; to innovate
constantly to improve the client experience; to respect fellow employees and reinforce the power of teamwork; and to be good stewards of the resources entrusted to the Company – client assets, the Company’s brand, and stockholder value.



The Company’s competition in serving individual investors
includes a wide range of brokerage, wealth management, and asset management firms, as well as banks and trust companies. In serving these investors and competing for a growing percentage of the investable wealth in the U.S., the Company offers a
multi-channel service delivery model, which includes online, mobile, telephonic, and branch capabilities. Under this model, the Company can offer personalized service at competitive prices while giving clients the choice of where, when, and how they
do business with the Company. Schwab’s branches and regional telephone service centers are staffed with trained and experienced financial consultants (FCs) focused on building and sustaining client relationships. The Company offers the ability
to meet client investing needs through a single ongoing point of contact, even as those needs change over time. In particular, management believes that the Company’s ability to provide those clients seeking help, guidance, or advice with an
integrated, individually tailored solution – ranging from occasional consultations to an ongoing relationship with a Schwab FC or an IA – is a competitive strength compared to the more fragmented offerings of other firms.



The Company’s online, mobile, and telephonic channels provide quick and
efficient access to an extensive array of information, research, tools, trade execution, and administrative services, which clients can access according to their needs. For example, clients that trade more actively can use these channels to access
highly competitive pricing, expert tools, and extensive service capabilities – including experienced, knowledgeable teams of trading specialists and integrated product offerings. Individuals investing for retirement through 401(k) plans
can take advantage of the Company’s bundled offering of multiple investment choices, education, and third-party advice. Management also believes the Company is able to compete with the wide variety of financial services firms striving to
attract individual client relationships by complementing these capabilities with the extensive array of investment, banking, and lending products and services described in the following section.



In the IA arena, the Company competes with institutional custodians,
traditional and discount brokers, banks, investment advisory firms, and trust companies. Management believes that its Institutional Services segment can maintain its market leadership position primarily through the efforts of its expanded sales and
support teams, which are dedicated to helping IAs grow, compete, and succeed in serving their clients. In addition to focusing on superior service, Institutional Services competes by utilizing technology to provide IAs with a highly-developed,
scalable platform for administering their clients’ assets easily and efficiently. Institutional Services sponsors a variety of national, regional, and local events designed to help IAs identify and implement better ways to grow and manage their
practices efficiently.



Another important
aspect of the Company’s ability to compete is its ongoing focus on efficiency and productivity, as lower costs give the Company greater flexibility in its approach to pricing and investing for growth. Management believes that this flexibility
remains important in light of the competitive environment, in which a number of competitors offer reduced online trading commission rates and low expense ratios on certain classes of mutual funds and exchange-traded funds. Additionally, the
Company’s nationwide marketing effort is an important competitive tool because it reinforces the attributes of the
Schwab®brand.



Products and Services



The Company offers a broad range of products to address individuals’ varying investment and financial needs. Examples of these product offerings
include:



•Brokerage – an array of brokerage accounts including some with check-writing features, debit card, and billpay; individual retirement accounts;
retirement plans for small to large businesses; 529 college savings accounts; designated brokerage accounts; equity incentive plan accounts; and margin loans, as well as access to fixed income securities, equity and debt offerings, options, and
futures;



•Mutual funds – third-party mutual funds through Mutual Fund Marketplace®, including no-load mutual funds through the Mutual Fund OneSource®service, proprietary mutual funds from two fund families – Schwab Funds®and Laudus Funds®, other
third-party mutual funds, and mutual fund trading and clearing services to broker-dealers;



- 2 -




THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION



•Exchange-traded funds (ETFs) – third-party and proprietary ETFs, including Schwab ETFs™, and separately managed portfolios of ETFs;



•Advice solutions – separately managed accounts, customized personal advice for tailored portfolios, and specialized planning and full-time
portfolio management;



•Banking – checking accounts linked to brokerage accounts, savings accounts, certificates of deposit, demand deposit accounts, first lien
residential real estate mortgage loans (First Mortgages), home equity lines of credit (HELOCs), personal loans collateralized by securities, and entity lending; and



•Trust – trust custody services, personal trust reporting services, and administrative trustee services.



These products, and the Company’s full array of investing services, are
made available through its two segments – Investor Services and Institutional Services. The Company’s major sources of revenues are generated by both of the Company’s reportable segments. Revenue is attributable to a reportable
segment based on which segment has the primary responsibility for serving the client. The accounting policies of the Company’s reportable segments are the same as those described in “Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.”



Investor Services



Through the Investor Services segment, the Company provides retail brokerage and banking services to individual investors.



The Company offers research, analytic tools, performance reports, market
analysis, and educational material to all clients. Clients looking for more guidance have access to online portfolio planning tools, professional advice from Schwab’s portfolio consultants who can help develop an investment strategy and carry
out investment and portfolio management decisions, as well as a range of fully delegated managed solutions that provide ongoing portfolio management.



Schwab strives to demystify investing by educating and assisting clients in the development of investment plans. Educational tools
include workshops, interactive courses, and online information about investing, which Schwab does not earn revenue from. Additionally, Schwab provides various internet-based research and analysis tools that are designed to help clients achieve
better investment outcomes. As an example of such tools, Schwab Equity Ratings®is a quantitative model-based
stock rating system that provides all clients with ratings on approximately 3,000 stocks, assigning each equity a single grade: A, B, C, D, or F. Schwab Equity Ratings InternationalTM, an international ranking methodology, covers approximately 4,000 stocks in 28 foreign equity markets. Stocks are
rated based on specific factors relating to fundamentals, valuation, momentum, and risk and ranked so that the number of ‘buy consideration’ ratings – As and Bs – equals the number of ‘sell consideration’ ratings –
Ds and Fs.



Clients may need specific investment recommendations,
either from time to time or on an ongoing basis. The Company provides clients seeking advice with customized solutions. The Company’s approach to advice is based on long-term investment strategies and guidance on portfolio diversification and
asset allocation. This approach is designed to be offered consistently across all of Schwab’s delivery channels.



Schwab Private ClientTMfeatures a personal advice relationship with a designated portfolio consultant, supported by a team of investment
professionals who provide individualized service, a customized investment strategy developed in collaboration with the client, and ongoing guidance and execution.



For clients seeking a relationship in which investment
decisions are fully delegated to a financial professional, the Company offers several alternatives. The Company provides investors access to professional investment management in a diversified account that is invested exclusively in either mutual
funds or ETFs through the Schwab Managed PortfoliosTMand
Windhaven®programs. The Company also refers investors who want to utilize a specific third-party money manager
to direct a portion of their investment assets to the Schwab Managed Account program. In addition, clients who want the assistance of an independent professional in managing their financial affairs may be referred to IAs in the Schwab Advisor
Network®. These IAs provide personalized portfolio management, financial planning, and wealth management
solutions.



The Company strives to deliver information, education,
technology, service, and pricing that meet the specific needs of clients who trade actively. Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc. both offer integrated Web- and software-based trading platforms, which



- 3 -




THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION



incorporate intelligent order routing technology, real-time market data, options trading, premium stock or futures research, and multi-channel access, as well as sophisticated account and trade
management features, risk management tools, decision support tools, and dedicated personal support.

For clients wishing to invest in foreign
equities, the Company offers a suite of global investing capabilities, including on-line access to certain foreign equity markets with the ability to trade in their local currencies. In addition, the Company serves both foreign investors and
non-English-speaking U.S. clients who wish to trade or invest in U.S. dollar-based securities. In the U.S., the Company serves Chinese-, Spanish-, and Vietnamese-speaking clients through a combination of its branch offices and Web-based and
telephonic services.

Institutional Services

The Institutional Services segment consists of the following four business units: Advisor Services, Retirement Plan Services, Retirement Business Services, and Corporate Brokerage Services.

Through the Advisor Services business, Schwab provides custodial, trading, technology, practice management, trust asset, and other support services to
IAs. To attract and serve IAs, Advisor Services has a dedicated sales force and service teams assigned to meet their needs.

IAs who custody
client accounts at Schwab may use proprietary software that provides them with up-to-date client account information, as well as trading capabilities. The Advisor Services website is the core platform for IAs to conduct daily business activities
online with Schwab, including submitting client account information and retrieving news and market information. This platform provides IAs with a comprehensive suite of electronic and paper-based reporting capabilities. Advisor Services offers
online cashiering services, as well as internet-based eDocuments sites for both IAs and their clients that provide multi-year archiving of online statements, trade confirms and tax reports, along with document search capabilities.

To help IAs grow and manage their practices, Advisor Services offers a variety of services, including marketing and business development, business
strategy and planning, and transition support. Regulatory compliance consulting and support services are available, as well as website design and development capabilities. Advisor Services maintains a website that provides interactive tools,
educational content, and research reports to assist advisors thinking about establishing their own independent practices.

Advisor Services
offers an array of services to help advisors establish their own independent practices through the Business Start-up Solutions package. This includes access to dedicated service teams and outsourcing of back-office operations, as well as third-party
firms who provide assistance with real estate, errors and omissions insurance, and company benefits.

The Company offers
a variety of educational materials and events to IAs seeking to expand their knowledge of industry issues and trends, as well as sharpen their individual expertise and practice management skills. Advisor Services updates and shares market research
on an ongoing basis, and it holds a series of events and conferences every year to discuss topics of interest to IAs, including business strategies and best practices. The Company sponsors the annual IMPACT®conference, which provides a national forum for the Company, IAs, and other industry participants to gather and
share information and insights.

IAs and their clients have access to a broad range of the Company’s products and services, including
individual securities, mutual funds, ETFs, managed accounts, and cash products.

Retirement Plan Services offers a
bundled 401(k) retirement plan product that provides plan sponsors a wide array of investment options, trustee or custodial services, and participant-level recordkeeping. Plan design features, which increase plan efficiency and achieve employer
goals, are also offered, such as automatic enrollment, automatic fund mapping at conversion, and automatic contribution increases. In 2012, the Company launched Schwab Index Advantage®, a unique 401(k) plan offer designed to lower costs, simplify investing and help workers better prepare for retirement. Services also include support for Roth 401(k)
accounts and profit sharing and defined benefit plans. The Company provides a robust suite of tools to plan sponsors to manage their plans, including plan-specific reports, studies and research, access to legislative updates and benchmarking reports
that provide perspective on their plan’s features compared with overall industry and segment-specific



- 4 -




THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION



plans. Participants in bundled plans serviced by the Company receive targeted education materials, have access to electronic tools and resources, may attend onsite and virtual seminars, and can
receive third-party advice delivered by Schwab. This third-party advice service is delivered online, by phone, or in person, including recommendations based on the core investment fund choices in their retirement plan and specific recommended
savings rates.



Through Retirement Business
Services, the Company and independent retirement plan providers work together to serve plan sponsors, combining the consulting and administrative expertise of the administrator with the Company’s investment, technology, trust, and custodial
services. Retirement Business Services also offers the Schwab Personal Choice Retirement Account®, a
self-directed brokerage offering for retirement plans.



Corporate
Brokerage Services provides specialty brokerage-related services to corporate clients through its Stock Plan Services and Designated Brokerage Services businesses. Stock Plan Services offers equity compensation plan sponsors full-service
recordkeeping for stock plans: stock options, restricted stock, performance shares and stock appreciation rights. Specialized services for executive transactions and reporting, grant acceptance tracking and other services are offered to employers to
meet the needs of administering the reporting and compliance aspects of an equity compensation plan. Designated Brokerage Services provides solutions for compliance departments of regulated companies and firms with special requirements to monitor
employee personal trading, including trade surveillance technology. The Corporate Brokerage Services unit also provides mutual fund clearing services to banks, brokerage firms and trust companies and offers proprietary mutual funds, ETFs, collective
trust funds, and investment management outside the Company to institutional channels.



Subsequent Changes to Segment Information



In the first quarter of 2013, the Company realigned its reportable segments as a result of recent organizational changes. The Institutional segment will be renamed to Advisor Services. The Retirement Plan
Services, Corporate Brokerage Retirement Products (formerly part of Retirement Business Services), and Corporate Brokerage Services business units will be reallocated to the Investor Services segment. The Company will recast the segment information
based on this realignment in the first quarter of 2013.



Regulation



CSC is a savings and loan holding company and Schwab Bank, CSC’s depository institution subsidiary, is a federal savings bank. CSC is subject to
supervision and regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the Federal Reserve) and Schwab Bank is subject to supervision and regulation by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC). CSC is currently not subject to
specific statutory capital requirements, however CSC is required to serve as a source of strength for Schwab Bank. Under the “Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act” (the Dodd-Frank Act), CSC will be subject to new
minimum leverage and minimum risk-based capital ratio requirements that will be set by the Federal Reserve that are at least as stringent as the current requirements generally applicable to insured depository institutions.



Schwab Bank is subject to regulation and supervision and to various
requirements and restrictions under federal and state laws, including regulatory capital guidelines. Among other things, these requirements also restrict and govern the terms of affiliate transactions, such as extensions of credit and repayment of
loans between Schwab Bank and CSC or CSC’s other subsidiaries. In addition, Schwab Bank is required to provide notice to and may be required to obtain approval of the OCC and the Federal Reserve to declare dividends to CSC. The federal banking
agencies have broad powers to enforce these regulations, including the power to terminate deposit insurance, impose substantial fines and other civil and criminal penalties, and appoint a conservator or receiver. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act, Schwab Bank could be subject to restrictive actions if it were to fall within one of the lowest three of five capital categories. Schwab Bank is required to maintain minimum capital levels as specified in federal banking laws and regulations.
Failure to meet the minimum levels could result in certain mandatory, and possibly additional discretionary actions by the regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on Schwab Bank.



The securities industry in the United States is subject to extensive
regulation under both federal and state laws. CSC’s principal U.S. broker-dealers are Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc. Schwab is registered as a broker-dealer with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the fifty states, and
the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.



- 5 -




THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION



optionsXpress, Inc. is registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC, the fifty states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands. Schwab and CSIM are registered as investment
advisors with the SEC. Additionally, Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc. are regulated by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) with respect to the commodity futures and commodities trading activities they conduct as an introducing broker and
futures commission merchant, respectively.



Much of the regulation
of broker-dealers has been delegated to self-regulatory organizations (SROs). Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc. are members of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (FINRA), the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB), NYSE Arca, and
the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE). optionsXpress, Inc. is also a member of other exchanges. The primary regulators of Schwab are FINRA and, for municipal securities, the MSRB. The primary regulators of optionsXpress, Inc. are FINRA, CBOE,
and for municipal securities, the MSRB. The National Futures Association (NFA) is Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc.’s primary regulator for futures and commodities trading activities. The Company’s business is also subject to oversight by
regulatory bodies in other countries in which the Company operates.



The principal purpose of regulating broker-dealers and investment advisors is the protection of clients and the securities markets. The regulations to
which broker-dealers and investment advisors are subject cover all aspects of the securities business, including, among other things, sales and trading practices, publication of research, margin lending, uses and safekeeping of clients’ funds
and securities, capital adequacy, recordkeeping and reporting, fee arrangements, disclosure to clients, fiduciary duties owed to advisory clients, and the conduct of directors, officers and employees.



Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc. are both subject to Rule 15c3-1 under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Uniform Net Capital Rule) and related SRO requirements. The CFTC and NFA also impose net capital requirements. The Uniform Net Capital Rule specifies minimum capital requirements that are intended to ensure the
general financial soundness and liquidity of broker-dealers. Because CSC itself is not a registered broker-dealer, it is not subject to the Uniform Net Capital Rule. However, if Schwab fails to maintain specified levels of net capital, such failure
would constitute a default by CSC under debt covenants under CSC’s credit agreement.



The Uniform Net Capital Rule limits broker-dealers’ ability to transfer capital to parent companies and other affiliates. Compliance with the Uniform Net Capital Rule could limit Schwab’s
operations and its ability to repay subordinated debt to CSC, which in turn could limit CSC’s ability to repay debt, pay cash dividends, and purchase shares of its outstanding stock.



Sources of Net Revenues



The Company’s major sources of net revenues are asset management and
administration fees, net interest revenue, and trading revenue. The Company generates asset management and administration fees through its proprietary and third-party mutual fund offerings, as well as fee-based advisory solutions. Net interest
revenue is the difference between interest earned on interest-earning assets (such as cash, short- and long-term investments, and mortgage and margin loans) and interest paid on funding sources (including banking deposits and client cash in
brokerage accounts and long-term debt). The Company generates trading revenue through commissions earned for executing trades for clients and principal transaction revenue primarily from trading activity in client fixed income securities.



For revenue information by source for the three years ended
December 31, 2012, see “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Results of Operations – Net Revenues.”



Available Information



The Company files annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements,
and other information with the SEC. The Company’s SEC filings are available to the public over the Internet on the SEC’s website athttp://www.sec.gov. You may read and copy any document that the Company files with the SEC at the
SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.



On the Company’s Internet website,http://www.aboutschwab.com,
the Company posts the following recent filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC: the Company’s annual reports on



- 6 -




THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION



Form 10-K, the Company’s quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, the Company’s current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All such filings are available free of charge either on the Company’s website or by request via email (investor.relations@schwab.com), telephone (415-667-1959), or mail
(Charles Schwab Investor Relations at 211 Main Street, San Francisco, CA 94105).



