Item 1.Business



General Corporate Overview



The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC)is a savings and loan holding company, headquartered in San Francisco, California. CSC wasincorporated in 1986andengages, through its subsidiaries (collectivelyreferred to as the Company), inwealth management,securities brokerage, banking, money management,custody,and financial advisory services. At December 31,2015, the Company had $2.51trillion in client assets,9.8million active brokerage accounts,1.5million corporate retirement plan participants, and1.0 million banking accounts.



Significant business subsidiaries of CSC includethe following:

·Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (Schwab), which was incorporated in 1971, is a securities broker-dealer with over325domestic branch offices in 45 states, as well as a branch in each of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and London,England, and serves clients in Hong Kong through one of CSC’s subsidiaries;

·Charles Schwab Bank (Schwab Bank), which commenced operations in 2003, is a federal savings bank located in Reno, Nevada; and

·Charles Schwab Investment Management, Inc. (CSIM), which is the investment advisor for Schwab’s proprietary mutual funds, referred to as the Schwab Funds®, and Schwab’s exchange-traded funds(ETFs), referred to as the Schwab ETFs™.



The Company provides financial services to individuals and institutional clients through two segments – Investor Services and Advisor Services. The Investor Services segment provides retail brokerage and banking services,retirement plan services, andothercorporate brokerage services. The Advisor Services segment provides custodial, trading, and support servicesas well asretirement business services. These services are further described in the segment discussion below.For financial information by segment for the three years ended December 31,2015, see “Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements –24.Segment Information.”



As of December 31,2015, the Company had full-time, part-time and temporary employees, and persons employed on a contract basis that represented the equivalent of about15,300full-time employees.



Business Acquisitions



In December 2012, the Company acquired ThomasPartners®, Inc., a growth and dividend income-focused asset management firm.



In September 2011, the Company acquired optionsXpress Holdings, Inc. (optionsXpress), an online brokerage firm primarily focused on equity options and futures. The optionsXpress®brokerage platform provides active investors and traders with trading tools, analytics and education to execute a variety of investment strategies. optionsXpress, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of optionsXpress, is a securities broker-dealer.



Business Strategy and Competitive Environment



Recognizing the benefits of having a clear strategy,management has developed a framework that consists of a purpose, vision, and values guided by the Company’s “Through Clients’ Eyes” strategy.The Company’s stated purpose is to champion every client’s goals with passion and integrity, believing the best long-term strategy is one that puts clients’ perspectives, needs, and desires at the forefront.The Company’s vision is to bethe most trusted leader in investment services.



Because investing plays a fundamental role in building financial security, the Company strives to deliver a better investing experience for its clients – individual investors and the people and institutions who serve them – by disrupting longstanding industry practices on their behalf and providing superior service. The Company aims to offer a broad range of products and solutions to choose from, including relevant and actionable advice, with a focus on transparency and convenience. In addition, management works to leverage the Company’s scale and resources, as well as expense discipline, to help keep costs



-1-





THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION

low and ensure that client solutions are both affordable and responsive to needs. Finally, the Company works to be a good steward of stockholder capital and aims to maximize the Company’s value and returns over time.



The Company’s competition in serving individual investors includes a wide range of brokerage, wealth management, and asset management firms, as well as banks and trust companies. In serving investors and competing for a growing percentage of the investable wealth in theUnited States (U.S.), the Company offers a multi-channel service delivery model, which includes online, mobile, telephone, and branch capabilities. Under this model, the Company can offer personalized service at competitive prices while giving clients the choice of where, when, and how they do business with the Company. Schwab’s branches and regional telephone service centers are staffed with trained andexperienced financial consultants (FCs)focused on building and sustaining client relationships. The Company offers the ability to meet client investing needs through a single ongoing point of contact, even as those needs change over time.Management believes that the Company’s ability to provide those clients seeking help, guidance, or advice with an individually tailored solution – ranging from occasional consultations to an ongoing relationship with a Schwab FC or anindependent investment advisor (IA)– is a competitive strength compared to the more fragmentedor limitedofferings of other firms.



The Company’s online, mobile, telephoneand branchchannels provide quick and efficient access to an extensive array of information, research, tools, trade execution, and administrative services, which clients can access according to their needs. For example, clients that trade more actively can use these channels to access highly competitive pricing, expert tools, and extensive service capabilities – including experienced, knowledgeable teams of trading specialists and integrated product offerings. Individuals investing for retirement through 401(k) plans can take advantage of the Company’s bundled offering of multiple investment choices, education, and third-party advice. Management also believes the Company is able to compete with the wide variety of financial services firms striving to attract individual client relationships by complementing these capabilities with the extensive array of investment, banking, and lending products and services described in the sectionbelow.



In the IA arena, the Company competes with institutional custodians, traditional and discount brokers, banks, investment advisory firms, and trust companies. Management believes that its Advisor Services segment can maintain its market leadership position primarily through the efforts of itssales and support teams, which are dedicated to helping IAs grow, compete, and succeed in serving their clients. In addition to focusing on superior service, Advisor Services competes by utilizing technology to provide IAs with a highly-developed, scalable platform for administering their clients’ assets easily and efficiently. Advisor Services sponsors a variety of national, regional, and local events designed to help IAs identify and implement better ways to grow and manage their practices efficiently.



An important aspect of the Company’s ability to compete is its ongoing focus on efficiency and productivity, as lower costs give the Company greater flexibility in its approach to pricing and investing for growth. Management believes that this flexibility remains important in light of the competitive environment, in which a number of competitors offer reduced online trading commission rates and low expense ratios on certain classes of mutual funds and exchange-traded funds. Additionally, the Company’s nationwide marketing effort is an important competitive tool because it reinforces the attributes of the Schwab®brand.



The Company’s earnings growth strategy is based upon the belief that developing trustedrelationships with clients will lead to strong business performance. The Company hasbeenand continuesto be committed to offering itsclients more value and abetter investing experience which the Companybelieveswill translate into more assets from bothnew and existing clientswhich ultimately drive revenue in terms of asset management and administration fees,net interest revenueand trading revenue.



Sources of Net Revenues



The Company’s major sources of net revenues are asset management and administration fees, net interest revenue, and trading revenue. The Company generates the majority of asset management and administration fees through its proprietary and third-party mutual fund and ETF offerings, as well as fee-based advisory solutions. A portion of asset management and administration fees comes from client cash balances placed in the Company’s money market mutual funds. Net interest revenue is the difference between interest generated on interest-earning assets and interest paid on funding sources, the majority of which is derived from client cash balances in deposit and brokerage accounts. The Company generates trading revenue through commissions earned for executing trades for clients and principal transaction revenue earned primarily from trading activity in client fixed income securities.





-2-





THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION

Products and Services



The Company offers a broad range of products to address individuals’ varying investment and financial needs. Examples of these product offerings includethe following:

·Brokerage – an array offull-featurebrokerage accounts with cash management capabilities;

·Mutual funds – third-party mutual funds throughtheMutual Fund Marketplace®, including no-transaction feemutual funds through the Mutual Fund OneSource®service,which also includesproprietary mutual funds,plusmutual fund trading and clearing services to broker-dealers;

·Exchange-traded funds –anextensive offering of ETFs, including many proprietary andthird-partyETFs available without a commission through Schwab ETF OneSource™;

·Advice solutions –managed portfolios of both proprietary and third-party mutual funds and ETFs,separately managed accounts, customized personal advice for tailored portfolios, and specialized planning and full-time portfolio management;

·Banking – checkingand savingsaccounts,certificates of deposit, first lien residential real estate mortgage loans (First Mortgages), home equityloans andlines of credit (HELOCs),and Pledged Asset Lines®(PALs); and

·Trust – trust custody services, personal trust reporting services, and administrative trustee services.



The Company’s full array of investing services are made available through its two segments – Investor Services and Advisor Services. The Company’s major sources of revenues are generated by both of the Company’s reportable segments. Revenue is attributable to a reportable segment based on which segment has the primary responsibility for serving the client. The accounting policies of the Company’s reportable segments are the same as those described in “Item8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.”For financial information related to the Company’s reportable segments, see “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Results of Operations – Segment Information” and “Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements – 24. Segment Information.”



Investor Services



Through the Investor Services segment, the Company provides retail brokerage and banking services, retirement plan services, and other corporate brokerage services. The Company offers research,analysistools,online portfolio planning tools,performance reports, market analysis, and educational material to all clients.Schwab’s FCs can provide wealth management and financial planning assistance to clients to help them reach their financial goals. Investors looking for more guidance have access to professional advice from Schwab’s portfolio consultants who can help develop an investment strategy and carry out investment and portfolio management decisions, as well as a range of fully delegated managed solutions that provide ongoing portfolio management.



Schwab strives toeducateandassistclients inreaching their financial goals.Educational tools include workshops, interactive courses, and online information about investing,fromwhich Schwab does not earn revenue. Additionally, Schwab provides variousonlineresearch and analysis tools that are designed to help clients achieve better investment outcomes. As an example of such tools, Schwab Equity Ratings®is a quantitative model-based stock rating system that provides all clients with ratings on approximately 3,000 stocks, assigning each equity a single grade: A, B, C, D, or F. Schwab Equity Ratings International®, an international ranking methodology, covers approximately 4,000 stocks in27foreign equity markets.



Clients may need specific investment recommendations, either from time to time or on an ongoing basis. The Company provides clients seeking advice withpersonalizedsolutions. The Company’s approach to advice is based on long-term investment strategies and guidance on portfolio diversification and asset allocation. This approach is designed to be offered consistently across all of Schwab’s delivery channels.



Schwab Private Client™features a personal advice relationship with a designated portfolio consultant, supported by a team of investment professionals who provide individualized service, a customized investment strategy developed in collaboration with the client, and ongoing guidance and execution.



For clients seeking a relationship in which investment decisions are fully delegated to a financial professional, the Company offers several alternatives. The Company provides investors access to professional investment management in a diversified account that is invested exclusively in either mutual funds or ETFs through the Schwab Managed Portfolios™and Windhaven Investment Management, Inc. (Windhaven®), or equity securities through ThomasPartners®programs. The



-3-





THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION

Company also refers investors who want to utilize a specific third-party money manager to direct a portion of their investment assets to the Schwab Managed Account program. In addition, clients who want the assistance of an independent professional in managing their financial affairs may be referred to IAs in the Schwab Advisor Network®. These IAs provide personalized portfolio management, financial planning, and wealth management solutions.



Tomeet the specific needs of clients who trade actively,Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc. both offer integrated web- and software-based trading platforms, which incorporate intelligent order routing technology, real-time market data, options trading, premium stock or futures research, and multi-channel access, as well as sophisticated account and trade management features, risk management tools, decision support tools, and dedicated personal support.



ForU.S.clients wishing to invest in foreign equities, the Company offers a suite of global investing capabilities, including online access to certain foreign equity markets with the ability to trade in their local currencies. In addition, the Company serves both foreign investors and non-English-speaking U.S. clients who wish to trade or invest in U.S. dollar-based securities. In the U.S., the Company servesMandarin-, Cantonese-, Spanish-, and Vietnamese-speaking clients through a combination of its branch offices and Web-based and telephonic services.



The Investor Services segment also includes the Retirement Plan Services, Stock Plan Services, Compliance Solutions, Mutual Fund Clearing Services and Off-Platform Salesbusiness units.



Retirement Plan Services offers a bundled 401(k) retirement plan product that provides plan sponsors a wide array of investment options, trustee or custodial services, and participant-level recordkeeping. Plan design features, which increase plan efficiency and achieve employer goals, are also offered, such as automatic enrollment, automatic fund mapping at conversion, and automatic contribution increases. The Company offersSchwab Index Advantage®, a unique 401(k) planutilizing low cost index mutual funds and ETFs, combined with a managed investing service to help participants reach their retirement goals.Services also include support for Roth 401(k) accounts,profit sharing and defined benefit plans. The Company provides a robust suite of tools to plan sponsors to manage their plans, including plan-specific reports, studies and research, access to legislative updates and benchmarking reports that provide perspective on their plan’s features compared with overall industry and segment-specific plans. Participants in bundled plans serviced by the Company receive targeted education materials, have access to electronic tools and resources, may attend onsite and virtual seminars, and can receive third-party advice delivered by Schwab. This third-party advice service is delivered online, by phone, or in person, including recommendations based on the core investment fund choices in their retirement plan and specific recommended savings rates.



Stock Plan Services offers equity compensation plan sponsors full-service recordkeeping for stock plans,stock options, restricted stock, performance shares and stock appreciation rights. Specialized services for executive transactions and reporting, grant acceptance tracking,and other services are offered to employers to meet the needs of administering the reporting and compliance aspects of an equity compensation plan.



Compliance Solutions provides solutions for compliance departments of regulated companies and firms with special requirements to monitor employee personal trading, including trade surveillance technology.



Mutual Fund Clearing Services provides mutual fund clearing services and recordkeeping to banks, brokerage firms and trust companies.



Off-Platform Sales offers proprietary mutual funds, ETFs, and collective trust funds outside the Company.



Advisor Services



Through the Advisor Services segment, the Company provides custodial, trading, and support services as well as retirement business services.



To attract and serve IAs, the Company has a dedicated sales force and service teams assigned to meet their needs. IAs who custody client accounts at Schwab may use proprietary software that provides them with up-to-date client account information, as well as trading capabilities. The Advisor Services website is the core platform for IAs to conduct daily business activities online with Schwab, includingviewing and managingclient account information andaccessingnews and market information. Thewebsiteprovidesaccount servicing capabilities forIAs, including account opening, money movement, transfer of assets, trading, checking status and communicating with the Schwab service team. The site provides multi-year archiving of statements, trade confirms, and tax reports, along with document search capabilities.





-4-





THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION

To help IAs grow and manage their practices, the Company offers a variety of services, includingbusiness management and technology and operations consulting on a variety of topics critical to an IA’s success including strategic business planning, client segmentation, growth strategies, technological strategies and succession planning. TheAdvisor Serviceswebsite provides interactive tools, educational content, and research reports to assist advisors thinking about establishingand managingtheir own independent practices.



The Company offers an array of services to help advisors establish their own independent practices through the Business Start-up Solutions package.These servicesinclude access to dedicated service teams and outsourcing of back-office operations, as well as third-party firms who provide assistance with real estate, errors and omissions insurance, and company benefits.



The Company offers a variety of educational materials, programs,and events to IAs seeking to expand their knowledge of industry issues and trends, as well as sharpen their individual expertise and practice management skills. The Company updates and shares market research on an ongoing basis, and it holds a series of events and conferences every year to discuss topics of interest to IAs, including business strategies and best practices. The Company sponsors the annual IMPACT®conference, which provides a national forum for the Company, IAs, and other industry participants to gather and share information and insights, as well as a multitude of smaller events across the country each year.



IAs and their clients have access to a broad range of the Company’s products and services, including individual securities, mutual funds, ETFs, managed accounts, and cash products.



The Advisor Services segment also includes the Retirement Business Servicesand Corporate Brokerage Retirement Servicesbusiness units.Retirement Business Services providestrust, custody, andretirement business services to independent retirement plan advisors andindependentrecordkeepers.Plan assets are held at the Business Trust division of Schwab Bank.The Company and independent retirement plan providers work together to serve plan sponsors, combining the consulting and administrative expertise of the administrator with the Company’s investment, technology, trust, and custodial services. Retirement Business Services also offers the Schwab Personal Choice Retirement Account®, a self-directed brokerage offering for retirement plans.



Corporate Brokerage Retirement Services serves plan sponsors, advisors and independent recordkeepers seeking a brokerage-based account to hold retirement plan assets. Plans held at Schwab are either self-trusteed or trusteed by a separate, independent trustee. Corporate Brokerage Retirement Services also offers the Schwab Personal Choice Retirement Account®, and the Company Retirement Account, both of which are self-directed brokerage-based solutions designed to hold the assets of company-sponsored retirement plans.



Regulation



As a participant in the securities, banking and financial services industries, the Company is subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state laws by governmental agencies, supervisory authorities, and self-regulatory organizations (SROs). The Company is also subject to oversight by regulatory bodies in other countries in which the Company operates. These regulations affect the Company’s business operations and impose capital, client protection and market conduct requirements.



The financial services industry has been subject to enhanced levels of regulatory oversight in recent years, and the Company expects this trend to continue for the foreseeable future. As a result of the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in 2010 (Dodd-Frank), the adoption of implementing regulations by the federal regulatory agencies, and other recent regulatory reforms, the Company has experienced significant changes in the laws and regulations that apply to it, how it is regulated, and regulatory expectations in the areas of compliance, risk management, corporate governance, operations, capital and liquidity.



Holding Company and Bank Regulation



CSC is a savings and loan holding company and Schwab Bank, CSC’s depository institution subsidiary, is a federal savings bank. CSC is regulated, examined and supervised by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve), and Schwab Bank is regulated, examined and supervised by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC),



-5-





THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION

the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). CSC and Schwab Bank are also subject to regulation and various requirements and restrictions under state and other federal laws.



This regulatory structure establishes a comprehensive framework designed to protect depositors and consumers, the safety and soundness of depository institutions and their holding companies, and the stability of the banking system as a whole. This framework affects the activities and investments of CSC, Schwab Bank and CSC’s non-bank subsidiaries and gives the regulatory authorities broad discretion in connection with their supervisory, examination and enforcement activities and policies.



Financial Regulatory Reform



As a result of the enactment of Dodd-Frank, the adoption by the federal banking agencies of implementing regulations and other regulatory reforms, the financial services industry is currently experiencing a period of unprecedented change in financial regulation. The changes that have been enacted under Dodd-Frank and other regulatory reforms that are significant for CSC and Schwab Bank are highlighted below.



Basel III Capital and Liquidity Framework



In July 2013, the U.S. Federal banking agencies finalized a rule to implement strengthened regulatory capital requirements for U.S. banking organizations consistent with Basel III (Final Regulatory Capital Rules). The Final Regulatory Capital Rules established Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) Capital as a new capital standard, increased minimum required risk-based capital ratios, narrowed the eligibility criteria for regulatory capital instruments, provided for new regulatory capital deductions and adjustments, and modified methods for calculating risk-weighted assets (the denominator of risk-based capital ratios). See“Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity” and “Capital Management,” and “Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – 23. Regulatory Requirements”for the new capital ratio requirements.



The Final Regulatory Capital Rules provided for a one-time election which CSC and Schwab Bank made to exclude accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) from the calculation of CET1 Capital. The Final Regulatory Capital Rules also introduced a capital conservation buffer that limits a banking organization’s ability to make capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers if a banking organization fails to maintain a capital conservation buffer of more than 2.5%, on a fully phased-in basis, in excess of all of its minimum risk-based capital ratio requirements.



The Final Regulatory Capital Rules provide for a “standardized approach” framework for the calculation of a banking organization’s regulatory capital and risk-weighted assets. Depository institutions and their holding companies with consolidated total assets of $250 billion or more, or total on-balance-sheet foreign exposures of $10 billion or more, are also required to calculate their regulatory capital requirements using an “advanced approaches” framework to determine their risk-weighted assets. Such companies must also maintain a minimum supplementary leverage ratio of at least 3.0% and are subject to certain other enhanced provisions. CSC and Schwab Bank are currently only subject to the “standardized approach” framework.



The new capital requirements under the Final Regulatory Capital Rules became effective on January 1, 2015, for CSC, which had not previously been subject to any consolidated capital requirements, and Schwab Bank. The required minimum capital conservation buffer is being phased in incrementally; it started at .625% on January 1, 2016 and will increase to 1.25% on January 1, 2017, 1.875% on January 1, 2018 and 2.5% on January 1, 2019.



In September 2014, U.S. Federal banking agencies issued an inter-agency final rule that imposes a quantitative liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) requirement on large banking organizations. The purpose of the LCR is to require banking organizations to hold minimum amounts of high-quality liquid assets (HQLA) based on a percentage of their projected net cash outflows over a 30-day period. Banking organizations with $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets or foreign exposures of $10 billion or more must hold HQLA in an amount equal to at least 100% of their projected net cash outflows over a 30-day period. Other bank and savings and loan holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as CSC, are subject to a modified LCR rule requiring them to hold HQLA in an amount equal to at least 70% of their projected net cash outflows over a 30-day period. The modified LCR rule went into effect on January 1, 2016, with holding companies subject to the rule required to hold at least 90% of the necessary amount of HQLA in 2016 and at least 100% starting on January 1, 2017.







-6-





THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION

Capital Stress Testing



In October 2012, the OCC issued final rules implementing provisions of Dodd-Frank that require national banks and federal savings banks with total consolidated assets of more than $10 billion to conduct annual company-run stress tests. Under the Dodd-Frank Act Stress Test (D-FAST) rules, Schwab Bank must conduct annual stress tests using certain scenarios and prescribed stress-testing methodologies, report the results to the OCC and the Federal Reserve and publish a summary of the results of its stress tests. In March 2015, Schwab Bank submitted its company-run stress test results to the OCC. In June 2015 Schwab Bank publicly disclosed a summary of its stress test results under the severely adverse scenario prescribed by the OCC based upon a nine-quarter timeframe beginning on October 1, 2014 and ending on December 31, 2016. In its summary, Schwab Bank reported that its 7.2%Tier 1 leverage ratio at the beginning of the forecast period declined to a low of 6.5% during the nine-quarter forecast horizon and was 7.0% at the end.



Under the final Federal Reserve D-FAST regulations, CSC will be required to conduct its first stress test using financial statement data as of December 31, 2016, report the results of that stress test to the Federal Reserve by April 5, 2017, and publicly disclose a summary of its stress test results between June 15 and June 30, 2017. CSC is not subject to the annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) process, which requires certain financial institutions to submit annual capital plans to the Federal Reserve. However, CSC is taking steps to implement policies, procedures, systems and governance structures that are designed to be consistent with regulatory expectations for a firm of its size and complexity.



Insured Depository Institution Resolution Plans



In September 2011 and January 2012, the FDIC issued interim final and final rules requiring insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more to submit to the FDIC periodic plans providing for their resolution by the FDIC in the event of failure (resolution plans or so-called “living wills”) under the receivership and liquidation provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. Under these rules, Schwab Bank is required to file with the FDIC an annual resolution plan demonstrating how the bank could be resolved in an orderly and timely manner in the event of receivership such that the FDIC would be able: to ensure that the bank’s depositors receive access to their deposits within one business day; to maximize the net present value of the bank’s assets when disposed of; and to minimize losses incurred by the bank’s creditors. Schwab Bank submitted its most recent resolution plan to the FDIC on December 31, 2015.



Consumer Financial Protection



In July 2011, pursuant to Dodd-Frank, the CFPB began operations and was given rulemaking authority for a wide range of federal consumer protection laws as well as broad powers to supervise compliance with and enforce those laws. As a federal savings bank with $10 billion or more in consolidated total assets, Schwab Bank is subject to examination, supervision and regulation by the CFPB. The CFPB has proposed and finalized many consumer protection rules since its creation and has authority to promulgate regulations, issue orders, draft policy statements, conduct examinations and bring enforcement actions. The creation of the CFPB has led to enhanced enforcement of consumer protection laws. Although the ultimate impact of this heightened scrutiny is uncertain, it could result in changes to pricing, practices, products and procedures.



Deposit Insurance Assessments



The FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) provides insurance coverage for certain deposits, generally up to $250,000 per depositor per account ownership type, and is funded by quarterly assessments on insured depository institutions. In February 2011, the FDIC established a risk-based deposit premium assessment system that, for large insured depository institutions with at least $10 billion in total consolidated assets, such as Schwab Bank, uses a scorecard method based on a number of factors, including the institution’s regulatory ratings, asset quality and brokered deposits. The deposit insurance assessment base is calculated as average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity.



The Dodd-Frank Act (i) raised the minimum reserve ratio for the DIF to 1.35% (from the former minimum of 1.15%) and (ii) required that the DIF’s reserve ratio reach 1.35% by September 30, 2020.



In October 2015, the FDIC issued a proposed rule that would impose a flat-rate surcharge on the quarterly assessments of insured depository institutions with total assets of $10 billion or more to pay for the increase. See“Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Current Regulatory Environment and Other Developments.”







-7-





THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION

Community Reinvestment Act



The Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (CRA) requires Schwab Bank’s primary federal bank regulatory agency, the OCC, to assess the bank’s record in meeting the credit needs of the communities served by the bank, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods and persons. Institutions are assigned one of four ratings: “Outstanding,” “Satisfactory,” “Needs to Improve” or “Substantial Noncompliance.” This assessment is reviewed in connection with any acquisition, merger or branch office application.



Source of Strength



The Dodd-Frank Act codified the Federal Reserve’s long-held position that a depository institution holding company must serve as a source of financial strength for its subsidiary depository institutions, the so-called “source of strength doctrine.” In effect, the holding company may be compelled to commit resources to support the subsidiary in the event the subsidiary is in financial distress. It is anticipated that in 2016 the Federal Reserve will issue guidance as to how it will implement and apply the doctrine in situations where a holding company’s depository institution subsidiaries are in a troubled condition.



Broker-Dealer and Investment Advisor Regulation



CSC’s principal broker-dealers are Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc. Schwab is registered as a broker-dealer with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the fifty states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. optionsXpress, Inc. is registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC, the fifty states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands. Schwab and CSIM are registered as investment advisors with the SEC. Additionally, Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc. are regulated by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) with respect to the commodity futures and commodities trading activities they conduct as an introducing broker and futures commission merchant, respectively.



Much of the regulation of broker-dealers has been delegated to SROs. Schwab is a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (FINRA), the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB), NYSE Arca, and the Chicago Board Options Exchange. optionsXpress, Inc. is also a member of FINRA and the MSRB. In addition to the SEC, the primary regulators of Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc. are FINRA and, for municipal securities, the MSRB. The National Futures Association (NFA) is Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc.’s primary regulator for futures and commodities trading activities.



The principal purpose of regulating broker-dealers and investment advisors is the protection of clients and the securities markets. The regulations cover all aspects of the securities business, including, among other things, sales and trading practices, publication of research, margin lending, uses and safekeeping of clients’ funds and securities, capital adequacy, recordkeeping and reporting, fee arrangements, disclosure to clients, fiduciary duties owed to advisory clients, and the conduct of directors, officers and employees.



Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc. are both subject to Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Uniform Net Capital Rule) and related SRO requirements. The CFTC and NFA also impose net capital requirements. The Uniform Net Capital Rule specifies minimum capital requirements that are intended to ensure the general financial soundness and liquidity of broker-dealers. CSC itself is not a registered broker-dealer and it is not subject to the Uniform Net Capital Rule. However, if Schwab fails to maintain specified levels of net capital, such failure could constitute a default by CSC of certain debt covenants under its credit agreement.



The Uniform Net Capital Rule prohibits a broker-dealer subsidiary from paying cash dividends, or making unsecured advances or loans to its parent company or repaying subordinated loans to its parent company if such payment would result in a net capital amount of less than 5% of aggregate debit balances or less than 120% of its minimum dollar requirement of $250,000.



In addition to net capital requirements, as self-clearing broker-dealers, Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc. are subject to cash deposit and collateral requirements with clearing houses, such as the Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation and Options Clearing Corporation, which may fluctuate significantly from time to time based upon the nature and size of clients’ trading activity and market volatility.







-8-





THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION

FinancialServiceRegulation



Bank Secrecy Act of 1970 and USA PATRIOT Act of 2001



CSC and its subsidiaries that conduct financial services activities are subject to the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970 (BSA), as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, which requires financial institutions to develop and implement programs reasonably designed to achieve compliance with these regulations. The BSA and USA PATRIOT Act include a variety of monitoring, record-keeping and reporting requirements (such as currency transaction reporting and suspicious activity reporting), as well as identity verification and client due diligence requirements which are intended to detect, report and/or prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorism. In addition,CSC andvarious subsidiaries of the Company are subject to U.S. sanctions programs administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.



For additional information on Regulation, please see “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity” and “Capital Management,” and “Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – 23. Regulatory Requirements.”



Available Information



The Company files annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. The Company’s SEC filings are available to the public over the Internet on the SEC’s website athttp://www.sec.gov. You may read and copy any document that the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at1-800-SEC-0330.



On the Company’s website,http://www.aboutschwab.com, the Company posts the following filings after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC: the Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, the Company’s quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, the Company’s current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.



In addition, the Company’s website also includes the Dodd-Frank stress test results for Schwab Bank and the Company’s regulatory capital disclosures based on Basel III.



All such filings are available free of charge either on the Company’swebsite or by request via email(investor.relations@schwab.com), telephone (415-667-1959), or mail (Charles Schwab Investor Relations at 211 Main Street, San Francisco, CA 94105).





