Item 1.Business



General Corporate Overview



The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC), headquartered in San Francisco, California, was incorporated in 1986 and engages, through its
subsidiaries (together referred to as the Company, and primarily located in San Francisco except as indicated), in securities brokerage, banking, and related financial services. At December 31, 2011, the Company had $1.68 trillion in
client assets, 8.6 million active brokerage
accounts(a), 1.5 million corporate retirement plan participants, and 780,000 banking accounts.



Significant business subsidiaries of CSC include:



•Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (Schwab), which was incorporated in 1971, is a securities broker-dealer with over 300 domestic branch offices in 45
states, as well as a branch in each of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and London, U.K., and serves clients in Hong Kong through one of CSC’s subsidiaries;



•Charles Schwab Bank (Schwab Bank), which commenced operations in 2003, is a federal savings bank located in Reno, Nevada; and



•Charles Schwab Investment Management, Inc. (CSIM), which is the investment advisor for Schwab’s proprietary mutual funds, referred to as the
Schwab Funds®, and Schwab’s exchange-traded funds, referred to as the Schwab ETFs™.



The Company provides financial services to
individuals and institutional clients through two segments – Investor Services and Institutional Services. The Investor Services segment provides retail brokerage and banking services to individual investors. The Institutional Services segment
provides custodial, trading, and support services to independent investment advisors (IAs). The Institutional Services segment also provides retirement plan services, specialty brokerage services, and mutual fund clearing services. For financial
information by segment for the three years ended December 31, 2011, see “Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – 25. Segment Information.”



As of December 31, 2011, the Company had full-time, part-time and
temporary employees, and persons employed on a contract basis that represented the equivalent of about 14,100 full-time employees.



Acquisitions and Divestiture



On September 1, 2011, the Company completed its acquisition of all of the outstanding common shares of optionsXpress Holdings,
Inc. (optionsXpress), an online brokerage firm primarily focused on equity option securities and futures. The
optionsXpress®brokerage platform provides active investors and traders trading tools, analytics and education
to execute a variety of investment strategies. The combination of optionsXpress and Schwab offers active investors an additional level of service and platform capabilities. optionsXpress, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of optionsXpress, is a
securities broker-dealer.



On November 9, 2010, the Company
acquired substantially all of the assets of Windward Investment Management, Inc. (Windward), which was an investment advisory firm that managed diversified investment portfolios comprised primarily of exchange-traded fund securities. As a result of
the acquisition, Windhaven Investment Management, Inc. (Windhaven) was formed as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Schwab Holdings, Inc.



In July 2007, the Company sold all of the outstanding stock of U.S. Trust Corporation, which was a subsidiary that provided wealth management
services.



In March 2007, the Company acquired The 401(k) Company,
which offers retirement plan services. The acquisition enhanced the Company’s ability to meet the needs of retirement plans of all sizes. The acquisition also provided the opportunity to





(a)Accounts with balances or
activity within the preceding eight months.



- 1 -




THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION



capture rollover accounts from individuals participating in retirement plans served by The 401(k)
Company and to cross-sell the Company’s other investment and banking services to plan participants.



Business Strategy and Competitive Environment



The Company’s strategy is to meet the financial services needs of investors, advisors, and employers through its two segments. To pursue its
strategy, the Company focuses on: building client loyalty; innovating in ways that benefit clients; operating in a disciplined manner; and leveraging its strengths through shared core processes and technology platforms. The Company provides clients
with a compelling combination of personalized relationships, superior service, and great value, delivered through a blend of people and technology. People provide the client focus and personal touch that are essential in serving investors, while
technology helps create services that are scalable and consistent. This combination helps the Company address a wide range of client needs – from tools and information for self-directed or active investors, to advice solutions, to retirement
and equity-based incentive plans, to support services for independent IAs – while enabling each client to easily utilize some or all of these capabilities according to their unique circumstances.



The Company’s competition in serving individual investors includes a
wide range of brokerage, wealth management, and asset management firms, as well as banks and trust companies. In serving these investors and competing for a growing percentage of the investable wealth in the U.S., the Company offers a multi-channel
service delivery model, which includes branch, telephonic, mobile, and online capabilities. Under this model, the Company can offer personalized service at competitive prices while giving clients the choice of where, when, and how they do business
with the Company. Schwab’s branches and regional telephone service centers are staffed with trained and experienced financial consultants (FCs) focused on building and sustaining client relationships. The Company offers the ability to meet
client investing needs through a single ongoing point of contact, even as those needs change over time. In particular, management believes that the Company’s ability to provide those clients seeking help, guidance, or advice with an integrated,
individually tailored solution – ranging from occasional consultations to an ongoing relationship with a Schwab FC or an IA – is a competitive strength compared to the more fragmented offerings of other firms.



The Company’s online, telephonic, and mobile channels provide quick and
efficient access to an extensive array of information, research, tools, trade execution, and administrative services, which clients can access according to their needs. For example, as clients trade more actively, they can use these channels to
access highly competitive pricing, expert tools, and extensive service capabilities – including experienced, knowledgeable teams of trading specialists and integrated product offerings. Individuals investing for retirement through 401(k) plans
can take advantage of the Company’s bundled offering of multiple investment choices, education, and third-party advice. Management also believes the Company is able to compete with the wide variety of financial services firms striving to
attract individual client relationships by complementing these capabilities with the extensive array of investment, banking, and lending products and services described in the following section.



In the IA arena, the Company competes with institutional custodians,
traditional and discount brokers, banks, and trust companies. Management believes that its Institutional Services segment can maintain its market leadership position primarily through the efforts of its expanded sales and support teams, which are
dedicated to helping IAs grow, compete, and succeed in serving their clients. In addition to focusing on superior service, Institutional Services competes by utilizing technology to provide IAs with a highly-developed, scalable platform for
administering their clients’ assets easily and efficiently. Institutional Services sponsors a variety of national, regional, and local events designed to help IAs identify and implement better ways to grow and manage their practices
efficiently.



Another important aspect of the
Company’s ability to compete is its ongoing focus on efficiency and productivity, as lower costs give the Company greater flexibility in its approach to pricing and investing for growth. Management believes that this flexibility remains
important in light of the competitive environment, in which a number of competitors offer reduced online trading commission rates and lower expense ratios on certain classes of mutual funds and exchange-traded funds. Additionally, the Company’s
nationwide marketing effort is an important competitive tool because it reinforces the attributes of the Schwab®brand.



- 2 -




THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION



Products and Services



The Company offers a broad range of products to address individuals’
varying investment and financial needs. Examples of these product offerings include:



•Brokerage – an array of brokerage accounts including some with check-writing features, debit card, and billpay; individual retirement accounts;
retirement plans for small to large businesses; 529 college savings accounts; designated brokerage accounts; equity incentive plan accounts; and margin loans, as well as access to fixed income securities, equity and debt offerings, options, and
futures;



•Banking – checking accounts linked to brokerage accounts, savings accounts, certificates of deposit, demand deposit accounts, first mortgages,
home equity lines of credit (HELOCs), and personal loans collateralized by securities;



•Trust – trust custody services, personal trust reporting services, and administrative trustee services;



•Advice solutions– separately managed accounts, customized personal advice for tailored portfolios, and specialized planning and full-time
portfolio management;



•Mutual funds – third-party mutual funds through Mutual Fund Marketplace®, including no-load mutual funds through the Mutual Fund OneSource®service, proprietary mutual funds from two fund families – Schwab Funds®and Laudus Funds®, other
third-party mutual funds, and mutual fund trading and clearing services to broker-dealers; and



•Exchange-traded funds (ETFs) – third-party and proprietary ETFs, as well as separately managed portfolios of ETFs.



These products, and the Company’s full array of investing services, are
made available through its two segments – Investor Services and Institutional Services.



Investor Services



Through the Investor Services segment, the Company provides retail brokerage and banking services to individual investors.



The Company offers research, analytic tools, performance reports, market
analysis, and educational material to all clients. Clients looking for more guidance have access to online portfolio planning tools, professional advice from Schwab’s portfolio consultants who can help develop an investment strategy and carry
out investment and portfolio management decisions, as well as a range of fully delegated managed solutions that provide ongoing portfolio management.



Schwab strives to demystify investing by educating and assisting clients in the development of investment plans. Educational tools
include workshops, interactive courses, and online information about investing. Additionally, Schwab provides various internet-based research and analysis tools that are designed to help clients achieve better investment outcomes. As an example of
such tools, Schwab Equity Ratings®is a quantitative model-based stock rating system that provides all clients
with ratings on approximately 3,000 stocks, assigning each equity a single grade: A, B, C, D, or F. Stocks are rated based on specific factors relating to fundamentals, valuation, momentum, and risk and ranked so that the number of ‘buy
consideration’ ratings – As and Bs – equals the number of ‘sell consideration’ ratings – Ds and Fs. In 2011, the Company launched Schwab Equity Ratings InternationalTM, an international ranking methodology covering approximately 4,000
stocks in 28 foreign equity markets.



Clients may need specific
investment recommendations, either from time to time or on an ongoing basis. The Company provides clients seeking advice with customized solutions. The Company’s approach to advice is based on long-term investment strategies and guidance on
portfolio diversification and asset allocation. This approach is designed to be offered consistently across all of Schwab’s delivery channels.



Schwab Private ClientTMfeatures a personal advice relationship with a designated portfolio consultant, supported by a team of investment
professionals who provide individualized service, a customized investment strategy developed in collaboration with the client, and ongoing guidance and execution.



For clients seeking a relationship in which investment
decisions are fully delegated to a financial professional, the Company offers several alternatives. The Company provides investors access to professional investment management in a diversified account that is invested exclusively in either mutual
funds or ETFs through the Schwab Managed PortfolioTMand
WindhavenTMprograms. The Company also refers investors
who want to utilize a specific third-party money manager to direct a portion of their investment assets to the Schwab Managed Account program. In addition, clients who want the



- 3 -




THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION



assistance of an independent professional in managing their financial affairs may be
referred to IAs in the Schwab Advisor Network®. These IAs provide personalized portfolio management, financial
planning, and wealth management solutions.



The Company strives to
deliver information, education, technology, service, and pricing that meet the specific needs of clients who trade actively. Schwab offers integrated Web- and software-based trading platforms, which incorporate intelligent order routing technology,
real-time market data, options trading, premium stock research, and multi-channel access, as well as sophisticated account and trade management features, risk management tools, decision support tools, and dedicated personal support.



The Company serves both foreign investors and non-English-speaking U.S.
clients who wish to trade or invest in U.S. dollar-based securities. In the U.S., the Company serves Chinese-, Spanish-, and Vietnamese-speaking clients through a combination of its branch offices and Web-based and telephonic services.



Institutional Services



Through the Institutional Services segment, Schwab provides custodial,
trading, technology, practice management, trust asset, and other support services to IAs. To attract and serve IAs, Institutional Services has a dedicated sales force and service teams assigned to meet their needs.



IAs who custody client accounts at Schwab may use proprietary software that
provides them with up-to-date client account information, as well as trading capabilities. The Institutional Services website is the core platform for IAs to conduct daily business activities online with Schwab, including submitting client account
information and retrieving news and market information. This platform provides IAs with a comprehensive suite of electronic and paper-based reporting capabilities. Institutional Services offers online cashiering services, as well as internet-based
eDocuments sites for both IAs and their clients that provide multi-year archiving of online statements, trade confirms and tax reports, along with document search capabilities.



To help IAs grow and manage their practices, Institutional Services offers a
variety of services, including marketing and business development, business strategy and planning, and transition support. Regulatory compliance consulting and support services are available, as well as website design and development capabilities.
Institutional Services maintains a website that provides interactive tools, educational content, and research reports to assist advisors thinking about establishing their own independent practices.



Institutional Services offers an array of services to help advisors establish
their own independent practices through the Business Start-up Solutions package. This includes access to dedicated service teams and outsourcing of back-office operations, as well as third-party firms who provide assistance with real estate, errors
and omissions insurance, and company benefits.



The Company offers a variety of educational materials and events to IAs seeking to expand their knowledge of industry issues and
trends, as well as sharpen their individual expertise and practice management skills. Institutional Services updates and shares market research on an ongoing basis, and it holds a series of events and conferences every year to discuss topics of
interest to IAs, including business strategies and best practices. The Company sponsors the annual IMPACT®conference, which provides a national forum for the Company, IAs, and other industry participants to gather and share information and insights.



IAs and their clients have access to a broad range of the Company’s products and services, including managed accounts and cash products.



The Institutional Services segment also provides retirement plan
recordkeeping and related services, retirement plan trust and custody services, specialty brokerage services, and mutual fund clearing services, and supports the availability of Schwab proprietary investment funds on third-party platforms. The
Company serves a range of employer sponsored plans: equity compensation plans, defined contribution plans, defined benefit plans, nonqualified deferred compensation plans and other employee benefit plans.



- 4 -




THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION



The Company’s bundled 401(k) retirement plan product offers plan sponsors a wide array of
investment options, trustee or custodial services, and participant-level recordkeeping. Plan design features, which increase plan efficiency and achieve employer goals, are also offered, such as automatic enrollment, automatic fund mapping at
conversion, and automatic contribution increases. Services also include support for Roth 401(k) accounts and profit sharing and defined benefit plans. The Company provides a robust suite of tools to plan sponsors to manage their plans, including
plan-specific reports, studies and research, access to legislative updates and benchmarking reports that provide perspective on their plan’s features compared with overall industry and segment-specific plans. Participants in bundled plans
serviced by the Company receive targeted education materials, have access to electronic tools and resources, may attend onsite and virtual seminars, and can receive third-party advice delivered by Schwab. This third-party advice service is delivered
online, by phone, or in person, including recommendations based on the core investment fund choices in their retirement plan and specific recommended savings rates.



Through the Retirement Business Services unit, the
Company and independent retirement plan providers work together to serve plan sponsors, combining the consulting and administrative expertise of the administrator with the Company’s investment, technology, trust, and custodial services.
Retirement Business Services also offers the Schwab Personal Choice Retirement Account®, a self-directed
brokerage offering for retirement plans.



The Company’s
Corporate Brokerage Services unit provides specialty brokerage-related services to corporate clients through its Stock Plan Services and Designated Brokerage Services businesses. Stock Plan Services offers equity compensation plan sponsors
full-service recordkeeping for stock plans: stock options, restricted stock, performance shares and stock appreciation rights. Specialized services for executive transactions and reporting, grant acceptance tracking and other services are offered to
employers to meet the needs of administering the reporting and compliance aspects of an equity compensation plan. Designated Brokerage Services provides solutions for compliance departments of regulated companies and firms with special requirements
to monitor employee personal trading, including trade surveillance technology. The Corporate Brokerage Services unit also provides mutual fund clearing services to banks, brokerage firms and trust companies and offers Schwab-generated Investment
Solutions outside the Company to institutional channels.



Regulation



CSC is a savings and loan holding company and Schwab Bank, CSC’s depository institution subsidiary, is a federal savings bank. Prior to July 21,
2011, CSC and Schwab Bank were both subject to supervision and regulation by the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS). The “Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act” legislation (Dodd-Frank Act) eliminated the OTS effective
July 21, 2011. As a result, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve) became CSC’s primary regulator and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency became the primary regulator of Schwab Bank. Effective
July 21, 2011, CSC is required by the Dodd-Frank Act to serve as a source of strength for Schwab Bank. While under the OTS, CSC was required to have a “prudential level of capital” to support CSC’s risk profile. The OTS did not
historically subject savings and loan holding companies, such as CSC, to consolidated regulatory capital requirements. However, under the Dodd-Frank Act, CSC will be subject to new minimum leverage and minimum risk-based capital ratio requirements
that will be set by the Federal Reserve that are at least as stringent as the requirements generally applicable to insured depository institutions as of July 21, 2011.



Schwab Bank is subject to regulation and supervision and to various
requirements and restrictions under federal and state laws, including regulatory capital guidelines. Among other things, these requirements also govern transactions with CSC and its non-depository institution subsidiaries, including loans and other
extensions of credit, investments and asset purchases, dividends, and investments. The federal banking agencies have broad powers to enforce these regulations, including the power to terminate deposit insurance, impose substantial fines and other
civil and criminal penalties, and appoint a conservator or receiver. Schwab Bank is required to maintain minimum capital levels as specified in federal banking laws and regulations. Failure to meet the minimum levels could result in certain
mandatory, and possibly additional discretionary actions by the regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on Schwab Bank.



The securities industry in the United States is subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state laws. CSC’s principal U.S.
broker-dealers are Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc. Schwab is registered as a broker-dealer with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the fifty states, and the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. optionsXpress, Inc. is
registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC, the fifty states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and



- 5 -




THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION



the Virgin Islands. Schwab and CSIM are registered as investment advisors with the SEC. Additionally, Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc. are regulated by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission
(CFTC) with respect to the commodity futures and commodities trading activities they conduct as an introducing broker and futures commission merchant, respectively.



Much of the regulation of broker-dealers has been delegated to
self-regulatory organizations (SROs). Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc. are members of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (FINRA), the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB), NYSE Arca, and the Chicago Board Options Exchange
(CBOE). optionsXpress, Inc. is also a member of other exchanges. The primary regulators of Schwab are FINRA and, for municipal securities, the MSRB. The primary regulators of optionsXpress, Inc. are FINRA, CBOE, and for municipal securities, the
MSRB. The National Futures Association (NFA) is Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc.’s primary regulator for futures and commodities trading activities. The Company’s business is also subject to oversight by regulatory bodies in other countries
in which the Company operates.



The principal purpose of
regulating broker-dealers and investment advisors is the protection of clients and the securities markets. The regulations to which broker-dealers and investment advisors are subject cover all aspects of the securities business, including, among
other things, sales and trading practices, publication of research, margin lending, uses and safekeeping of clients’ funds and securities, capital adequacy, recordkeeping and reporting, fee arrangements, disclosure to clients, fiduciary duties
owed to advisory clients, and the conduct of directors, officers and employees.



Schwab and optionsXpress, Inc. are both subject to Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Uniform Net Capital Rule) and related SRO requirements. The CFTC and NFA also impose net
capital requirements. The Uniform Net Capital Rule specifies minimum capital requirements that are intended to ensure the general financial soundness and liquidity of broker-dealers. Because CSC itself is not a registered broker-dealer, it is not
subject to the Uniform Net Capital Rule. However, if Schwab or optionsXpress, Inc. fail to maintain specified levels of net capital, such failure would constitute a default by CSC under debt covenants under certain of CSC’s debt agreements.



The Uniform Net Capital Rule limits broker-dealers’ ability
to transfer capital to parent companies and other affiliates. Compliance with the Uniform Net Capital Rule could limit Schwab’s operations and its ability to repay subordinated debt to CSC, which in turn could limit CSC’s ability to repay
debt, pay cash dividends, and purchase shares of its outstanding stock.



Sources of Net Revenues



The Company’s major sources of net revenues are asset management and administration fees, net interest revenue, and trading revenue. The Company generates asset management and administration fees
through its proprietary and third-party mutual fund offerings, as well as fee-based advisory solutions. Net interest revenue is the difference between interest earned on interest-earning assets (such as cash, short- and long-term investments, and
mortgage and margin loans) and interest paid on funding sources (including banking deposits and client cash in brokerage accounts, short-term borrowings, and long-term debt). The Company generates trading revenue through commissions earned for
executing trades for clients and principal transaction revenue from trading activity in fixed income securities.



For revenue information by source for the three years ended December 31, 2011, see “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
– Results of Operations – Net Revenues.”



Available Information



The Company files annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. The Company’s SEC filings are
available to the public over the Internet on the SEC’s website athttp://www.sec.gov. You may read and copy any document that the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.



On the Company’s Internet website,http://www.aboutschwab.com, the Company posts the following recent filings as soon as reasonably
practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC: the Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, the Company’s quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, the Company’s current reports on Form 8-K, and any



- 6 -




THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION



amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All such filings are available free of charge either on the
Company’s website or by request via email (investor.relations@schwab.com), telephone (415-667-1959), or mail (Charles Schwab Investor Relations at 211 Main Street, San Francisco, CA 94105).



