Item 1.Business





General Corporate Overview



The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC) is a savings and loan holding company, headquartered in San Francisco, California. CSC was incorporated in 1986 and engages, through its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as Schwab or the Company), in wealth management, securities brokerage, banking, asset management, custody, and financial advisory services. AtDecember 31, 2017, Schwab had$3.36 trillionin client assets,10.8 millionactive brokerage accounts,1.6 millioncorporate retirement plan participants, and1.2 millionbanking accounts.



Significant business subsidiaries of CSC include the following:



•Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (CS&Co), incorporated in 1971, a securities broker-dealer with over345domestic branch offices in46states, as well as a branch in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. In addition, Schwab serves clients in England, Hong Kong, Singapore, and Australia through various subsidiaries;

•Charles Schwab Bank (Schwab Bank), a federal savings bank; and

•Charles Schwab Investment Management, Inc. (CSIM), the investment advisor for Schwab’s proprietary mutual funds (Schwab Funds®) and Schwab’s exchange-traded funds (Schwab ETFs™).



Schwab provides financial services to individuals and institutional clients through two segments – Investor Services and Advisor Services. The Investor Services segment provides retail brokerage and banking services to individual investors and retirement plan services, as well as other corporate brokerage services, to businesses and their employees. The Advisor Services segment provides custodial, trading, banking, and support services, as well as retirement business services, to independent registered investment advisors (RIAs), independent retirement advisors, and recordkeepers. These services are further described in the segment discussion below.



As ofDecember 31, 2017, Schwab had full-time, part-time, temporary employees, and persons employed on a contract basis that represented the equivalent of approximately17,600full-time employees.



Unless otherwise indicated, the terms “Schwab,” “the Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” mean CSC together with its consolidated subsidiaries.





Business Strategy and Competitive Environment



Schwab was founded on the belief that all Americans deserve access to a better investing experience. Although much has changed in the intervening years, our purpose remains clear – to champion every client’s goals with passion and integrity. Guided by this purpose and the aspiration of creating the most trusted leader in investment services, management has adopted a strategy described as “Through Clients’ Eyes.”



Under this approach, our strategic goals are focused on putting clients’ perspectives, needs, and desires at the forefront. Because investing plays a fundamental role in building financial security, we strive to deliver a better investing experience for our clients – individual investors and the people and institutions who serve them – by disrupting longstanding industry practices on their behalf and providing superior service. We aim to offer a broad range of products and solutions to meet client needs with a focus on transparency and value. In addition, management works to couple Schwab’s scale and resources with ongoing expense discipline to keep costs low and ensure that products and solutions are affordable as well as responsive to client needs. Finally, we seek to maximize our market valuation and stockholder returns over time.



Management estimates that investable wealth in the U.S. currently exceeds $30 trillion, which means the Company’s$3.36 trillionin client assets leaves substantial opportunity for growth. Our strategy is based on the principle that developing trusted relationships will translate into more assets from both new and existing clients, ultimately driving more revenue and, along with expense discipline, generate earnings growth and build long-term stockholder value.





-1-



THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION



Within Investor Services, our competition in serving individual investors includes a wide range of brokerage, wealth management, and asset management firms, as well as banks and trust companies. In the Advisor Services arena, we compete with institutional custodians, traditional and discount brokers, banks and investment advisory firms, and trust companies.



Across both segments, our key competitive advantages are:



•Scale and Size of the Business – As one of the largest investment services firms in the United States (U.S.), we are able to spread operating costs, amortize new investments over a large base of clients, and have the resources to evolve capabilities to meet client needs.

•Operating Efficiency – Coupled with scale, our operating efficiency and sharing of infrastructure across different businesses creates a cost advantage that enables us to competitively price products and services while profitably serving many different client channels.

•Operating Structure – Adding bank and asset management capabilities to the broker-dealers helps serve a wider array of client needs, thereby deepening client relationships, enhancing the stability of client assets, and enabling diversified revenue streams.

•Brand and Corporate Reputation – In an industry dependent on trust, Schwab’s reputation and brand across multiple constituents enables us to attract clients and employees while credibly introducing new products to the market.

•Service Culture – Delivering a great client experience earns the trust and loyalty of clients and increases the likelihood that those clients will refer others.

•Willingness to Disrupt – Management’s willingness to challenge the status quo to benefit clients fosters innovation and continuous improvement, which helps to attract more clients and assets.





Sources of Net Revenues



Our major sources of net revenues are net interest revenue, asset management and administration fees, and trading revenue. These revenue streams are supported by the combination of bank, broker-dealer, and asset management operating subsidiaries, each of which brings specific capabilities that enable us to provide clients with the products and services they are looking for.



Net interest revenue is the difference between interest generated on interest-earning assets and interest paid on funding sources, the majority of which is derived from client cash balances held by Schwab as part of the clients’ overall relationship with the Company. While certain client cash balances are held on CS&Co’s balance sheet or swept to our money market funds, a substantial amount of existing cash balances and most new client cash inflows are swept to a banking subsidiary. Over time, as supporting capital has been available, we have been directing a growing proportion of client cash sweep balances to a banking subsidiary relative to those going to the broker-dealer or money market funds. This shift has been effected through changes to default sweep options and the periodic bulk transfer of larger balances. Bank sweep balances have access to Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance protection, as allowed, and provide us with greater flexibility in terms of options for investing the cash and administering the interest rate paid.



The majority of asset management and administration fees are earned from proprietary money market mutual funds, proprietary and third-party mutual funds and exchange-traded funds (ETFs), and fee-based advisory solutions.



Trading revenue includes commissions earned for executing trades for clients in individual equities, options, futures, fixed income securities, and certain third-party mutual funds and ETFs, as well as principal transaction revenue earned primarily from actions to support client trading in fixed income securities.





Products and Services



We offer a broad range of products to address our clients’ varying investment and financial needs. Examples of these product offerings include the following:

•Brokerage – an array of full-feature brokerage accounts with margin lending, options trading, and cash management capabilities including third-party certificates of deposit;

•Mutual funds – third-party mutual funds through the Mutual Fund Marketplace®, including no-transaction fee mutual funds through the Mutual Fund OneSource®service, which also includes proprietary mutual funds, plus mutual fund trading and clearing services to broker-dealers;



-2-



THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION



•Exchange-traded funds – an extensive offering of ETFs, including many proprietary and third-party ETFs available without a commission through Schwab ETF OneSource™;

•Advice solutions – managed portfolios of both proprietary and third-party mutual funds and ETFs, separately managed accounts, customized personal advice for tailored portfolios, specialized planning, and full-time portfolio management;

•Banking – checking and savings accounts, first lien residential real estate mortgage loans (First Mortgages), home equity lines of credit (HELOCs), and pledged asset lines (PALs); and

•Trust – trust custody services, personal trust reporting services, and administrative trustee services.



This full array of investing services is made available through two business segments – Investor Services and Advisor Services. Schwab’s major sources of revenues are generated by both of the reportable segments. Revenue is attributable to a reportable segment based on which segment has the primary responsibility for serving the client. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those described in “Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” (Item 8) – Note 2. For financial information related to the Company’s reportable segments, see “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Results of Operations” (Item 7) and Item 8 – Note 22.



Investor Services



Charles Schwab initially founded the Company over 40 years ago to provide individual investors with access to the financial markets at a reasonable cost. The Company has been expanding offerings over time in response to client needs, aiming to provide a compelling and often disruptive solution in the marketplace. As products and services have evolved over the years, the Investor Services segment has expanded and now includes the Retail Investor, Retirement Plan Services, Mutual Fund Clearing Services, and Off-Platform Sales business units.



Through the Retail Investor business unit, we offer individual investors a multi-channel service delivery model, which includes online, mobile, telephone, and branch capabilities. We provide personalized service at competitive prices while giving clients the choice of where, when, and how they do business with us. Financial Consultants (FCs) in Schwab’s branches and regional telephone service centers focus on building and sustaining client relationships. We have the ability to meet client investing needs through a single ongoing point of contact, even as those needs change over time. We believe that this ability to give those clients seeking help, guidance, or advice with an individually tailored solution – ranging from occasional consultations to an ongoing relationship with a Schwab FC or an independent RIA in the Schwab Advisor Network®– is a competitive strength compared to the more fragmented or limited offerings of other firms.



Our service delivery model provides quick and efficient access to an extensive array of information, research, tools, trade execution, and administrative services, which clients can access according to their needs. For example, clients that trade more actively can use these channels to access highly competitive pricing, expert tools, and extensive service capabilities – including experienced, knowledgeable teams of trading specialists, and integrated product offerings. Management also believes the Company is able to compete with the wide variety of financial services firms striving to attract individual client relationships by complementing these capabilities with a range of investment and banking products.



Schwab strives to educate and assist clients in reaching their financial goals. Educational tools include workshops, webcasts, interactive courses, and online information about investing, from which Schwab does not earn revenue. Additionally, we provide various online research and analysis tools that are designed to help clients achieve better investment outcomes. As an example of such tools, Schwab Equity Ratings®is a quantitative model-based stock rating system that provides all clients with ratings on approximately 3,000 stocks, assigning each equity a single grade: A, B, C, D, or F. Schwab Equity Ratings International®, an international ranking methodology, covers stocks of approximately 4,000 foreign companies.



Clients may seek specific investment recommendations, either from time to time or on an ongoing basis. Schwab provides clients seeking advice with personalized solutions. Our approach to advice is based on long-term investment strategies and guidance on portfolio diversification and asset allocation. This approach is designed to be offered consistently across all of Schwab’s delivery channels.



Schwab Private Client features a personal advice relationship with a designated Portfolio Consultant, supported by a team of investment professionals who provide individualized service, a customized investment strategy developed in collaboration with the client, and ongoing guidance and execution.





-3-



THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION



For clients seeking a relationship in which investment decisions are fully delegated to a financial professional, Schwab offers several alternatives. We provide investors access to professional investment management in a diversified account that is invested exclusively in either mutual funds or ETFs through the Schwab Managed Portfolios and Windhaven Investment Management, Inc. (Windhaven®), or equity securities and ETFs through ThomasPartners®programs. We also refer investors who want to utilize a specific third-party money manager to direct a portion of their investment assets to the Schwab Managed Account program. Schwab Intelligent Portfolios®, available since 2015, are for clients who are looking to have their assets professionally managed via a fully automated online investment advisory service. In late 2016, we introduced Schwab Intelligent Advisory®to offer our clients a hybrid advisory service which combines live credentialed professionals and algorithm-driven technology to make financial and investment planning more accessible to investors. Finally, clients who want the assistance of an independent professional in managing their financial affairs may be referred to RIAs in the Schwab Advisor Network. These RIAs provide personalized portfolio management, financial planning, and wealth management solutions.



To meet the specific needs of clients who actively trade, Schwab offers integrated web- and software-based trading platforms, which incorporate intelligent order routing technology, real-time market data, options trading, premium stock and futures research, and multi-channel access, as well as sophisticated account and trade management features, risk management and decision support tools, and dedicated personal support.



For U.S. clients wishing to invest in foreign equities, we offer a suite of global investing capabilities, including online access to certain foreign equity markets with the ability to trade in their local currencies. In addition, Schwab serves both foreign investors and non-English-speaking U.S. clients who wish to trade or invest in U.S. dollar-based securities. In the U.S., Schwab serves Mandarin-, Cantonese-, Spanish-, and Vietnamese-speaking clients through a combination of its branch offices, web-based and telephonic services.



We also offer equity compensation plan sponsors full-service recordkeeping for stock plans, stock options, restricted stock, performance shares, and stock appreciation rights. Specialized services for executive transactions and reporting, grant acceptance tracking, and other services are offered to employers to meet the needs of administering the reporting and compliance aspects of an equity compensation plan. In addition, we provide software and services for compliance departments of regulated companies and firms with special requirements to monitor employee personal trading, including trade surveillance technology.



Our Retirement Plan Services business unit offers a bundled 401(k) retirement plan product that provides retirement plan sponsors a wide array of investment options, trustee or custodial services, and participant-level recordkeeping. Retirement plan design features, which increase plan efficiency and achieve employer goals, are also offered, such as automatic enrollment, automatic fund mapping at conversion, and automatic contribution increases. In addition to an open architecture investment platform, we offer access to low cost index mutual funds and ETFs. Individuals investing for retirement through 401(k) plans can take advantage of bundled offerings of multiple investment choices, education, and third-party advice. This third-party advice service is delivered online, by phone, or in person, including recommendations based on the core investment fund choices in their retirement plan and specific recommended savings rates. Services also include support for Roth 401(k) accounts, profit sharing, and defined benefit plans.



Lastly, the Mutual Fund Clearing Services business unit provides custody, recordkeeping, and trading services to banks, brokerage firms, and trust companies, and the Off-Platform Sales business unit offers proprietary mutual funds, ETFs, and collective trust funds outside the Company. They are included within the Investor Services segment given their leveraging of the products and services offered to individual investors.



Advisor Services



More than twenty-five years ago, Schwab supported a small group of entrepreneurial advisors who challenged the industry by creating independent firms. Through the Advisor Services segment, Schwab has become the largest provider of custodial, trading, banking, and support services to RIAs and their clients. We also provide retirement business services to independent retirement advisors and recordkeepers. Management believes that we can maintain our market leadership position primarily through the efforts of our sales, support, and business consulting service teams, which are dedicated to helping RIAs grow, compete, and succeed in serving their clients. In addition to focusing on superior service, we utilize technology to provide RIAs with a highly-developed, scalable platform for administering their clients’ assets easily and efficiently. Advisor Services sponsors a variety of national, regional, and local events designed to help RIAs identify and implement better ways to expand and efficiently manage their practices.



-4-



THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION





RIAs who custody client accounts at Schwab may use proprietary software that provides them with up-to-date client account information as well as trading capabilities. The Advisor Services website is the core platform for RIAs to conduct daily business activities online with Schwab, including viewing and managing client account information and accessing news and market information. The website provides account servicing capabilities for RIAs, including account opening, money movement, transfer of assets, trading, checking status, and communicating with our service team. The site provides multi-year archiving of statements, trade confirms, and tax reports, along with document search capabilities.



To help RIAs grow and manage their practices, we offer a variety of services, including business management and technology and operations consulting on a variety of topics critical to an RIA’s success including strategic business planning, client segmentation, growth strategies, technological strategies, and succession planning. The Advisor Services website provides interactive tools, educational content, and research reports to assist advisors thinking about establishing and managing their own independent practices.



We also offer an array of services to help advisors establish their own independent practices through the Business Start-up Solutions package. These services include access to dedicated service teams and outsourcing of back-office operations, as well as third-party firms who provide assistance with real estate, errors and omissions insurance, and company benefits.



We provide a variety of educational materials, programs, and events to RIAs seeking to expand their knowledge of industry issues and trends, as well as sharpen their individual expertise and practice management skills. We update and share market research on an ongoing basis, and hold a series of events and conferences every year to discuss topics of interest to RIAs, including business strategies and best practices. Schwab sponsors the annual IMPACT®conference, which provides a national forum for the Company, RIAs, and other industry participants to gather and share information and insights, as well as a multitude of smaller events across the country each year.



RIAs and their clients have access to a broad range of our products and services, including individual securities, mutual funds, ETFs, managed accounts, cash products, and bank lending. By functioning as the custodian, Schwab earns revenue associated with the underlying client assets invested in our products and utilization of the services we provide. In this capacity, we do not charge an explicit custodial fee.



The Advisor Services segment also includes the Retirement Business Services and Corporate Brokerage Retirement Services business units. Retirement Business Services provides trust, custody, and retirement business services to independent retirement plan advisors and independent recordkeepers. Retirement plan assets are held at the Business Trust division of Schwab Bank. The Company and independent retirement plan providers work together to serve plan sponsors; combining the consulting and administrative expertise of the administrator with our investment, technology, trust, and custodial services. Retirement Business Services also offers the Schwab Personal Choice Retirement Account®, a self-directed brokerage offering for retirement plans.



Corporate Brokerage Retirement Services serves plan sponsors, advisors, and independent recordkeepers seeking a brokerage-based account to hold retirement plan assets. Retirement plans held at Schwab are either self-trusteed or trusteed by a separate, independent trustee. Corporate Brokerage Retirement Services also offers the Schwab Personal Choice Retirement Account®, and the Company Retirement Account, both of which are self-directed brokerage-based solutions designed to hold the assets of company-sponsored retirement plans.





Regulation



As a participant in the securities, banking and financial services industries, Schwab is subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state laws by governmental agencies, supervisory authorities, and self-regulatory organizations (SROs). We are also subject to oversight by regulatory bodies in other countries in which we operate. These regulations affect our business operations and impose capital, client protection, and market conduct requirements.



As a result of the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in 2010 (Dodd-Frank), the adoption of implementing regulations by the federal regulatory agencies, and other recent regulatory reforms, we have experienced significant changes in the laws and regulations that apply to us, how we are regulated, and regulatory expectations in the areas of compliance, risk management, corporate governance, operations, capital, and liquidity.







-5-



THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION



Holding Company and Bank Regulation



CSC is a savings and loan holding company and is regulated, supervised, and examined by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve). CSC’s principal depository institution subsidiary, Schwab Bank, is a federal savings bank and is regulated, supervised, and examined by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), and the FDIC. CSC and Schwab Bank are also subject to regulation and various requirements and restrictions under state and other federal laws.



This regulatory framework is designed to protect depositors and consumers, the safety and soundness of depository institutions and their holding companies, and the stability of the banking system as a whole. This framework affects the activities and investments of CSC and its subsidiaries and gives the regulatory authorities broad discretion in connection with their supervisory, examination and enforcement activities and policies.



Financial Regulatory Reform



Following the enactment of Dodd-Frank, the federal banking agencies have adopted a number of implementing regulations and other regulatory reforms that are significant for CSC and its banking subsidiaries. These regulations are highlighted below.



Basel III Capital and Liquidity Framework



Banking organizations are subject to the regulatory capital rules issued by the Federal Reserve and other U.S. banking regulators, including the OCC and the FDIC. In addition to minimum risk-based capital requirements, banking organizations must hold additional capital, referred to as a capital conservation buffer, to avoid being subject to limits on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers.



The regulatory capital rules provide for a “standardized approach” framework for the calculation of a banking organization’s regulatory capital and risk-weighted assets. Depository institutions and their holding companies with consolidated total assets of $250 billion or more, or total on-balance-sheet foreign exposure of $10 billion or more, are also required to calculate their regulatory capital and risk-weighted assets using an “advanced approaches” framework and must satisfy the minimum capital requirements under both approaches. Such companies must also maintain a minimum supplementary leverage ratio of at least 3.0%, must include accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) in their calculation of their capital ratios, and are subject to certain other enhanced provisions, including additional reporting requirements. CSC and its banking subsidiaries are currently only subject to the “standardized approach” framework but will become subject to the “advanced approaches” framework upon exceeding either of the thresholds.



The liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) rule requires banking organizations with consolidated total assets of $250 billion or more, or total on-balance-sheet foreign exposure of $10 billion or more and their depository institution subsidiaries with $10 billion or more in total consolidated assets to hold high quality liquid assets (HQLA) in an amount equal to at least 100% of their projected net cash outflows over the 30-day period, calculated on each business day. Other bank and savings and loan holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more are subject to a modified LCR rule requiring them to hold HQLA in an amount equal to at least 70% of their projected net cash outflows over the 30-day period, calculated as of the last business day of the month.



Capital Stress Testing



Savings and loan holding companies and federal savings bank with total consolidated assets of more than $10 billion are required to conduct annual company-run stress tests. Under the Dodd-Frank Act Stress Test (DFAST) rules, CSC (for the first time in 2017) and Schwab Bank must conduct annual stress tests using certain scenarios and prescribed stress-testing methodologies, report the results to the Federal Reserve and, for Schwab Bank, the OCC, and publish summaries of the results of their stress tests.



As a savings and loan holding company, CSC is not subject to the annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) process, which requires certain financial institutions to submit annual capital plans to the Federal Reserve. CSC continues to enhance its stress testing policies, procedures, systems, and governance structures to be consistent with regulatory expectations for a firm of its size and complexity.





-6-



THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION



Insured Depository Institution Resolution Plans



The FDIC requires insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more to submit to the FDIC periodic plans providing for their resolution by the FDIC in the event of failure (resolution plans or so-called “living wills”) under the receivership and liquidation provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. Schwab Bank is required to file with the FDIC an annual resolution plan demonstrating how the bank could be resolved in an orderly and timely manner in the event of receivership such that the FDIC would be able to: ensure that the bank’s depositors receive access to their deposits within one business day; maximize the net present value of the bank’s assets when disposed of; and minimize losses incurred by the bank’s creditors.



Consumer Financial Protection



The CFPB has broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority for a wide range of federal consumer protection laws relating to financial products. The CFPB has examination and primary enforcement authority over depository institutions with $10 billion or more in consolidated total assets.



Deposit Insurance Assessments



The FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) provides insurance coverage for certain deposits, generally up to $250,000 per depositor per account ownership type, and is funded by quarterly assessments on insured depository institutions. The FDIC uses a risk-based deposit premium assessment system that, for large insured depository institutions with at least $10 billion in total consolidated assets, uses a scorecard method based on a number of factors, including the institution’s regulatory ratings, asset quality and brokered deposits. The deposit insurance assessment base is calculated as average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity.



The Dodd-Frank Act (i) raised the minimum reserve ratio for the DIF to 1.35% (from the former minimum of 1.15%) and (ii) required that the DIF’s reserve ratio reach 1.35% by September 30, 2020.



In July 2016, the FDIC imposed a flat-rate quarterly surcharge on insured depository institutions with total assets of $10 billion or more and certain of their bank affiliates to pay for the increase. The surcharge took effect at the same time as a scheduled reduction in the regular FDIC insurance. As a result, Schwab’s banking subsidiaries are now subject to a 3 basis point regular assessment on their respective assessment bases (down from 5 basis points) and a new 4.5 basis point surcharge on the amount of their aggregate assessment base in excess of $10 billion that will remain in effect until the earlier of the DIF reaching 1.35% or December 31, 2018. If DIF has not reached 1.35% by such date, the FDIC will impose a shortfall assessment.



Community Reinvestment Act



The Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (CRA) requires the primary federal bank regulatory agency for each of Schwab’s depository institution subsidiaries to assess the subsidiary’s record in meeting the credit needs of the communities served by the bank, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods and persons. Institutions are assigned one of four ratings (“outstanding,” “satisfactory,” “needs to improve,” or “substantial noncompliance”). The failure of an institution to receive at least a “satisfactory” rating could inhibit the institution or its holding company from undertaking certain activities, including acquisitions or opening branch offices.



Source of Strength



The Dodd-Frank Act codified the Federal Reserve’s long-held position that a depository institution holding company must serve as a source of financial strength for its subsidiary depository institutions, the so-called “source of strength doctrine.” In effect, the holding company may be compelled to commit resources to support the subsidiary in the event the subsidiary is in financial distress.





-7-



THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION



Broker-Dealer and Investment Advisor Regulation



Schwab’s principal broker-dealer is CS&Co. CS&Co is registered as a broker-dealer with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the fifty states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. CS&Co and CSIM are registered as investment advisors with the SEC. Additionally, CS&Co is regulated by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) with respect to the commodity futures and trading activities it conducts as an introducing broker.



Much of the regulation of broker-dealers has been delegated to SROs. CS&Co is a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (FINRA), the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB), NYSE Arca, and the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE). In addition to the SEC, the primary regulators of CS&Co are FINRA and, for municipal securities, the MSRB. The National Futures Association (NFA) is CS&Co’s primary regulator for futures and commodities trading activities.



The principal purpose of regulating broker-dealers and investment advisors is the protection of clients and securities markets. The regulations cover all aspects of the securities business, including, among other things, sales and trading practices, publication of research, margin lending, uses and safekeeping of clients’ funds and securities, capital adequacy, recordkeeping and reporting, fee arrangements, disclosure to clients, fiduciary duties owed to advisory clients, and the conduct of directors, officers, and employees.



CS&Co is subject to Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Uniform Net Capital Rule) and related SRO requirements. The CFTC and NFA also impose net capital requirements. The Uniform Net Capital Rule specifies minimum capital requirements intended to ensure the general financial soundness and liquidity of broker-dealers. CSC itself is not a registered broker-dealer and it is not subject to the Uniform Net Capital Rule. If CS&Co fails to maintain specified levels of net capital, such failure could constitute a default by CSC of certain debt covenants under its credit agreement.



The Uniform Net Capital Rule prohibits CS&Co from paying cash dividends, making unsecured advances or loans or repaying subordinated loans if such payment would result in a net capital amount of less than 5% of aggregate debit balances or less than 120% of its minimum dollar requirement of $250,000.



In addition to net capital requirements, as a self-clearing broker-dealer, CS&Co is subject to cash deposit and collateral requirements with clearing houses, such as the Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation and Options Clearing Corporation, which may fluctuate significantly from time to time based upon the nature and size of clients’ trading activity and market volatility.



Financial Service Regulation



Bank Secrecy Act of 1970 and USA PATRIOT Act of 2001



CSC and its subsidiaries that conduct financial services activities are subject to the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970 (BSA), as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, which requires financial institutions to develop and implement programs reasonably designed to achieve compliance with these regulations. The BSA and USA PATRIOT Act include a variety of monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements (such as currency transaction reporting and suspicious activity reporting), as well as identity verification and client due diligence requirements which are intended to detect, report and/or prevent money laundering, and the financing of terrorism. In addition, CSC and various subsidiaries of the Company are subject to U.S. sanctions programs administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.





Available Information



Schwab files annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. The SEC filings are available to the public over the Internet on the SEC’s website athttps://www.sec.gov. You may read and copy any document that the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.



On Schwab’s website,https://www.aboutschwab.com, the following filings are posted after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC: annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.



-8-



THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION





In addition, the website also includes the Dodd-Frank stress test results and our regulatory capital disclosures based on Basel III.



All such filings are available free of charge either on our website or by request via email (investor.relations@schwab.com), telephone (415-667-7000), or mail (Charles Schwab Investor Relations at 211 Main Street, San Francisco, CA 94105).







