Item 1.Business

Overview

United Parcel Service, Inc. (“UPS”) was founded in 1907 as a private messenger and delivery service
in Seattle, Washington. Today, UPS is the world’s largest package delivery company, a leader in the U.S. less-than-truckload industry and the premier provider of global supply chain management solutions. We deliver packages each business day
for 1.1 million shipping customers to 7.7 million consignees in over 220 countries and territories. In 2011, we delivered an average of 15.8 million pieces per day worldwide, or a total of 4.01 billion packages. Total revenue in 2011
was $53.1 billion.

We are a global leader in logistics, and we create value for our customers through solutions that lower
costs, improve service and provide highly customizable supply chain control and visibility. Customers are attracted to our broad set of services that are delivered as promised through our integrated ground, air and ocean global network.

Our services and integrated network allow shippers to simplify their supply chains by using fewer carriers and to adapt their
transportation requirements and spend as their businesses evolve. Across our service portfolio, we also provide control and visibility of customers’ inventories and supply chains via our UPS technology platform. The information flow from UPS
technology drives improvements for our customers, as well as for UPS, in reliability, flexibility, productivity and efficiency.

Particularly over the last decade, UPS has significantly expanded the scope of our capabilities to include more than package delivery.
Our logistics and distribution capabilities give companies the power to easily expand their businesses to new markets around the world. By leveraging our international infrastructure, UPS







enables our customers to bridge time zones, cultures, distances and languages to keep the entire supply chain moving smoothly. We operate approximately 800 logistics facilities, in more than 120
countries, offering warehouse space of 35 million square feet.

We serve the global market for logistics services, which
include transportation, distribution, forwarding, ground, ocean and air freight, brokerage and financing. Our technology seamlessly binds our service portfolio. We have three reportable segments: U.S. Domestic Package, International Package and
Supply Chain & Freight, all of which are described below. For financial information concerning our reportable segments and geographic regions, refer to note 12 of our consolidated financial statements.

Business Strategy

Customers leverage our broad array of services; balanced global presence in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America; reliability; and industry leading technology for competitive advantage in markets
where they choose to compete. We prudently invest to expand our integrated network and our service portfolio. Technology investments create user-friendly shipping, e-commerce, logistics management and visibility tools for our customers, while
supporting UPS’s ongoing efforts to increase operational efficiencies.

Our service portfolio and investments are
rewarded with among the best returns on invested capital and operating margins in the industry. We have a long history of sound financial management. Our balance sheet reflects financial strength that few companies can match. As of December 31,
2011, we had a balance of cash and marketable securities of approximately $4.275 billion and shareowners’ equity of $7.108 billion. Our Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s short-term credit ratings are P-1 and A-1+, respectively,
and our Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s long-term credit ratings are Aa3 and AA-, respectively. We have a stable outlook from both of these credit rating agencies. Cash generation is a significant strength of UPS. This gives us
strong capacity to service our obligations and allows for distributions to shareowners, reinvestment in our businesses and the pursuit of growth opportunities.

We enable and are the beneficiaries of the following trends:

Expansion of Global Trade

Trade across borders is predicted to grow at rates that are at least double the growth rates of U.S. and global domestic
production for the foreseeable future. As a result, U.S. and international economies are becoming more inter-connected and dependent on foreign trade.

UPS plays an important role in global trade and is uniquely positioned to take advantage of trade growth, wherever it emerges. Our balanced global presence and productivity enhancing technologies allow
customers to effortlessly expand to new markets. We advocate the expansion of free trade, including the passage of regional trade pacts and the removal of trade barriers. Free trade is a catalyst for job creation, economic growth and improved living
standards; additionally, it propels our growth.

Emerging Market Growth

As our current and prospective customers seek growth outside of developed markets, they look to emerging markets for expansion. We make
long-term, measured investments in markets where our customers choose to grow. Our investments are scaled to the local opportunity. We typically follow a pattern of entering a market through importing and exporting, expanding domestically with a
partner or alliance, and then ultimately acquiring domestic operations where we see value and return. China is a prime example of this strategy as we continue to clear hurdles that will enable us to realize this vision. Our two key air hubs in
Shanghai and Shenzhen support market expansion through increased cargo capacity and faster intra-Asia transit times, while enabling our customers to ship later in the day. We link Asia to Europe with overnight flights from Hong Kong through our air
hub in Cologne, Germany.

Taken together, these two trends (expanding global trade and emerging market growth) underscore why
our international business is a catalyst for UPS’s growth.







Increasing need for vertical expertise in the integrated carrier space

We provide repeatable, scalable sector solutions for our customers. We invest in global capabilities and create value propositions for
certain industries where there is a fit between our customers’ needs and our offerings. Segments where we bring unique value propositions include health care, high-tech, automotive & industrial manufacturing, retail, government and
professional services.

The health care industry faces complex challenges, including the continuing expiration of drug patents
and the shifting landscape of regulatory requirements and drug pricing controls that differ by country. To counter these threats, many pharmaceutical companies have embarked on global expansion strategies that require infrastructure. UPS has aligned
our resources to serve these needs through a well-developed supply chain management capability that is designed to satisfy regulatory and compliance requirements. We have built 33 dedicated health care facilities with over 5 million square feet
of distribution space. These facilities allow us to provide reliable, secure, cost-effective warehousing and distribution for pharmaceutical firms’ supply chains, which, in turn, allow them to easily navigate across and within borders.

We will continue to expand our vertical offerings, growing not only our physical and market footprint, but also our expertise
and technology to support industry specific needs. Our growth strategy is to increase the number of customers benefitting from these vertical solutions and gain their associated small package and freight transportation.

Outsourcing

Outsourcing
supply chain management is becoming more prevalent, as customers increasingly view professional management and operation of their supply chains as a strategic advantage. This trend enables companies to focus on what they do best. We can meet our
customers’ needs for outsourced logistics with our global capabilities in customized forwarding, warehousing, distribution, delivery and post-sales services. As we move deeper into customers’ supply chains, we do so with a shared vision on
how to best serve those who rely on our customers. We integrate our technology for efficiencies, visibility and control to ensure that we execute as promised.

Retail e-Commerce Growth

Throughout much of the world, e-commerce growth
continues to outpace traditional lines of business. We continue to create new services, supported by UPS technology, that complement the traditional UPS premium home delivery service to address the needs of e-commerce shippers and receivers
(“consignees”). Our offerings span a broad spectrum from cost-sensitive solutions such as SurePost, for shipments where economy takes precedence over speed, up to feature-rich solutions, including our new UPS My Choice service that
provides consignees with revolutionary visibility and control of their inbound shipments.

With UPS My Choice, consignees
direct the timing and location of their deliveries before a delivery attempt is made. Premium features include online delivery planners, detailed driver instructions, alternate delivery locations and a two-hour delivery window. Delivery alerts come
via the channel chosen by the consignee—email, SMS text, etc. We strive to give our customers that ship using UPS My Choice the best delivery experience in the industry—delivery on the first attempt, where and when their customers want it.

Technology

Technology powers logistics. We bring industry leading UPS technology to our customers who, in turn, realize increased productivity, greater control of their supply chains and improved customer experience
when they integrate with our technology. Customers benefit through offerings such as:



•UPS Quantum View which can speed up the revenue cycle (i.e. faster transit times, coupled with confirmation of delivery, allow shippers to collect
accounts receivable more quickly), allow for inbound volume planning, manage third party shipping costs, automatically notify customers of incoming shipments, and of course, track shipments and let the customer react if a specific shipment status
changes.







•Flex Global View which provides customs alerts, supplier key performance indicators and inventory monitoring.



•UPS Paperless Invoice which enables customers to submit a commercial invoice electronically when shipping internationally. This eliminates redundant
data entry and errors, while reducing customs holds and paper waste.



•UPS Import Control which gives our customers the ability to initiate their import shipments, define billing terms and assign accounts to charge, and
remove commercial invoices prior to delivery to a third-party.



•UPS Mobile apps, which allow our customers to track, ship and find UPS locations from mobile devices, are among the top downloaded applications for
businesses.



•UPS My Choice which focuses on the consignee and transforms the residential delivery experience. Receivers direct the timing and circumstances of their
deliveries. This innovative service, which is unmatched in our industry, is powered by the complex integration of real-time route optimization and other technologies with our delivery network. We believe that UPS My Choice gives us a substantial
lead over the competition.

Technology, coupled with high-quality UPS employees, forms the foundation of our
reliability and allows us to take customer experience to a higher level. Technology delivers value to our customers and returns to our shareholders. Recent advancements that evidence further gains in UPS’s operational efficiency, flexibility,
reliability and customer experience include:



•Continuing to rollout telematics to our delivery and tractor-trailer fleet. Telematics helps UPS determine a truck’s performance and condition by
capturing data on more than 200 elements, including speed, RPM, oil pressure, seat belt use, number of times the truck is placed in reverse and idling time. Together, improved data and driver coaching help reduce fuel consumption, emissions and
maintenance costs, while improving driver safety. Moreover, customers experience more consistent pickup times and more reliable deliveries, thereby enhancing their profitability and competitiveness.



•Implementing our On Road Integrated Optimization and Navigation (“ORION”) system, which employs advanced algorithms to determine the optimal
route for each delivery while meeting service commitments.



•Converting our package cars to keyless entry, where drivers will be able to remotely turn the engine off with a button that will unlock the bulkhead
door at the same time.



•Ramping up installations of our Next Generation Small Sort (“NGSS”) technology, which reduces the amount of memorization required to sort a
package, thereby improving productivity and quality. Employees sort packages to bins tagged with flashing lights, rather than memorizing addresses, allowing us to dramatically reduce training time.

Reporting Segments and Products & Services

As a global leader in logistics, UPS offers a broad range of domestic and export delivery services; the facilitation of international
trade; and the deployment of advanced technology to more efficiently manage the world of business. We seek to streamline our customers’ shipment processing and integrate critical transportation information into their own business processes,
helping them to create supply chain efficiencies, better serve their customers and improve their cash flows.







Global Small Package

UPS’s global small package operations provide time-definite delivery services for express letters, documents and small packages via air and ground services. We provide domestic delivery services
within 56 countries and export services to more than 220 countries and territories around the world. We handle packages that weigh up to 150 pounds and are up to 165 inches in combined length and girth. All of our package services are supported by
numerous shipping, visibility and billing technologies.

UPS handles all levels of service (air, ground, domestic,
international, commercial, residential) through one global integrated pickup and delivery network. All packages are commingled throughout their journey in our network, except when necessary to meet their specific service commitments. This enables
one UPS driver to pick up our customers’ shipments, for any of our services, at the same scheduled time, day after day. Compared to companies with single service network designs, our integrated network uniquely provides operational and capital
efficiencies while being easier on the environment.

Upon request, we offer same-day pickup of air and
ground packages. Based on their needs, customers can schedule pickups for one to five days a week. Additionally, we provide our customers with easy access to UPS, with over 150,000 domestic and international entry points including: 40,000 drop
boxes, 1,000 customer centers, 4,700 independently owned and operated locations of The UPS Store worldwide, 13,000 authorized shipping outlets and commercial counters, 6,300 alliance locations and 86,300 UPS drivers who can accept packages provided
to them.

With the growth of online shopping, our customers’ needs for efficient and reliable returns
have increased. To this end, we have developed a robust selection of returns services that are available in over 100 countries. Options vary based on customer needs and country, and range from cost-effective solutions such as UPS Returns, which
simply enables shippers to provide their customers with a return shipping label, to services as specialized as UPS Returns Exchange. In this new service, the UPS driver simplifies product exchanges by delivering a replacement item and picking up a
return item in the same stop, and assisting with the re-packaging process.

We operate a global ground
fleet of approximately 101,000 vehicles, of which our U.S. ground fleet serves all business and residential zip codes in the contiguous U.S. We operate a global air fleet of 523 aircraft, and we are one of the largest airlines in the world. Our
global air network is centered at our Worldport hub in Louisville, Kentucky. Worldport sort capacity, currently at 416,000 packages per hour, has expanded over the years due to volume growth and a centralization effort. This facility is supplemented
by our regional U.S. air hubs in Hartford, Connecticut; Ontario, California; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and Rockford, Illinois. This network design allows for cost-effective package processing in our most technology-enabled facility while enabling
us to use fewer, larger and more fuel-efficient aircraft. Our largest international air hub is in Cologne, Germany, with other regional international hubs in Miami, Florida; Canada; Hong Kong; Singapore; Taiwan; and China.

U.S. Domestic Package Reporting Segment

UPS is a leader in time-definite, money-back guaranteed, small package delivery services. We offer a full spectrum of U.S. domestic guaranteed ground and air package transportation services. Depending on
the delivery speed needed, customers can select from a range of guaranteed time and day definite delivery options.



•Customers can select from same day, next day, two day and three day delivery alternatives. Many of these services offer options that enable customers
to specify a time of day cut-off for their delivery (e.g. by 8:30, 10:30, noon, end of day, etc.)



•Customers can also leverage our extensive ground network to ship using our day-definite guaranteed ground service that serves every U.S. business and
residential address. UPS delivers more ground packages than any other carrier, with over 11 million ground packages delivered on time every day in the U.S., most within one to three business days.







•UPS also offers UPS SurePost, an economy residential ground service for customers with non-urgent, light weight residential shipments. UPS SurePost is
a contractual residential ground service that combines the consistency and reliability of the UPS Ground network with final delivery provided by the U.S. Postal Service.

International Package Reporting Segment

Our International Package
reporting segment includes the small package operations in Europe, Asia, Canada and Latin America. UPS offers a wide selection of guaranteed, day and time-definite international shipping services.



•We offer three guaranteed time-definite express options (Express Plus, Express and Express Saver) to more locations than any other carrier.



•For international shipments that do not require express services, UPS Worldwide Expedited offers a reliable, deferred, guaranteed day-definite service
option.



•For cross-border ground package delivery, we offer UPS Transborder Standard delivery services within Europe, between the U.S. and Canada and between
the U.S. and Mexico.

Europe, our largest region outside of the U.S., accounts for roughly half of
international revenue and is one of our growth engines. Factors contributing to this are the highly fragmented nature of the market and the fact that exports make up a significant part of Europe’s GDP. Given our well-known, trusted brand and
distinctive integrated network, we believe there is continued strong potential for growth in small package exports in Germany, the U.K., France, Italy, Spain and the Netherlands. Due to our strong growth, we are expanding our main European air hub
in Cologne by 70% to a capacity of 190,000 packages per hour. Expansion will come in stages; the first stage was completed in the fourth quarter of 2011 with the final stage targeted for 2013.

Asia is another growth engine due to attractive growth rates in intra-Asian trade and the dynamic Chinese economy. We are bringing faster
time-in-transit to customers focused on intra-Asian trade, reducing transit days from Asia to Europe, and continuing to build our China presence. Our recent China investments include:



•Material outlays to add capabilities, facilities and quality employees. We are building awareness and relevance while demonstrating superior UPS
performance.



•Opened an air hub in Shenzhen in mid-2010.



•Added intra-Asia and around-the-world flight frequencies allowing customers to reach more of Europe the next day, guaranteed, than any other express
carrier.

We serve more than 40 Asia-Pacific countries and territories through more than two dozen alliances
with local delivery companies that supplement company-owned operations. In Vietnam, our volume has doubled since entering into an alliance with a local partner in 2010.

Additional International highlights include the following:



•Since our 2009 acquisition of Unsped Paket Servisi San ve Ticaret A.S. in Turkey, we have seen double-digit export and domestic growth in that country.



•In South and Central America, we benefit from the strong regional economy. Our offerings include express package delivery in major cities as well as
distribution and forwarding.



•We continue to grow our business organically in Mexico. We are well positioned with freight, domestic, international and distribution services.



•In February 2012 we broadened our European business-to-consumer service portfolio by acquiring Kiala S.A., a Belgium-based developer of a platform that
enables e-commerce retailers to offer consumers the option of having goods delivered to a convenient retail location.







Supply Chain & Freight Reporting Segment

The Supply Chain & Freight segment consists of our forwarding and logistics services, our UPS Freight business, and our financial
offerings through UPS Capital. We manage supply chains in over 195 countries and territories, with approximately 35 million square feet of distribution space worldwide. Supply chain complexity creates demand for a global service offering that
incorporates transportation, distribution and international trade and brokerage services, with financial and information services. We meet this demand by offering a broad array of services, which are described below.

The 2011 acquisition of Italy-based Pieffe Group (“Pieffe”) supports our global health care strategy, which has seen us make
investments to better serve our growing customer base in the pharmaceutical, biotech and medical device industries. Previously family-owned, Pieffe is a pharmaceutical logistics business with more than 35 years of experience offering high-quality
storage, distribution and cold chain solutions to some of the world’s leading pharmaceutical brands.

Freight Forwarding

UPS is the second largest U.S. domestic air freight carrier and among the top six international air freight forwarders
globally. UPS offers a portfolio of guaranteed and non-guaranteed global air freight services. Additionally, as one of the world’s leading non-vessel operating common carriers, UPS also provides ocean freight full-container load and less-than
container load shipments between most major ports around the world.

Customs Brokerage

UPS is among the world’s largest customs brokers by both the number of shipments processed annually and by the number of dedicated
brokerage employees worldwide. With decades of customs brokerage experience, we provide our customers with customs clearance, trade management and international trade consulting services.

Logistics and Distribution

UPS Logistics offers the following:



•Distribution Services: UPS’s comprehensive distribution services are provided through a global network of distribution centers that manage the
flow of goods from receiving to storage and order processing to shipment, allowing companies to save time and money by minimizing their capital investment and positioning products closer to their customers.



•Post Sales: Post Sales services support goods after they have been delivered or installed in the field. The four core service offerings within Post
Sales include: 1) Critical Parts Fulfillment; 2) Reverse Logistics; 3) Test, Repair, and Refurbish; and 4) Network and Parts Planning. We leverage our global distribution network of 600+ field stocking locations to ensure that the right type and
quantity of our customers’ stock is in the right locations to meet the needs of their end-customers. Our customers are able to minimize spend and maximize service.



•UPS Mail Innovations: UPS Mail Innovations offers an efficient, cost-effective method for sending lightweight parcels and flat mail to global addresses
from the U.S. We pick up customers’ domestic and international mail, sort, post, manifest and then expedite the secured mail containers to the destination postal service for last-mile delivery.







UPS Freight

UPS Freight offers regional, inter-regional and long-haul less-than-truckload (“LTL”) services, as well as
full truckload services, in all 50 states, Canada, Puerto Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands and Mexico. UPS Freight provides reliable LTL service backed by a day-definite, on-time guarantee at no additional cost. Additionally, many user-friendly
small package technology offerings are also available for freight. Applications such as UPS WorldShip, Billing Center, and Quantum View allow customers to process and track LTL shipments, create electronic bills of lading and reconcile billing.

UPS Capital

UPS Capital offers a range of services, including export and import financing to help improve cash flow, risk mitigation offerings to
protect goods, as well as payment solutions that help speed the conversion cycle of payments.

Sustainability

UPS’s business and corporate responsibility strategies pursue a common interest to increase the vitality and
environmental sustainability of the global economy by aggregating the shipping activity of millions of businesses and individuals worldwide into a single, highly efficient logistics network. This provides benefits to:



•UPS, by ensuring strong demand for our services.



•The economy, by making global supply chains more efficient and less expensive.



•The environment, by enabling our global customers to leverage UPS’s carbon efficiency and thereby reduce the carbon intensity of their supply
chains.

We pursue sustainable business practices worldwide through operational efficiency, fleet advances,
facility engineering projects and conservation enabling technology and service offerings. We help our customers to do the same.

Sustainability highlights in 2011 include:



•Rated 1stin Social Responsibility in Fortune Magazine’s 2011 “World’s Most Admired” for the Delivery Industry.



•One of Corporate Responsibility’s “100 Best Corporate Citizens” and one of “The Best Corporate Citizens in Government
Contracting”.



•Recognized by Ethisphere Institute as one of the “World’s Most Ethical Companies”.



•Named to Interbrands “Best Global Brands” for the 7th consecutive year. We ranked in the Top 100 in brand value around the world (#27) and
were the only company in the transportation sector to make the list in 2011.



•Recognized as a constituent of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the 10th consecutive year.



•One of America’s Top Organizations for Multicultural Business Opportunities by DiversityBusiness.com.



•Achieved a score of 99% in response to the Carbon Disclosure Project. Our Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index score is the highest in the U.S. and ties
with only three other companies globally.



•Recognized by ClimateCounts.org as best company in the consumer shipping sector for the 3rd consecutive year.

More information is available on the UPS Sustainability website.







Community

We believe that strong communities are vital to the success of our company. By combining our philanthropy with the volunteer time and
talents of our employees, UPS helps drive positive change for organizations and communities in need across the globe. The highlights of our corporate citizenship efforts in 2011 include:



•Local non-profits around the world received more than 1.6 million hours of volunteer service from UPS employees participating in our
Neighbor-to-Neighbor program.



•The UPS Foundation, our charitable organization, oversaw $97 million in donations of cash and in-kind services to global causes primarily in four focus
areas—community safety, environmental sustainability, diversity and volunteerism.



•UPS led all U.S. companies in United Way donations last year with more than $55 million, and surpassed $1 billion in cumulative donations to United
Way.



•UPS continued to help save lives through our UPS Humanitarian Relief program by providing our logistics expertise and resources to aid the
famine-stricken Horn of Africa and areas impacted by the Japan earthquake.



•Thousands of teenagers and novice drivers in the U.S., Canada, the U.K., and Germany participated in UPS Road Code. This safety program for new drivers
features UPS employees as instructors – a role where they get to share driving knowledge and safety tips amassed over our 104-year history of safe driving.

Reputation

Many of our customers trust UPS to
extend their brand. We were pleased that UPS earned the top rating in our industry on the American Customer Satisfaction Index in 2011. As noted in Millward Brown’s and Interbrand’s top brand rankings, we have one of the most valuable
brands in the world. UPS also has been named to industry leading positions in Fortune Magazine’s Most Admired and Harris Interactive’s Reputation Quotient surveys.

Employees

The strength of our company is our
people, working together with a common purpose. We had approximately 398,000 employees as of December 31, 2011, of which 323,000 are in the U.S. and 75,000 are located internationally. Our global workforce includes approximately 71,000
management employees (36% of whom are part-time) and 327,000 hourly employees (46% of whom are part-time).

As of
December 31, 2011, we had approximately 245,000 employees employed under a national master agreement and various supplemental agreements with local unions affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters (“Teamsters”). These
agreements run through July 31, 2013.

We have approximately 2,700 pilots who are employed under a collective bargaining
agreement with the Independent Pilots Association (“IPA”), which became amendable at the end of 2011.

Our airline
mechanics are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with Teamsters Local 2727, which runs through November 1, 2013. In addition, approximately 3,200 of our ground mechanics who are not employed under agreements with the Teamsters are
employed under collective bargaining agreements with the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (“IAM”). Our agreement with the IAM runs through July 31, 2014.

The experience of our management team continues to be an organizational strength. Nearly 40% of our full-time managers have more than 20
years of service with UPS.







We believe that our relations with our employees are good. We periodically survey all our
employees to determine their level of job satisfaction. Areas of concern receive management attention as we strive to keep UPS the employer of choice among our employees. We consistently receive numerous awards and wide recognition as an
employer-of-choice, resulting in part from our emphasis on diversity and corporate citizenship.

Safety

We promote safety throughout our operations. Our Automotive Fleet Safety Program is built with the following components:



•Selection.Five out of every six drivers come from our part-time ranks. Therefore, many of our new drivers are familiar
with our philosophies, policies, practices and training programs.



•Training.Training is the cornerstone of our Fleet Safety Program. Our approach starts with training the trainer. All
trainers are certified to ensure that they have the skills and motivation to effectively train novice drivers. A new driver’s employment includes extensive classroom and online training as well as on-road training, followed by three safety
training rides integrated into his or her training cycle.



•Responsibility.Our operations managers are responsible for their drivers’ safety records. We investigate every
accident. If we determine that an accident could have been prevented, we retrain the driver.



•Preventive Maintenance.An integral part of our Fleet Safety Program is a comprehensive Preventive Maintenance Program.
Our fleet is tracked electronically to ensure that each vehicle is serviced before a breakdown or accident is likely to occur.



•Honor Plan.A well-defined safe driver honor plan recognizes and rewards our drivers when they achieve success. We have
over 4,000 drivers who have driven for 25 years or more without an avoidable accident.

Our workplace safety
program is built upon a comprehensive health and safety process. The foundation of this process is our employee-management health and safety committees. The workplace safety process focuses on employee conditioning and safety-related habits. Our
employee co-chaired health and safety committees complete comprehensive facility audits and injury analyses, and recommend facility and work process changes.

Competition

We are the largest package delivery
company in the world, in terms of both revenue and volume. We offer a broad array of services in the package and freight delivery industry and, therefore, compete with many different local, regional, national and international companies. Our
competitors include worldwide postal services, various motor carriers, express companies, freight forwarders, air couriers and others. Through our supply chain service offerings, we compete with a number of participants in the supply chain,
financial services and information technology industries.

Competitive Strengths

Our competitive strengths include:

Integrated Global Network.We believe that our integrated global ground and air network is the most extensive in the industry. We handle all levels of service (air, ground,
domestic, international, commercial, residential) through a single pickup and delivery service network.

Our sophisticated
engineering systems allow us to optimize our network efficiency and asset utilization on a daily basis. This unique, integrated global business model creates consistent and superior returns.







We believe we have the most comprehensive integrated delivery and information services
portfolio of any carrier in Europe. In other regions of the world, we rely on both our own and local service providers’ capabilities to meet our service commitments.

Global Presence.UPS serves more than 220 countries and territories around the world. We have a presence in all of the world’s major economies.

Leading-edge Technology.We are a global leader in developing technology that helps our customers optimize
their shipping and logistics business processes to lower costs, improve service and increase efficiency.

Technology powers
virtually every service we offer and every operation we perform. Our technology offerings are initiated by our customers’ needs. We offer a variety of on-line service options that enable our customers to integrate UPS functionality into their
own businesses not only to conveniently send, manage and track their shipments, but also to provide their customers with better information services. We provide the infrastructure for an Internet presence that extends to tens of thousands of
customers who have integrated UPS tools directly into their own web sites.

Broad Portfolio of
Services.Our portfolio of services enables customers to choose the delivery option that is most appropriate for their requirements. Increasingly, our customers benefit from business solutions that integrate many UPS
services in addition to package delivery. For example, our supply chain services—such as freight forwarding, customs brokerage, order fulfillment, and returns management—help improve the efficiency of the supply chain management process.

Customer Relationships.We focus on building and maintaining long-term customer relationships.
We serve 1.1 million pick-up customers and 7.7 million delivery customers daily. Cross-selling small package, supply chain and freight services across our customer base is an important growth mechanism for UPS.

Brand Equity.We have built a leading and trusted brand that stands for quality service, reliability and
product innovation. The distinctive appearance of our vehicles and the friendliness and helpfulness of our drivers are major contributors to our brand equity.

Distinctive Culture.We believe that the dedication of our employees results in large part from our distinctive “employee-owner” concept. Our employee stock
ownership tradition dates from 1927, when our founders, who believed that employee stock ownership was a vital foundation for successful business, first offered stock to employees. To facilitate employee stock ownership, we maintain several
stock-based compensation programs.

Our long-standing policy of “promotion from within” complements our tradition of
employee ownership, and this policy reduces the need for us to hire managers and executive officers from outside UPS. The majority of our management team began their careers as full-time or part-time hourly UPS employees, and have spent their entire
careers with us. Many of our executive officers have more than 30 years of service with UPS and have accumulated a meaningful ownership stake in our company. Therefore, our executive officers have a strong incentive to effectively manage UPS, which
benefits all our shareowners.

Financial Strength.Our balance sheet reflects financial strength
that few companies can match. Our financial strength gives us the resources to achieve global scale; to invest in employee development, technology, transportation equipment and buildings; to pursue strategic opportunities that facilitate our growth;
to service our obligations; and to return value to our shareowners in the form of dividends and share repurchases.

Government Regulation

Air Operations

The U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”),
the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”), and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, through the Transportation Security Administration (“TSA”), have







regulatory authority over United Parcel Service Co.’s (“UPS Airlines’”) air transportation services. The Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended, is the statutory basis for
DOT and FAA authority and the Aviation and Transportation Security Act of 2001, as amended, is the basis for TSA aviation security authority.

The DOT’s authority primarily relates to economic aspects of air transportation, such as discriminatory pricing, non-competitive practices, interlocking relations and cooperative agreements. The DOT
also regulates, subject to the authority of the President of the United States, international routes, fares, rates and practices, and is authorized to investigate and take action against discriminatory treatment of U.S. air carriers abroad.
International operating rights for U.S. airlines are usually subject to bilateral agreement between the U.S. and foreign governments. UPS Airlines has international route operating rights granted by the DOT and we may apply for additional
authorities when those operating rights are available and are required for the efficient operation of our international network. The efficiency and flexibility of our international air transportation network is dependent on DOT and foreign
government regulations and operating restrictions.

The FAA’s authority primarily relates to safety aspects of air
transportation, including aircraft operating procedures, transportation of hazardous materials, record keeping standards and maintenance activities, personnel and ground facilities. In 1988, the FAA granted us an operating certificate, which remains
in effect so long as we meet the safety and operational requirements of the applicable FAA regulations. In addition, we are subject to non-U.S. government regulation of aviation rights involving non-U.S. jurisdictions, and non-U.S. customs
regulation.

FAA regulations mandate an aircraft corrosion control program, along with aircraft inspection and repair at
periodic intervals specified by approved programs and procedures, for all aircraft. Our total expenditures under these programs for 2011 were not material. The future cost of repairs pursuant to these programs may fluctuate according to aircraft
condition, age and the enactment of additional FAA regulatory requirements.

The TSA regulates various security aspects of air
cargo transportation in a manner consistent with the TSA mission statement to “protect the Nation’s transportation systems to ensure freedom of movement for people and commerce.” UPS Airlines, and specified airport and off airport
locations, are regulated under TSA regulations applicable to the transportation of cargo in an air network. In addition, personnel, facilities and procedures involved in air cargo transportation must comply with TSA regulations.

UPS Airlines, along with a number of other domestic airlines, participates in the Civil Reserve Air Fleet (“CRAF”) program. Our
participation in the CRAF program allows the U.S. Department of Defense (“DOD”) to requisition specified UPS Airlines wide-body aircraft for military use during a national defense emergency. The DOD compensates us for the use of aircraft
under the CRAF program. In addition, participation in CRAF entitles UPS Airlines to bid for military cargo charter operations.

Ground
Operations

Our ground transportation of packages in the U.S. is subject to the DOT’s jurisdiction with respect to the
regulation of routes and to both the DOT’s and the states’ jurisdiction with respect to the regulation of safety, insurance and hazardous materials. We are subject to similar regulation in many non-U.S. jurisdictions.

The Postal Reorganization Act of 1970 created the U.S. Postal Service as an independent establishment of the executive branch of the
federal government, and created the Postal Rate Commission, an independent agency, to recommend postal rates. The Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act of 2006 amended the 1970 Act to give the re-named Postal Regulatory Commission revised
oversight authority over many aspects of the Postal Service, including postal rates, product offerings and service standards. We sometimes participate in the proceedings before the Postal Regulatory Commission in an attempt to secure fair postal
rates for competitive services.







Customs

We are subject to the customs laws in the countries in which we operate, regarding the import and export of shipments, including those related to the filing of documents on behalf of client importers and
exporters.

Environmental

We are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations across all of our business units. These laws and regulations cover a variety of processes, including, but not limited to:
proper storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous and other waste; managing wastewater and stormwater; monitoring and maintaining the integrity of underground storage tanks; complying with laws regarding clean air, including those governing
emissions; protecting against and appropriately responding to spills and releases; and communicating the presence of reportable quantities of hazardous materials to local responders. UPS has established site- and activity-specific environmental
compliance and pollution prevention programs to address our environmental responsibilities and remain compliant. In addition, UPS has created numerous programs which seek to minimize waste and prevent pollution within our operations.

Other Regulations

We
are subject to numerous other U.S. federal and state laws and regulations, in addition to applicable foreign laws, in connection with our package and non-package businesses in the countries in which we operate. These laws and regulations include
those enforced by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and other agencies of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the U.S. Department of Treasury, the Federal Maritime Commission, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration and the U.S. Department of Agriculture.

Where You Can Find More Information

UPS maintains a website atwww.ups.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form
8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made available through our websitewww.investors.ups.comas soon as reasonably practical after we
electronically file or furnish the reports to the SEC. Also available on the Corporation’s website are the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines and Committee Charters. Information on these websites, however, is not incorporated by
reference into this report or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC.

We have adopted a written Code of Business
Conduct that applies to all of our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive officer and senior financial officers. It is available in the governance section of the investor relations website, located atwww.investors.ups.com. In the event that we make changes in, or provide waivers from, the provisions of the Code of Business Conduct that the SEC requires us to disclose, we intend to disclose these events in the governance section of our
investor relations website.

Our Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charters for our Audit Committee, Compensation
Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee are also available in the governance section of the investor relations website.

Our sustainability report, which describes our activities that support our commitment to acting responsibly and contributing to society, is available atwww.sustainability.ups.com. We provide the
addresses to our internet sites solely for the information of investors. We do not intend any addresses to be active links or to otherwise incorporate the contents of any website into this report.







