Item 1.Business





Overview

United Parcel Service, Inc. (“UPS”) was founded in 1907 as a private messenger and delivery service in Seattle, Washington. Today, UPS is the world’s largest package delivery company, a leader in the U.S. less-than-truckload industry and the premier provider of global supply chain management solutions. We deliver packages each business day for1.5million shipping customers to7.9million receivers ("consignees") in over220countries and territories. In2013, we delivered an average of16.9 millionpieces per day worldwide, or a total of 4.3 billion packages. Total revenue in2013was $55.4 billion.

We are a global leader in logistics, and we create value for our customers through solutions that lower costs, improve service and provide highly customizable supply chain control and visibility. Customers are attracted to our broad set of services that are delivered as promised through our integrated ground, air and ocean global network.

Our services and integrated network allow shippers to simplify their supply chains by using fewer carriers, and to adapt their transportation requirements and expenditures as their businesses evolve. Across our service portfolio, we also provide control and visibility of customers’ inventories and supply chains via our UPS technology platform. The information flow from UPS technology drives improvements for our customers, as well as for UPS, in reliability, flexibility, productivity and efficiency.

Particularly over the last decade, UPS has significantly expanded the scope of our capabilities to include more than package delivery. Our logistics and distribution capabilities give companies the power to easily expand their businesses to new markets around the world. By leveraging our international infrastructure, UPS enables our customers to bridge time zones, cultures, distances and languages to keep the entire supply chain moving smoothly.

We serve the global market for logistics services, which include transportation, distribution, forwarding, ground, ocean and air freight, brokerage and financing. We have three reportable segments: U.S. Domestic Package, International Package and Supply Chain & Freight, all of which are described below. For financial information concerning our reportable segments and geographic regions, refer to note 11 of our consolidated financial statements.











Business Strategy

Customers leverage our broad array of logistics capabilities; global presence in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America; reliability; industry-leading technologies; and solutions expertise for competitive advantage in markets where they choose to compete. We prudently invest to expand our integrated global network and our service portfolio. Technology investments create user-friendly shipping, e-commerce, logistics management and visibility tools for our customers, while supporting UPS’s ongoing efforts to increase operational efficiencies.

Our service portfolio and investments are rewarded with among the best returns on invested capital and operating margins in the industry. We have a long history of sound financial management. Our consolidated balance sheet reflects financial strength that few companies can match. As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had a balance of cash and marketable securities of approximately $5.245 billionand shareowners’ equity of $6.488 billion. Our Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s short-term credit ratings are P-1 and A-1, respectively. Our Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s long-term credit ratings are Aa3 and A+, respectively. We currently have a negative outlook from Standard & Poor’s and a stable outlook from Moody's. Cash generation is a significant strength of UPS. This gives us strong capacity to service our obligations and allows for distributions to shareowners, reinvestment in our businesses and the pursuit of growth opportunities.

We enable and are the beneficiaries of the following trends:

Expansion of Global Trade

Transcontinental and trade across borders is predicted to grow at rates that are in excess of the growth rates of U.S. and global gross domestic production for the foreseeable future. As a result, U.S. and international economies are becoming more inter-connected and dependent on foreign trade.

UPS plays an important role in global trade and is well positioned to take advantage of trade growth, wherever it occurs. Our global presence and productivity enhancing technologies allow customers to expand into new markets. We advocate the expansion of free trade, including the passage of regional trade pacts and the removal of trade barriers. Free trade is a catalyst for job creation, economic growth and improved living standards; additionally, it propels our growth.

Emerging Market Growth

Emerging market opportunities continue to expand.  Over the next 15 years, these markets are expected to represent nearly three quarters of global GDP growth, and an increasing proportion of global trade.  Emerging markets are understandably a focus of investment and growth for our current customers; in addition, they will be a source of UPS’s next generation of customers.  To take advantage of these opportunities, UPS will continue to make long-term investments in markets where our customers choose to grow.  Over the past ten years, UPS has established a strong market presence in three leading emerging markets: China, Poland, and Turkey.  Going forward, the Middle East, Latin America, Africa, and Eastern Europe will become increasingly important for UPS.

Taken together, these two trends (expanding global trade and emerging market growth) underscore why our international business is a catalyst for UPS’s growth.

Increasing need for segment expertise in the integrated carrier space

We provide repeatable, scalable sector solutions for our customers. We invest in global capabilities and create value propositions for certain industries where there is a fit between our customers’ needs and our offerings. Segments where we bring differentiated value propositions include health care, high-tech, automotive & industrial manufacturing, retail, government, professional and consumer services.  By identifying impactful trends, challenges, and opportunities, we are able to apply deep supply chain and segment-specific experience to benefit our customers.  We incorporate our insights into our sales-and-solution process, and share these insights in company-sponsored forums and publications.  By continuing to learn and share what we know, we not only maintain our competitiveness but also help our customers achieve their business objectives.











The health care industry faces complex challenges, including the continuing expiration of drug patents and the shifting landscape of regulatory requirements and drug pricing controls that differ by country.  The recent introduction of the Drug Quality and Security Act in the U.S., and the earlier passage of new Good Distribution Practice guidelines in Europe, are two examples of this.  To counter these challenges, many pharmaceutical companies have embarked on global expansion strategies that require infrastructure. UPS has aligned our resources to serve these needs through a well-developed supply chain management capability that is designed to satisfy regulatory and compliance requirements. Over the past two years, we opened 14 new dedicated health care facilities on four continents.  We also expanded our health care network in North America, and are in the process of expanding our presence in Brazil and Mexico.  In total, we currently operate nearly 6.5 million square feet of dedicated health care distribution space across an integrated network of 42 facilities.  These facilities allow us to provide reliable, secure, cost-effective warehousing and distribution for pharmaceutical firms’ supply chains, which, in turn, allow them to easily navigate across and within borders.

We also continue to invest in innovative health care focused transportation solutions, including "UPS Temperature True" and "UPS Proactive Response Secure":

•UPS Temperature True - an air freight solution specifically designed to safeguard temperature-sensitive shipments using a portfolio of specialized containers with passive, semi-active, or active refrigeration.  This service incorporates monitoring intervention capabilities and provides door-to-door transportation of sensitive products in accordance with precise, measurable operating procedures.  In 2013, UPS expanded its Temperature True offering with two additional service levels:

1.“Temperature True Standard”, which provides an ideal solution for air freight passive containers requiring either refrigerated or controlled room temperatures; and

2.“Temperature True Saver”, which is a pioneering temperature-sensitive solution for Ocean Freight shippers.

We also launched UPS Temperature True Packaging to help our small package and freight customers design, validate, and procure their cold chain packaging.

•UPS Proactive Response Secure - safeguards the most valuable time- and temperature-sensitive items in the supply chain with contingency plans and financial risk mitigation.  In addition to our basic Proactive Response service,  insurance capabilities through UPS Capital are available; this is a unique offering in the marketplace.

We will continue to expand our sector offerings, growing not only our physical and market footprint, but also our expertise and technologies to support industry-specific needs. Our growth strategy is to increase the number of customers benefiting from these sector solutions and gain their associated transportation and logistics business.

Logistics Outsourcing

Outsourcing supply chain management is becoming more prevalent, as customers increasingly view professional management and operation of their supply chains as a strategic advantage. This trend enables companies to focus on what they do best. We can meet our customers’ needs for outsourced logistics with our global capabilities in customized forwarding, transportation, warehousing, distribution, delivery and post-sales services. As we move deeper into customers’ supply chains, we do so with a shared vision on how to best equip our customers with transportation and logistics solutions to better serve their customers. We integrate our technology for efficiencies, visibility and control to ensure that we execute as promised and to provide peace of mind for our customers.

Retail e-Commerce Growth

Throughout much of the world, e-commerce growth continues to outpace traditional lines of business.  Our integrated network puts UPS in an ideal position to capitalize on this shift towards residential deliveries.  We continue to create new services, supported by UPS technology, that complement the traditional UPS premium home delivery service to address the needs of e-commerce shippers and consignees. Our offerings span a broad spectrum that supports retailers across their value chain, from global sourcing to distribution and returns.  We offer cost-sensitive solutions such as UPS SurePost, for shipments where economy takes precedence over speed, and feature-rich solutions, such as our UPS My Choice service that provides consignees with revolutionary visibility and control of their inbound shipments.











With UPS My Choice, consignees may direct the timing and location of their deliveries before a delivery attempt is made. Premium features include online delivery planners, detailed driver instructions, alternate delivery locations and a two-hour delivery window. Delivery alerts come via the channel chosen by the consignee—email, SMS text, mobile push, and Facebook notifications. We strive to give our customers that ship using UPS My Choice the best delivery experience in the industry—delivery on the first attempt, where and when their customers want it.

In 2013, we further broadened our European business-to-consumer service portfolio by leveraging our Kiala acquisition to create a retail network in the UK and Germany under the brand name "UPS Access Points.”  Our integrated Access Point network has grown to 11,300 locations across seven European countries, with over 13,000 planned for 2014.  This move enhances our cross-border e-commerce offerings for merchants, while also increasing choice for their consumers, who can opt to pick up or drop off their parcels at a retail location convenient to them.  Another way that we are facilitating cross-border trade is through our Global e-Commerce Solution, which gives retailers the capability to provide landed cost in local currency with harmonized tariffs.  We will continue to make strategic investments in this area that benefit both shippers and consignees, whose influence continues to increase as e-commerce grows.





Technology

Technology powers logistics. We bring industry-leading UPS technology to our customers who, in turn, realize increased productivity, greater control of their supply chains and improved customer experience when they integrate with our technology. Customers benefit through offerings such as:

•UPS Quantum View, which can help customers better manage shipments, facilitate tracking, allow for inbound volume planning, manage third-party shipping costs and automatically notify customers of incoming shipments.  With visibility into transit times and delivery confirmations, customers can speed up their revenue cycle and collect accounts receivables more quickly.

•WorldShip, which is UPS’s flagship desktop shipping application, provides middle market and large customers with robust shipping capabilities.  Customers can create custom labels, set up shipment alerts, create and upload customs documentation, track and export shipments, create reports and integrate with their enterprise resource planning and accounting systems to streamline shipping with real-time connectivity.

•UPS Paperless Invoice, which enables customers to submit a commercial invoice electronically when shipping internationally. This eliminates redundant data entry and errors, while reducing customs holds and paper waste.

•UPS Access Point, which provides our customers a convenient alternative to home delivery, allows customers to use shops, convenience stores and other retail locations as a delivery location and a drop off location for return packages.  These locations make picking up packages more convenient with extended hours, weekend accessibility and security.

•UPS My Choice, which focuses on the consignee, has transformed the residential delivery experience. Receivers can direct the timing and circumstances of their deliveries using their computer, mobile devices or a new Facebook app. This innovative service is powered by the complex integration of real-time route optimization and other technologies with our delivery network.  Two years after launching UPS My Choice, we now have nearly 7 million members.

•UPS Mobile, which includes the mobile website, m.ups.com, and apps for iPhone, iPad, Android and Kindle Fire devices, is readily available for any customer at any time.  Customers can track, ship, find UPS locations, manage UPS My Choice shipments and receive shipment notifications with the convenience of their mobile devices.

•UPS OrderLink, which allows multiple-marketplace online auction sellers to ship their orders via ups.com. UPS OrderLink provides simplified shipment processing, access to multiple payment options, including PayPal, and access to order and shipment history.

•The UPS Developer Kit, which is comprised of multiple Application Programming Interfaces ("APIs"), helps customers streamline and automate their internal business processes.  The UPS Developer Kit APIs allow customers to integrate a wide range of UPS functionality into their business systems and websites such as address validation, shipment scheduling, selection of shipping service levels, tracking and much more.

•The UPS Billing Center, which is a secure location for customers to view, download, manage and pay their UPS invoices, helps customers accelerate their billing and payment processes.  Customers can assign privileges with administrative controls, manage multiple accounts and create reports using a single simple interface.









Technology forms the foundation of our reliability and allows us to enhance the customer experience.  Technology delivers value to our customers and returns to our shareholders.  Recent developments that improve our operational efficiency, flexibility, reliability and customer experience include:

•Continuing to rollout telematics to our delivery (domestic and international), freight forwarding and tractor-trailer fleet. Telematics helps UPS determine a truck’s performance and condition by capturing data on more than 200 elements, including speed, RPM, oil pressure, seat belt use, number of times the vehicle is placed in reverse and idling time. Together, improved data and driver coaching help reduce fuel consumption, emissions and maintenance costs, while improving driver safety. Additionally, customers experience more consistent pickup times and more reliable deliveries, thereby enhancing their profitability and competitiveness.  By the end of 2013, telematics had been installed in over 80,000 vehicles.

•Implementing our On Road Integrated Optimization and Navigation system (“ORION”), which employs advanced algorithms to determine the optimal route for each delivery while meeting service commitments.

•Converting to keyless entry, which enables drivers to remotely turn the engine off with a button that will unlock the bulkhead door at the same time.  In 2013, keyless entry had been installed on all package cars.

•Ramping up installations of our Next Generation Small Sort (“NGSS”) technology, which reduces the amount of memorization required to sort a package, thereby improving productivity and quality. Employees sort packages to bins tagged with flashing lights, rather than memorizing addresses, allowing us to dramatically reduce training time.



Reporting Segments and Products & Services

As a global leader in logistics, UPS offers a broad range of domestic and export delivery services; the facilitation of international trade; and the deployment of advanced technology to more efficiently manage the world of business. We seek to streamline our customers’ shipment processing and integrate critical transportation information into their own business processes, helping them to create supply chain efficiencies, better serve their customers and improve their cash flows.



Global Small Package

UPS’s global small package operations provide time-definite delivery services for express letters, documents, small packages and palletized freight via air and ground services. We provide domestic delivery services within 54 countries and export services to more than220countries and territories around the world. We handle packages that weigh up to 150 pounds and are up to 165 inches in combined length and girth as well as palletized shipments weighing greater than 150 pounds.  All of our package services are supported by numerous shipping, visibility and billing technologies.

UPS handles all levels of service (air, ground, domestic, international, commercial, residential) through one global integrated pickup and delivery network. All packages are commingled within our network, except when necessary to meet their specific service commitments. This enables one UPS driver to pick up our customers’ shipments, for any of our services, at the same scheduled time each day. Compared to companies with single service network designs, our integrated network uniquely provides operational and capital efficiencies while being more environmentally-friendly.

We offer same-day pickup of air and ground packages upon request.  Customers can schedule pickups for one to five days a week, based on their specific needs.  Additionally, we provide our customers with easy access to UPS, with over 157,000 domestic and international entry points including: 39,000 drop boxes; 1,500 customer centers; 4,800 independently owned and operated locations of The UPS Store worldwide; 11,300 Kiala and UPS Access Point locations; 11,400 authorized shipping outlets and commercial counters; 5,500 alliance locations; and 83,900 UPS drivers who can accept packages provided to them.

The growth of online shopping has increased our customers’ needs for efficient and reliable returns, resulting in our development of a robust selection of returns services that are available in 150 countries. Options vary based on customer needs and country, and range from cost-effective solutions such as UPS Returns, to more-specialized services such as UPS Returns Exchange.  UPS Returns enables shippers to provide their customers with a return shipping label, while UPS Returns Exchange simplifies product exchanges by delivering a replacement item and picking up a return item in the same stop, and assisting with the re-packaging process.

We operate one of the largest airlines in the world, with global operations centered at our Worldport hub in Louisville, Kentucky. Worldport sort capacity, currently at 416,000 packages per hour, has expanded over the years due to volume growth and a centralization effort.  Our European air hub is located in Cologne, Germany, and we maintain Asia-Pacific air hubs in Shanghai, China; Shenzhen, China; and Hong Kong.  Our regional air hub in Canada is located in Hamilton, Ontario, and our regional air hub for Latin America and the Caribbean is in Miami, Florida.









In the U.S., Worldport is supported by our regional air hubs in Columbia, South Carolina; Dallas, Texas; Ontario, California; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and Rockford, Illinois. This network design allows for cost-effective package processing in our most technology-enabled facilities while enabling us to use fewer, larger and more fuel-efficient aircraft.  Our U.S. ground fleet serves all business and residential zip codes in the contiguous U.S.

U.S. Domestic Package Reporting Segment

UPS is a leader in time-definite, money-back guaranteed, small package delivery services. We offer a full spectrum of U.S. domestic guaranteed ground and air package transportation services. Depending on the delivery speed needed, customers can select from a range of guaranteed time and day-definite delivery options.

•Customers can select from same day, next day, two day and three day delivery alternatives. Many of these services offer options that enable customers to specify a time-of-day guarantee for their delivery (e.g. by 8:30, 10:30, noon, end of day, etc.).

•Customers can also leverage our extensive ground network to ship using our day-definite guaranteed ground service that serves every U.S. business and residential address. UPS delivers more ground packages than any other carrier, with nearly 12 million ground packages delivered on time every day in the U.S., most within one to three business days.

•UPS also offers UPS SurePost, an economy residential ground service for customers with non-urgent, light weight residential shipments. UPS SurePost is a contractual residential ground service that combines the consistency and reliability of the UPS Ground network with final delivery provided by the U.S. Postal Service.

International Package Reporting Segment

Our International Package reporting segment includes the small package operations in Europe, Asia, Canada and Latin America, the Indian sub-continent, Middle East and Africa. UPS offers a wide selection of guaranteed day and time-definite international shipping services.

•We offer three guaranteed time-definite express options (Express Plus, Express and Express Saver) to more locations than any other carrier.

•In 2013, we introduced UPS Worldwide Express Freight for palletized shipments over 150 pounds from 38 points of origin to 42 points of destination.  This service meets the needs of international customers that have palletized freight shipments and require the same speed and reliability as our international express package service.  UPS Worldwide Express Freight leverages our unique combination of package and freight networks to provide industry leading transit times with a money-back guarantee.

•For international shipments that do not require express services, UPS Worldwide Expedited offers a reliable, deferred, guaranteed day-definite service option.  In 2013, we tripled the coverage area for UPS Worldwide Expedited, providing delivery in two-to-five business days to more than 220 countries and territories. This expansion will help UPS customers magnify their global reach and balance delivery speed with cost, no matter where they ship.

•For cross-border ground package delivery, we offer UPS Transborder Standard delivery services within Europe, between the U.S. and Canada and between the U.S. and Mexico.

Europe, our largest region outside of the U.S., accounts for roughly half of international revenue and is one of the primary drivers of our growth.  Several factors provide us significant additional opportunities, including the highly fragmented nature of the market and the fact that exports make up a significant part of Europe’s GDP.  We believe there is a continued strong potential for growth in small package exports in Germany, the U.K., France, Italy, Spain and the Netherlands.  To accommodate this strong growth, we will complete the expansion of our main European air hub in Cologne, Germany in the first quarter of 2014; it will have the capacity to process 190,000 packages per hour.

Asia remains attractive due to growth rates in intra-Asia trade and the rapidly-expanding Chinese economy. We are bringing faster time-in-transit to customers focused on intra-Asia trade, and reducing transit days from Asia to Europe.  Through added flight frequencies, we provide our customers the ability to ship next day to more places in Europe, guaranteed, than any other express carrier.  We are continuing to build our presence in China through the expansion of our service capabilities, investing in our transportation network and strengthening brand awareness.  Additionally, we serve more than 40 Asia-Pacific countries and territories through more than two dozen alliances with local delivery companies that supplement company-owned operations.









Additional International highlights include the following:

•In South and Central America, we benefit from the strong regional economy. Our offerings include express package delivery in major cities as well as distribution and forwarding.

•In 2013, we purchased the assets and operations of two Costa Rican based firms:  small package delivery company Union Pak de Costa Rica, S.A., and brokerage company SEISA Brokerage.  Both companies have long-standing relationships with UPS as Authorized Service Contractors (ASC).  These additions will allow us to better connect Costa Rica's expanding economy to regional and world markets through the UPS network.  For Costa Rican shippers, UPS will be better positioned to provide customers one source for small package, freight forwarding, brokerage, and contract logistics, with a stronger link to UPS's global transportation network.  Access to multi-modal services including ocean and air freight will improve customers' ability to ship across borders, boosting export trade lanes within Latin America and to the U.S.

•We continue to grow our business organically in Mexico. We are well positioned with freight, domestic, international and distribution services.  We opened ten new UPS Express centers in Mexico, located in strategic zones including Monterrey, Tijuana, Chihuahua, Veracruz, León, and Distrito Federal.  These new centers are aimed at increasing our  presence among small and medium enterprises and the retail sector.

•We became the first global express delivery company to have a wholly-owned subsidiary in Vietnam, following our acquisition of the 49% interest held by VN Post Express in our express delivery joint venture.  This change allows us to better connect Vietnam's rapidly expanding economy to world markets through the UPS network.

•In February 2012, we broadened our European business-to-consumer service portfolio by acquiring Kiala S.A., a Belgium-based developer of a platform that enables e-commerce retailers to offer consumers the option of having goods delivered to a convenient retail location.



Supply Chain & Freight Reporting Segment

The Supply Chain & Freight segment consists of our forwarding and logistics services, our UPS Freight business, and our financial offerings through UPS Capital.  Supply chain complexity creates demand for a global service offering that incorporates transportation, distribution and international trade and brokerage services, with financial and information services. We meet this demand by offering a broad array of supply chain services in over 195 countries and territories, which are described below.

The 2011 acquisition of Italy-based Pieffe Group (“Pieffe”) supports our global health care strategy, which has enabled us to make investments to better serve our growing customer base in the pharmaceutical, biotech and medical device industries. Pieffe is a pharmaceutical logistics business with more than 35 years of experience offering high-quality storage, distribution and cold chain solutions to some of the world’s leading pharmaceutical brands.

Our 2013 purchase of Hungary-based pharmaceutical logistics company, CEMELOG Zrt ("Cemelog"), is part of our ongoing global growth and investment strategy. This acquisition further strengthens UPS's health care reach and expertise in Europe, enabling comprehensive, compliant services to customers in the pharmaceutical, biotech, and medical device industries across the increasingly important markets of Central and Eastern Europe.

We expanded our presence in China with the addition of two new contract logistics facilities in Chengdu and Shanghai, bringing the total to more than 130 owned and agent contract logistics facilities, covering 87 cities.  These facilities provide distribution and warehousing solutions to shippers who want to reach customers within China and demonstrate our continued commitment to serving China's emerging middle class.  UPS also opened our new health care facility in Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, China; this move represents a significant expansion of our Asia health care distribution network.  This state-of-the-art facility has industry-leading technology to maintain product safety and integrity and is designed to offer seamless, global solutions to health care companies looking to expand into, transport within, and export from China.

Freight Forwarding

UPS is one of the largest U.S. domestic air freight carriers and among the top international air freight forwarders globally. UPS offers a portfolio of guaranteed and non-guaranteed global air freight services. Additionally, as one of the world’s leading non-vessel operating common carriers, UPS also provides ocean freight full-container load and less-than container load shipments between most major ports around the world.









Customs Brokerage

UPS is among the world’s largest customs brokers by both the number of shipments processed annually and by the number of dedicated brokerage employees worldwide. We provide our customers with customs clearance, trade management and international trade consulting services.

Logistics and Distribution

UPS Logistics offers the following:

•Distribution Services: UPS’s comprehensive distribution services are provided through a global network of distribution centers that manage the flow of goods from receiving to storage and order processing to shipment.  UPS also provides many specialized services to streamline supply chains in the health care, high tech, retail and aerospace industries.  Together, these services allow companies to save time and money by minimizing their capital investment and positioning products closer to their customers.

•Post Sales: Post Sales services support goods after they have been delivered or installed in the field. The four core service offerings within Post Sales include: (1) Critical Parts Fulfillment; (2) Reverse Logistics; (3) Test, Repair, and Refurbish; and (4) Network and Parts Planning. We leverage our global distribution network of over 950 field stocking locations to ensure that the right type and quantity of our customers’ stock is in the right locations to meet the needs of their end-customers. This service allows our customers to maximize service while reducing costs.

•UPS Mail Innovations: UPS Mail Innovations offers an efficient, cost-effective method for sending lightweight parcels and flat mail to global addresses from the U.S. We pick up customers’ domestic and international mail, and then sort, post, manifest and expedite the secured mail containers to the destination postal service for last-mile delivery.



UPS Freight

UPS Freight offers regional, inter-regional and long-haul less-than-truckload (“LTL”) services, as well as full truckload services, in all 50 states, Canada, Puerto Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands and Mexico. UPS Freight provides reliable LTL service backed by a day-definite, on-time guarantee at no additional cost. Additionally, many user-friendly small package technology offerings are available for freight. Applications such as UPS WorldShip, Billing Center, and Quantum View allow customers to process and track LTL shipments, create electronic bills of lading and reconcile billing.

UPS Capital

UPS Capital offers a range of services, including export and import financing to help improve cash flow, risk mitigation offerings to protect goods, as well as payment solutions that help speed the conversion cycle of payments.



Sustainability

UPS’s business and corporate responsibility strategies pursue a common interest to increase the vitality and environmental sustainability of the global economy by aggregating the shipping activity of millions of businesses and individuals worldwide into a single, highly efficient logistics network. This provides benefits to:

•UPS, by ensuring strong demand for our services.

•The economy, by making global supply chains more efficient and less expensive.

•The environment, by enabling our global customers to leverage UPS’s carbon efficiency and thereby reduce the carbon intensity of their supply chains.

We pursue sustainable business practices worldwide through operational efficiency, fleet advances, facility engineering projects, and conservation-enabling technology and service offerings. We help our customers to do the same.

In 2013, we conducted our second corporate materiality assessment. We once again worked with the non-profit organization Business for Social Responsibility ("BSR") to evaluate significant sustainability issues (economic, environmental and social), and ranked each issue by importance based on multiple stakeholder feedback.  We then worked with BSR to update our materiality matrix by mapping the issues on a grid with two axes: “Importance to Stakeholder” and “Influence on Business Success”. The materiality matrix is used to aid in prioritizing our sustainability strategy.









Sustainability highlights in2013include:

•Recognized by Fortune Magazine as one of the “World’s Most Admired” companies in2013.

•One of Corporate Responsibility’s “100 Best Corporate Citizens” for the 4th consecutive year.

•Recognized by Ethisphere Institute as one of the “World’s Most Ethical Companies”.

•Named to Interbrands “Best Global Brands” for the 9th consecutive year. We ranked in the Top 100 in brand value around the world (#27) and were the only company in the transportation sector to make the list in2013.

•Recognized as a constituent of the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index for the 9th consecutive year; in addition, we were included on the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for the first time since 2006.

•Recognized as a constituent of the NASDAQ OMX and the STOXX NASDAQ OMX Global Sustainability Index for the 4th consecutive year.

•One of America’s Top Organizations for Multicultural Business Opportunities by DiversityBusiness.com.

•Achieved a score of 99% in response to the Carbon Disclosure Project for the 3rd consecutive year.

More information on how UPS addresses its most significant sustainability issues is available in the UPS Corporate Sustainability Report and on the UPS Sustainability website.



Community

We believe that strong communities are vital to the success of our company. By combining our philanthropy with the volunteer time and talents of our employees, UPS helps drive positive change for organizations and communities in need across the globe. The highlights of our corporate citizenship efforts in2013include:

•Local non-profits around the world received more than 1.8 million hours of volunteer service from UPS employees participating in our Neighbor-to-Neighbor program.

•The UPS Foundation, which oversees corporate citizenship efforts for the company, invested $102 million in donations of both cash and in-kind services to global causes primarily in four focus areas—community safety, environmental sustainability, diversity and volunteerism.

•UPS employees, both active and retired, contributed $51 million to United Way in 2013 which was matched by a corporate contribution of $8 million.

•Through The UPS Foundation we have the opportunity to support our global communities to offset carbon, support clean water, reduce poverty and help individuals sustain their lives through the planting of  trees. The UPS Global Tree Planting initiative is the signature program of The UPS Foundation’s Environmental Focus area. In 2013, we supported the planting of 1.3 million trees worldwide.

•UPS continued to aid communities impacted by disasters through our UPS Humanitarian Relief program, by providing our logistics expertise, skilled volunteers, capacity building support and in-kind services. In 2013, UPS coordinated more than 250 humanitarian relief shipments across 46 countries and provided funding and logistics support to strengthen long-term recovery efforts of communities impacted by Hurricane Sandy, the Oklahoma Tornados, Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines, flooding in Colorado, Mexico and India as well as families displaced by the Syrian Refugee Crisis.

•Thousands of teenagers and novice drivers in the U.S., Canada, the U.K., and Germany participated in UPS Road Code. This safety program for new drivers features UPS employees as instructors – a role where they share driving knowledge and safety tips amassed over our long history of safe driving.



Reputation

Great brands require connecting with customers.  In working to develop these connections, we have once again received high accolades from independent brand evaluations.  In2013, we were pleased that UPS earned the top rating in our industry on Interbrand’s Best Global Brands and Millward Brown's BrandZ Most Valuable Global Brands. UPS also was named to industry-leading positions in Fortune Magazine’s Most Admired and Harris Interactive’s Reputation Quotient surveys.











Employees

The strength of our company is our people, working together with a common purpose. We had approximately395,000employees (excluding temporary seasonal employees) as ofDecember 31, 2013, of which318,000are in the U.S. and77,000are located internationally. Our global workforce includes approximately71,000management employees (37% of whom are part-time) and324,000hourly employees (48% of whom are part-time).

As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had approximately253,000employees employed under a national master agreement and various supplemental agreements with local unions affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters ("Teamsters"). In April 2013, we reached a tentative agreement with the Teamsters on two new national master agreements in the U.S. Domestic Package and UPS Freight business units, both of which are retroactive to August 1, 2013 and will remain effective through July 31, 2018.  Before expiration of the existing national master agreements, the Company and the Teamsters agreed to extensions of both existing five-year national master agreements and all supplemental agreements.  The extensions are open-ended and can be terminated by either party on thirty days' notice.

UPS Teamster-represented employees in the U.S. Domestic Package business unit subsequently voted to approve the new national master agreement in June 2013, while several local U.S. Domestic Package supplemental agreements require additional negotiation and approval before ratification occurs.  As of February 2014, there were a total of six supplemental agreements that still have to be approved before ratification.  We anticipate that the remaining agreements will be voted upon in the coming months.

The UPS Freight business unit ratified its national master agreement in January 2014.

We have approximately2,600pilots who are employed under a collective bargaining agreement with the Independent Pilots Association (“IPA”), which became amendable at the end of2011.  In February 2014, UPS and the IPA requested mediation by the National Mediation Board for the ongoing contract negotiations.

Our airline mechanics are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with Teamsters Local 2727, which became amendable onNovember 1, 2013. In addition, approximately3,100of our ground mechanics who are not employed under agreements with the Teamsters are employed under collective bargaining agreements with the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (“IAM”). Our agreement with the IAM runs throughJuly 31, 2014.

The experience of our management team continues to be an organizational strength. Nearly 37% of our full-time managers have more than 20 years of service with UPS.

We believe that our relations with our employees are good. We periodically survey all our employees to determine their level of job satisfaction. Areas of concern receive management attention as we strive to keep UPS the employer-of-choice among our employees. We consistently receive numerous awards and wide recognition as an employer-of-choice, resulting in part from our emphasis on diversity and corporate citizenship.



Safety

Health and Safety is a core value at UPS and an enduring belief that the wellbeing of our people, business partners, and the public is of utmost importance. We train our people to avoid injury to themselves and others in all aspects of their work. We do not tolerate unsafe work practices.

We use an all-encompassing Comprehensive Health and Safety Process ("CHSP") to prevent occupational illnesses, injuries, and auto crashes, as well as promote wellness through the development of workplace programs. The foundation of this process is our co-chaired employee and management health and safety committees. Together they conduct facility and equipment audits, perform work practice and behavior analysis, conduct training, and recommend work process and equipment changes.









The components of CHSP are:

•Personal Value- Which is the foundation and forms the base of our safety and wellness culture.

•Management Commitment and Employee Involvement- Where employees take an active role in their own safety as well as their fellow workers and are supported by management.

•Work Site Analysis- Which includes injury and auto crash data analysis, behavior observations, and facility and equipment audits to identify gaps and develop solutions. Our operations managers are responsible for their employees' safety results. We investigate every injury and auto crash and develop prevention activities.

•Hazard Prevention and Control- Where solutions are developed and documented to ensure identified risks have been mitigated.

•Safety Education and Training- Employees who are healthy and well-trained in proper methods are more safe and efficient in performing their jobs. Our approach starts with training the trainer. All trainers are certified to ensure that they have the skills and motivation to effectively instruct new employees. All new employees receive safety training during orientation and in the work area. In addition, each new driver receives extensive classroom and online instruction, as well as on-road training.

Other components to ensure the safety of our fleet include:

•Recognition -We have a well-defined safe driving honor plan to recognize our drivers when they achieve accident-free milestones. We have more than 7,200 drivers enshrined in our coveted Circle of Honor for drivers who have driven 25 years or more without an avoidable auto crash.

•Preventive Maintenance -Wehave a comprehensive Preventive Maintenance Program to ensure the safety of our fleet. Our fleet is managed and monitored electronically to ensure that each vehicle is serviced at a specific time to prevent malfunction or breakdown.



Competition

We are the largest package delivery company in the world, in terms of both revenue and volume. We offer a broad array of services in the package and freight delivery industry and, therefore, compete with many different local, regional, national and international companies. Our competitors include worldwide postal services, various motor carriers, express companies, freight forwarders, air couriers and others. Through our supply chain service offerings, we compete with a number of participants in the supply chain, financial services and information technology industries.



Competitive Strengths

Our competitive strengths include:

Integrated Global Network.We believe that our integrated global ground and air network is the most extensive in the industry. We handle all levels of service (air, ground, domestic, international, commercial, residential) through a single pickup and delivery service network.

Our sophisticated engineering systems allow us to optimize our network efficiency and asset utilization on a daily basis. This unique, integrated global business model creates consistent and superior returns.

We believe we have the most comprehensive integrated delivery and information services portfolio of any carrier in Europe. In other regions of the world, we rely on both our own and local service providers’ capabilities to meet our service commitments.

Global Presence.UPS serves more than220countries and territories around the world. We have a presence in all of the world’s major economies.

Leading-edge Technology.We are a global leader in developing technology that helps our customers optimize their shipping and logistics business processes to lower costs, improve service and increase efficiency.

Technology powers virtually every service we offer and every operation we perform. Our technology offerings are initiated by our customers’ needs. We offer a variety of online service options that enable our customers to integrate UPS functionality into their own businesses not only to send, manage and track their shipments conveniently, but also to provide their customers with better information services. We provide the infrastructure for an Internet presence that extends to tens of thousands of customers who have integrated UPS tools directly into their own web sites.









Broad Portfolio of Services.Our portfolio of services enables customers to choose the delivery option that is most appropriate for their requirements. Increasingly, our customers benefit from business solutions that integrate many UPS services in addition to package delivery. For example, our supply chain services—such as freight forwarding, customs brokerage, order fulfillment, and returns management—help improve the efficiency of the supply chain management process.

Customer Relationships.We focus on building and maintaining long-term customer relationships. We serve1.5million pick-up customers and7.9million delivery customers daily. Cross-selling small package, supply chain and freight services across our customer base is an important growth mechanism for UPS.

Brand Equity.We have built a leading and trusted brand that stands for quality service, reliability and product innovation. The distinctive appearance of our vehicles and the professional courtesy of our drivers are major contributors to our brand equity.

Distinctive Culture.We believe that the dedication of our employees results in large part from our distinctive “employee-owner” concept. Our employee stock ownership tradition dates from 1927, when our founders, who believed that employee stock ownership was a vital foundation for successful business, first offered stock to employees. To facilitate employee stock ownership, we maintain several stock-based compensation programs.

Our long-standing policy of “promotion from within” complements our tradition of employee ownership, and this policy reduces the need for us to hire managers and executive officers from outside UPS. The majority of our management team began their careers as full-time or part-time hourly UPS employees, and have spent their entire careers with us. Many of our executive officers have more than 30 years of service with UPS and have accumulated a meaningful ownership stake in our company. Therefore, our executive officers have a strong incentive to effectively manage UPS, which benefits all our shareowners.

Financial Strength.Our balance sheet reflects financial strength that few companies can match. Our financial strength gives us the resources to achieve global scale; to invest in employee development, technology, transportation equipment and facilities; to pursue strategic opportunities that facilitate our growth; to service our obligations; and to return value to our shareowners in the form of dividends and share repurchases.



Government Regulation

Air Operations

The U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”), the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”), and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, through the Transportation Security Administration (“TSA”), have regulatory authority over United Parcel Service Co.’s (“UPS Airlines’”) air transportation services. The Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended, is the statutory basis for DOT and FAA authority and the Aviation and Transportation Security Act of 2001, as amended, is the basis for TSA aviation security authority.

The DOT’s authority primarily relates to economic aspects of air transportation, such as discriminatory pricing, non-competitive practices, interlocking relations and cooperative agreements. The DOT also regulates, subject to the authority of the President of the United States, international routes, fares, rates and practices, and is authorized to investigate and take action against discriminatory treatment of U.S. air carriers abroad. International operating rights for U.S. airlines are usually subject to bilateral agreement between the U.S. and foreign governments. UPS Airlines has international route operating rights granted by the DOT and we may apply for additional authorities when those operating rights are available and are required for the efficient operation of our international network. The efficiency and flexibility of our international air transportation network is dependent on DOT and foreign government regulations and operating restrictions.

The FAA’s authority primarily relates to safety aspects of air transportation, including aircraft operating procedures, transportation of hazardous materials, record keeping standards and maintenance activities, and personnel. In 1988, the FAA granted us an operating certificate, which remains in effect so long as we meet the safety and operational requirements of the applicable FAA regulations. In addition, we are subject to non-U.S. government regulation of aviation rights involving non-U.S. jurisdictions, and non-U.S. customs regulation.

FAA regulations mandate an aircraft corrosion control program, along with aircraft inspection and repair at periodic intervals specified by approved programs and procedures, for all aircraft. Our total expenditures under these programs for2013were not material. The future cost of repairs pursuant to these programs may fluctuate according to aircraft condition, age and the enactment of additional FAA regulatory requirements.









The TSA regulates various security aspects of air cargo transportation in a manner consistent with the TSA mission statement to “protect the Nation’s transportation systems to ensure freedom of movement for people and commerce.” UPS Airlines, and specified airport and off-airport locations, are regulated under TSA regulations applicable to the transportation of cargo in an air network. In addition, personnel, facilities and procedures involved in air cargo transportation must comply with TSA regulations.

UPS Airlines, along with a number of other domestic airlines, participates in the Civil Reserve Air Fleet (“CRAF”) program. Our participation in the CRAF program allows the U.S. Department of Defense (“DOD”) to requisition specified UPS Airlines wide-body aircraft for military use during a national defense emergency. The DOD compensates us for the use of aircraft under the CRAF program. In addition, participation in CRAF entitles UPS Airlines to bid for military cargo charter operations.

Ground Operations

Our ground transportation of packages in the U.S. is subject to the DOT’s and the states’ jurisdiction with respect to the regulation of operations, safety, insurance and hazardous materials. We are subject to similar regulation in many non-U.S. jurisdictions.

The Postal Reorganization Act of 1970 created the U.S. Postal Service as an independent establishment of the executive branch of the federal government, and created the Postal Rate Commission, an independent agency, to recommend postal rates. The Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act of 2006 amended the 1970 Act to give the re-named Postal Regulatory Commission revised oversight authority over many aspects of the Postal Service, including postal rates, product offerings and service standards. We sometimes participate in the proceedings before the Postal Regulatory Commission in an attempt to secure fair postal rates for competitive services.



Customs

We are subject to the customs laws in the countries in which we operate, regarding the import and export of shipments, including those related to the filing of documents on behalf of client importers and exporters.

Environmental

We are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations across all of our business units. These laws and regulations cover a variety of processes, including, but not limited to: proper storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous and other waste; managing wastewater and stormwater; monitoring and maintaining the integrity of underground storage tanks; complying with laws regarding clean air, including those governing emissions; protecting against and appropriately responding to spills and releases; and communicating the presence of reportable quantities of hazardous materials to local responders. UPS has established site- and activity-specific environmental compliance and pollution prevention programs to address our environmental responsibilities and remain compliant. In addition, UPS has created numerous programs which seek to minimize waste and prevent pollution within our operations.

Other Regulations

We are subject to numerous other U.S. federal and state laws and regulations, in addition to applicable foreign laws, in connection with our package and non-package businesses in the countries in which we operate. These laws and regulations include those enforced by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and other agencies of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the U.S. Department of Treasury, the Federal Maritime Commission, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and the U.S. Department of Agriculture.



Where You Can Find More Information

UPS maintains a website atwww.ups.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made available through our websitewww.investors.ups.comas soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file or furnish the reports to the SEC. Also available on the Corporation’s website are the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines and Committee Charters. However, information on these websites is not incorporated by reference into this report or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC.









We have adopted a written Code of Business Conduct that applies to all of our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive officer and senior financial officers. It is available in the governance section of the investor relations website, located atwww.investors.ups.com. In the event that we make changes in, or provide waivers from, the provisions of the Code of Business Conduct that the SEC requires us to disclose, we intend to disclose these events in the governance section of our investor relations website.

Our Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charters for our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee are also available in the governance section of the investor relations website.

Our sustainability report, which describes our activities that support our commitment to acting responsibly and contributing to society, is available atwww.sustainability.ups.com. We provide the addresses to our Internet sites solely for the information of investors. We do not intend for any addresses to be active links or to otherwise incorporate the contents of any website into this report.





