Item 1.Business

Overview

United Parcel Service, Inc. (“UPS”) is the world’s largest package delivery company, a leader
in the U.S. less-than-truckload industry, and a global leader in supply chain management. We were founded in 1907 as a private messenger and delivery service in Seattle, Washington. Today, we deliver packages each business day for 1.8 million
shipping customers to 6.1 million consignees in over 200 countries and territories. In 2009, we delivered an average of 15.1 million pieces per day worldwide, or a total of 3.8 billion packages. Total revenue in 2009 was $45.3 billion.

Our primary business is the time-definite delivery of packages and documents worldwide. The UPS service portfolio also
includes global supply chain services and less-than-truckload transportation, primarily in the U.S. We report our operations in three segments: U.S. Domestic Package operations, International Package operations, and Supply Chain & Freight
operations.



•U.S. Domestic Package operations include the time-definite delivery of letters, documents, and packages throughout the United States.



•International Package operations encompass delivery of letters, documents, and packages to more than 200 countries and territories worldwide, including
shipments wholly outside the United States, as well as shipments from or to the United States with another country as the destination or origin point.



•Supply Chain & Freight is comprised of our forwarding and logistics operations, UPS Freight, and other related businesses. Our forwarding and
logistics business provides services in more than 175 countries and territories worldwide, and includes supply chain design and management, freight distribution, customs brokerage, mail and consulting services. UPS Freight offers a variety of
less-than-truckload (“LTL”) and truckload (“TL”) services to customers in North America. Other business units within this segment include Mail Boxes, Etc. (the franchisor of Mail Boxes, Etc. and The UPS Store) and UPS Capital.

Transportation and Infrastructure.We operate a ground fleet of approximately
101,900 vehicles, which reaches all business and residential zip codes in the contiguous U.S. We also operate an air fleet of 510 aircraft, and we are one of the largest airlines in the world. Our primary air hub is in Louisville, KY. Regional air
hubs are located in Hartford, CT; Ontario, CA; Philadelphia, PA; and Rockford, IL. Our largest international air hub is in Cologne, Germany, with other regional international hubs in Miami, FL; Canada; Hong Kong; Singapore; Taiwan; China; and the
Philippines.

We operate a global transportation infrastructure and offer a comprehensive portfolio of services. We support
these services with advanced operational and customer-facing technology. Our supply chain solutions enable customers’ inventory to move more effectively. As a consequence, they can concentrate on their own core competencies.

Outlook.Notwithstanding the global recessionary conditions that prevailed throughout most of 2009, we believe
that the following trends will allow us to continue to grow our business over the long term:



•As countries around the world recover from the recession that characterized most of 2009, global trade should resume, albeit slowly.



•Just-in-time inventory management, increased use of the Internet for ordering goods, and direct-to-consumer business models require transportation
services to be effective.



•Outsourcing supply chain management is becoming more prevalent, as customers increasingly view effective management of their supply chains as a
strategic advantage rather than a cost center.







Our vision for the future is to synchronize the world of commerce, addressing the
complexities of our customers’ supply chain needs. Our goal is to develop business solutions that create value and competitive advantages for our customers, enabling them to achieve supply chain efficiencies, better customer service fortheircustomers and improved cash flow.

Operations

We believe that our integrated global network is the most extensive in the industry. It is the only network that handles all levels of
service (air, ground, domestic, international, commercial, residential) through one integrated pickup and delivery service system. All packages are commingled throughout their journey through our network except when necessary to meet their specific
service commitments.

U.S. Domestic Package

The U.S. business consists of air and ground delivery of small packages—up to 150 pounds in weight—and letters to and from all 50 states. It also provides guaranteed, time-definite delivery of
certain heavy-weight packages. Substantially all of our U.S. small package delivery services are guaranteed.

The integrated
air and ground pick-up and delivery network on which this business is built improves productivity and asset utilization, and provides the flexibility to transport packages using the most reliable and cost-effective transportation mode or combination
of modes.

In 2009, UPS completed the first phase of a multi-year expansion of the fully automated
Worldport®air hub in Louisville, KY, our largest air hub. When expansion is completed next year, Worldport sort
capacity will be 416,000 packages per hour—a 37% increase. This expansion enables more cost-effective package processing and improved network efficiencies.

Also in 2009, we expanded our early morning delivery service. UPS now delivers earlier to more businesses and zip codes in the United States, and worldwide from the United States, than our competitors.

We believe that our broad product portfolio, reliable package delivery service, experienced and dedicated employees and
unmatched, integrated air and ground network provide us with the advantages of reputation, service quality and economies of scale that differentiate us from our competitors. Our strategy is to increase domestic revenue through cross-selling services
to our large and diverse customer base, to control costs through effective network modification and limited expense growth, and to employ technology-driven efficiencies to increase operating profit.

International Package

The
International Package segment provides air and ground delivery of small packages and letters to more than 200 countries and territories around the world. Export services cross country boundaries; domestic services move shipments within a
country’s borders. UPS’s global presence grew out of its highly refined U.S. domestic business.



•Europe is our largest region outside the United States—accounting for approximately half of our international revenue. In Europe we provide both
express and domestic service, much like the service portfolio we offer in the U.S., and based on the same integrated network model.



•Through more than two dozen alliances with Asian delivery companies that supplement company-owned operations, we serve more than 40 Asia Pacific
countries and territories. Two of the fastest growing economies in the world, China and India, are among our most promising opportunities.



•Our Canadian operations include both domestic and import/export capabilities. We deliver to all addresses throughout Canada.



•We are also the largest air cargo carrier in Latin America and the Caribbean.







We have built a strong international presence through significant investments over several
decades. Some of our recent acquisitions and investments include the following:



•In 2007, we implemented the largest service expansion of our international shipping portfolio in more than a decade. UPS began offering customers
three, rather than two, daily time-definite delivery options to and from the world’s most active trading markets, giving customers greater flexibility in managing their businesses.



•In 2008, we completed construction of a new hub in Tamworth, England, UPS’s largest ground hub outside the U.S. It replaced three smaller
facilities, and added more capacity and better efficiencies than existed with the three separate facilities.



•Also in 2008, we acquired our partner’s interest in the small package joint venture operation in Romania.



•In 2009, we expanded our presence in Eastern Europe and in Central Asia with the acquisition of our service agents in Slovenia and Turkey,
respectively.



•Also in 2009, we set up a joint venture in Dubai to coordinate management and growth of UPS express package, freight forwarding and contract logistics
services across the Middle East, Turkey and portions of Central Asia.

Growth in Asia is being driven by
global demand, which is stimulating improved demographic and economic trends throughout the region, particularly in China and India. Over the last few years, UPS has steadily increased air service between the U.S. and Asia.



•In 2007, we added six daily flights between the U.S. and Nagoya, Japan. This new service complements our 78 weekly flights into and out of Tokyo and
Osaka, Japan. These flights connected to Shanghai in 2008, enhancing intra-Asia service.



•In 2008, we opened a new air hub in Shanghai, the first constructed in China by a U.S. carrier. It links all of China via Shanghai to UPS’s
international network with direct service to the Americas, Europe and Asia. It also connects points served in China by UPS.



•In 2008, we broke ground on a new intra-Asia air hub in Shenzhen, China, which became operational in February 2010.



•Also in 2008, we acquired our partner’s interest in a small package shipping joint venture in Korea.

The international package delivery market has been growing at a faster rate than that of the U.S., and our international package operations
have historically been growing faster than the market. We plan to use our worldwide infrastructure and broad product portfolio to grow high-margin premium services. Additionally, we plan to expand our non-U.S. domestic package operations by
continuing to build our package delivery infrastructure and through acquisitions in certain countries. We have been and will continue to implement cost, process and technology improvements in our international operations. We believe that both Europe
and Asia offer significant opportunities for long-term growth.

Supply Chain & Freight Segment

The Supply Chain & Freight segment consists of our forwarding and logistics capabilities as well as our UPS Freight business unit.

Supply chains are becoming increasingly complex, as shown in Diagram 1. Many of our customers, large and small, have
outsourced all or part of their supply chains to streamline and gain efficiencies, to improve service, to support new business models and to strengthen their balance sheets.









This increasing complexity creates demand for a global service offering that incorporates transportation,
distribution and international trade and brokerage services with financial and information services. We can meet that demand because:



•We manage supply chains in over 175 countries and territories, with more than 33 million square feet of distribution space worldwide.



•We focus on supply chain optimization, freight forwarding, international trade and brokerage services for our customers worldwide, which include a
broad range of transportation solutions including air, ocean and ground freight.



•We provide information technology systems and distribution facilities adapted to the unique supply chains of specific industries such as healthcare,
technology, and consumer/retail. We call these “configurable solutions.” In a configurable solution, multiple customers share standardized IT systems and processes as well as a common network of assets. A configurable solution is
repeatable for multiple customers and has a package transportation component. For example, we have a well developed supply chain management capability for the healthcare sector that meets all regulatory and compliance requirements.



•We offer a portfolio of financial services that provides customers with short-term working capital, government guaranteed lending, global trade
financing, credit cards and export financing.

UPS Freight is an LTL service, which offers a full range of
regional, inter-regional and long-haul LTL capabilities in all 50 states, Canada, Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands and Mexico. This business also offers a TL service. UPS Freight provides services through a network of owned and leased service
centers and carrier partnerships.

Our growth strategy is to increase the number of customers benefiting from configurable
supply chain solutions, particularly in the healthcare, high tech and retail sectors, and to increase the amount of small package transportation from these customers. We intend to leverage our small package and freight customers through
cross-selling the full complement of UPS services.







Products and Services

Our goal is to provide our customers with easy-to-use products and services. We seek to streamline their shipment processing and integrate
critical transportation information into their own business processes, helping them create supply chain efficiencies, better serve their customers and improve their cash flows. These products and services support LTL and air freight shipments, as
well as small package transportation. UPS offers a variety of technology solutions for automated shipping, visibility and billing. We believe we have the most comprehensive suite of such services in the industry.

Global Small Package.Our global small package portfolio consists of a spectrum of export and domestic
services. Export services are those provided for packages crossing a country’s borders, while domestic services are for packages that stay within the borders of a single country. We provide domestic express services in 50 countries outside the
United States. This portfolio includes guaranteed delivery options to major cities around the world. We handle packages that weigh up to 150 pounds and are up to 165 inches in combined length and girth. We offer same-day pickup of air and ground
packages. We also offer worldwide customs clearance service for any mode of transportation.

Additional products that provide
enhanced shipping, visibility, billing and returns services are available to customers who require customized package solutions.

Our enhanced, data-driven package pick-up and delivery technology is the basis for new services introduced in 2007. For example, UPS introduced a unique paperless invoice service for international small package shippers that integrates
order processing, shipment preparation and commercial invoice data and then transmits that data to customs offices across the globe, eliminating the need for paper commercial invoices. Another new offering, UPS Returns, is the first industry
offering that facilitates international commerce for any size customer by simplifying package returns to 98 countries or territories. Package recipients can obtain international return labels and commercial invoices via e-mail, local post or from a
UPS driver picking up the return package.

In 2009, UPS pioneered a return service for its retail customers in partnership
with the United States Postal Service. Customers may leave a return package in their mailboxes for pick-up by their U.S. mail carrier. UPS picks up returned packages at the Post Office.

We provide our customers with easy access to UPS. There are over 141,000 domestic and international access points to
UPS. These include: 38,800 branded drop-boxes, 1,100 UPS Customer Centers, 4,800 independently owned and operated The UPS Store®and Mail Boxes Etc.®locations worldwide, 2,700 alliance partner locations, 12,000 Authorized Shipping Outlets and commercial counters, and 81,900 UPS drivers who can accept packages given to them.

Supply Chain Services.    Our freight forwarding and logistics businesses meet customers’ supply chain needs
through a comprehensive portfolio of services, including:



•Freight Forwarding:international air, full container load and less than container load ocean, rail and ground freight for all size shipments
utilizing UPS and other carriers, and multimodal transportation network management.



•Logistics and Distribution:supply chain management, distribution center design, planning and management, order fulfillment, inventory
management, receiving and shipping, critical parts logistics, reverse logistics and cross docking.



•Customs Brokerage:customs clearance, trade management, and international trade consulting.



•Industry-specific Solutions:for healthcare, retail, high tech, automotive, industrial manufacturing and government customers.



•UPS CapitalSMprovides short-term working capital, government guaranteed lending, global trade financing, credit cards and export
financing.







In 2008, UPS launched a new, simplified global portfolio for shipping air freight, with
guaranteed day-specific, door-to-door service as well as non-guaranteed service options.

Freight
Services.UPS Freight provides LTL services through a network of owned and leased service centers and carrier partnerships. UPS Freight also provides our customers with truckload and dedicated truckload transportation
solutions. Since expanding into the freight transport market, we have enhanced our value proposition through improvements in technology, operations and the customer experience. In 2007, we integrated all freight products into our small package
visibility systems, enabling shippers to view the status of package and freight shipments from a single web page. Since mid-2007, UPS Freight has accelerated transit times on over 16,000 lanes. Significant service and reliability improvements for
freight transportation enabled us to implement a no-fee, guaranteed delivery service in early 2008 and we expanded it to Canadian deliveries later in the year. In 2009, UPS Freight began offering door-to-door service to and from Mexico, complete
with UPS customs brokerage capabilities and single invoicing for all services between the United States, Canada, and Mexico.

Technology

Technology is the backbone of everything we do at UPS. It is at the heart of customer access to the
company.



•UPS.comprocesses over 22 million package tracking transactions daily. A growing number of those tracking requests come from customers in
countries that have wireless access to UPS tracking information.



•Package tracking, pickup requests, rate quotes, account opening, wireless registration, drop-off locator, transit times and supply ordering services
are all available at customers’ desktops or laptops. The site also displays full domestic and international service information and allows customers to process outbound shipments as well as return labels for their customers.



•Businesses in a number of countries also can download UPSDeveloper Kit SMto their own websites for direct use by their customers. This allows
users to access the information they need without leaving our customers’ websites.



•In 2007, we integrated all freight products, including international air freight forwarding shipments, into our small package visibility systems. Now a
shipper can view the status of package and freight shipments from a single web page.

Technology is also the
foundation for process improvements within UPS that enhance productivity, improve efficiency and reduce costs. The most comprehensive improvement to our U.S. small package handling facilities was completed in 2007. This multi-year effort
re-engineered our domestic business, based on a data-driven platform, and included software, hardware and process changes. It enables a package center to produce an optimized dispatch plan for every driver and detailed loading instructions for every
vehicle before center employees handle any packages. This plan reduces mileage driven, resulting in substantial fuel savings. The re-engineered system provides the basis for unique customer-focused services based on the customer-specific data which
powers the system.

A new technology we began deploying in 2008 is Telematics, which combines information from our
drivers’ hand-held computers with GPS and automotive sensors to help us better manage our ground fleet operations. It helps us improve vehicle maintenance, enhance safety and fine-tune delivery and pick-up service. This technology also improves
on-road performance by reducing vehicle expense, fuel consumption, and carbon emissions. Since 2008, we have equipped approximately 12,000 of our U.S. vehicles with the sensors needed to achieve the benefits from this technology.







Sustainability

UPS takes seriously its commitment to operate in a socially, environmentally and economically sustainable manner. In 2003, the company was
the first in its industry to publish a sustainability report that set forth its five-year goals—and then to provide annual updates on progress toward attaining those goals. The website www.sustainability.ups.com provides complete information on
these efforts.

UPS constantly reviews our processes, programs and policies to ensure we are operating in a sustainable and
responsible manner that benefits all our stakeholders—customers, employees, shareowners and the communities in which we operate. Multiple recognitions in 2009 attest to our success, such as:



•Included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the seventh consecutive year and the FTSE4Good Index for the fifth consecutive year



•Top 500 Greenest Companies in America (ranked No. 85) by Newsweek Magazine



•SmartWay Excellence Award by U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)



•Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index Top 50 Global Companies



•40 Best Companies for Diversity by Black Enterprise Magazine



•Top 50 Companies for Diversity by Hispanic Business Magazine



•Best Places to Launch a Career by BusinessWeek Magazine



•100 Best Global Brands by Interbrand (ranked No. 31)



•America’s Top Corporations for Women’s Business Enterprises (included every year since 1999)

Sales and Marketing

The UPS worldwide sales organization is responsible for the complete spectrum of UPS products and services. This field sales organization consists primarily of locally based account executives assigned to
our individual operating units. For our largest multi-shipping site customers, we manage sales through an organization of regionally based account managers, reporting directly to executive management.

Our sales force also includes specialized groups that work with our general sales organization to support the sale of customer technology
solutions, international package delivery, LTL and freight transportation, and warehousing and distribution services.

In
2007, we completed a major sales force reorganization to better align our sales resources and integrate with customer business processes. Our goal is to enhance the customer experience when dealing with the extensive scope of UPS capabilities, at
any point in the shipping or supply chain management process. In early 2010, we announced a streamlining of the U.S. Domestic Package operations. As part of the restructuring, we will expand our outreach to customers by strengthening local sales and
marketing efforts.

Our worldwide marketing organization also supports our global small package, supply chain and freight
businesses. Our corporate marketing function is engaged in market and customer research, brand management, segment management, rate-making and revenue management policy, pricing, new product development, product portfolio management, marketing
alliances, and technology marketing, including the non-technical aspect of our web presence. Advertising, public relations, and most formal marketing communications are generally centrally developed and controlled.

In addition to our corporate marketing group, field-based marketing personnel are assigned to our individual operating units and are
primarily engaged in business planning, market analysis and opportunity identification, segment management, and customer profitability management.







Employees

We had approximately 408,000 employees as of December 31, 2009, of which 340,000 are in the U.S. and 68,000 are located internationally.

As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 254,000 employees employed under a national master agreement and various
supplemental agreements with local unions affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters (“Teamsters”). These agreements run through July 31, 2013.

We have approximately 2,800 pilots who are employed under a collective bargaining agreement with the Independent Pilots Association
(“IPA”), which becomes amendable at the end of 2011. In February 2010, we announced plans to furlough at least 300 of our airline pilots, after efforts between the Company and the IPA failed to identify sufficient operating cost savings.
If the furloughs go forward, they would be phased in order to better match our resources to current economic conditions.

Our
airline mechanics are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with Teamsters Local 2727, which became amendable in November 2006. We began formal negotiations with Teamsters Local 2727 in October 2006. In addition, the majority (approximately
3,400) of our ground mechanics who are not employed under agreements with the Teamsters are employed under collective bargaining agreements with the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (“IAM”). In July 2009, a new
agreement with the IAM was ratified, which runs through July 31, 2014.

We believe that our relations with our employees
are good. We periodically survey all our employees to determine their level of job satisfaction. Areas of concern receive management attention as we strive to keep UPS the employer of choice among our employees.

We consistently receive numerous awards and wide recognition as an employer-of-choice, resulting in part from our emphasis on diversity and
corporate citizenship.

Competition

We are the largest package delivery company in the world, in terms of both revenue and volume. We offer a broad array of services in the
package and freight delivery industry and, therefore, compete with many different local, regional, national and international companies. Our competitors include worldwide postal services, various motor carriers, express companies, freight
forwarders, air couriers and others. Through our supply chain service offerings, we compete with a number of participants in the supply chain, financial services and information technology industries.

Competitive Strengths

Our competitive strengths include:

Integrated Global
Network.We believe that our integrated global ground and air network is the most extensive in the industry. It is the only network that handles all levels of service (air, ground, domestic, international, commercial,
residential) through a single pickup and delivery service system.

Our sophisticated engineering systems allow us to optimize
our network efficiency and asset utilization on a daily basis. This unique, integrated global business model creates consistent and superior returns.

We believe we have the most comprehensive integrated delivery and information services portfolio of any carrier in Europe. In other regions of the world, we rely on both our own and local service
providers’ capabilities to meet our service commitments.

Global Presence.UPS has the most
balanced presence throughout the world.







Leading-edge Technology.We are a global leader in developing
technology that helps our customers optimize their shipping and logistics business processes to lower costs, improve service and increase efficiency.

Technology powers virtually every service we offer and every operation we perform. Our technology initiatives are driven by our customers’ needs. We offer a variety of on-line service options that
enable our customers to integrate UPS functionality into their own businesses not only to conveniently send, manage and track their shipments, but also to provide their customers with better information services. We provide the infrastructure for an
Internet presence that extends to tens of thousands of customers who have integrated UPS tools directly into their own web sites.

Broad Portfolio of Services.Our portfolio of services enables customers to choose the delivery option that is most appropriate for their requirements. Increasingly, our customers benefit from business
solutions that integrate many UPS services in addition to package delivery. For example, our supply chain services—such as freight forwarding, customs brokerage, order fulfillment, and returns management—help improve the efficiency of the
supply chain management process.

Customer Relationships.We focus on building and maintaining
long-term customer relationships. We serve 1.8 million pick-up customers and 6.1 million delivery customers daily. Cross-selling small package, supply chain and freight services across our customer base is an important growth mechanism for
UPS.

Brand Equity.We have built a leading and trusted brand that stands for quality service,
reliability and product innovation. The distinctive appearance of our vehicles and the friendliness and helpfulness of our drivers are major contributors to our brand equity.

Distinctive Culture.We believe that the dedication of our employees results in large part from our
distinctive “employee-owner” concept. Our employee stock ownership tradition dates from 1927, when our founders, who believed that employee stock ownership was a vital foundation for successful business, first offered stock to employees.
To facilitate employee stock ownership, we maintain several stock-based compensation programs.

Our long-standing policy of
“promotion from within” complements our tradition of employee ownership, and this policy reduces the need for us to hire managers and executive officers from outside UPS. The majority of our management team began their careers as full-time
or part-time hourly UPS employees, and have spent their entire careers with us. Many of our executive officers have more than 30 years of service with UPS and have accumulated a meaningful ownership stake in our company. Therefore, our executive
officers have a strong incentive to effectively manage UPS, which benefits all our shareowners.

Financial
Strength.Our balance sheet reflects financial strength that few companies can match. As of December 31, 2009, we had a balance of cash and marketable securities of approximately $2.100 billion and shareowners’
equity of $7.696 billion. Our Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”) short-term credit ratings are P-1 and A-1+, respectively, and our Moody’s and S&P long-term credit ratings are Aa3 and AA-, respectively.
We have a stable outlook from Moody’s, however subsequent to year-end, S&P changed its outlook for the company from stable to negative. We have a strong capacity to service our obligations. Our financial strength gives us the resources to
achieve global scale; to invest in employee development, technology, transportation equipment and buildings; to pursue strategic opportunities that facilitate our growth; and to return value to our shareowners in the form of dividends and share
repurchases.







Government Regulation

Air Operations

The U.S.
Department of Transportation (“DOT”), the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”), and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, through the Transportation Security Administration (“TSA”), have regulatory authority over
United Parcel Service Co.’s (“UPS Airlines’”) air transportation services. The Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended, is the statutory basis for DOT and FAA authority and the Aviation and Transportation Security Act of 2001,
as amended, is the basis for TSA aviation security authority.

The DOT’s authority primarily relates to economic aspects
of air transportation, such as discriminatory pricing, non-competitive practices, interlocking relations and cooperative agreements. The DOT also regulates, subject to the authority of the President of the United States, international routes, fares,
rates and practices, and is authorized to investigate and take action against discriminatory treatment of U.S. air carriers abroad. International operating rights for U.S. airlines are usually subject to bilateral agreement between the U.S. and
foreign governments. UPS Airlines has international route operating rights granted by the DOT and we may apply for additional authorities when those operating rights are available and are required for the efficient operation of our international
network. The efficiency and flexibility of our international air transportation network is dependent on DOT and foreign government regulations and operating restrictions.

The FAA’s authority primarily relates to safety aspects of air transportation, including aircraft operating procedures, transportation of hazardous materials, record keeping standards and maintenance
activities, personnel and ground facilities. In 1988, the FAA granted us an operating certificate, which remains in effect so long as we meet the safety and operational requirements of the applicable FAA regulations. In addition, we are subject to
non-U.S. government regulation of aviation rights involving non-U.S. jurisdictions, and non-U.S. customs regulation.

FAA
regulations mandate an aircraft corrosion control program, along with aircraft inspection and repair at periodic intervals specified by approved programs and procedures, for all aircraft. Our total expenditures under these programs for 2009 were $13
million. The future cost of repairs pursuant to these programs may fluctuate according to aircraft condition, age and the enactment of additional FAA regulatory requirements.

The TSA regulates various security aspects of air cargo transportation in a manner consistent with the TSA mission statement to
“protect the Nation’s transportation systems to ensure freedom of movement for people and commerce.” UPS Airlines, and specified airport and off airport locations, are regulated under TSA regulations applicable to the transportation
of cargo in an air network. In addition, personnel, facilities and procedures involved in air cargo transportation must comply with TSA regulations.

UPS Airlines, along with a number of other domestic airlines, participates in the Civil Reserve Air Fleet (“CRAF”) program. Our participation in the CRAF program allows the U.S. Department of
Defense (“DOD”) to requisition specified UPS Airlines wide-body aircraft for military use during a national defense emergency. The DOD compensates us for the use of aircraft under the CRAF program. In addition, participation in CRAF
entitles UPS Airlines to bid for military cargo charter operations.

Ground Operations

Our ground transportation of packages in the U.S. is subject to the DOT’s jurisdiction with respect to the regulation of routes and to
both the DOT’s and the states’ jurisdiction with respect to the regulation of safety, insurance and hazardous materials. We are subject to similar regulation in many non-U.S. jurisdictions.

The Postal Reorganization Act of 1970 created the U.S. Postal Service as an independent establishment of the executive branch of the federal
government, and vested the power to recommend domestic postal rates in a regulatory body, the Postal Rate Commission. We participate in the proceedings before the Postal Rate Commission in an attempt to secure fair postal rates for competitive
services.







Other Regulations

We are subject to numerous other laws and regulations in connection with our non-package businesses, including customs regulations, Food and Drug Administration regulation of our transportation of
pharmaceuticals, and state and federal lending regulations.

Customs

We are subject to U.S. customs laws and related DOT regulations regarding the import and export of shipments to and from the U.S. In
addition, our customs brokerage entities are subject to those same laws and regulations as they relate to the filing of documents on behalf of client importers and exporters.

Environmental

We are subject to federal, state, and local environmental
laws and regulations across all of our business units. These laws and regulations cover a variety of processes, including, but not limited to: proper storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous and other waste; managing wastewater and storm water;
monitoring and maintaining the integrity of underground storage tanks; complying with laws regarding clean air, including those governing emissions; protecting against and appropriately responding to spills and releases; and communicating the
presence of reportable quantities of hazardous materials to local responders. UPS has established site- and activity-specific environmental compliance and pollution prevention programs to address our environmental responsibilities and remain
compliant. In addition, UPS has created numerous programs which seek to minimize waste and prevent pollution within our operations.

Where
You Can Find More Information

We make our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K, and all amendments to these reports available free of charge through our investor relations website, located atwww.investors.ups.com,as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. Additional
information about UPS is available atwww.ups.com.Our sustainability report, which describes our activities that support our commitment to acting responsibly and contributing to society, is available atwww.sustainability.ups.com .

We have adopted a written Code of Business Conduct that applies to all of our directors, officers and employees, including
our principal executive officer and senior financial officers. It is available in the governance section of the investor relations website, located atwww.investors.ups.com. In the event that we make changes in, or provide waivers from, the
provisions of the Code of Business Conduct that the SEC requires us to disclose, we intend to disclose these events in the governance section of our investor relations website.

Our Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charters for our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance
Committee are also available in the governance section of the investor relations website. The information on our investor relations website is not incorporated by reference into this report.

See Footnote 11 to our consolidated financial statements for financial information regarding our reporting segments and geographic areas in
which we operate.

The information on websites maintained by the Company is not incorporated by reference into this annual
report on Form 10-K.







