Item 1.Business





Overview

United Parcel Service, Inc. (“UPS”) was founded in 1907 as a private messenger and delivery service in Seattle, Washington. Today, UPS is the world’s largest package delivery company, a leader in the U.S. less-than-truckload industry and the premier provider of global supply chain management solutions. We deliver packages each business day for1.6million shipping customers to8.2million receivers ("consignees") in over220countries and territories. In2014, we delivered an average of18.0 millionpieces per day worldwide, or a total of 4.6 billion packages. Total revenue in2014was $58.2 billion.

We are a global leader in logistics, and we create value for our customers through solutions that lower costs, improve service and provide highly customizable supply chain control and visibility. Customers are attracted to our broad set of services that are delivered as promised through our integrated ground, air and ocean global network.

Our services and integrated network allow shippers to simplify their supply chains by using fewer carriers, and to adapt their transportation requirements and expenditures as their businesses evolve. Across our service portfolio, we also provide control and visibility of customers’ inventories and supply chains via our UPS technology platform. The information flow from UPS technology drives improvements for our customers, as well as for UPS, in reliability, flexibility, productivity and efficiency.

Particularly over the last decade, UPS has significantly expanded the scope of our capabilities to include more than package delivery. Our logistics and distribution capabilities give companies the power to easily expand their businesses to new markets around the world. By leveraging our international infrastructure, UPS enables our customers to bridge time zones, cultures, distances and languages to keep the entire supply chain moving smoothly.

We serve the global market for logistics services, which include transportation, distribution, forwarding, ground freight, ocean freight, air freight, brokerage and financing. We have three reportable segments: U.S. Domestic Package, International Package and Supply Chain & Freight, all of which are described below. For financial information concerning our reportable segments and geographic regions, refer to note 11 of our consolidated financial statements.












Business Strategy

Customers leverage our broad array of logistics capabilities; global presence in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America; reliability; industry-leading technologies; and solutions expertise for competitive advantage in markets where they choose to compete. We prudently invest to expand our integrated global network and service portfolio. Technology investments create user-friendly shipping, e-commerce, logistics management and visibility tools for our customers, while supporting our ongoing effort to increase operational efficiencies.

Our service portfolio and investments are rewarded with among the best return on invested capital and operating margins in the industry. We have a long history of sound financial management. Our consolidated balance sheet reflects financial strength that few companies can match.  Our Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s short-term credit ratings are P-1 and A-1, respectively. Our Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s long-term credit ratings are Aa3 and A+, respectively. We currently have a stable outlook from both Moody's and Standard & Poor’s. Cash generation is a significant strength of UPS. This gives us strong capacity to service our obligations and allows for distributions to shareowners, reinvestment in our businesses and the pursuit of growth opportunities.

We enable and are the beneficiaries of the following trends:

Expansion of Global Trade

Transcontinental and trade across borders are predicted to grow faster than U.S. and global gross domestic production for the foreseeable future. As a result, U.S. and international economies are becoming more inter-connected and dependent on foreign trade.

UPS plays an important role in global trade and is well positioned to take advantage of trade growth, wherever it occurs. Our global presence and productivity enhancing technologies allow customers to expand into new markets. We advocate the expansion of free trade, including the passage of regional trade pacts and the removal of trade barriers. Free trade is a catalyst for job creation, economic growth and improved living standards; additionally, it propels our growth.

Emerging Market Growth

Emerging market opportunities continue to expand.  Over the next ten years, these markets are expected to represent the majority of global GDP growth, and an increasing proportion of global trade.  Emerging markets are understandably a focus of investment and growth for our current customers; in addition, they will be a source of UPS’s next generation of customers.  To take advantage of these opportunities, UPS will continue to make long-term investments in markets where our customers choose to grow.  Over the past ten years, UPS has established a strong market presence in three leading emerging markets: China, Poland and Turkey.  In the future, the Middle East, Latin America, Africa and Eastern Europe will become increasingly important for UPS.

Taken together, these two trends (expanding global trade and emerging market growth) underscore why our international business is a catalyst for UPS’s growth.

Increasing Need for Segment Expertise in the Integrated Carrier, Logistics and Transportation Space

We offer differentiated value propositions in several segments, including automotive and industrial manufacturing, retail, government, professional and consumer services, healthcare and high-tech.

Our industry-specific solutions are increasingly tailored to align with customer needs in each of these sectors.  Staying abreast of industry trends positions us to anticipate business challenges in each industry. We deepen our understanding by studying these challenges and engaging with customers at the strategic planning stage.  We then align our logistics expertise to address these business challenges to help our customers compete.

Our understanding of how macro and industry trends impact the stakeholders in each market allows us to develop commercial insights for our customers. These insights are incorporated into our sales-and-solution process and are shared with customers through direct engagement, industry forums and publications.  By inviting our customers to leverage our capabilities to improve their overall industry performance, we help them achieve their business objectives and maintain our own competitiveness.














The combination of rising demand for healthcare services around the globe, new product innovations, increasing regulatory demands and downward pressure on reimbursement is creating both exciting opportunities and complex challenges for healthcare and life sciences companies.  In today’s environment, healthcare logistics executives are most concerned with regulatory compliance, product security, supply chain cost management and product damage/spoilage.  To address these challenges, more healthcare and life sciences companies are relying on partnerships with third party logistics providers that can provide efficient, scalable solutions that enable instant access to healthcare compliant infrastructure, provide options for temperature-sensitive transportation and storage capabilities and have expertise in the regulatory requirements of the markets they seek to enter.

UPS is in a unique position to offer our clients such solutions through the combination of our dedicated healthcare transportation and distribution capabilities which sit atop our vast, global integrated transportation network and are managed by a team of employees with healthcare logistics expertise.  Over the past two years, we opened 15 new dedicated healthcare facilities on four continents, with our most recent additions in the United Kingdom, Mexico, Brazil and Poland.  In total, we operate nearly seven million square feet of dedicated healthcare distribution space across an integrated network of 49 facilities.  These facilities allow us to provide reliable, secure and cost-effective warehousing and distribution for healthcare and life sciences firms, which, in turn, allow them to easily navigate across and within borders.

Rapid technology innovation and growing worldwide demand for electronics are driving change in the already-dynamic high-tech industry.  As the technology marketplace becomes more complex, high-tech companies must manage and optimize their supply chains to remain competitive. Every year, product lifecycles are getting shorter, dictating the need for high-tech companies to better predict demand and understand their logistics requirements. Increasingly, they are looking to third party logistics providers for support in product launches, distribution, post-sales support and reverse logistics.

We have the expertise these companies need, as well as, a global transportation network and integrated technology solutions that can generate supply chain efficiency. This means high-tech companies, large and small, can get their products to market faster, improve customer service and boost revenue. We offer global sourcing and a significant amount of repair space to leverage one of the largest networks of post-sales facilities in the world. With more than 950 field stocking locations in 147 countries, we help high-tech companies identify better ways to meet their crucial logistics needs. Our experience and global capabilities make us a strong partner in the high-tech industry.

We will continue to expand our industry-specific support by growing our physical footprint and enhancing our technology based on our deepening understanding of industry-specific needs. Our aim is to increase the number of customers benefiting from these solutions and gain their associated transportation and logistics business.

Logistics Outsourcing

Outsourcing supply chain management is becoming more prevalent, as customers increasingly view professional management and operation of their supply chains as a strategic advantage. This trend enables companies to focus on what they do best. We can meet our customers’ needs for outsourced logistics with our global capabilities in customized forwarding, transportation, warehousing, distribution, delivery and post-sales services. As we move deeper into customers’ supply chains, we do so with a shared vision on how to best equip our customers with transportation and logistics solutions to better serve their customers. We integrate our technology for efficiencies, visibility and control to ensure that we execute as promised and to provide peace of mind for our customers.

Retail e-Commerce Growth

Throughout much of the world, e-commerce growth continues to outpace traditional lines of business.  Our integrated network puts UPS in an ideal position to capitalize on the shift towards residential deliveries.  We continue to create new services, supported by UPS technology, that complement the traditional UPS premium home delivery service and address the needs of e-commerce shippers and consignees. Our offerings span a broad spectrum that supports retailers across their value chain, from global sourcing to distribution and returns.  We offer cost-sensitive solutions such as UPS SurePost, for shipments where economy takes precedence over speed, and feature-rich solutions, such as our UPS My Choice service that provides consignees with revolutionary visibility and control of their inbound shipments.

UPS My Choice keeps members up-to-date on their parcels’ delivery status through proactive alerts, and offers flexible delivery options to control when and where deliveries occur.  Following on the success of UPS My Choice in the U.S. (over 13 million members), we expanded the service to 15 additional countries and territories in the Americas and Europe regions in 2014.  With UPS My Choice, consignees may direct the timing and location of their deliveries before a delivery attempt is made. We strive to give our customers the best delivery experience in the industry---delivery on the first attempt, where and when their customers want them.












When UPS My Choice members will not be home to accept a delivery, they can redirect packages to UPS Access Point locations.  UPS Access Points are convenient locations - such as The UPS Store® and other local businesses - that offer easy package drop-off and pickup.  With evening and weekend hours, UPS Access Point locations fit consumers’ schedules and enable UPS to get packages delivered faster.  Shippers in 50 origin countries and territories can ship directly to UPS Access Point locations in 12 destination countries, giving shippers and consignees greater control over package deliveries.  Our integrated UPS Access Point network in Europe now has nearly 14,000 locations across nine countries with the 2014 additions of Poland and Italy.   We also expanded into North America to include locations in Canada, Mexico and the United States. By the end of 2015, we expect to have more than 20,000 locations worldwide.  This move enhances our cross-border e-commerce offerings for retailers, while increasing choice for their customers, who can opt to pick up or drop off their parcels at retail locations that are convenient to them.

In 2014, UPS announced the purchase of i-parcel, LLC. This new offering focuses on innovative international e-commerce and logistics. The combination of UPS and i-parcel yields a global e-commerce solution that further strengthens our global business-to-consumer capabilities. This solution enables merchants to connect to over 100 million global shoppers by providing an integrated web platform, creating a localized look and feel for international shoppers. The technology empowers merchants to instantly localize their shopping cart value and provide a seamless shopping experience for international customers. This solution serves retail shoppers in over 100 countries and includes local currency options, fully-landed prices, and fully trackable, end-to-end delivery services.





Technology

Technology forms the foundation of our reliability and allows us to enhance the customer experience.  Technology delivers value to our customers and returns to our shareowners.  Recent developments that improve our operational efficiency, flexibility, reliability and customer experience include:

•Continuing rollout of telematics to our international delivery fleet. We have completed the deployment of telematics to our domestic small package, freight forwarding and ground freight fleets. Telematics helps UPS determine a truck’s performance and condition by capturing data on more than 200 related elements, including speed, RPM, oil pressure, seat belt use, number of times the vehicle is placed in reverse and idling time. Together, improved data and driver coaching help reduce fuel consumption, emissions and maintenance costs, while improving driver safety. Additionally, customers experience more consistent pickup times and more reliable deliveries, thereby enhancing their profitability and competitiveness.  By the end of 2014, telematics had been installed in over 82,000 vehicles.

•Implementing our On Road Integrated Optimization and Navigation system (“ORION”), which employs advanced algorithms to determine the optimal route for each delivery while meeting service commitments. By the end of 2014, ORION was deployed to over 23,000 drivers.

•Converting to keyless entry, which enables drivers to remotely turn the engine off with a button that will unlock the bulkhead door at the same time.  Keyless entry is installed on all package cars in the U.S. and Canada.

•Ramping up installations of our Next Generation Small Sort (“NGSS”) technology, which reduces the amount of memorization required to sort a package, thereby improving productivity and quality. Employees sort packages to bins tagged with flashing lights, rather than memorizing addresses, allowing us to dramatically reduce training time. NGSS is deployed to 285 sites globally and 64 additional sites are under evaluation for 2015.

We bring industry-leading UPS technology to our customers who, in turn, realize increased productivity, greater control of their supply chains and improved customer experience when they integrate with our systems.  Customers benefit through offerings such as:

Shipping

WorldShip™, which is UPS’s flagship desktop shipping application, provides middle market and large customers with robust shipping capabilities.  Customers can create custom labels, set up shipment alerts, create and upload customs documentation, track and export shipments, create reports and integrate with their enterprise resource planning and accounting systems to streamline shipping with real-time connectivity.

UPS marketplace shipping, which integrateswww.ups.comwith eBay® and Amazon®, allows marketplace sellers to easily ship their orders viawww.ups.comor WorldShip. UPS marketplace shipping provides simplified shipment processing, access to order and shipment history, automatically updates the marketplace with tracking information and provides access to multiple payment options, including PayPal™.










Tracking and Visibility

UPS Quantum View® can help customers better manage shipments, facilitate tracking, allow for inbound volume planning, manage third-party shipping costs and automatically notify customers of incoming shipments. With visibility into transit times and delivery confirmations, customers can speed up their revenue cycle and collect accounts receivables more quickly while improving customer service.

International Trade Tools

UPS Paperless™ solutions allow customers to self-enroll in UPS Paperless™ Invoice and to upload shipping documents. These solutions enable customers to electronically transmit a commercial invoice, packing list or their own customs documents when shipping internationally. This eliminates redundant data entry and errors, while reducing customs delays and paper waste.

UPS TradeAbility® tools help customers effectively and confidently manage the movement of goods internationally in a timely, efficient and compliant manner.

Billing

The UPS Billing Center, a secure location for customers to view, download, manage and pay their UPS invoices, helps customers accelerate billing and payment processes.  Customers can assign privileges with administrative controls, manage multiple accounts and create custom reports using a simple interface.

Integration

The UPS Developer Kit, which is comprised of multiple Application Programming Interfaces ("APIs"), helps customers streamline and automate their internal business processes.  The UPS Developer Kit APIs allow customers to integrate a wide range of UPS functionality into their business systems and websites such as address validation, shipment scheduling, selection of shipping service levels, tracking and much more.

Business-to-Consumer

All UPS Access Point locations are pre-approved to ensure package safety, and are also equipped with the latest UPS technology to help make package pickup quick and convenient.  Consumers are kept informed of the status of their package by tracking it onwww.ups.comor on the UPS mobile application or website.

UPS My Choice®, which focuses on the consignee, has transformed the residential delivery experience. Receivers can direct the timing and circumstances of their deliveries using their computer, mobile devices or a Facebook app. This innovative service is powered by the complex integration of real-time route optimization and other technologies within our delivery network.

The Global Locator onwww.ups.comwas enhanced to give customers greater and faster access to UPS drop-off and pickup locations, including new UPS Access Point sites. The Global Locator has a new single search field with updated filters, location images, and location-specific promotions. Customers can also provide online feedback, e-mail search results, save favorite locations and access recent searches.

Mobile

UPS Mobile™, which includes the mobile website, m.ups.com, and apps for iPhone, iPad, Android and Kindle Fire devices, is readily available for most customers at any time. Customers can track, ship, find UPS locations, manage UPS My Choice shipments and receive shipment notifications on their mobile devices. The UPS Mobile apps and website were enhanced so that customers can now convert a rate estimate into a shipment, ship a package without logging in with a My UPS ID, compare shipping services more easily, select PayPal™ as a payment option, view details on shipping charges and utilize the redesigned Global Locator.





Reporting Segments and Products & Services

As a global leader in logistics, UPS offers a broad range of domestic and export delivery services; the facilitation of international trade; and the deployment of advanced technology to more efficiently manage the world of business. We seek to streamline our customers’ shipment processing and integrate critical transportation information into their own business processes, helping them to create supply chain efficiencies, better serve their customers and improve cash flow.












Global Small Package

UPS’s global small package operations provide time-definite delivery services for express letters, documents, small packages and palletized freight via air and ground services. We provide domestic delivery services within 54 countries and export services to more than220countries and territories around the world. We handle packages that weigh up to 150 pounds and are up to 165 inches in combined length and girth as well as palletized shipments weighing greater than 150 pounds.  All of our package services are supported by numerous shipping, visibility and billing technologies.

UPS handles all levels of service (air, ground, domestic, international, commercial, residential) through one global integrated pickup and delivery network. All packages are commingled within our network, except when necessary to meet their specific service commitments. This enables one UPS driver to pick up our customers’ shipments, for any of our services, at the same scheduled time each day. Compared to companies with single service network designs, our integrated network uniquely provides operational and capital efficiencies while being more environmentally-friendly.

We offer same-day pickup of air and ground packages upon request.  Customers can schedule pickups for one to five days a week, based on their specific needs.  Additionally, our wholly-owned and partnered global network offers approximately 150,000 entry points where customers can tender a package to us at a location or time convenient to them.  This combined network includes UPS drivers who can accept packages provided to them; UPS drop boxes; UPS Access Point locations; The UPS Store locations; authorized shipping outlets and commercial counters; alliance locations; and customer centers attached to UPS facilities. Some of these locations offer a full array of services including pickup, delivery and packing options, while others are drop-off locations only.  We continually look for ways to enhance the customer experience by offering easy access to UPS.

The growth of online shopping has increased our customers’ needs for efficient and reliable returns, resulting in our development of a robust selection of returns services that are available in more than 145 countries. Options vary based on customer needs and country, and range from cost-effective solutions such as UPS Returns, to more-specialized services such as UPS Returns Exchange.  UPS Returns enables shippers to provide their customers with a return shipping label, while UPS Returns Exchange simplifies product exchanges by delivering a replacement item and picking up a return item in the same stop, and assisting with the re-packaging process.

We operate one of the largest airlines in the world, with global operations centered at our Worldport hub in Louisville, Kentucky. Worldport sort capacity, currently at 416,000 packages per hour, has expanded over the years due to volume growth and a centralization effort.  Our European air hub is located in Cologne, Germany, and we maintain Asia-Pacific air hubs in Shanghai, China; Shenzhen, China; and Hong Kong.  Our regional air hub in Canada is located in Hamilton, Ontario, and our regional air hub for Latin America and the Caribbean is in Miami, Florida.

In the U.S., Worldport is supported by our regional air hubs in Columbia, South Carolina; Dallas, Texas; Ontario, California; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and Rockford, Illinois. This network design allows for cost-effective package processing in our most technology-enabled facilities while enabling us to use fewer, larger and more fuel-efficient aircraft.  Our U.S. ground fleet serves all business and residential zip codes in the contiguous U.S.

U.S. Domestic Package Reporting Segment

UPS is a leader in time-definite, money-back guaranteed, small package delivery services. We offer a full spectrum of U.S. domestic guaranteed ground and air package transportation services. Depending on the delivery speed needed, customers can select from a range of guaranteed time and day-definite delivery options.

•Customers can select from same day, next day, two day and three day delivery alternatives. Many of these services offer options that enable customers to specify a time-of-day guarantee for their delivery (e.g. by 8:30, 10:30, noon, end of day, etc.).

•Customers can also leverage our extensive ground network to ship using our day-definite guaranteed ground service that serves every U.S. business and residential address. UPS delivers more ground packages than any other carrier, with nearly 13 million ground packages delivered on time every day in the U.S., most within one to three business days.

•UPS also offers UPS SurePost, an economy residential ground service for customers with non-urgent, lightweight residential shipments. UPS SurePost is a contractual residential ground service that combines the consistency and reliability of the UPS Ground network with final delivery often provided by the U.S. Postal Service.










As U.S. online sales are estimated to nearly double by 2020, UPS invested over $1 billion in facility expansions and equipment modernization to better manage volume growth throughout the year, and to ensure a successful peak season in 2014 and beyond.  Other significant improvements to effectively manage seasonal volume fluctuations included:

•Enhancing Cyber Week operations in the U.S., including full ground and air pickup and delivery operations on Black Friday.

•Using additional aircraft and regional air hubs to add significant capacity to UPS’s air network during critical periods.

•Automating facilities to expand our existing capabilities through enhanced technology.

•Adding new delivery vehicles and trailers, and increasing staffing to improve efficiency in all areas.

•Updatingwww.ups.comand expanding UPS communications to enhance the timeliness and relevance of alerts when service disruptions occur.

Our significant investments in network capacity improvements and enhanced shipment visibility demonstrate our readiness to provide exceptional service and peace of mind to our customers.

International Package Reporting Segment

Our International Package reporting segment includes the small package operations in Europe, Asia, Canada and Latin America, the Indian sub-continent, the Middle East and Africa. UPS offers a wide selection of guaranteed day and time-definite international shipping services.

•We offer three guaranteed time-definite express options (Express Plus, Express and Express Saver) to more locations than any other carrier.

•In 2013, we introduced UPS Worldwide Express Freight for palletized shipments over 150 pounds. In early 2015, this service was enhanced to include 50 origins and 51 destinations, helping UPS customers to expand the footprint of their palletized shipments to major markets throughout the world.  UPS Worldwide Express Freight leverages our unique combination of package and freight networks to provide industry leading transit times with a money-back guarantee.

•For international shipments that do not require express services, UPS Worldwide Expedited offers a reliable, deferred, guaranteed day-definite service option.  In 2013, we tripled the coverage area for UPS Worldwide Expedited, providing delivery in two-to-five business days to more than 220 countries and territories. We continue to expand our origin footprint for this service moving to over 80 origins in 2015.  This expansion will help UPS customers magnify their global reach and balance delivery speed with cost, no matter where they ship.

•For cross-border ground package delivery, we offer UPS Transborder Standard delivery services within Europe, between the U.S. and Canada and between the U.S. and Mexico.

Europe, our largest region outside of the U.S., accounts for roughly half of international revenue and is one of the primary drivers of our growth.  Several factors provide significant opportunities, including the highly fragmented nature of the market and the fact that exports make up a significant part of Europe’s GDP.  We believe there is a continued strong potential for growth in small package exports in Germany, the U.K., France, Italy, Spain and the Netherlands.  To accommodate this growth, we expanded our main European air hub in Cologne, Germany in the first quarter of 2014; increasing capacity to process 190,000 packages per hour.

Asia remains attractive due to growth rates in intra-Asia trade and the expanding Chinese economy. We are bringing faster time-in-transit to customers focused on intra-Asia trade, and reducing transit days from Asia to Europe.  Through added flight frequencies, we provide our customers the ability to ship next day to more places in Europe, guaranteed, than any other express carrier.  We are continuing to build our presence in China through the expansion of our service capabilities, investing in our transportation network and strengthening brand awareness.  During 2014 we opened a new Trans Pacific Air Hub at Taiwan Taoyuan International Airport, marking a 40% increase in size from the previous hub and increasing connectivity from Taiwan to key markets in the U.S. and Europe. Additionally, we serve more than 40 Asia-Pacific countries and territories through more than two dozen alliances with local delivery companies that supplement company-owned operations.

Additional international highlights include the following:

•In South and Central America, we benefit from a strong regional economy. Our offerings include express package delivery in major cities as well as distribution and forwarding services. We continue to expand our network in Brazil, with plans to open nine new operating facilities strategically located in the state of Sao Paolo, set to be completed in May 2015. This enhancement will increase territorial coverage by 78% and improve time in transit throughout this key market.










•We continue to grow our business organically in Mexico. We are well positioned with freight, domestic, international and distribution services. In 2014, we opened six new UPS Express centers strategically located across Mexico, including Mexico City, State of México, Jalisco and Quintana Roo.  These new centers are aimed at increasing our presence among small and medium enterprises and the retail sector.

•In February 2012, we broadened our European business-to-consumer service portfolio by acquiring Kiala S.A., a Belgium-based developer of a platform that enables e-commerce retailers to offer consumers the option of having goods delivered to a convenient retail location. Kiala was rebranded as UPS Access Point™ in the UPS portfolio of services.  In 2014, we had nearly 14,000 Access Points in Europe after adding Poland and Italy to the existing seven countries that include Belgium, Germany, France, the UK, Luxembourg, Spain, and the Netherlands.  There are also more than 700 Access Points in Canada, and in 2014 we added Mexico to the network.  We expect to expand to over 20,000 locations throughout Europe and the Americas by the end of 2015.

•During 2014, UPS MyChoice was expanded to 15 additional countries and territories:  Canada, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Mexico, the Netherlands, Poland, Puerto Rico, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.



Supply Chain & Freight Reporting Segment

The Supply Chain & Freight segment consists of our forwarding and logistics services, our UPS Freight business, and our financial offerings through UPS Capital.  Supply chain complexity creates demand for a global service offering that incorporates transportation, distribution and international trade and brokerage services, with financial and information services. We meet this demand by offering a broad array of supply chain services in over 195 countries and territories.

We have continued to acquire healthcare logistics companies to expand our transportation and distribution networks in Europe.  In February 2014, we acquired Polar Speed Distribution Limited, a U.K.-based healthcare transportation provider specializing in refrigerated ground transportation of temperature-sensitive medicines and medical devices.  In December 2014, we announced the acquisition of Poltraf Sp. Z o.o., a Polish-based healthcare logistics company that provides direct distribution and compliant logistics services to pharmaceutical and medical device customers in the fast-growing healthcare markets of Central and Eastern Europe (this acquisition is expected to close in the first half of 2015).  Both of these acquisitions are part of our ongoing global growth and investment strategy.

In 2014, we also expanded our global logistics network by more than two million square feet, including 1.5 million square feet in North America. We added contract logistics facilities in key markets including Brazil, Chile, Netherlands and China (Beijing). Our continued investment in China brings the total to more than 130 owned and agent contract logistics facilities, covering 87 cities.  These facilities provide distribution and warehousing solutions to shippers who want to reach customers within China and demonstrate our continued commitment to serving China's emerging middle class.  We broadened our North American Health Care service offering by developing a healthcare-compliant network of 36 Field Stocking Locations ("FSLs"). This capability helps companies quickly send medical devices to hospitals and care facilities, while better managing inventory costs, regulatory compliance requirements, and end-to-end visibility of shipments.

Freight Forwarding

UPS is one of the largest U.S. domestic air freight carriers and among the top international air freight forwarders globally. UPS offers a portfolio of guaranteed and non-guaranteed global air freight services. Additionally, as one of the world’s leading non-vessel operating common carriers, UPS also provides ocean freight full-container load and less-than-container load transportation services between most major ports around the world.

Customs Brokerage

UPS is among the world’s largest customs brokers by both the number of shipments processed annually and by the number of dedicated brokerage employees worldwide. We provide our customers with customs clearance, trade management and international trade consulting services.  In 2014, UPS expanded its brokerage capabilities in Costa Rica through the integration of the 2013 acquisition of SEISA Brokerage.

Logistics and Distribution

UPS Logistics offers the following services:

•Distribution Services: Our comprehensive distribution services are provided through a global network of distribution centers that manage the flow of goods from receiving to storage and order processing to shipment.  UPS also provides specialized services to streamline supply chains in the healthcare, high tech, retail, industrial manufacturing and aerospace industries.  Together, these services allow companies to save time and money by minimizing capital investment and positioning products closer to their customers.










•Post Sales: Post Sales services support goods after they have been delivered or installed in the field. The four core service offerings within Post Sales include: (1) Critical Parts Fulfillment; (2) Reverse Logistics; (3) Test, Repair, and Refurbish and (4) Network and Parts Planning. We leverage our global distribution network of over 950 FSLs to ensure that the right type and quantity of our customers’ stock is in the right location to meet the needs of their end-customers. This solution allows our customers to maximize service to their end-customers while reducing costs.

•UPS Mail Innovations: UPS Mail Innovations offers an efficient, cost-effective method for sending lightweight parcels and flat mail to global addresses from the U.S. We pick up customers’ domestic and international mail, and then sort, post, manifest and expedite the secured mail containers to the destination postal service for last-mile delivery.

•UPS Express Critical:  UPS Express Critical provides a broad range of urgent transportation options ranging from lightweight to heavyweight shipments around the world.  Our experienced team can quickly assess a critical situation, identify transportation alternatives and implement delivery solutions that meets customers’ time and cost requirements.

UPS Freight

UPS Freight offers regional, inter-regional and long-haul less-than-truckload (“LTL”) services, as well as full truckload services, in all 50 states, Canada, Puerto Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands and Mexico. UPS Freight provides reliable LTL service backed by a day-definite, on-time guarantee at no additional cost. Additionally, many user-friendly small package technology offerings are available for freight including: UPS WorldShip; Billing Center and Quantum View.  These technology systems allow customers to process and track LTL shipments, create electronic bills of lading and reconcile billing.

UPS Capital

By leveraging more than 107 years of transportation and global supply chain expertise, UPS Capital, a subsidiary of UPS, provides insurance, financing and payment services that are unique, relevant and competitive.  UPS Capital helps companies protect themselves from risk, improve cash flow, and accelerate and protect payments.  UPS is the only logistics company in the world that offers this breadth of in-house financial and insurance solutions, providing customers with a single source for all of their logistics needs.



Sustainability

UPS’s business and corporate responsibility strategies pursue a common interest to increase the vitality and environmental sustainability of the global economy by aggregating the shipping activity of millions of businesses and individuals worldwide into a single, highly efficient logistics network. This provides benefits to:

•UPS, by ensuring strong demand for our services.

•The economy, by making global supply chains more efficient and less expensive.

•The environment, by enabling our global customers to leverage UPS’s carbon efficiency and thereby reduce the carbon intensity of their supply chains.

•Communities, by connecting individuals to global markets and providing the economic empowerment that can help facilitate positive social change.

We pursue sustainable business practices worldwide through operational efficiency, fleet advances, facility engineering projects and conservation-enabling technology and service offerings. We help our customers do the same.

We consider stakeholder engagement an essential aspect of corporate governance and collaborate regularly with a global diverse set of stakeholders on sustainability issues. In addition, we engage stakeholders directly in our sustainability strategy through our corporate materiality assessment process. In 2013, we conducted our second formal assessment, working once again with the non-profit organization Business for Social Responsibility ("BSR") to evaluate significant sustainability issues (economic, environmental and social), and ranked each issue by importance based on multiple stakeholder feedback.  Our most material sustainability issues primarily involve our energy use, emissions and workplace policies.  The full results of the assessment are available atwww.ups.com/sustainability.










Sustainability highlights in2014include:

•One of Corporate Responsibility’s “100 Best Corporate Citizens” for the 5th consecutive year.

•Recognized by Ethisphere Institute as one of the “World’s Most Ethical Companies” for the 8th consecutive year.

•Named to Interbrand's “Best Global Green Brands” for the 4th consecutive year. We ranked 28th and were the only company in the transportation sector to make the top 50.

•Recognized as a constituent of the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index for the 10th consecutive year; in addition, we were included on the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for the 2nd consecutive year.

•Recognized as a constituent of the NASDAQ OMX Global Sustainability Index for the 5th consecutive year.

•Recognized as the top community-minded industrial company by The Civic 50.

•Achieved a score of 100% in response to the Carbon Disclosure Project. It is the 4th consecutive year we have achieved a rating at or above 99%.

More information on how UPS addresses its most significant sustainability issues is available in the UPS Corporate Sustainability Report and on the UPS Sustainability website.



Community

We believe that strong communities are vital to the success of our company. By combining our philanthropy with the volunteer time and talents of our employees, UPS helps drive positive change for organizations and communities in need across the globe. The highlights of our corporate citizenship efforts in2014include:

•Local non-profits around the world received nearly 1.9 million hours of volunteer service from UPS employees participating in our Neighbor-to-Neighbor program.

•The UPS Foundation, which oversees corporate citizenship efforts for the company, invested $104 million in donations of both cash and in-kind services to global causes primarily in four focus areas—community safety, environmental sustainability, diversity and volunteerism.

•UPS employees, both active and retired, contributed approximately $52 million to United Way in 2014 which was matched by a corporate contribution of $8 million.

•Through The UPS Foundation we have the opportunity to support our global communities to offset carbon, support clean water, reduce poverty and help individuals sustain their lives through the planting of  trees. The UPS Global Forestry Initiative, which began in 2013, is the signature program of The UPS Foundation’s Environmental Focus area. By the end of 2014, we have supported the planting of three million trees worldwide.

•UPS continued to aid communities impacted by disasters through our UPS Humanitarian Relief program, by providing our logistics expertise, skilled volunteers, capacity building support and in-kind services. In 2014, UPS coordinated more than 263 humanitarian relief shipments across 43 countries and provided funding and logistics support to strengthen long-term recovery efforts of communities impacted by the Ebola epidemic, the Syrian Refugee Crisis and severe weather events in the Southern and Midwestern regions of the U.S.

•Nearly 6,700 teenagers and novice drivers in the U.S., Canada, the U.K., Germany and China participated in UPS Road Code. This safety program for new drivers features UPS employees as instructors – a role where they share driving knowledge and safety tips amassed over our long history of safe driving.



Reputation

Great brands require connecting with customers.  In working to develop these connections, UPS continually receives high accolades from independent brand evaluations.   In2014, the company ranked 27th on Interbrand’s Best Global Brands and 16th on Millward Brown's BrandZ Most Valuable Global Brands. Additionally,  in Forbes’ “America’s Most Reputable Companies 2014,” UPS ranked 2nd among 150 large publicly-traded US companies rated by the Reputation Institute.












Employees

The strength of our company is our people, working together with a common purpose. We had approximately435,000employees (excluding temporary seasonal employees) as ofDecember 31, 2014, of which354,000are in the U.S. and81,000are located internationally. Our global workforce includes approximately75,000management employees (38% of whom are part-time) and360,000hourly employees (47% of whom are part-time).

As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately 270,000 employees employed under a national master agreement and various supplemental agreements with local unions affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters (“Teamsters”). During 2014, the Teamsters ratified a new national master agreement with UPS that will expire on July 31, 2018.

We have approximately 2,600 pilots who are employed under a collective bargaining agreement with the Independent Pilots Association ("IPA"), which became amendable at the end of 2011. In February 2014, UPS and the IPA requested and received mediation by the National Mediation Board for the ongoing contract negotiations.

Our airline mechanics are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with Teamsters Local 2727, which became amendable November 1, 2013.  In addition, approximately 3,100 of our auto and maintenance mechanics who are not employed under agreements with the Teamsters are employed under collective bargaining agreements with the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (“IAM”).  In 2014, the IAM ratified new collective bargaining agreements that will expire on July 31, 2019.

The experience of our management team continues to be an organizational strength. Nearly 34% of our full-time managers have more than 20 years of service with UPS.

We believe that our relations with our employees are good. We periodically survey all our employees to determine their level of job satisfaction. Areas of concern receive management attention as we strive to keep UPS the employer-of-choice among our employees. We consistently receive numerous awards and wide recognition as an employer-of-choice, resulting in part from our emphasis on diversity and corporate citizenship.



Safety

Health and Safety is a core value at UPS and an enduring belief that the well-being of our people, business partners and the public is of utmost importance. We train our people to avoid injury to themselves and others in all aspects of their work. We do not tolerate unsafe work practices.

We recognize employees for health, wellness, and safety accomplishments.  We provide programs that help promote the health and wellness of employees and their families, and the safety of our operations. We are committed to fostering the most effective safety practices in our work environment.  By meeting our high safety standards and goals, we contribute to the well-being of our people, company, and the communities we serve.

We use an all-encompassing Comprehensive Health and Safety Process ("CHSP") to prevent occupational illnesses, injuries and auto crashes, as well as promote wellness through the development of workplace programs. The foundation of this process is our co-chaired employee and management health and safety committees. Together they conduct facility and equipment audits, perform work practice and behavior analysis, conduct training and recommend work process and equipment changes.

The components of CHSP are:

•Personal Value.Which is the foundation and forms the base of our safety and wellness culture.

•Management Commitment and Employee Involvement- Where employees take an active role in their own safety as well as their fellow workers and are supported by management.  All operations management commit to providing a work environment that is conducive to the well-being and safety of their employees.

•Work Site Analysis.Which includes injury and auto crash data analysis, behavior observations and facility and equipment audits to identify gaps and develop solutions. Our operations managers are responsible for their employees' safety results. We investigate every injury and auto crash and develop prevention activities.

•Hazard Prevention and Control.Where solutions are developed and documented to ensure identified risks have been mitigated.










•Safety Education and Training.Employees who are healthy and well-trained in proper methods are more safe and efficient in performing their jobs. Our approach starts with training the trainer. All trainers are certified to ensure that they have the skills and motivation to effectively instruct new employees. All new employees receive safety training during orientation and in the work area. In addition, each new driver receives extensive classroom and online instruction, as well as on-road training.

Other components to ensure the safety of our people and fleet include:

•Wellness.We have a "Five Being Habits" wellness program that turns health and wellness knowledge into actionable measures.  These habits are designed to enable employees and their families to take positive steps toward healthy lifestyles.

•Recognition.We have a well-defined safe driving honor plan to recognize our drivers when they achieve accident-free milestones. We have more than 7,200 drivers enshrined in our coveted Circle of Honor for drivers who have driven 25 years or more without an avoidable auto crash.

•Preventive Maintenance.Wehave a comprehensive Preventive Maintenance Program to ensure the safety of our fleet. Our fleet is managed and monitored electronically to ensure that each vehicle is serviced at a specific time to prevent malfunction or breakdown.



Competition

UPS is a global leader in logistics. We offer a broad array of services in the package and freight delivery industry and, therefore, compete with many different local, regional, national and international carriers. Our competitors include worldwide postal services, various motor carriers, express companies, freight forwarders, air couriers and others. Through our supply chain service offerings, we compete with a number of providers in the supply chain, financial services and information technology industries.



Competitive Strengths

Our competitive strengths include:

Global Network.We believe that our integrated global ground and air network is the most extensive in the industry. We provide all types of package service (air, ground, domestic, international, commercial and residential) through a single pickup and delivery service network. We also have extensive air freight, ocean freight, ground freight and logistics networks that provide additional capabilities in the global transportation and logistics market.

Our sophisticated engineering systems allow us to optimize our network efficiency and asset utilization on a daily basis. This unique, integrated global business model creates consistent and superior returns.

Global Presence.UPS serves more than220countries and territories around the world. We have a significant presence in all of the world’s major economies.

Leading-edge Technology.We are a global leader in developing technology that helps our customers optimize their shipping and logistics business processes to lower costs, improve service and increase efficiency.

Technology powers virtually every service we offer and every operation we perform. Our technology offerings are driven by our customers’ needs. We offer a variety of online service options that enable our customers to integrate UPS functionality into their own businesses not only to send, manage and track their shipments conveniently, but also to provide their customers with better information services. We provide the infrastructure for an Internet presence that extends to tens of thousands of customers who have integrated UPS tools directly into their own websites.

Broad Portfolio of Services.Our portfolio of services enables customers to choose the delivery option that is most appropriate for their requirements. Increasingly, our customers benefit from business solutions that integrate many UPS services in addition to package delivery. For example, our supply chain services—such as freight forwarding, customs brokerage, order fulfillment and returns management—help improve the efficiency of the supply chain management process.

Customer Relationships.We focus on building and maintaining long-term customer relationships. We serve1.6million pickup customers and8.2million delivery customers daily. Cross-selling small package, supply chain and freight services across our customer base is an important growth mechanism for UPS.

Brand Equity.We have built a leading and trusted brand that stands for quality service, reliability and product innovation. The distinctive appearance of our vehicles and the professional courtesy of our drivers are major contributors to our brand equity.










Distinctive Culture.We believe that the dedication of our employees results in large part from our distinctive “employee-owner” concept. Our employee stock ownership tradition dates from 1927, when our founders, who believed that employee stock ownership was a vital foundation for successful business, first offered stock to employees. To facilitate employee stock ownership, we maintain several stock-based compensation programs.

Our long-standing policy of “promotion from within” complements our tradition of employee ownership, and this policy reduces the need for us to hire managers and executive officers from outside UPS. The majority of our management team began their careers as full-time or part-time hourly UPS employees, and have spent their entire careers with us. Many of our executive officers have more than 30 years of service with UPS and have accumulated a meaningful ownership stake in our company. Therefore, our executive officers have a strong incentive to effectively manage UPS, which benefits all our shareowners.

Financial Strength.Our balance sheet reflects financial strength that few companies can match. Our financial strength gives us the resources to achieve global scale; to invest in employee development, technology, transportation equipment and facilities; to pursue strategic opportunities that facilitate our growth; to service our obligations; and to return value to our shareowners in the form of dividends, share repurchases and steady share growth.



Government Regulation

Air Operations

The U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”), the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”), and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, through the Transportation Security Administration (“TSA”), have regulatory authority over United Parcel Service Co.’s (“UPS Airlines’”) air transportation services. The Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended, is the statutory basis for DOT and FAA authority and the Aviation and Transportation Security Act of 2001, as amended, is the basis for TSA aviation security authority.

The DOT’s authority primarily relates to economic aspects of air transportation, such as discriminatory pricing, non-competitive practices, interlocking relations and cooperative agreements. The DOT also regulates, subject to the authority of the President of the United States, international routes, fares, rates and practices, and is authorized to investigate and take action against discriminatory treatment of U.S. air carriers abroad. International operating rights for U.S. airlines are usually subject to bilateral agreement between the U.S. and foreign governments. UPS Airlines has international route operating rights granted by the DOT and we may apply for additional authorities when those operating rights are available and are required for the efficient operation of our international network. The efficiency and flexibility of our international air transportation network is dependent on DOT and foreign government regulations and operating restrictions.

The FAA’s authority primarily relates to safety aspects of air transportation, including aircraft operating procedures, transportation of hazardous materials, record keeping standards and maintenance activities, and personnel. In 1988, the FAA granted us an operating certificate, which remains in effect so long as we meet the safety and operational requirements of the applicable FAA regulations. In addition, we are subject to non-U.S. government regulation of aviation rights involving non-U.S. jurisdictions, and non-U.S. customs regulation.

UPS aircraft maintenance programs and procedures, including aircraft inspection and repair at periodic intervals, are approved for all aircraft under FAA regulations. The future cost of repairs pursuant to these programs may fluctuate according to aircraft condition, age and the enactment of additional FAA regulatory requirements.

The TSA regulates various security aspects of air cargo transportation in a manner consistent with the TSA mission statement to “protect the Nation’s transportation systems to ensure freedom of movement for people and commerce.” UPS Airlines, and specified airport and off-airport locations, are regulated under TSA regulations applicable to the transportation of cargo in an air network. In addition, personnel, facilities and procedures involved in air cargo transportation must comply with TSA regulations.

UPS Airlines, along with a number of other domestic airlines, participates in the Civil Reserve Air Fleet (“CRAF”) program. Our participation in the CRAF program allows the U.S. Department of Defense (“DOD”) to requisition specified UPS Airlines wide-body aircraft for military use during a national defense emergency. The DOD compensates us for the use of aircraft under the CRAF program. In addition, participation in CRAF entitles UPS Airlines to bid for military cargo charter operations.










Ground Operations

Our ground transportation of packages in the U.S. is subject to the DOT’s and the states’ jurisdiction with respect to the regulation of operations, safety, insurance and hazardous materials. We are subject to similar regulation in many non-U.S. jurisdictions.

The Postal Reorganization Act of 1970 created the U.S. Postal Service as an independent establishment of the executive branch of the federal government, and created the Postal Rate Commission, an independent agency, to recommend postal rates. The Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act of 2006 amended the 1970 Act to give the re-named Postal Regulatory Commission revised oversight authority over many aspects of the Postal Service, including postal rates, product offerings and service standards. We sometimes participate in the proceedings before the Postal Regulatory Commission in an attempt to secure fair postal rates for competitive services.



Customs

We are subject to the customs laws in the countries in which we operate, regarding the import and export of shipments, including those related to the filing of documents on behalf of client importers and exporters.

Environmental

We are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations across all of our business units. These laws and regulations cover a variety of processes, including, but not limited to: proper storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous and other waste; managing wastewater and stormwater; monitoring and maintaining the integrity of underground storage tanks; complying with laws regarding clean air, including those governing emissions; protecting against and appropriately responding to spills and releases; and communicating the presence of reportable quantities of hazardous materials to local responders. UPS has established site- and activity-specific environmental compliance and pollution prevention programs to address our environmental responsibilities and remain compliant. In addition, UPS has created numerous programs which seek to minimize waste and prevent pollution within our operations.

Other Regulations

We are subject to numerous other U.S. federal and state laws and regulations, in addition to applicable foreign laws, in connection with our package and non-package businesses in the countries in which we operate. These laws and regulations include those enforced by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and other agencies of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the U.S. Department of Treasury, the Federal Maritime Commission, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and the U.S. Department of Agriculture.



Where You Can Find More Information

UPS maintains a website atwww.ups.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made available through our websitewww.investors.ups.comas soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file or furnish the reports to the SEC. Also available on the Corporation’s website are the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines and Committee Charters. However, information on these websites is not incorporated by reference into this report or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC.










We have adopted a written Code of Business Conduct that applies to all of our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive officer and senior financial officers. It is available in the governance section of the investor relations website, located atwww.investors.ups.com. In the event that we make changes in, or provide waivers from, the provisions of the Code of Business Conduct that the SEC requires us to disclose, we intend to disclose these events in the governance section of our investor relations website.

Our Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charters for our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee are also available in the governance section of the investor relations website.

Our sustainability report, which describes our activities that support our commitment to acting responsibly and contributing to society, is available atwww.sustainability.ups.com. We provide the addresses to our Internet sites solely for the information of investors. We do not intend for any addresses to be active links or to otherwise incorporate the contents of any website into this report.





