Item 1.Business

Overview

United Parcel Service, Inc. (“UPS”) is the world’s largest package delivery company, a leader
in the U.S. less-than-truckload industry, and a global leader in supply chain management. We were founded in 1907 as a private messenger and delivery service in Seattle, Washington. Today, we deliver packages each business day for 1.1 million
shipping customers to 7.4 million consignees in over 220 countries and territories. In 2010, we delivered an average of 15.6 million pieces per day worldwide, or a total of 3.94 billion packages. Total revenue in 2010 was $49.5 billion.

Our primary business is the time-definite delivery of packages and documents worldwide. The UPS service portfolio also
includes global supply chain services and less-than-truckload transportation, primarily in the United States. We report our operations in three segments: U.S. Domestic Package operations, International Package operations, and Supply Chain &
Freight operations.



•U.S. Domestic Package operations include the time-definite delivery of letters, documents, and packages throughout the United States.



•International Package operations encompass delivery of letters, documents and packages to more than 220 countries and territories worldwide, including
shipments wholly outside the United States, as well as shipments from or to the United States with another country as the destination or origin point.



•Supply Chain & Freight is comprised of our forwarding and logistics operations, UPS Freight, and other related businesses. Our forwarding and
logistics business provides services in more than 195 countries and territories worldwide, and includes supply chain design and management, freight distribution, customs brokerage, mail and consulting services. UPS Freight offers a variety of
less-than-truckload (“LTL”) and truckload (“TL”) services to customers in North America. Other business units within this segment include Mail Boxes Etc.®(the franchisor of Mail Boxes
Etc.®and The UPS Store®) and UPS Capital®.

Transportation and Infrastructure.We operate a ground fleet of approximately
99,800 vehicles, which reaches all business and residential zip codes in the contiguous U.S. We also operate an air fleet of 527 aircraft, and we are one of the largest airlines in the world. Our primary air hub is in Louisville, Kentucky. Regional
air hubs are located in Hartford, Connecticut; Ontario, California; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and Rockford, Illinois. Our largest international air hub is in Cologne, Germany, with other regional international hubs in Miami, Florida; Canada; Hong
Kong; Singapore; Taiwan; and China.

We operate a global transportation infrastructure and offer a comprehensive portfolio of
services. We support these services with advanced operational and customer-facing technology. Our supply chain solutions enable customers’ inventory to move more effectively. As a consequence, they can concentrate on their own core
competencies.

Outlook.Mixed economic results in 2010, combined with improving economic
forecasts as the year ended, lead us to believe that the following trends will allow us to continue to grow our business over the long-term:



•We expect the economic recovery to continue at a modest pace in 2011. Global economies continue to expand at less than historical trends. The sovereign
debt crisis that plagued Europe in 2010 will continue to be an area of concern in 2011.



•Just-in-time inventory management, increased use of the Internet for ordering goods, and direct-to-consumer business models require transportation
services to be effective.



•Outsourcing supply chain management is becoming more prevalent, as customers increasingly view effective management of their supply chains as a
strategic advantage.







Our vision for the future is to synchronize the world of commerce, addressing the
complexities of our customers’ supply chain needs. Our goal is to develop business solutions that create value and competitive advantages for our customers, enabling them to achieve supply chain efficiencies, better customer service fortheircustomers and improved cash flows.

Operations

We believe that our integrated global network is the most extensive in the industry. It is the only network that handles all levels of
service (air, ground, domestic, international, commercial, residential) through one integrated pickup and delivery service system. All packages are commingled throughout their journey through our network, except when necessary to meet their specific
service commitments.

U.S. Domestic Package

The U.S. business consists of air and ground delivery of small packages—up to 150 pounds in weight—and letters to and from all 50 states. It also provides guaranteed, time-definite delivery of
certain heavyweight packages. Substantially all of our U.S. small package delivery services are guaranteed.

The integrated
air and ground pick-up and delivery network on which this business is built improves productivity and asset utilization, and provides the flexibility to transport packages using the most reliable and cost-effective transportation mode or combination
of modes.

In 2010, UPS completed the second phase of a multi-year expansion of the fully automated
Worldport®air hub in Louisville, KY, our largest air hub. Worldport®sort capacity has been expanded to 416,000 packages per hour—a 37% increase. This expansion enables more
cost-effective package processing and enables the use of larger, more fuel efficient aircraft.

During the first quarter of
2010, UPS completed a restructuring of its U.S. package operations. With this new structure, we now have the opportunity to better deliver the value our solutions bring to small and medium-sized customers.

In 2009, we expanded our early morning delivery service. UPS now delivers earlier to more businesses and zip codes in the United States,
and earlier to more countries from the United States, than our competitors.

We believe that our broad product portfolio,
reliable package delivery service, experienced and dedicated employees and unmatched, integrated air and ground network provide us with the advantages of reputation, service quality and economies of scale that differentiate us from our competitors.
Our strategy is to increase domestic revenue through cross-selling services to our large and diverse customer base, to control costs through effective network modification and limited expense growth, and to employ technology-driven efficiencies to
increase operating profit.

International Package

The International Package segment provides air and ground delivery of small packages and letters to more than 220 countries and territories around the world. Export services cross country boundaries;
domestic services move shipments within a country’s borders. UPS’s global presence grew out of its highly refined U.S. domestic business.



•Europe is our largest region outside the United States—accounting for approximately half of our international revenue. In Europe we provide both
express and domestic service, much like the service portfolio we offer in the U.S., and based on the same integrated network model.







•Through more than two dozen alliances with Asian delivery companies that supplement company-owned operations, we serve more than 40 Asia-Pacific
countries and territories. One of the fastest growing economies in the world, China, is among our most promising opportunities.



•Our Canadian operations include both domestic and import/export capabilities. We deliver to all addresses throughout Canada.



•We are also the largest air cargo carrier in Latin America and the Caribbean.

We have built a strong international presence through significant investments over several decades. Some of our recent acquisitions and
investments include the following:



•In 2008, we completed construction of a new hub in Tamworth, England, UPS’s largest ground hub outside the U.S. It replaced three smaller
facilities, and added more capacity and better efficiencies than existed with the three separate facilities.



•Also in 2008, we acquired our partner’s interest in the small package joint venture operation in Romania.



•In 2009, we expanded our presence in Eastern Europe and in Central Asia with the acquisition of our service agents in Slovenia and Turkey,
respectively.



•Also in 2009, we set up a joint venture in Dubai to coordinate management and growth of UPS express package, freight forwarding and contract logistics
services across the Middle East, Turkey and portions of Central Asia.



•In 2010, we established or expanded relationships with alliance partners in Vietnam, Malaysia and Indonesia.



•Also in 2010, we submitted an application for a domestic service license in China. We believe that we will receive approval in 2011.

Growth in Asia is being driven by global demand, which is stimulating improved demographic and economic
trends throughout the region, particularly in China. Over the last few years, UPS has steadily increased air service between the U.S. and Asia.



•In 2008, we opened a new air hub in Shanghai, the first constructed in China by a U.S. carrier. It links all of China via Shanghai to UPS’s
international network with direct service to the Americas, Europe and Asia. It also connects points served in China by UPS.



•Also in 2008, we acquired our partner’s interest in a small package shipping joint venture in Korea.



•In 2010, we opened a new Intra-Asia air hub. The Shenzhen Asia-Pacific Hub, located at Shenzhen Baoan International Airport in China’s thriving
Pearl River Delta, replaced a UPS hub in the Philippines. The hub represents an investment of $180 million and has reduced shipment time-in-transit by at least a day for customers in the region.

The international package delivery market has been growing at a faster rate than that of the U.S., and our international package
operations have historically been growing faster than the market. We plan to use our worldwide infrastructure and broad product portfolio to grow high-margin premium services. Additionally, we plan to expand our non-U.S. domestic package operations
by continuing to build our package delivery infrastructure and through acquisitions in certain countries. We have been and will continue to implement cost, process and technology improvements in our international operations. We believe that both
Europe and Asia offer significant opportunities for long-term growth.

Supply Chain & Freight

The Supply Chain & Freight segment consists of our forwarding and logistics capabilities as well as our UPS Freight business
unit.







Supply chains are becoming increasingly complex. Many of our customers, large and small,
have outsourced all or part of their supply chains to streamline and gain efficiencies, to improve service, to support new business models and to strengthen their balance sheets.

This increasing complexity creates demand for a global service offering that incorporates transportation, distribution and international
trade and brokerage services with financial and information services. We can meet that demand because:



•We manage supply chains in over 195 countries and territories, with approximately 31 million square feet of distribution space worldwide.



•We focus on supply chain optimization, freight forwarding, international trade and brokerage services for our customers worldwide, which include a
broad range of transportation solutions including air, ocean and ground freight.



•We provide information technology systems and distribution facilities adapted to the unique supply chains of specific industries such as healthcare,
technology and consumer/retail. We call these “configurable solutions.” In a configurable solution, multiple customers share standardized information technology systems and processes as well as a common network of assets. A configurable
solution is repeatable for multiple customers and has a package transportation component. For example, we have a well developed supply chain management capability for the healthcare sector that meets all regulatory and compliance requirements.



•We offer a portfolio of financial services that provides customers with short-term working capital, government guaranteed lending, global trade
financing, credit cards and export financing.

UPS Freight is an LTL service, which offers a full range of
regional, inter-regional and long-haul LTL capabilities in all 50 states, Canada, Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands and Mexico. This business also offers a TL service. UPS Freight provides services through a network of owned and leased service
centers and carrier partnerships.

Our growth strategy is to increase the number of customers benefiting from configurable
supply chain solutions, particularly in the healthcare, technology, and retail sectors, and to increase the amount of small package transportation from these customers. We intend to leverage our small package and freight customers through
cross-selling the full complement of UPS services.

Products and Services

Our goal is to provide our customers with easy-to-use products and services. We seek to streamline their shipment processing and integrate
critical transportation information into their own business processes, helping them create supply chain efficiencies, better serve their customers and improve their cash flows. These products and services support LTL and air freight shipments, as
well as small package transportation. UPS offers a variety of technology solutions for automated shipping, visibility and billing. We believe we have the most comprehensive suite of such services in the industry.

Global Small Package.Our global small package portfolio consists of a spectrum of export and domestic
services. Export services are those provided for packages crossing a country’s borders, while domestic services are for packages that stay within the borders of a single country. We provide domestic express services in 55 countries outside the
United States. This portfolio includes guaranteed delivery options to major cities around the world. We handle packages that weigh up to 150 pounds and are up to 165 inches in combined length and girth. We offer same-day pickup of air and ground
packages. We also offer worldwide customs clearance service for any mode of transportation.

Additional products that provide
enhanced shipping, visibility, billing and return services are available to customers who require customized package solutions.







Our enhanced, data-driven package pick-up and delivery technology is the
basis for new services introduced in recent years. For example, UPS introduced a unique paperless invoice service for international small package shippers that integrates order processing, shipment preparation and commercial invoice data and then
transmits that data to customs offices across the globe, eliminating the need for paper commercial invoices. Another offering, UPS Returns®, is the first industry offering that facilitates international commerce for any size customer by simplifying package returns to 98 countries or territories. Package
recipients can obtain international return labels and commercial invoices via e-mail, local post or from a UPS driver picking up the return package.

In 2010, UPS introduced UPS Smart Pickup®a new option for shippers
who want the convenience of a scheduled pickup but may not ship a package everyday. This is the latest in a series of UPS Decision GreenSMofferings, this high-tech service alerts UPS drivers when a pickup needs to be made.

We provide our customers with easy access to UPS, with over 150,000 domestic and international access points
including: 40,000 branded drop-boxes, 1,000 UPS customer centers, 4,700 independently owned and operated The UPS
Store®and Mail Boxes Etc.®locations worldwide, 16,000 authorized shipping outlets and commercial counters, and 88,400 UPS drivers who can accept packages given to them.

Supply Chain Services.    Our freight forwarding and logistics businesses meet customers’ supply chain
needs through a comprehensive portfolio of services, including:



•Freight Forwarding:international air, full container load and less than container load ocean, rail and ground freight for all size shipments
utilizing UPS and other carriers, and multimodal transportation network management.



•Logistics and Distribution:supply chain management, distribution center design, planning and management, order fulfillment, inventory
management, receiving and shipping, critical parts logistics, returns management, reverse logistics and cross docking.



•Customs Brokerage:customs clearance, trade management and international trade consulting.



•Industry-specific Solutions:healthcare, retail, technology, automotive, industrial manufacturing and government customers.



•UPS
Capital®:short-term working capital, government guaranteed lending, global trade financing, credit cards
and export financing.

In 2008, UPS launched a new, simplified global portfolio for shipping air freight,
with guaranteed day-specific, door-to-door service as well as non-guaranteed service options.

Freight
Services.UPS Freight provides LTL services through a network of owned and leased service centers and carrier partnerships. UPS Freight also provides our customers with truckload and dedicated truckload transportation
solutions. Since expanding into the freight transport market, we have enhanced our value proposition through improvements in technology, operations and the customer experience. Significant service and reliability improvements for freight
transportation enabled us to implement a no-fee, guaranteed delivery service in early 2008 and we expanded it to Canadian deliveries later in the year. In 2009, UPS Freight began offering door-to-door service to and from Mexico, complete with UPS
customs brokerage capabilities and single invoicing for all services between the United States, Canada, and Mexico. In 2010, UPS Freight continued the acceleration of transit times when 150 U.S. and Canada lanes were improved. Over the last two
years, we have made a total of 1,100 lane improvements.

Technology

Technology is the backbone of everything we do at UPS. It is at the heart of customer access to our company.



•UPS.comprocesses over 26 million package tracking transactions daily. A growing number of those tracking requests come from customers in
countries that have wireless access to UPS tracking information.







•Package tracking, pickup requests, rate quotes, account opening, wireless registration, drop-off locator, transit times and supply ordering services
are all available at customers’ desktops or laptops. The site also displays full domestic and international service information and allows customers to process outbound shipments as well as return labels for their customers.



•Businesses in a number of countries also can download UPSDeveloper Kit™to their own websites for direct use by their customers. This allows users to access the information they need without leaving our customers’ websites.

Technology is also the foundation for process improvements within UPS that enhance productivity, improve
efficiency and reduce costs. In recent years, we completed the most comprehensive improvement to our U.S. small package handling facilities. This multi-year effort re-engineered our domestic business, based on a data-driven platform, and included
software, hardware and process changes. It enables a package center to produce an optimized dispatch plan for every driver and detailed loading instructions for every vehicle before center employees handle any packages. This plan reduces mileage
driven, resulting in substantial fuel savings. The re-engineered system provides the basis for unique customer-focused services based on the customer-specific data which powers the system.

A new technology we began deploying in 2008 is telematics, which combines information from our drivers’ hand-held computers with GPS
and automotive sensors to help us better manage our ground fleet operations. It helps us improve vehicle maintenance, enhance safety and fine-tune delivery and pick-up service. This technology also improves on-road performance by reducing vehicle
expense, fuel consumption, and carbon emissions. Since 2008, we have equipped approximately 24,000 of our U.S. vehicles with the sensors needed to achieve the benefits from this technology.

Sustainability

Our business strategy and
corporate responsibility strategy are substantially the same: to increase the economic vitality and environmental sustainability of the global economy by aggregating the shipping activity of millions of businesses and individuals worldwide into a
single highly efficient logistics network. The websitewww.sustainability.ups.comprovides complete information on this strategy. This approach:



•Benefits UPS by ensuring strong demand for our products and services;



•Benefits the economy by making global supply chains more efficient and less expensive by enabling businesses the ability to focus more tightly on their
core competencies and reduce the additional operating costs associated with moving their goods; and



•Benefits the environment by reducing the carbon intensity of global shipping activities and enabling UPS to leverage its own carbon efficiency
improvements into the supply chains of all its customers.

We continually strive to improve our efficiencies
and reduce the overall energy and emissions intensity of our global distribution network.

At UPS, we recognize our management
approach for avoiding energy use and emissions as “decarbonization synergy”. This means we simultaneously pursue multiple strategies for carbon avoidance, in a way that makes each one stronger and more effective than it would be on its
own. A simple, yet powerful, example of decarbonization synergy at UPS is our ability to handle all categories of service (express, ground, domestic, international, commercial, residential) through one integrated pickup and delivery service system.
We believe our integrated network is a competitive advantage, therefore, we are able to use all assets more efficiently and achieve far greater carbon avoidance.







Sales and Marketing

The UPS worldwide sales organization is responsible for the complete spectrum of UPS products and services. Our sales force includes
specialized groups that work with our general sales organization to support UPS subsidiaries and specialized products.

In
early 2010, we completed a streamlining of the U.S. Domestic Package operations, and as part of the restructuring, we expanded our outreach to customers by strengthening local sales and marketing efforts.

Our worldwide marketing organization, which was also reorganized in 2010, supports our global small package, supply chain and freight
businesses. Our corporate marketing function is engaged in market and customer research, brand management, segment management, rate-making and revenue management policy, pricing, new product development, product portfolio management, marketing
alliances, and technology marketing, including the non-technical aspect of our web presence. Advertising, public relations, brand management, and most formal marketing communications are generally centrally developed and controlled.

In addition to our corporate marketing group, field-based marketing personnel are assigned to our individual operating units and are
primarily engaged in business planning, market analysis and opportunity identification, segment management, and customer profitability management.

In 2011, we are implementing a major sales force reorganization to better align our sales resources with customer business processes along industry verticals. Our goal is to enhance the customer
experience when dealing with the extensive scope of UPS capabilities at any point in the shipping or supply chain management process.

Employees

We had approximately 400,600 employees as of December 31, 2010, of which 330,600 are in the U.S. and
70,000 are located internationally.

As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 250,000 employees employed under a
national master agreement and various supplemental agreements with local unions affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters (“Teamsters”). These agreements run through July 31, 2013.

We have approximately 2,800 pilots who are employed under a collective bargaining agreement with the Independent Pilots Association,
which becomes amendable at the end of 2011. Our airline mechanics are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with Teamsters Local 2727, which became amendable in November 2006. We began formal negotiations with Teamsters Local 2727 in October
2006, and have been under the guidance of the National Mediation Board since January 2008. In January 2011, we reached a tentative agreement with Teamsters Local 2727 which will run through November 1, 2013 when ratified. In addition, the
majority (approximately 3,300) of our ground mechanics who are not employed under agreements with the Teamsters are employed under collective bargaining agreements with the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers
(“IAM”). Our agreement with the IAM runs through July 31, 2014.

We believe that our relations with our
employees are good. We periodically survey all our employees to determine their level of job satisfaction. Areas of concern receive management attention as we strive to keep UPS the employer of choice among our employees.

We consistently receive numerous awards and wide recognition as an employer-of-choice, resulting in part from our emphasis on diversity
and corporate citizenship.







Competition

We are the largest package delivery company in the world, in terms of both revenue and volume. We offer a broad array of services in the
package and freight delivery industry and, therefore, compete with many different local, regional, national and international companies. Our competitors include worldwide postal services, various motor carriers, express companies, freight
forwarders, air couriers and others. Through our supply chain service offerings, we compete with a number of participants in the supply chain, financial services and information technology industries.

Competitive Strengths

Our competitive strengths include:

Integrated Global
Network.We believe that our integrated global ground and air network is the most extensive in the industry. It is the only network that handles all levels of service (air, ground, domestic, international, commercial,
residential) through a single pickup and delivery service system.

Our sophisticated engineering systems allow us to optimize
our network efficiency and asset utilization on a daily basis. This unique, integrated global business model creates consistent and superior returns.

We believe we have the most comprehensive integrated delivery and information services portfolio of any carrier in Europe. In other regions of the world, we rely on both our own and local service
providers’ capabilities to meet our service commitments.

Global Presence.UPS serves more
than 220 countries and territories around the world. We have a presence in all of the major economies and are among the leaders in most of them.

Leading-edge Technology.We are a global leader in developing technology that helps our customers optimize their shipping and logistics business processes to lower costs,
improve service and increase efficiency.

Technology powers virtually every service we offer and every operation we perform.
Our technology initiatives are driven by our customers’ needs. We offer a variety of on-line service options that enable our customers to integrate UPS functionality into their own businesses not only to conveniently send, manage and track
their shipments, but also to provide their customers with better information services. We provide the infrastructure for an Internet presence that extends to tens of thousands of customers who have integrated UPS tools directly into their own web
sites.

Broad Portfolio of Services.Our portfolio of services enables customers to choose the
delivery option that is most appropriate for their requirements. Increasingly, our customers benefit from business solutions that integrate many UPS services in addition to package delivery. For example, our supply chain services—such as
freight forwarding, customs brokerage, order fulfillment, and returns management—help improve the efficiency of the supply chain management process.

Customer Relationships.We focus on building and maintaining long-term customer relationships. We serve 1.1 million pick-up customers and 7.4 million delivery
customers daily. Cross-selling small package, supply chain and freight services across our customer base is an important growth mechanism for UPS.

Brand Equity.We have built a leading and trusted brand that stands for quality service, reliability and product innovation. The distinctive appearance of our vehicles and
the friendliness and helpfulness of our drivers are major contributors to our brand equity.

Distinctive
Culture.We believe that the dedication of our employees results in large part from our distinctive “employee-owner” concept. Our employee stock ownership tradition dates from 1927, when our







founders, who believed that employee stock ownership was a vital foundation for successful business, first offered stock to employees. To facilitate employee stock ownership, we maintain several
stock-based compensation programs.

Our long-standing policy of “promotion from within” complements our tradition of
employee ownership, and this policy reduces the need for us to hire managers and executive officers from outside UPS. The majority of our management team began their careers as full-time or part-time hourly UPS employees, and have spent their entire
careers with us. Many of our executive officers have more than 30 years of service with UPS and have accumulated a meaningful ownership stake in our company. Therefore, our executive officers have a strong incentive to effectively manage UPS, which
benefits all our shareowners.

Financial Strength.Our balance sheet reflects financial strength
that few companies can match. As of December 31, 2010, we had a balance of cash and marketable securities of approximately $4.081 billion and shareowners’ equity of $8.047 billion. Our Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s
short-term credit ratings are P-1 and A-1+, respectively, and our Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s long-term credit ratings are Aa3 and AA-, respectively. We have a stable outlook from Moody’s and Standard &
Poor’s. We have a strong capacity to service our obligations. Our financial strength gives us the resources to achieve global scale; to invest in employee development, technology, transportation equipment and buildings; to pursue strategic
opportunities that facilitate our growth; and to return value to our shareowners in the form of dividends and share repurchases.

Government Regulation

Air Operations

The U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”), the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”), and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, through the Transportation Security
Administration (“TSA”), have regulatory authority over United Parcel Service Co.’s (“UPS Airlines’”) air transportation services. The Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended, is the statutory basis for DOT and FAA
authority and the Aviation and Transportation Security Act of 2001, as amended, is the basis for TSA aviation security authority.

The DOT’s authority primarily relates to economic aspects of air transportation, such as discriminatory pricing, non-competitive practices, interlocking relations and cooperative agreements. The DOT
also regulates, subject to the authority of the President of the United States, international routes, fares, rates and practices, and is authorized to investigate and take action against discriminatory treatment of U.S. air carriers abroad.
International operating rights for U.S. airlines are usually subject to bilateral agreement between the U.S. and foreign governments. UPS Airlines has international route operating rights granted by the DOT and we may apply for additional
authorities when those operating rights are available and are required for the efficient operation of our international network. The efficiency and flexibility of our international air transportation network is dependent on DOT and foreign
government regulations and operating restrictions.

The FAA’s authority primarily relates to safety aspects of air
transportation, including aircraft operating procedures, transportation of hazardous materials, record keeping standards and maintenance activities, personnel and ground facilities. In 1988, the FAA granted us an operating certificate, which remains
in effect so long as we meet the safety and operational requirements of the applicable FAA regulations. In addition, we are subject to non-U.S. government regulation of aviation rights involving non-U.S. jurisdictions, and non-U.S. customs
regulation.

FAA regulations mandate an aircraft corrosion control program, along with aircraft inspection and repair at
periodic intervals specified by approved programs and procedures, for all aircraft. Our total expenditures under these programs for 2010 were $13 million. The future cost of repairs pursuant to these programs may fluctuate according to aircraft
condition, age and the enactment of additional FAA regulatory requirements.







The TSA regulates various security aspects of air cargo transportation in a manner
consistent with the TSA mission statement to “protect the Nation’s transportation systems to ensure freedom of movement for people and commerce.” UPS Airlines, and specified airport and off airport locations, are regulated under TSA
regulations applicable to the transportation of cargo in an air network. In addition, personnel, facilities and procedures involved in air cargo transportation must comply with TSA regulations.

UPS Airlines, along with a number of other domestic airlines, participates in the Civil Reserve Air Fleet (“CRAF”) program. Our
participation in the CRAF program allows the U.S. Department of Defense (“DOD”) to requisition specified UPS Airlines wide-body aircraft for military use during a national defense emergency. The DOD compensates us for the use of aircraft
under the CRAF program. In addition, participation in CRAF entitles UPS Airlines to bid for military cargo charter operations.

Ground
Operations

Our ground transportation of packages in the U.S. is subject to the DOT’s jurisdiction with respect to the
regulation of routes and to both the DOT’s and the states’ jurisdiction with respect to the regulation of safety, insurance and hazardous materials. We are subject to similar regulation in many non-U.S. jurisdictions.

The Postal Reorganization Act of 1970 created the U.S. Postal Service as an independent establishment of the executive branch of the
federal government, and created the Postal Rate Commission, an independent agency, to recommend postal rates. The Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act of 2006 amended the 1970 Act to give the re-named Postal Regulatory Commission revised
oversight authority over many aspects of the Postal Service, including postal rates, product offerings and service standards. We sometimes participate in the proceedings before the Postal Regulatory Commission in an attempt to secure fair postal
rates for competitive services.

Customs

We are subject to the customs laws in the countries in which we operate, regarding the import and export of shipments, including those related to the filing of documents on behalf of client importers and
exporters.

Environmental

We are subject to federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations across all of our business units. These laws and regulations cover a variety of processes, including, but not limited to:
proper storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous and other waste; managing wastewater and storm water; monitoring and maintaining the integrity of underground storage tanks; complying with laws regarding clean air, including those governing
emissions; protecting against and appropriately responding to spills and releases; and communicating the presence of reportable quantities of hazardous materials to local responders. UPS has established site- and activity-specific environmental
compliance and pollution prevention programs to address our environmental responsibilities and remain compliant. In addition, UPS has created numerous programs which seek to minimize waste and prevent pollution within our operations.

Other Regulations

We
are subject to numerous other U.S. federal and state laws and regulations, in addition to applicable foreign laws, in connection with our package and non-package businesses in the countries in which we operate. These laws and regulations include
those enforced by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and other agencies of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the U.S. Department of Treasury, the Federal Maritime Commission, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and the U.S. Department of
Agriculture.







Where You Can Find More Information

We make our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to these reports
available free of charge through our investor relations website, located atwww.investors.ups.com,as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).

We have adopted a written Code of Business Conduct that applies to all of our directors, officers and employees, including
our principal executive officer and senior financial officers. It is available in the governance section of the investor relations website, located atwww.investors.ups.com. In the event that we make changes in, or provide waivers from, the
provisions of the Code of Business Conduct that the SEC requires us to disclose, we intend to disclose these events in the governance section of our investor relations website.

Our Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charters for our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate
Governance Committee are also available in the governance section of the investor relations website.

See note 11 to our
consolidated financial statements for financial information regarding our reporting segments and geographic areas in which we operate.

Additional information about UPS is available atwww.ups.com. Our sustainability report, which describes our activities that support our commitment to acting responsibly and contributing to
society, is available atwww.sustainability.ups.com. We provide the addresses to our internet sites solely for the information of investors. We do not intend any addresses to be active links or to otherwise incorporate the contents of any
website into this report.



