Item 1A. RISK FACTORS



The Company faces risks in the normal course of business and through global, regional, and local events that could have an adverse impact on its reputation, operations, and financial performance.



Management directs a Company-wide Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Program, with oversight from the Company’s Board of Directors.  The Company’s Audit Committee has the delegated risk management oversight responsibility and receives updates on the risk management processes and key risk factors on a quarterly basis.



The Company, through its business unit, functional, and corporate teams, continually updates, assesses, monitors, and mitigates these and other business and compliance risks in accordance with the ERM Program and as monitored by the ERM Program team and Chief Risk Officer.












The risk factors that follow are the main risks that the ERM Program focuses on to protect and enhance shareholder value through intentional risk mitigation plans based on management-defined risk limits.



The availability and prices of the agricultural commodities and agricultural commodity products the Company procures, transports, stores, processes, and merchandises can be affected by climate change, weather conditions, disease, government programs, competition, and various other factors beyond the Company’s control and could adversely affect the Company’s operating results.



The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations, including impacts from factors outside the Company's control such as changes in weather, climate, and rising sea levels, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, and changes in global demand.  The Company uses a global network of procurement, processing, and transportation assets, as well as robust communications between global commodity merchandiser teams, to continually assess price and basis opportunities.  Management-established limits (including a corporate wide value-at-risk metric), with robust internal reporting, help to manage risks in pursuit of driving performance.  Additionally, the Company depends globally on agricultural producers to ensure an adequate supply of the agricultural commodities.



Reduced supply of agricultural commodities could adversely affect the Company’s profitability by increasing the cost of raw materials and/or limiting the Company’s ability to procure, transport, store, process, and merchandise agricultural commodities in an efficient manner.  High and volatile commodity prices can place more pressures on short-term working capital funding.  Conversely, if supplies are abundant and crop production globally outpaces demand for more than one or two crop cycles, price volatility is somewhat diminished.  This could result in reduced operating results due to the lack of supply chain dislocations and reduced market spread and basis opportunities.



Advances in technology, such as seed and crop protection, farming techniques, storage and logistics, and speed of information flow, may reduce the significance of dislocations and arbitrage opportunities in the agricultural global markets, which may reduce the earnings potential of agricultural merchandisers and processors such as the Company.



The Company has significant competition in the markets in which it operates.





In the case of the nutrition business, while maintaining efficient and cost-effective operations are important, the ability to drive innovation and come up with quality nutritional solutions for human and animal needs are key factors to remain competitive in the nutrition market.












Fluctuations in energy prices could adversely affect the Company’s operating results.



The Company’s operating costs and the selling prices of certain finished products are sensitive to changes in energy prices.  The Company’s processing plants are powered principally by electricity, natural gas, and coal.  The Company’s transportation operations are dependent upon diesel fuel and other petroleum-based products.  Significant increases in the cost of these items, including any consequences of regulation or taxation of greenhouse gases, could adversely affect the Company’s production costs and operating results.



The Company has certain finished products, such as ethanol and biodiesel, which are closely related to, or may be substituted for, petroleum products, or in the case of ethanol, blended into gasoline to increase octane content.  Therefore, the selling prices of ethanol and biodiesel can be impacted by the selling prices of gasoline, diesel fuel, and other octane enhancers.  A significant decrease in the price of gasoline, diesel fuel, or other octane enhancers could result in a significant decrease in the selling price of the Company’s ethanol and biodiesel.  The Company uses derivative contracts as anticipatory hedges for both purchases of commodity inputs and sales of energy-based products in order to protect itself in the near term against these price trends and to protect and maximize processing margins.



The Company is subject to economic downturns and regional economic volatilities, which could adversely affect the Company’s operating results.



The Company conducts its business and has substantial assets located in many countries and geographic areas. While

44 percent

of the Company’s processing plants and

57 percent



The Company is subject to numerous laws, regulations, and mandates globally which could adversely affect the Company’s operating results and forward strategy.



The Company does business globally, connecting crops and markets in more than190countries, and is required to comply with laws and regulations administered by the United States federal government as well as state, local, and non-U.S. governmental authorities in areas including:  Accounting and income taxes, anti-corruption, anti-bribery, global trade, trade sanctions, environmental, product safety, and handling and production of regulated substances.  The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due.  These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions.  Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or appropriately resolve these challenges could subject the Company to administrative, civil, and criminal remedies, including fines, penalties, disgorgement, injunctions, and recalls of its products, and damage to its reputation.  Resolution of some of these tax disputes could take many years and interest and penalties may be accruing in the meantime, thereby significantly increasing the notional amount of the exposures.



The production of the Company’s products uses materials which can create emissions of certain regulated substances, including greenhouse gas emissions.  The Company has programs and policies in place (e.g., Corporate Sustainability Program, No-Deforestation Policy, Environmental Policy, etc.) to reduce its environmental footprint and to help ensure compliance with laws and regulations.  Implementation of these programs and policies sometimes requires acquisition of technology at a cost to the Company.  Failure to comply can have serious consequences, including civil, administrative, and criminal penalties as well as a negative impact on the Company’s reputation, business, cash flows, and results of operations.












In addition, changes to regulations or implementation of additional regulations - for example, the imposition of regulatory restrictions on greenhouse gases, the implementation of IMO 2020 low sulfur fuel oil requirements for ships or regulatory modernization of food safety laws - may require the Company to modify existing processing facilities and/or processes which could significantly increase operating costs and adversely affect operating results.



Government policies, mandates, and regulations specifically affecting the agricultural sector and related industries; regulatory policies or matters that affect a variety of businesses; taxation polices; and political instability could adversely affect the Company’s operating results.







The Company’s strategy involves expanding the volume and diversity of crops it merchandises and processes, expanding the global reach of its core model, and expanding its value-added product portfolio.  Government policies including, but not limited to, antitrust and competition law, trade restrictions, food safety regulations, sustainability requirements, and traceability, can impact the Company’s ability to execute this strategy successfully.



The Company is subject to industry-specific risks which could adversely affect the Company’s operating results.



The Company is subject to risks which include, but are not limited to, product safety or quality; launch of new products by other industries that can replace the functionalities of the Company's production; shifting consumer preferences; federal, state, and local regulations on manufacturing or labeling; socially acceptable farming practices; environmental, health, and safety regulations; and customer product liability claims.  The liability which could result from certain of these risks may not always be covered by, or could exceed liability insurance related to product liability and food safety matters maintained by the Company.  The Company has a particularly strong capability and culture around occupational health and safety and food safety; however, risks to the Company's reputation may exist due to potential negative publicity caused by product liability, food safety, occupational health and safety, and environmental matters.










Certain of the Company’s merchandised commodities and finished products are used as ingredients in livestock and poultry feed.  The Company is subject to risks associated with economic, product quality, feed safety or other factors which may adversely affect the livestock and poultry businesses, including the outbreak of disease in livestock and poultry, for example African swine fever, which could adversely affect demand for the Company’s products used as ingredients in feed.  In addition, as the Company increases its investment in flavors and ingredients businesses, it is exposed to increased risks related to rapidly changing consumer preferences and the impacts these changes could have on the success of certain of the Company's customers.



The Company is exposed to potential business disruption including, but not limited to, disruption of transportation services, supply of non-commodity raw materials used in its processing operations, and other impacts resulting from acts of terrorism or war, natural disasters, severe weather conditions, and accidents which could adversely affect the Company’s operating results.



The Company’s operations rely on dependable and efficient transportation services the disruption of which could result in difficulties supplying materials to the Company’s facilities and impair the Company’s ability to deliver products to its customers in a timely manner.  The Company relies on access to navigable rivers and waterways in order to fulfill its transportation obligations more effectively.  In addition, if certain non-agricultural commodity raw materials, such as water or certain chemicals used in the Company’s processing operations, are not available, the Company’s business could be disrupted.  Any major lack of available water for use in certain of the Company’s processing operations could have a material adverse impact on operating results.  Certain factors which may impact the availability of non-agricultural commodity raw materials are out of the Company’s control including, but not limited to, disruptions resulting from weather, high river water conditions, economic conditions, manufacturing delays or disruptions at suppliers, shortage of materials, interruption of energy supply, and unavailable or poor supplier credit conditions.



The assets and operations of the Company could be subject to extensive property damage and business disruption from various events which include, but are not limited to, acts of terrorism (for example, purposeful adulteration of the Company’s products), war, natural disasters, severe weather conditions, accidents, explosions, and fires. The Company is continuing to enhance and deploy additional food safety and security procedures and controls to appropriately mitigate the risks of any adulteration of the Company’s products in the supply chain and finished products in production and distribution networks. In addition, the Company conforms to management systems, such as International Organization for Standardization (ISO) or other recognized global standards.



The Company’s business is capital-intensive in nature and the Company relies on cash generated from its operations and external financing to fund its growth and ongoing capital needs.  Limitations on access to external financing could adversely affect the Company’s operating results.





LIBOR (London Interbank Offered rate) has been the subject of recent proposals for international reform and it is anticipated LIBOR will be discontinued or modified by the end of 2021.  The Company's variable rate debt, credit facilities,  certain derivative agreements, and commercial agreements may use LIBOR as a benchmark for establishing interest rates.  While it is not possible to predict the consequences of discontinuation or modification of LIBOR at this time, the Company's financing costs could be adversely or positively impacted.  Although the Company does not expect that a transition from LIBOR will have a material adverse impact on its financing costs, the Company continues to monitor developments.












The Company’s risk management strategies may not be effective.



The Company has a Chief Risk Officer who oversees the ERM Program and regularly reports to the Board of Directors on the myriad of risks facing the Company and the Company's strategies for mitigating the risks.  The Company’s business is affected by fluctuations in agricultural commodity cash prices and derivative prices, transportation costs, energy prices, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and equity markets.  The Company monitors position limits and counterparty risks and engages in other strategies and controls to manage these risks.  The Company regularly reports its aggregate commodity risk exposures to the Board of Directors through the ERM process.  The Company has an established commodity merchandising governance process that ensures proper position reporting and monitoring, limits approvals, and executes training on trade compliance, commodity regulatory reporting controls, and other policies.  The Company’s risk monitoring efforts may not be successful at detecting a significant risk exposure.  If these controls and strategies are not successful in mitigating the Company’s exposure to these fluctuations, it could adversely affect the Company’s operating results.



The Company has limited control over and may not realize the expected benefits of its equity investments and joint ventures.



The Company has$5.1 billioninvested in or advanced to joint ventures and investments over which the Company has limited control as to the governance and management activities.  Net sales to unconsolidated affiliates during the year endedDecember 31, 2019was$4.9 billion.  Risks related to these investments may include:  The financial strength of the investment partner; loss of revenues and cash flows to the investment partner and related gross profit; the inability to implement beneficial management strategies, including risk management and compliance monitoring, with respect to the investment’s activities; and the risk that the Company may not be able to resolve disputes with the partners.  The Company may encounter unanticipated operating issues, financial results, or compliance and reputational risks related to these investments.  The Company mitigates this risk using controls and policies related to joint venture formation, governance (including board of directors’ representation), merger and acquisition integration management, and harmonization of joint venture policies with the Company’s policies and controls.



The Company’s information technology (IT) systems, processes, and sites may suffer interruptions, security breaches, or failures which may affect the Company’s ability to conduct its business.


















The Company may fail to realize the benefits or experience delays in the execution of its growth strategy, encompassing organic and inorganic initiatives, outside the U.S. and in businesses where the Company does not currently have a large presence.







