Item 1.Business

Overview of Lennar Corporation

We are one of the nation’s largest homebuilders, a provider of real estate related financial services, and through our Rialto Investments (“Rialto”) segment, a commercial real estate investment, investment management and finance company. In addition, we have a multifamily business that is focused on developing multifamily rental properties in select U.S. markets primarily through unconsolidated entities.

We have grouped our homebuilding activities into five reportable segments, which we refer to as Homebuilding East, Homebuilding Central, Homebuilding West, Homebuilding Southeast Florida and Homebuilding Houston. Information about homebuilding activities in states in which our homebuilding activities are not economically similar to those in other states in the same geographic area is grouped under “Homebuilding Other.” Our reportable homebuilding segments and Homebuilding Other have operations located in:

East:Florida(1), Georgia, Maryland, New Jersey, North Carolina, South Carolina and Virginia

Central:Arizona, Colorado and Texas(2)

West:California and Nevada

Southeast Florida: Southeast Florida

Houston: Houston, Texas

Other:Illinois, Minnesota, Tennessee, Oregon and Washington

(1)Florida in the East reportable segment excludes Southeast Florida, which is its own reportable segment.

(2)Texas in the Central reportable segment excludes Houston, Texas, which is its own reportable segment.

We have three other reportable segments: Lennar Financial Services, Rialto and Lennar Multifamily.For financial information about our Homebuilding, Lennar Financial Services, Rialto and Multifamily operations, you should review Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is Item 7 of this Report, and our consolidated financial statements and the notes to our consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Report.

A Brief History of Our Company

We are a national homebuilder that operates in various states with deliveries of18,290new homes in2013. Our company was founded as a local Miami homebuilder in 1954. We completed our initial public offering in 1971 and listed our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange in 1972. During the 1980s and 1990s, we entered and expanded operations in some of our current major homebuilding markets including California, Florida and Texas through both organic growth and acquisitions such as Pacific Greystone Corporation in 1997, among others. In 1997, we completed the spin-off of our then commercial real estate business to LNR Property Corporation. In 2000, we acquired U.S. Home Corporation, which expanded our operations into New Jersey, Maryland, Virginia, Minnesota and Colorado and strengthened our position in other states. From 2002 through 2005, we acquired several regional homebuilders, which brought us into new markets and strengthened our position in several existing markets. The Rialto segment began incubating in 2007 and during 2010 and 2011, it began to invest in distressed real estate assets both on its balance sheet and through funds it formed and manages to take advantage of opportunities arising from the dislocation in the United States real estate market. In 2011, we also transferred the management of several large properties in California to FivePoint Communities, a consolidated joint venture, that was formed to undertake master planned mixed use developments.

From 2010 through 2013, we started and expanded our homebuilding operations in the Atlanta, Oregon, Seattle and Nashville markets. During 2012 and 2013, we became actively involved, primarily through unconsolidated entities, in the development of multifamily rental properties by acquiring land and began the construction phase of several multifamily rental properties. The Multifamily business focuses on developing a geographically diversified portfolio of institutional quality multifamily rental properties in select U.S. markets through unconsolidated entities. During 2013, our Rialto segment began raising capital for a second distressed real estate fund, Fund II, and a mezzanine commercial fund, and formed Rialto Mortgage Finance, LLC ("RMF") to originate and sell into securitizations commercial first mortgage loans, generally with principal amounts between$2 millionand$75 million, which are secured by income-producing properties.

Recent Business Developments

During2013, we saw a housing market that was in a solid recovery mode and we believe is continuing to improve. We have seen demand for home purchases increase in the market place with regard to most of our communities, driven by a









combination of affordable home prices, low interest rates and constrained supply as evidenced by our increase in new orders of 21% year over year.

We reported net earnings attributable to Lennar of$479.7 million, or$2.15per diluted share, for the year endedNovember 30, 2013, which includes a$177.0 million, tax provision, or $0.78 per diluted share, compared to net earnings attributable to Lennar of$679.1 million, or$3.11per diluted share, for the year endedNovember 30, 2012, which included a$435.2 milliontax benefit, or $1.99 per diluted share. In2013, we benefited greatly from the strategic capital investments we made in recent years and our increased operating leverage due to higher deliveries. Our principal focus has been on improving our profitability on the homes we sell by increasing sales prices and reducing sales incentives, which more than offset increasing material, labor and land costs, as well as taking advantage of the steps we have taken over the past several years to reduce costs and right-size our overhead structure.

We ended2013with$695.4 millionin Lennar Homebuilding cash and cash equivalents. We extended our debt maturities by issuing $275 million of 4.125% senior notes due 2018 and $225 million of 4.750% senior notes due 2022, while retiring $351.1 million of senior notes and other debt and converting the entire $276.5 million principal amount of our2.00%convertible senior notes due 2020 into shares of Class A common stock. Our strong balance sheet and liquidity will allow us to capitalize on future opportunities as they present themselves.

During2013, our Lennar Financial Services segment had operating earnings of$85.8 million, compared to$84.8 millionin the same period last year. The operating earnings were driven by an increase in profit in the title operations as a result of a higher profit per transaction, offset by a slight decrease in profitability in the mortgage operations.

During


, our Rialto segment, which invests, and manages funds that invest in distressed real estate opportunities and which originates and sells into securitizations commercial mortgage loans, had operating earnings attributable to Lennar of $19.9 million (which is comprised of

$26.1 million

of operating earnings, offset by $6.2 million of net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests), compared to operating earnings attributable to Lennar of $26.0 million (which is comprised of

$11.6 million

of operating earnings and an add back of $14.4 million of net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests) in


. The segment's operating earnings in 2013 came primarily from equity in earnings from our Rialto real estate funds, the new RMF business, and a provisional gain related to a bargain purchase acquisition which included cash and a loan receivable as consideration, partially offset by operating losses related to the FDIC Portfolios in which we invested in 2010. The segment’s operating earnings in 2012 came primarily from equity in earnings from our investment in the Alliance Bernstein L.P. (“AB”) Public-Private Investment Program (“PPIP”) fund and the Rialto Real Estate Fund, LP ("Fund I"). Those earnings were partially offset by operating losses related to the FDIC Portfolios. For the year ended

November 30, 2013

, the Rialto segment had revenues of

$138.1 million

, which consisted primarily of accretable interest income associated with the segment’s portfolio of real estate loans, gains from securitization transactions and interest income from the new RMF business, and fees for managing and servicing assets. The Rialto segment had expenses of

$151.1 million

, which consisted primarily of costs related to its portfolio operations, the new RMF business, loan impairments of $16.1 million primarily associated with the segment's FDIC Portfolios (before noncontrolling interests) and other general and administrative expenses. During 2013, our Rialto segment also issued

$250 million

of

7.00%

senior notes due 2018 (the "

7.00%

Senior Notes").

During 2013, our Lennar Multifamily segment had operating losses of$17.0 millionprimarily as a result of start up costs as we continue to invest in and begin to build-out multifamily rental properties.

Homebuilding Operations

Overview

Our homebuilding operations include the construction and sale of single-family attached and detached homes, as well as the purchase, development and sale of residential land directly and through unconsolidated entities in which we have investments. We primarily sell single-family attached and detached homes in communities targeted to first-time, move-up and active adult homebuyers. We operate primarily under the Lennar brand name. Our homebuilding mission is focused on the profitable development of these residential communities. Key elements of our strategy include:

•Strong Operating Margins -We believe our operating leverage combined with our attractive land purchases positions us for continued high operating margins.

•Everything’s Included®Approach- We are focused on distinguishing our products, including through our Everything’s Included®approach, which maximizes our purchasing power to include luxury features as standard items in our homes.

•Innovative Homebuilding -We are constantly innovating the homes we build to create products that meet our customers' needs. Our latest innovation, NextGen homes, or a home within a home, provides a unique new home solution for multi-generational households as homebuyers often need to accommodate children and parents to share the cost of their mortgage and other living expenses.









•Flexible Operating Structure- Our local operating structure gives us the flexibility to make operating decisions based on local homebuilding conditions and customer preferences, while our centralized management structure provides oversight for our homebuilding operations.

Diversified Program of Property Acquisition

We generally acquire land for development and for the construction of homes that we sell to homebuyers. Land is subject to specified underwriting criteria and is acquired through our diversified program of property acquisition, which may consist of the following:

•Acquiring land directly from individual land owners/developers or homebuilders;

•Acquiring local or regional homebuilders that own, or have options to purchase, land in strategic markets;

•Acquiring land through option contracts, which generally enables us to control portions of properties owned by third parties (including land funds) and unconsolidated entities until we have determined whether to exercise the options;

•Acquiring parcels of land through joint ventures, which among other factors, limits the amount of our capital invested in land, while increasing our access to potential future homesites and allowing us to participate in strategic ventures; and

•Acquiring distressed assets from banks and opportunity funds, often through relationships established by our Rialto segment.

AtNovember 30, 2013, we owned125,643homesites and had access through option contracts to an additional28,133homesites, of which20,966homesites were through option contracts with third parties and7,167homesites were through option contracts with Lennar Homebuilding unconsolidated entities in which we have investments. AtNovember 30, 2012, we owned107,138homesites and had access through option contracts to an additional21,346homesites, of which13,312homesites were through option contracts with third parties and8,034homesites were through option contracts with Lennar Homebuilding unconsolidated entities in which we have investments.

Construction and Development

Through our own efforts and those of unconsolidated entities in which Lennar Homebuilding has investments, we are involved in all phases of planning and building in our residential communities, including land acquisition, site planning, preparation and improvement of land and design, construction and marketing of homes. We use independent subcontractors for most aspects of home construction. AtNovember 30, 2013, we were actively building and marketing homes in 535communities, excluding communities being developed by unconsolidated entities.

We generally supervise and control the development of land and the design and building of our residential communities with a relatively small labor force. We hire subcontractors for site improvements and virtually all of the work involved in the construction of homes. Arrangements with our subcontractors generally provide that our subcontractors will complete specified work in accordance with price schedules and in compliance with applicable building codes and laws. The price schedules may be subject to change to meet changes in labor and material costs or for other reasons. We believe that the sources and availability of raw materials to our subcontractors are adequate for our current and planned levels of operation. We generally do not own heavy construction equipment. We finance construction and land development activities primarily with cash generated from operations, debt issuances and equity offerings.

For additional information about our investments in and relationships with unconsolidated entities, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Report.

Marketing

We offer a diversified line of homes for first-time, move-up and active adult homebuyers in a variety of environments ranging from urban infill communities to golf course communities. Our Everything’s Included®marketing program simplifies the homebuying experience by including most desirable features as standard items. This marketing program enables us to differentiate our homes from those of our competitors by creating value through standard upgrades and competitive pricing, while reducing construction and overhead costs through a simplified manufacturing process, product standardization and volume purchasing. In addition, our innovative NextGen homes and our advances in including solar powered technology in certain of the homes we sell, enhance our image and improve our marketing and sales efforts. We sell our homes primarily from models that we have designed and constructed.

We employ sales associates who are paid salaries, commissions or both to conduct on-site sales of homes. We also sell homes through independent brokers. Our new age marketing strategy is focused on advertising through digital and social









media, including through our Internet website, www.lennar.com, which has allowed us to drive down marketing costs and attract more knowledgeable homebuyers. However, we also continue to advertise through more traditional marketing, including through newspapers, radio advertisements and other local and regional publications and on billboards. We also tailor our marketing strategy based on our advertised community, such as advertising our active adult communities in areas where prospective active adult homebuyers live.

Quality Service

We strive to continually improve homeowner customer satisfaction throughout the pre-sale, sale, construction, closing and post-closing periods. Through the participation of sales associates, on-site construction supervisors and customer care associates, all working in a team effort, we strive to create a quality homebuying experience for our customers, which we believe leads to enhanced customer retention and referrals. The quality of our homes is substantially affected by the efforts of on-site management and others engaged in the construction process, by the materials we use in particular homes and by other similar factors.

We warrant our new homes against defective materials and workmanship for a minimum period of one year after the date of closing. Although we subcontract virtually all segments of construction to others and our contracts call for the subcontractors to repair or replace any deficient items related to their trades, we are primarily responsible to the homebuyers for the correction of any deficiencies.

Management and Operating Structure

We balance a local operating structure with centralized corporate level management. Decisions related to our overall strategy, acquisitions of land and businesses, risk management, financing, cash management and information systems are centralized at the corporate level. Our local operating structure consists of divisions, which are managed by individuals who generally have significant experience in the homebuilding industry and, in most instances, in their particular markets. They are responsible for operating decisions regarding land identification, entitlement and development, the management of inventory levels for our current volume levels, community development, home design, construction and marketing of our homes.

Deliveries

We primarily sell single-family attached and detached homes in communities targeted to first-time, move-up and active adult homebuyers. The average sales price of a Lennar home was $290,000 in fiscal2013, compared to $255,000 in fiscal2012and $244,000 in fiscal2011.

The table below indicates the number of deliveries for each of our current reportable homebuilding segments and Homebuilding Other during our last three fiscal years:

Years Ended November 30,201320122011East6,9415,4404,576Central2,8142,1541,661West3,3232,3011,846Southeast Florida1,7411,314904Houston2,2661,9171,411Other1,205676447Total18,29013,80210,845

Of the total home deliveries listed above,56,95and99, respectively, represent deliveries from unconsolidated entities for the years endedNovember 30, 2013,2012and2011.

Backlog

Backlog represents the number of homes under sales contracts. Homes are sold using sales contracts, which are generally accompanied by sales deposits. In some instances, purchasers are permitted to cancel sales contracts if they fail to qualify for financing or under certain other circumstances. We experienced a cancellation rate of16%in2013, compared to17%and19%in2012and2011, respectively. The cancellation rate for the year endedNovember 30, 2013was within a range that is consistent with historical cancellation rates and substantially below those we experienced from 2007 through 2010. We expect that substantially all homes currently in backlog will be delivered in fiscal year2014. We do not recognize revenue on homes under sales contracts until the sales are closed and title passes to the new homeowners.









The table below indicates the backlog dollar value for each of our current reportable homebuilding segments and Homebuilding Other as of the end of each of our last three fiscal years:

Years Ended November 30,(Dollars in thousands)201320122011East$600,257368,361220,974Central195,762168,91265,256West257,498202,95997,292Southeast Florida215,988141,14652,013Houston180,665135,28279,800Other169,431143,72545,324Total$1,619,6011,160,385560,659

Of the dollar value of homes in backlog listed above,$2.5 million,$3.5 millionand$1.0 million, respectively, represent the backlog dollar value from unconsolidated entities atNovember 30, 2013,2012and2011.

Inventory Impairments and Valuation Adjustments related to Lennar Homebuilding Investments in Unconsolidated Entities

We evaluate our balance sheet quarterly for possible impairment on a community by community basis. Based on our evaluations and assessments during the years endedNovember 30, 2013,2012and2011, we recorded the following inventory impairments:

Years Ended November 30,(In thousands)201320122011Valuation adjustments to finished homes, CIP and land on which we intend to build homes$4,45812,57435,726Valuation adjustments to land we intend to sell or have sold to third parties1,222666456Write-offs of option deposits and pre-acquisition costs1,8582,3891,784$7,53815,62937,966

During the years endedNovember 30, 2013,2012and2011, we recorded the following valuation adjustments related to Lennar Homebuilding investments in unconsolidated entities:

Years Ended November 30,(In thousands)201320122011Our share of valuation adjustments related to assets of Lennar Homebuilding unconsolidated entities$—12,1458,869Valuation adjustments to Lennar Homebuilding investments in unconsolidated entities8971810,489$89712,16319,358

The inventory impairments and valuation adjustments to Lennar Homebuilding investments in unconsolidated entities recorded above were estimated based on market conditions and assumptions made by management at the time the valuation adjustments were recorded, which may differ materially from actual results if market conditions or our assumptions change.

FivePoint Communities

In 2011, we transferred the management of several large properties in California to FivePoint Communities Management, Inc., a consolidated joint venture. FivePoint Communities is currently undertaking six master planned mixed use developments, three in Southern California and three in or near San Francisco. These developments are planned for a total of 50,000 homesites and 20 million square feet of commercial space, as well as parks and sports and entertainment venues.

Lennar Homebuilding Investments in Unconsolidated Entities

For a number of years, we created and participated in joint ventures that acquired and developed land for our homebuilding operations, for sale to third parties or for use in their own homebuilding operations. Through these joint ventures, we reduced the amount we had to invest in order to assure access to potential future homesites, thereby mitigating









certain risks associated with land acquisitions, and, in some instances, we obtained access to land to which we could not otherwise have obtained access or could not have obtained access on as favorable terms. Although these ventures initially served their intended purpose of risk mitigation, as the homebuilding market deteriorated between 2008 and 2010 and asset impairments resulted in the loss of equity, some of our joint venture partners became financially unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations, which increased our exposure with regard to the joint ventures' obligations. As a result, we substantially reduced our involvement in joint ventures. During2013, we continued to evaluate all of our joint venture arrangements. As of bothNovember 30, 2013and 2012, we had 36 Lennar Homebuilding unconsolidated joint ventures in which we were participating, which had been reduced from 270 joint ventures at the peak in 2006. At November 30,2013and2012, our maximum recourse debt exposure related to Lennar Homebuilding unconsolidated joint ventures was$41.0 millionand$66.7 million, respectively, which had been reduced from $1,764.4 million at the peak in 2006.

Lennar Financial Services Operations

Mortgage Financing

We primarily originate conforming conventional, FHA-insured and VA-guaranteed residential mortgage loan products and other products to our homebuyers and others through our financial services subsidiary, Universal American Mortgage Company, LLC, which includes Universal American Mortgage Company, LLC, d/b/a Eagle Home Mortgage, located generally in the same states as our homebuilding operations as well as some other states. In2013, our financial services subsidiaries provided loans to77%of our homebuyers who obtained mortgage financing in areas where we offered services. Because of the availability of mortgage loans from our financial services subsidiaries, as well as from independent mortgage lenders, we believe almost all creditworthy purchasers of our homes have access to financing.

During2013, we originated approximately22,300residential mortgage loans totaling$5.3 billion, compared to19,700residential mortgage loans totaling$4.4 billionduring2012. Substantially all of the residential mortgage loans we originate are sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis. After the loans are sold, we retain potential liability for possible claims by purchasers that we breached certain limited industry-standard representations and warranties in the loan sale agreements. Therefore, we have limited direct exposure related to the residential mortgages we originate. AtNovember 30, 2013and2012, we had a reserve of$9.3 millionand$7.3 million, respectively, related to claims of that type.

We have a corporate risk management policy under which we hedge our interest rate risk on rate-locked loan commitments and loans held-for-sale to mitigate exposure to interest rate fluctuations. We finance our mortgage loan activities with borrowings under our financial services warehouse facilities or from our operating funds. Our financial services warehouse facilities were as follows:

Warehouse Repurchase Facilities (Dollars in thousands)Maximum Aggregate CommitmentAdditional Uncommitted Amount364-day warehouse repurchase facility that matures February 2014$100,000100,000364-day warehouse repurchase facility that matures November 2014325,000—364-day warehouse repurchase facility that matures January 2015 (1)300,000—Totals$725,000100,000

(1) Maximum aggregate commitment includes a$100 millionaccordion feature that is usable 10 days prior to quarter-end through 20 days after quarter end.

We expect the facilities to be renewed or replaced with other facilities when they mature.

Title Insurance and Closing Services

We provide title insurance and closing services to our homebuyers and others. During2013, we provided title and closing services for approximately101,200real estate transactions, and issued approximately192,400title insurance policies through our underwriter, North American Title Insurance Company, compared to108,200real estate transactions and149,300title insurance policies issued during2012. Title and closing services are provided by agency subsidiaries in Arizona, California, Colorado, District of Columbia, Florida, Illinois, Maryland, Minnesota, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Texas, Utah, Virginia and Wisconsin.Title insurance services are provided in these same states, except New York, as well as in Alabama, Delaware, Georgia, Idaho, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Massachusetts, Michigan, Mississippi, New Hampshire, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Washington and Wyoming.









Rialto Investments Operations

In 2010, our Rialto segment acquired indirectly40%managing member equity interests in two limited liability companies (“LLCs”), in partnership with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), for approximately$243 million(net of transaction costs and a$22 millionworking capital reserve). The LLCs held performing and non-performing distressed residential and commercial real estate loans (“FDIC Portfolios”). The FDIC retained a60%equity interest in the LLCs and provided$626.9 millionof financing with0%interest, which was non-recourse to us and the LLCs. As of November 30, 2013, the notes payable had been fully repaid and the remaining cash collected on the loans and real estate owned ("REO") properties, net of expenses and other items will be shared60%/40%with the FDIC. During the year ended November 30, 2013,$46.7 millionhad been distributed, of which$28.4 millionwas paid to the FDIC and$18.3 millionwas paid to Rialto, the parent company.

In 2010, our Rialto segment also acquired distressed residential and commercial real estate loans and REO properties from three financial institutions (“Bank Portfolios”). We paid$310 millionfor the Bank Portfolios, of which$124 millionwas financed through a 5-year senior unsecured note provided by one of the selling institutions. As ofNovember 30, 2013, the remaining balance on the note was$90.9 million.

Rialto is the sponsor of, and an investor in, private equity vehicles that invest in and manage real estate related assets. This has included Fund I that was initially formed in 2010 to which investors committed and contributed a total of$700 millionof equity (including the$75 millionby us), Rialto Real Estate Fund II, LP (“Fund II”) that was formed in 2013 with investor commitments at November 30, 2013 of$1.1 billion(including$100 millionby us) and the Rialto Mezzanine Partners Fund, LP (the "Mezzanine Fund") that was formed in 2013 with a target of raising$300 millionin capital (including$25 millioncommitted by us) to invest in performing mezzanine commercial loans. Rialto also earns fees for its role as a manager of these vehicles and for providing asset management and other services to those vehicles and other third parties.

In2013, our Rialto segment had equity in earnings from unconsolidated entities of$19.4 millionrelated to Fund I. Fund I’s objective during its three-year investment period was to invest in distressed real estate assets and other related investments that fit within Fund I’s investment parameters. As ofNovember 30, 2013and2012, the carrying value of our investment in Fund I was$75.7 millionand$98.9 million, respectively.

In2013, our Rialto segment also had equity in earnings from unconsolidated entities of$2.5 millionrelated to Fund II, which completed its first closing in the beginning of the year with initial equity commitments of approximately$260 million(including$100 millionby us). As ofNovember 30, 2013, the equity commitments of Fund II were$1.1 billion(including the$100 millioncommitted by us). Fund II’s objective during its three-year investment period is to invest in distressed real estate assets and other related investments that fit within Fund II’s investment parameters. As of November 30, 2013,$511.4 millionof the$1.1 billionin equity commitments was called, of which we contributed our portion of$50.6 million. As ofNovember 30, 2013, the carrying value of our investment in Fund II was$53.1 million. Subsequent to November 30, 2013, Fund II was closed to additional commitments, with total equity commitments totaling$1.3 billion.

For both Fund I and Fund II, in order to protect investors in the Funds against the possibility that we would keep attractive investment opportunities for ourselves instead of presenting them to the Funds, we agreed that we would not make investments that are suitable for the applicable Fund, except to the extent an Advisory Committee of the Fund decides that the Fund should not make particular investments, with an exception enabling us to purchase properties for use in connection with our homebuilding operations.









In addition, during 2013, the Rialto segment started raising capital and investing in mezzanine commercial loans creating the Mezzanine Fund with a target of raising$300 million(including$25 millioncommitted by us) in capital to invest in performing mezzanine commercial loans. As ofNovember 30, 2013, the Mezzanine Fund had total equity commitments of$82 million(including the$25 millioncommitted by us). As ofNovember 30, 2013, total capital invested in the Mezzanine Fund was$53.5 million, including$16.4 million, invested by us. For the year endedNovember 30, 2013, our share of earnings from the Mezzanine Fund was$0.4 million.

During the middle of 2013, RMF was formed and in the second half of 2013 began originating and selling into securitizations five, seven and ten year commercial first mortgage loans, generally with principle amounts between$2 millionand$75 million, which are secured by income producing properties. As ofNovember 30, 2013, RMF has originated loans with a total principal balance of$690.3 million. As of November 30, 2013, RMF sold$537.0 millionof these originated loans into three separate securitizations. An additional$109.3 millionof these originated loans were sold into a securitization trust but not settled as of November 30, 2013 and thus, were included as receivables, net. RMF has secured two warehouse repurchase financing agreements that mature in fiscal year 2015 totaling$500 millionto help finance the loans it makes. We expect this business to be a significant contributor to the Rialto segment's revenues.

In November 2013, our Rialto segment issued$250 millionaggregate principal amount of7.00%Senior Notes due 2018, at a price of100%in a private placement. Proceeds from the offering, after payment of expenses, were approximately$245 million. Rialto used the net proceeds of the sale of the7.00%Senior Notes as working capital for RMF and used$100 millionto repay sums that were advanced to RMF by us. Interest on the7.00%Senior Notes is due semi-annually beginning June 1, 2014. At November 30, 2013, the carrying amount of the7.00%Senior Notes was$250 million.

Lennar Multifamily Operations

During 2012 and2013, we became actively involved, primarily through unconsolidated entities, in the development of multifamily rental properties. The Lennar Multifamily segment will focus on developing a geographically diversified portfolio of institutional quality multifamily rental properties in select U.S. markets. We currently use third party management companies to rent the apartments though we anticipate renting the apartments though one of our entities in the future.

As ofNovember 30, 2013and 2012, our balance sheet had$147.1 millionand$29.1 million, respectively, of assets related to the Lennar Multifamily segment, which includes investments in unconsolidated entities of$46.3 millionand$3.1 million, respectively. Our net investment in the Lennar Multifamily segment as of November 30, 2013 was$105.6 million. Our Lennar Multifamily segment was participating in13and2unconsolidated entities as ofNovember 30, 2013and2012, respectively. Our Lennar Multifamily segment had a pipeline of future projects totaling $3.7 billion in assets across a number of states that will be developed by unconsolidated entities.

For additional information about our investments in and relationships with unconsolidated entities, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Report.

Seasonality

We historically have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, variability in quarterly results. Our homebuilding business is seasonal in nature and generally reflects higher levels of new home order activity in our second fiscal quarter and increased deliveries in the second half of our fiscal year. However, periods of economic downturn in the industry, such as we have experienced in previous years, can alter seasonal patterns.

Competition

The residential homebuilding industry is highly competitive. We compete for homebuyers in each of the market regions where we operate with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders, as well as with resales of existing homes and with the rental housing market. In recent years, lenders’ efforts to sell foreclosed homes have been a significant competitive factor within the homebuilding industry. We compete for homebuyers on the basis of a number of interrelated factors including location, price, reputation, amenities, design, quality and financing. In addition to competition for homebuyers, we also compete with other homebuilders for desirable properties, raw materials and access to reliable, skilled labor. We compete for land buyers with third parties in our efforts to sell land to homebuilders and others. We believe we are competitive in the market regions where we operate primarily due to our:

•Balance sheet, where we continue to focus on inventory management and liquidity;

•Access to land, particularly in land-constrained markets;

•Access to distressed assets, primarily through relationships established by our Rialto segment;

•Pricing to current market conditions through sales incentives offered to homebuyers;









•Cost efficiencies realized through our national purchasing programs and production of value-engineered homes;

•Quality construction and home warranty programs, which are supported by a responsive customer care team; and

•Everything’s Included®marketing program, which simplifies the homebuying experience by including most desirable features as standard items.

Our financial services operations compete with other mortgage lenders, including national, regional and local mortgage bankers and brokers, banks, savings and loan associations and other financial institutions, in the origination and sale of residential mortgage loans. Principal competitive factors include interest rates and other features of mortgage loan products available to the consumer. We compete with other title insurance agencies and underwriters for closing services and title insurance. Principal competitive factors include service and price.

The Multifamily operations compete with other multifamily apartment developers and operators including REITs across the United States. We will also compete in securing tenants with the large supply of already existing rental apartments.  Principal competitive factors include location, rental price, occupancy rates and management of the multifamily apartments.

Regulation

The homes, multifamily apartment rentals and residential communities that we build are subject to an extensive variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations relating to, among other things, zoning, construction permits or entitlements, construction material requirements, density requirements, and requirements relating to building design and property elevation, building codes and handling of waste. These include laws requiring the use of construction materials that reduce the need for energy-consuming heating and cooling systems. These laws and regulations are subject to frequent change and often increase construction costs. In some instances, we must comply with laws that require commitments from us to provide roads and other offsite infrastructure to be in place prior to the commencement of new construction. These laws and regulations are usually administered by counties and municipalities and may result in fees and assessments or building moratoriums. In addition, certain new development projects are subject to assessments for schools, parks, streets and highways and other public improvements, the costs of which can be substantial. Also, some states are attempting to make homebuilders responsible for violations of wage and other labor laws by their subcontractors.

Residential homebuilding and apartment development are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. These environmental laws include such areas as storm water and surface water management, soil, groundwater and wetlands protection, subsurface conditions and air quality protection and enhancement. Environmental laws and existing conditions may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs and may prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas.









In recent years, several cities and counties in which we have developments have submitted to voters “slow growth” initiatives and other ballot measures that could impact the affordability and availability of land suitable for residential development within those localities. Although many of these initiatives have been defeated, we believe that if similar initiatives were approved, residential construction by us and others within certain cities or counties could be seriously impacted.

In order to make it possible for some of our homebuyers to obtain FHA-insured or VA-guaranteed mortgages, we must construct the homes they buy in compliance with regulations promulgated by those agencies. Various states have statutory disclosure requirements relating to the marketing and sale of new homes. These disclosure requirements vary widely from state-to-state. In addition, some states require that each new home be registered with the state at or before the time title is transferred to a buyer (e.g., the Texas Residential Construction Commission Act).  In some states, we are required to be registered as a licensed contractor and comply with applicable rules and regulations. In various states, our new home consultants are required to be registered as licensed real estate agents and to adhere to the laws governing the practices of real estate agents.

Our mortgage and title subsidiaries must comply with applicable real estate laws and regulations. The subsidiaries are licensed in the states in which they do business and must comply with laws and regulations in those states. These laws and regulations include provisions regarding capitalization, operating procedures, investments, lending and privacy disclosures, forms of policies and premiums. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains a number of new requirements relating to mortgage lending and securitizations.  These include, among others, minimum standards for lender practices, limitations on certain fees and a requirement that the originator of loans that are securitized retain a portion of the risk, either directly or by holding interests in the securitizations.

Several federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and ordinances, including, but not limited to, the Federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (“FDCPA”) and the Federal Trade Commission Act and comparable state statutes, regulate consumer debt collection activity. Although, for a variety of reasons, we may not be specifically subject to the FDCPA or certain state statutes that govern debt collectors, it is our policy to comply with applicable laws in our collection activities. To the extent that some or all of these laws apply to our collection activities our failure to comply with such laws could have a material adverse effect on us. We are also subject to regulations promulgated by the Federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau regarding residential mortgage loans.

Because Rialto manages two real estate asset investment funds, one mezzanine loan fund and two entities partly owned by the FDIC, a Rialto segment entity is required to be registered as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. This Act has requirements related to dealings between investment advisers and the entities they advise and imposes record keeping and disclosure obligations on investment advisers. Our RMF subsidiary must comply with laws and regulations applicable to commercial mortgage lending. It or its subsidiaries must be licensed in states in which they make loans and must comply with laws and regulations in those states.

Associates

At December 31,2013, we employed 5,741 individuals of whom 2,979 were involved in the Lennar Homebuilding operations, 2,368 were involved in the Lennar Financial Services operations, 302 were involved in the Rialto operations and 92 were involved in the Multifamily operations, compared to November 30, 2012, when we employed 4,699 individuals of whom 2,278 were involved in the Lennar Homebuilding operations, 2,157 were involved in Lennar Financial Services operations, 238 were involved in the Rialto operations and 26 were involved in Lennar Multifamily operations. We do not have collective bargaining agreements relating to any of our associates. However, we subcontract many phases of our homebuilding operations and some of the subcontractors we use have associates who are represented by labor unions.

NYSE Certification

We submitted our2012Annual CEO Certification to the New York Stock Exchange on April 19, 2013. The certification was not qualified in any respect.

Available Information

Our corporate website is www.lennar.com. We make available on our website, free of charge, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these documents with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Information on our website is not part of this document.

Our website also includes printable versions of our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the charters for each of the Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees of









our Board of Directors. Each of these documents is also available in print to any stockholder who requests a copy by addressing a request to:

Lennar Corporation

Attention: Office of the General Counsel

700 Northwest 107thAvenue

Miami, Florida 33172





