Item 1.Business.

Overview of Lennar
Corporation

We are one of the nation’s largest homebuilders, a provider of financial services and through our Rialto
Investments (“Rialto”) segment, an investor in distressed real estate assets. Our homebuilding operations include the construction and sale of single-family attached and detached homes, as well as the purchase, development and sale of
residential land directly and through unconsolidated entities in which we have investments. We have grouped our homebuilding activities into five reportable segments, which we refer to as Homebuilding East, Homebuilding Central, Homebuilding West,
Homebuilding Southeast Florida and Homebuilding Houston. Information about homebuilding activities in states in which our homebuilding activities are not economically similar to those in other states in the same geographic area is grouped under
“Homebuilding Other.” Our reportable homebuilding segments and Homebuilding Other have operations located in:

East:Florida(1), Georgia, Maryland, New Jersey, North Carolina, South Carolina and Virginia

Central:Arizona, Colorado and Texas(2)

West:California and Nevada

Southeast Florida: Southeast Florida

Houston: Houston, Texas

Other:Illinois and Minnesota



(1)Florida in the East reportable segment excludes Southeast Florida, which is its own reportable segment.

(2)Texas in the Central reportable segment excludes Houston, Texas, which is its own reportable segment.

Our Financial Services reportable segment provides primarily mortgage financing, title insurance and closing services for both buyers of
our homes and others. Substantially all of the loans we originate are sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis. After the loans are sold, we retain potential liability for possible
claims by purchasers that we breached certain limited industry-standard representations and warranties in the loan sale agreements. Our Financial Services segment operates generally in the same states as our homebuilding operations, as well as in
other states.

Our Rialto reportable segment’s objective is to generate superior, risk-adjusted returns by focusing on
commercial and residential real estate opportunities arising from dislocation in the United States real estate markets and the expected eventual restructuring and recapitalization of those markets. Our Rialto segment operations include sourcing,
underwriting, pricing and ultimately monetizing real estate and real estate related assets, as well as providing similar services to others in markets across the country.

For financial information about our Homebuilding, Lennar Financial Services and Rialto operations, you should review Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations, which is Item 7 of this Report, and our consolidated financial statements and the notes to our consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Report.

A Brief History of Our Company







Recent Business Developments

Overview

During 2011, we continued to see a housing market that was trying to
stabilize. We have seen demand for home purchases slowly return to the market place driven by a combination of low home prices and low interest rates as evidenced by our increase in new orders of 15% year over year during the second half of 2011.

We reported net earnings attributable to Lennar of $92.2 million, or $0.48 per diluted share, for the year ended
November 30, 2011, compared to net earnings attributable to Lennar of $95.3 million, or $0.51 per diluted share, for the year ended November 30, 2010. In 2011, we remained focused on improving our core homebuilding business. We benefitted
greatly from our strategic capital investments in new higher margin communities, which are outperforming the gross margins in our other communities. Our intense focus on efficient business practice through our Everything’s Included program,
product re-engineering and selling, general and administrative expenses all contributed to a profitable year.

Our strong
balance sheet and liquidity will allow us to capitalize on future opportunities as they present themselves. We also ended 2011 with $1.0 billion in Lennar Homebuilding cash and cash equivalents. We extended our debt maturities by issuing $350
million of 3.25% convertible senior notes due 2021 and subsequent to November 30, 2011 issued an additional $50 million to cover over-allotments. In addition, during the year we retired $249.0 million of senior notes and other debt.

During 2011, our Lennar Financial Services segment had operating earnings of $20.7 million, compared to $31.3 million in the same period
last year. The decrease in operating earnings was primarily due to decreased volume in the segment’s mortgage operations. In addition, during 2010 our Lennar Financial Services segment received $5.1 million of proceeds from the previous sale of
a cable system.

During 2011, our Rialto segment, which invests in distressed real estate opportunities, had operating
earnings of $63.5 million (which included $28.9 million of net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests), compared to $57.3 million (which included $33.2 million of net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests) in 2010. The
segment’s operating earnings came primarily from the FDIC Portfolios that we invested in and the Bank Portfolios that we purchased in 2010.

In 2010, our Rialto segment acquired indirectly 40% managing member equity interests in two limited liability companies (“LLCs”), in partnership with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”), for approximately $243 million (net of transaction costs and a $22 million working capital reserve). The LLCs hold performing and non-performing distressed residential and commercial real estate loans (“FDIC
Portfolios”). The FDIC retained a 60% equity interest in the LLCs and provided $626.9 million of financing with 0% interest, which is non-recourse to us and the LLCs. As of November 30, 2011, $219.4 million of cash collections on the loans
in excess of expenses were deposited in a defeasance account, established for the repayment of the notes payable, under the agreement with the FDIC.

In 2010, our Rialto segment also acquired distressed residential and commercial real estate loans and real estate owned (“REO”) properties from three financial institutions (“Bank
Portfolios”). We paid $310 million for the Bank Portfolios of which $124 million was financed through a 5-year senior unsecured note provided by one of the selling institutions.

In 2011, our Rialto segment had equity in earnings (loss) from unconsolidated entities of ($10.2) million related to our investment in
the Alliance Bernstein L.P. (“AB”) Public-Private Investment Program (“PPIP”) fund, which included mark-to-market unrealized losses of $21.4 million, partially offset by $11.2 million of interest and other income earned by the AB
PPIP fund. As of November 30, 2011 and 2010, the carrying value of our investment in the AB PPIP fund was $65.2 million and $77.3 million, respectively. AB PPIP fund was formed in 2010 under the Federal government’s PPIP to purchase real
estate related securities from banks and other financial institutions. Rialto is a sub-advisor to the AB PPIP fund and receives management fees for its sub-advisory services. We committed to invest $75 million in the AB PPIP fund, of which the
remaining outstanding commitment as of November 30, 2011 was $7.5 million. During the years ended November 30, 2011 and 2010, we invested $3.7 million and $63.8 million, respectively in the AB PPIP fund. Total equity commitments of
approximately $1.2 billion were made by private investors in this fund, and the U.S. Treasury committed to a matching amount of approximately $1.2 billion of equity in the fund, and agreed to extend up to approximately $2.3 billion of debt
financing.

In 2011, our Rialto segment also had equity in earnings (loss) from unconsolidated entities of $2.9 million
related to the real estate investment fund (the “Fund”) that it closed in 2010 with initial equity commitments of $300 million (including $75 million committed by us). The Fund’s objective during its three-year investment period is to
invest in distressed real estate assets and other related investments that fit within the Fund’s investment parameters. During 2011, the Fund acquired distressed real asset portfolios and invested in non-investment grade commercial
mortgage-backed securities (“CMBS”) at a discount to par value and we







contributed to the Fund $60.6 million of which $13.4 million was distributed back to us as a return of excess capital contributions as a result of new investors in the Fund. Total investor
contributions to the Fund for the year ended November 30, 2011 were $387.8 million. As of November 30, 2011, the carrying value of our investment in the Fund was $50.1 million. As of November 30, 2011, the equity commitments of the
Fund were $700 million (including the $75 million committed by us).

Homebuilding Operations

Overview

We primarily sell
single-family attached and detached homes in communities targeted to first-time, move-up and active adult homebuyers. The average sales price of a Lennar home was $244,000 in fiscal 2011, compared to $243,000 in both fiscal 2010 and 2009. We operate
primarily under the Lennar brand name.

Through our own efforts and those of unconsolidated entities in which Lennar
Homebuilding has investments, we are involved in all phases of planning and building in our residential communities, including land acquisition, site planning, preparation and improvement of land and design, construction and marketing of homes. For
additional information about our investments in and relationships with unconsolidated entities, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Report.

Inventory Impairments and Valuation Adjustments related to Lennar Homebuilding Investments in Unconsolidated Entities

We continued evaluating our balance sheet quarterly for possible impairment on an asset-by-asset basis during fiscal 2011.
Based on our evaluations and assessments, during the years ended November 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recorded the following inventory impairments:



Years Ended November 30,(In thousands)201120102009Valuation adjustments to finished homes, CIP and land on which we intend to build homes$35,72644,717180,239Valuation adjustments to land we intend to sell or have sold to third parties4563,43695,314Write-offs of option deposits and pre-acquisition costs1,7843,10584,372$37,96651,258359,925

During the years ended November 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recorded the following valuation
adjustments related to Lennar Homebuilding investments in unconsolidated entities:



Years Ended November 30,(In thousands)201120102009Our share of valuation adjustments related to assets of Lennar Homebuilding unconsolidated entities$8,86910,461101,893Valuation adjustments to Lennar Homebuilding investments in unconsolidated entities10,4891,73588,972$19,35812,196190,865

The inventory impairments and valuation adjustments to Lennar Homebuilding investments in unconsolidated
entities recorded above were estimated based on market conditions and assumptions made by management at the time the valuation adjustments were recorded, which may differ materially from actual results if market conditions or our assumptions change.

Lennar Homebuilding Investments in Unconsolidated Entities

For a number of years, we created and participated in joint ventures that acquired and developed land for our homebuilding operations, for sale to third parties or for use in their own homebuilding
operations. Through these joint ventures, we reduced the amount we had to invest in order to assure access to potential future homesites, thereby mitigating certain risks associated with land acquisitions, and, in some instances, we obtained access
to land to which we could not otherwise have obtained access or could not have obtained access on as favorable terms. Although these ventures initially served their intended purpose of risk mitigation, as the homebuilding market deteriorated and
asset impairments resulted in the loss of equity, some of our joint venture partners became financially unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations. During 2011, we continued to reevaluate all of our joint venture arrangements, with particular
focus on those ventures with recourse indebtedness, and reduced the number of joint ventures in which we were participating as well as the recourse indebtedness of those joint ventures. As of November 30, 2011, we had reduced the number of
Lennar Homebuilding unconsolidated joint ventures in which we were participating to 35 from 270 joint







ventures at the peak in 2006 and reduced our maximum recourse debt exposure related to Lennar Homebuilding unconsolidated joint ventures to $108.7 million from $1,764.4 million at the peak in
2006. At November 30, 2011, our net recourse exposure related to Lennar Homebuilding unconsolidated entities was $74.9 million.

Management and Operating Structure

We balance a local operating structure with centralized corporate level management. Decisions related to our overall strategy, acquisitions of land and businesses, risk management, financing, cash
management and information systems are centralized at the corporate level. Our local operating structure consists of divisions, which are managed by individuals who generally have significant experience in the homebuilding industry and, in most
instances, in their particular markets. They are responsible for operating decisions regarding land identification, entitlement and development, the management of inventory levels for our current volume levels, community development, home design,
construction and marketing of our homes.

Diversified Program of Property Acquisition

We generally acquire land for development and for the construction of homes that we sell to homebuyers. Land is subject to specified
underwriting criteria and is acquired through our diversified program of property acquisition, which may consist of the following:



•Acquiring land directly from individual land owners/developers or homebuilders;



•Acquiring local or regional homebuilders that own, or have options to purchase, land in strategic markets;



•Acquiring land through option contracts, which generally enables us to control portions of properties owned by third parties (including land funds) and
unconsolidated entities until we have determined whether to exercise the options;



•Acquiring parcels of land through joint ventures, primarily to reduce and share our risk, among other factors, by limiting the amount of our capital
invested in land, while increasing our access to potential future homesites and allowing us to participate in strategic ventures; and



•Acquiring distressed assets from banks, government sponsored enterprises, opportunity funds and through relationships established by our Rialto
segment.

At November 30, 2011, we owned 94,684 homesites and had access through option contracts to an
additional 16,702 homesites, of which 8,314 were through option contracts with third parties and 8,388 were through option contracts with Lennar Homebuilding unconsolidated entities in which we have investments. At November 30, 2010, we owned
84,482 homesites and had access through option contracts to an additional 19,974 homesites, of which 8,490 were through option contracts with third parties and 11,484 were through option contracts with Lennar Homebuilding unconsolidated entities in
which we had investments.

Construction and Development

We generally supervise and control the development of land and the design and building of our residential communities with a relatively small labor force. We hire subcontractors for site improvements and
virtually all of the work involved in the construction of homes. Arrangements with our subcontractors generally provide that our subcontractors will complete specified work in accordance with price schedules and applicable building codes and laws.
The price schedules may be subject to change to meet changes in labor and material costs or for other reasons. We believe that the sources and availability of raw materials to our subcontractors are adequate for our current and planned levels of
operation. We generally do not own heavy construction equipment. We finance construction and land development activities primarily with cash generated from operations, debt issuances and equity offerings.

Marketing

We offer a diversified line of homes for first-time, move-up and active adult homebuyers available in a variety of
environments ranging from urban infill communities to golf course communities. Our Everything’s Included®marketing program simplifies the homebuying experience by including desirable features as standard items. This marketing program enables us to differentiate our homes from those of our competitors by creating value through standard upgrades and
competitive pricing, while reducing construction and overhead costs through a simplified manufacturing process, product standardization and volume purchasing. We sell our homes primarily from models that we have designed and constructed. During
2011, the homes we delivered had an average sales price of $244,000.

We employ sales associates who are paid salaries,
commissions or both to complete on-site sales of homes. We also sell homes through independent brokers. We advertise our communities through newspapers, radio advertisements and other local and regional publications, on billboards and on the
Internet, including our website, www.lennar.com. In addition, we advertise our active adult communities in areas where prospective active adult homebuyers live.







Quality Service

We strive to continually improve homeowner customer satisfaction throughout the pre-sale, sale, construction, closing and post-closing periods. Through the participation of sales associates, on-site
construction supervisors and customer care associates, all working in a team effort, we strive to create a quality homebuying experience for our customers, which we believe leads to enhanced customer retention and referrals. The quality of our homes
is substantially affected by the efforts of on-site management and others engaged in the construction process, by the materials we use in particular homes or by other similar factors.

We warrant our new homes against defective materials and workmanship for a minimum period of one year after the date of closing. Although
we subcontract virtually all segments of construction to others and our contracts call for the subcontractors to repair or replace any deficient items related to their trades, we are primarily responsible to the homebuyers for the correction of any
deficiencies.

Deliveries

The table below indicates the number of deliveries for each of our current reportable homebuilding segments and Homebuilding Other during our last three fiscal years:



Years Ended November 30,201120102009East4,5764,5394,095Central1,6611,6821,796West1,8462,0792,480Southeast Florida904536488Houston1,4111,6452,150Other447474469Total10,84510,95511,478

Of the total home deliveries listed above, 99, 96 and 56, respectively, represent deliveries from
unconsolidated entities for the years ended November 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009.

Backlog

Backlog represents the number of homes under sales contracts. Homes are sold using sales contracts, which are generally accompanied by
sales deposits. In some instances, purchasers are permitted to cancel sales contracts if they fail to qualify for financing or under certain other circumstances. We experienced a cancellation rate of 19% in 2011, compared to 17% and 18%,
respectively, in 2010 and 2009. The cancellation rate for the year ended November 30, 2011 was within a range that is consistent with historical cancellation rates. Substantially all homes currently in backlog will be delivered in fiscal year
2012. We do not recognize revenue on homes under sales contracts until the sales are closed and title passes to the new homeowners.

The table below indicates the backlog dollar value for each of our current reportable homebuilding segments and Homebuilding Other as of the end of our last three fiscal years:



Years Ended November 30,(Dollars in thousands)201120102009East$220,974176,588199,052Central65,25652,92336,158West97,29258,072143,868Southeast Florida52,01339,03513,702Houston79,80058,82260,876Other45,32421,85225,915Total$560,659407,292479,571

Of the dollar value of homes in backlog listed above, $1.0 million, $2.1 million and $7.2 million,
respectively, represent the backlog dollar value from unconsolidated entities at November 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009.







Lennar Financial Services Operations

Mortgage Financing

We primarily originate conforming conventional, FHA-insured,
VA-guaranteed residential mortgage loan products and other products to our homebuyers and others through our financial services subsidiaries, Universal American Mortgage Company, LLC and Eagle Home Mortgage, LLC, which are located generally in the
same states as our homebuilding operations as well as other states. In 2011, our financial services subsidiaries provided loans to 78% of our homebuyers who obtained mortgage financing in areas where we offered services. Because of the availability
of mortgage loans from our financial services subsidiaries, as well as independent mortgage lenders, we believe creditworthy purchasers of our homes have access to financing.

During 2011, we originated approximately 13,800 mortgage loans totaling $2.9 billion, compared to 15,200 mortgage loans totaling $3.3 billion during 2010. Substantially all of the loans we originate are
sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis. After the loans are sold, we retain potential liability for possible claims by purchasers that we breached certain limited industry-standard
representations and warranties in the loan sale agreements. Therefore, we have limited direct exposure related to the residential mortgages we originate.

We have a corporate risk management policy under which we hedge our interest rate risk on rate-locked loan commitments and loans held-for-sale to mitigate exposure to interest rate fluctuations. We
finance our mortgage loan activities with borrowings under our financial services warehouse repurchase facilities or from our operating funds. One of our 364-day warehouse repurchase facilities with a maximum aggregate commitment of $150 million and
an additional uncommitted amount of $73 million matures in February 2012, and another 364-day warehouse repurchase facility with a maximum aggregate commitment of $175 million (plus a $25 million temporary accordion feature that expired
December 31, 2011) matures in July 2012. We expect the facilities to be renewed or replaced with other facilities when they mature.

Title Insurance and Closing Services

We provide title insurance and closing services to our homebuyers and others. During 2011, we provided title and closing services for approximately 86,400 real estate transactions, and issued
approximately 121,800 title insurance policies through our underwriter, North American Title Insurance Company, compared to 102,500 real estate transactions and 107,600 title insurance policies issued during 2010. Title and closing services are
provided by agency subsidiaries in Arizona, California, Colorado, District of Columbia, Florida, Illinois, Kentucky, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Texas, Utah,
Virginia, Wisconsin and Wyoming.Title insurance services are provided in these same states, as well as in Alabama, Delaware, Georgia, Ohio, North Carolina, South Carolina and Tennessee.

Rialto Investments Operations

The Rialto segment is focused on acquisitions of distressed real estate and real estate related assets utilizing Rialto’s abilities to source, underwrite, price, manage and ultimately monetize such
assets in markets across the United States. For more detail regarding the acquisitions and investments made by our Rialto segment during 2011, as well as its operations, refer to the Overview of Lennar Corporation section earlier in Item 1 of
this Report.

Seasonality

We have historically experienced variability in our results of operations from quarter-to-quarter due to the seasonal nature of the homebuilding business.

Competition

The
residential homebuilding industry is highly competitive. We compete for homebuyers in each of the market regions where we operate with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders, as well as with resales of existing homes and with the rental
housing market. In recent years, lenders’ efforts to sell foreclosed homes have become an increasingly competitive factor within the homebuilding industry. We compete for homebuyers on the basis of a number of interrelated factors including
location, price, reputation, amenities, design, quality and financing. In addition to competition for homebuyers, we also compete with other homebuilders for desirable properties, raw materials and access to reliable, skilled labor. We compete for
land buyers with third parties in our efforts to sell land to homebuilders and others. We believe we are competitive in the market regions where we operate primarily due to our:



•Balance sheet, where we continue to focus on inventory management and liquidity;



•Access to land, particularly in land-constrained markets;



•Access to distressed assets through relationships established by our Rialto segment;



•Pricing to current market conditions through sales incentives offered to homebuyers;







•Cost efficiencies realized through our national purchasing programs and production of value-engineered homes;



•Quality construction and home warranty programs, which are supported by a responsive customer care team; and



•Everything’s
Included®marketing program, which simplifies the homebuying experience by including desirable features as
standard items.

Our financial services operations compete with other mortgage lenders, including national,
regional and local mortgage bankers and brokers, banks, savings and loan associations and other financial institutions, in the origination and sale of mortgage loans. Principal competitive factors include interest rates and other features of
mortgage loan products available to the consumer. We compete with other title insurance agencies and underwriters for closing services and title insurance. Principal competitive factors include service and price.

Rialto’s business of purchasing distressed assets is highly competitive and fragmented. A number of entities and funds have been
formed recently for the purpose of acquiring real estate related assets at prices that reflect the depressed state of the real estate market, and it is likely that additional entities and funds will be formed for this purpose during the next several
years. We compete with other purchasers of distressed assets. We compete in the marketplace for distressed asset portfolios based on many factors, including purchase price, representations, warranties and indemnities, timeliness of purchase
decisions and reputation. We believe that our major distinction from the competition is that our team is made up of already in place managers who are already working out loans and dealing with similar borrowers. Additionally, because of the high
content of loans made to developers, we believe having our homebuilding team participating in the underwriting process provides us with a distinct advantage in our evaluation of these assets. We believe that our experienced team and the
infrastructure already in place, including our investment in a service provider, are ahead of our competitors. This has us well positioned for the large pipeline of opportunity that has been building.

Regulation

Homes and
residential communities that we build must comply with state and local laws and regulations relating to, among other things, zoning, construction permits or entitlements, construction material requirements, density requirements, and requirements
relating to building design and property elevation, building codes and handling of waste. These include laws requiring the use of construction materials that reduce the need for energy-consuming heating and cooling systems. These laws and
regulations are subject to frequent change and often increase construction costs. In some instances, we must comply with laws that require commitments from us to provide roads and other offsite infrastructure to be in place prior to the commencement
of new construction. These laws and regulations are usually administered by counties and municipalities and may result in fees and assessments or building moratoriums. In addition, certain new development projects are subject to assessments for
schools, parks, streets and highways and other public improvements, the costs of which can be substantial. Also, some states are attempting to make homebuilders responsible for violations of wage and other labor laws by their subcontractors.

The residential homebuilding industry is also subject to a variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules
and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. These environmental laws include such areas as storm water and surface water management, soil, groundwater and wetlands protection, subsurface conditions and air quality
protection and enhancement. Environmental laws and existing conditions may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs and may prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive
regions or areas.

In recent years, several cities and counties in which we have developments have submitted to voters
“slow growth” initiatives and other ballot measures that could impact the affordability and availability of land suitable for residential development within those localities. Although many of these initiatives have been defeated, we
believe that if similar initiatives were approved, residential construction by us and others within certain cities or counties could be seriously impacted.

In order to make it possible for some of our homebuyers to obtain FHA-insured or VA-guaranteed mortgages, we must construct the homes they buy in compliance with regulations promulgated by those agencies.

Various states have statutory disclosure requirements relating to the marketing and sale of new homes. These disclosure
requirements vary widely from state-to-state. In addition, some states require that each new home be registered with the state at or before the time title is transferred to a buyer (e.g., the Texas Residential Construction Commission Act).

In some states, we are required to be registered as a licensed contractor and comply with applicable rules and regulations.
In various states, our new home consultants are required to be registered as licensed real estate agents and to adhere to the laws governing the practices of real estate agents.







Our mortgage and title subsidiaries must comply with applicable real estate laws and
regulations. The subsidiaries are licensed in the states in which they do business and must comply with laws and regulations in those states. These laws and regulations include provisions regarding capitalization, operating procedures, investments,
lending and privacy disclosures, forms of policies and premiums.

A subsidiary of Newhall, an unconsolidated entity of which
we currently indirectly own 15%, provides water to a portion of Los Angeles County, California. This subsidiary is subject to extensive regulation by the California Public Utilities Commission.

Several federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and ordinances, including, but not limited to, the Federal Fair Debt Collection
Practices Act (“FDCPA”) and the Federal Trade Commission Act and comparable state statutes, regulate consumer debt collection activity. Although, for a variety of reasons, we may not be specifically subject to the FDCPA or certain state
statutes that govern debt collectors, it is our policy to comply with applicable laws in our collection activities. To the extent that some or all of these laws apply to our collection activities or failure to comply with such laws could have a
material adverse effect on us.

Compliance Policy

Associates

At December 31, 2011, we employed 4,062 individuals of whom 2,180 were involved in the Lennar Homebuilding operations, 1,688 were
involved in the Lennar Financial Services operations, and 194 were involved in the Rialto operations, compared to November 30, 2010, when we employed 4,108 individuals of whom 2,242 were involved in the Lennar Homebuilding operations and 1,763
were involved in Lennar Financial Services operations, and 103 were involved in the Rialto operations. We do not have collective bargaining agreements relating to any of our associates. However, we subcontract many phases of our homebuilding
operations and some of the subcontractors we use have associates who are represented by labor unions.

Relationship with LNR Property
Corporation

In 1997, we transferred our commercial real estate investment and management business to LNR Property
Corporation (“LNR”), and spun-off LNR to our stockholders. As a result, LNR became a publicly-traded company, and the family of Stuart A. Miller, our Chief Executive Officer and a Director, which had voting control of our company, became
the controlling shareholder of LNR.

Since the spin-off, we have entered into a number of joint ventures and other
transactions with LNR. Many of the joint ventures were formed to acquire and develop land, part of which was subsequently sold to us or other homebuilders for residential building and part of which was subsequently sold to LNR for commercial
development. In February 2005, LNR was acquired by a privately-owned entity. Although Mr. Miller’s family was required to purchase a 20.4% financial interest in that privately-owned entity, this interest was non-voting and neither
Mr. Miller nor anyone else in his family was an officer or director, or otherwise was involved in the management, of LNR or its parent. Nonetheless, because the Miller family had a financial interest in LNR’s parent, we adopted a bylaw
that required that all significant transactions with LNR, or entities in which it has an interest, be reviewed and approved by an Independent Directors Committee of our Board of Directors. In 2011, the Miller family ceased to have any interest in
LNR or its parent. Accordingly, we anticipate that the bylaw requiring Independent Director Committee review of transactions involving LNR will be deleted.

LandSource/Newhall Transactions

In January 2004, a company of which we and LNR
each owned 50% acquired The Newhall Land and Farming Company for approximately $1 billion, including $200 million we contributed and $200 million that LNR contributed (the remainder came from borrowings and sales of properties to LNR). Subsequently,
we and LNR each transferred our interests in most of our joint ventures to the jointly-owned company that had acquired The Newhall Land and Farming Company, and that company was renamed LandSource Communities Development LLC
(“LandSource”).







In February 2007, LandSource admitted a new majority partner and, the joint venture obtained
$1.6 billion of new non-recourse financing. The transaction resulted in a cash distribution to us of $707.6 million and a similar distribution to LNR. Our resulting ownership of LandSource was 16%.

In June 2008, LandSource and a number of its subsidiaries commenced proceedings under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in the United
States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware. Among other things, this resulted in termination of options we had to purchase land from LandSource. In July 2009, the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware confirmed a plan
of reorganization of LandSource under which LandSource was reorganized into a new company named Newhall Land Development, LLC, (“Newhall”), which emerged from Chapter 11 free of LandSource’s previous bank debt. As part of the
reorganization, we invested $140 million in exchange for an approximately 15% equity interest in the reorganized Newhall, ownership in several communities that were formerly owned by LandSource, the settlement and release of any claims that might
have been asserted against us and assignment to us of certain claims LandSource had against third parties.

NYSE Certification

We submitted our 2010 Annual CEO Certification to the New York Stock Exchange on April 13, 2011. The certification
was not qualified in any respect.

Available Information

Our corporate website is www.lennar.com. We make available on our website, free of charge, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any
amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these documents with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Information on our website is not part of this document.

Our website also includes printable versions of our Corporate
Governance Guidelines, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the charters for each of the Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees of our Board of Directors. Each of these documents is also available in print to
any stockholder who requests a copy by addressing a request to:

Lennar Corporation

Attention: Office of the General Counsel

700 Northwest 107thAvenue

Miami, Florida 33172



