Item 1.Business

Overview of Lennar Corporation

We are one of the nation’s largest homebuilders, a provider of financial services and through our Rialto Investments (“Rialto”) segment, an investor, and manager of funds that invest in real estate assets. Our homebuilding operations include the construction and sale of single-family attached and detached homes, as well as the purchase, development and sale of residential land directly and through unconsolidated entities in which we have investments. We have grouped our homebuilding activities into five reportable segments, which we refer to as Homebuilding East, Homebuilding Central, Homebuilding West, Homebuilding Southeast Florida and Homebuilding Houston. Information about homebuilding activities in states in which our homebuilding activities are not economically similar to those in other states in the same geographic area is grouped under “Homebuilding Other.” Our reportable homebuilding segments and Homebuilding Other have operations located in:

East:Florida(1), Georgia, Maryland, New Jersey, North Carolina, South Carolina and Virginia

Central:Arizona, Colorado and Texas(2)

West:California and Nevada

Southeast Florida: Southeast Florida

Houston: Houston, Texas

Other:Illinois, Minnesota, Oregon and Washington

(1)Florida in the East reportable segment excludes Southeast Florida, which is its own reportable segment.

(2)Texas in the Central reportable segment excludes Houston, Texas, which is its own reportable segment.

We have two other reportable segments: a Financial Services reportable segment and a Rialto reportable segment.

Our Financial Services reportable segment provides mortgage financing, title insurance and closing services for both buyers of our homes and others. Substantially all of the loans we originate are sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis. After the loans are sold, we retain potential liability for possible claims by purchasers that we breached certain limited industry-standard representations and warranties in the loan sale agreements. Our Financial Services segment operates generally in the same states as our homebuilding operations, as well as in other states.

Our Rialto reportable segment focuses on real estate investments and asset management.  Rialto utilizes its vertically-integrated investment and operating platform to underwrite, diligence, acquire, manage, workout and add value to diverse portfolios of real estate loans, properties and securities, as well as providing strategic real estate capital.  Rialto's primary focus is to manage third party capital and has invested in or commenced the workout and/or oversight of billions of dollars of real estate assets across the United States, including commercial and residential real estate loans and properties, as well as mortgage backed securities with the objective of generating superior, risk-adjusted returns.  To date, many of its investment and management opportunities have arisen from the dislocation in the United States real estate markets and the restructuring and recapitalization of those markets.

Rialto is the sponsor of and an investor in private equity vehicles that invest in and manage real estate related assets. This has included Rialto Real Estate Fund, LP (“Fund I”) in which investors have committed a total of $700 million of equity (including $75 million by us).  In addition, subsequent to November 30, 2012, Rialto Real Estate Fund II, LP (“Fund II”) had its first closing of investor commitments of $260 million (including $100 million by us). Rialto also earns fees for its role as a manager of these vehicles and for providing asset management and other services to those vehicles and other third parties.

For financial information about our Homebuilding, Lennar Financial Services and Rialto operations, you should review Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is Item 7 of this Report, and our consolidated financial statements and the notes to our consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Report.

A Brief History of Our Company

We are a national homebuilder that operates in various states with deliveries of 13,802 new homes in2012. Our company was founded as a local Miami homebuilder in 1954. We completed our initial public offering in 1971, and listed our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange in 1972. During the 1980s and 1990s, we entered and expanded operations in some of our current major homebuilding markets including California, Florida and Texas through both organic growth and acquisitions such as Pacific Greystone Corporation in 1997, amongst others. In 1997, we completed the spin-off of our commercial real estate business to LNR Property Corporation. In 2000, we acquired U.S. Home Corporation, which expanded our operations into New Jersey, Maryland, Virginia, Minnesota and Colorado and strengthened our position in other states.









From 2002 through 2005, we acquired several regional homebuilders, which brought us into new markets and strengthened our position in several existing markets. During 2010 and 2011, we made several investments through our Rialto segment, and the funds it manages, in distressed real estate assets to take advantage of opportunities arising from dislocation in the United States real estate market. Towards the end of 2011, we started-up operations in Portland, Oregon with purchases of distressed finished homesites.  In 2012, we expanded our operations into the Seattle market with the acquisition of approximately 650 finished homesites in 20 communities from Premier Communities. During 2012, we also started to incubate our Multifamily business, by acquiring land and beginning the construction phase of some multifamily rental properties. The Multifamily business will focus on assembling a geographically diversified portfolio of institutional quality multifamily rental properties using a development strategy in select U.S. markets through unconsolidated entities. Subsequent to November 30, 2012, our Rialto segment completed the first closing of its second real estate investment fund.

Recent Business Developments

Overview

During2012, we saw a housing market that stabilized and began to recover. We have seen demand for home purchases return to the market place with regard to most of our communities, driven by a combination of affordable home prices, low interest rates and reduced competition from foreclosures, as evidenced by our increase in new orders of 37% year over year.

We reported net earnings attributable to Lennar of$679.1 million, or$3.11per diluted share, for the year endedNovember 30, 2012, which includes a partial reversal of our deferred tax asset valuation allowance of $491.5 million, or $2.25 per diluted share, compared to net earnings attributable to Lennar of$92.2 million, or$0.48per diluted share, for the year endedNovember 30, 2011. In2012, we benefited greatly from the strategic capital investments we made in recent years and our increased operating leverage due to higher deliveries. In addition to the increased demand for new homes, our intense focus on efficient business practice through our Everything’s Included program, product re-engineering and reduced selling, general and administrative expenses all contributed to our increase in profitability.

We ended 2012 with $1.1 billion in Lennar Homebuilding cash and cash equivalents. We extended our debt maturities by issuing $400 million of 4.75% senior notes due 2017 and $350 million of 4.750% senior notes due 2022, while retiring $302.6 million of senior notes and other debt. Our strong balance sheet and liquidity will allow us to capitalize on future opportunities as they present themselves.

During 2012, our Lennar Financial Services segment had operating earnings of $84.8 million, compared to $20.7 million in the same period last year. The increase in operating earnings was primarily due to increased volume and margins in the segment’s mortgage operations and increased volume in the segment's title operations, as a result of a significant increase in refinance transactions and homebuilding deliveries.

During 2012, our Rialto segment, which invests, and manages funds that invest, in distressed real estate opportunities, had operating earnings of $26.0 million (which is comprised of $11.6 million of operating earnings and an add back of $14.4 million of net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests), compared to operating earnings of $34.6 million (which included $63.5 million of operating earnings offset by $28.9 million of net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests) in 2011. The segment’s operating earnings came primarily from equity in earnings from our investment in the Alliance Bernstein L.P. (“AB”) Public-Private Investment Program (“PPIP”) fund and our investment in the real estate investment fund managed by the Rialto segment ("Fund I"). Those earnings were partially offset by operating losses related to the the FDIC Portfolios in which we invested in 2010. For the year ended November 30, 2012, the Rialto segment had revenues of

$138.9 million

, which consisted primarily of accretable interest income associated with the segment’s portfolio of real estate loans and fees for managing and servicing assets,  expenses of

$139.0 million

, which consisted primarily of costs related to its portfolio operations and other general and administrative expenses, and other income (expense), net, of

($29.8) million

, which consisted primarily of expenses related to owning and maintaining REO and impairments on REO, partially offset by gains from sales of REO and rental income.

Homebuilding Operations

Overview

We primarily sell single-family attached and detached homes in communities targeted to first-time, move-up and active adult homebuyers. The average sales price of a Lennar home was $255,000 in fiscal 2012, compared to $244,000 in fiscal 2011 and $243,000 in fiscal 2010. We operate primarily under the Lennar brand name.

Through our own efforts and those of unconsolidated entities in which Lennar Homebuilding has investments, we are involved in all phases of planning and building in our residential communities, including land acquisition, site planning, preparation and improvement of land and design, construction and marketing of homes. We use independent subcontractors for most aspects of home construction. At November 30, 2012 we were actively building and marketing homes in 457 communities, excluding unconsolidated entities.  During 2012, we became actively involved, primarily through unconsolidated









entities, in the development of multifamily rental properties. The Multifamily business will focus on assembling a geographically diversified portfolio of institutional quality multifamily rental properties using a development strategy in select U.S. markets. For additional information about our investments in and relationships with unconsolidated entities, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Report.

Management and Operating Structure

We balance a local operating structure with centralized corporate level management. Decisions related to our overall strategy, acquisitions of land and businesses, risk management, financing, cash management and information systems are centralized at the corporate level. Our local operating structure consists of divisions, which are managed by individuals who generally have significant experience in the homebuilding industry and, in most instances, in their particular markets. They are responsible for operating decisions regarding land identification, entitlement and development, the management of inventory levels for our current volume levels, community development, home design, construction and marketing of our homes.

Diversified Program of Property Acquisition

We generally acquire land for development and for the construction of homes that we sell to homebuyers. Land is subject to specified underwriting criteria and is acquired through our diversified program of property acquisition, which may consist of the following:

•Acquiring land directly from individual land owners/developers or homebuilders;

•Acquiring local or regional homebuilders that own, or have options to purchase, land in strategic markets;

•Acquiring land through option contracts, which generally enables us to control portions of properties owned by third parties (including land funds) and unconsolidated entities until we have determined whether to exercise the options;

•Acquiring parcels of land through joint ventures, primarily to reduce and share our risk, among other factors, by limiting the amount of our capital invested in land, while increasing our access to potential future homesites and allowing us to participate in strategic ventures; and

•Acquiring distressed assets from banks, government sponsored enterprises, opportunity funds and through relationships established by our Rialto segment.

At November 30, 2012, we owned107,138homesites and had access through option contracts to an additional21,346homesites, of which13,312homesites were through option contracts with third parties and8,034homesites were through option contracts with Lennar Homebuilding unconsolidated entities in which we have investments. At November 30, 2011, we owned94,684homesites and had access through option contracts to an additional16,702homesites, of which8,314homesites were through option contracts with third parties and8,388homesites were through option contracts with Lennar Homebuilding unconsolidated entities in which we have investments.

Construction and Development

We generally supervise and control the development of land and the design and building of our residential communities with a relatively small labor force. We hire subcontractors for site improvements and virtually all of the work involved in the construction of homes. Arrangements with our subcontractors generally provide that our subcontractors will complete specified work in accordance with price schedules and applicable building codes and laws. The price schedules may be subject to change to meet changes in labor and material costs or for other reasons. We believe that the sources and availability of raw materials to our subcontractors are adequate for our current and planned levels of operation. We generally do not own heavy construction equipment. We finance construction and land development activities primarily with cash generated from operations, debt issuances and equity offerings.

Marketing

We offer a diversified line of homes for first-time, move-up and active adult homebuyers in a variety of environments ranging from urban infill communities to golf course communities. Our Everything’s Included®marketing program simplifies the homebuying experience by including most desirable features as standard items. This marketing program enables us to differentiate our homes from those of our competitors by creating value through standard upgrades and competitive pricing, while reducing construction and overhead costs through a simplified manufacturing process, product standardization and volume purchasing. We sell our homes primarily from models that we have designed and constructed. During 2012, the homes we delivered had an average sales price of $255,000.

We employ sales associates who are paid salaries, commissions or both to conduct on-site sales of homes. We also sell homes through independent brokers. We advertise our communities through newspapers, radio advertisements and other local









and regional publications, on billboards and on the Internet, including our website, www.lennar.com. In addition, we advertise our active adult communities in areas where prospective active adult homebuyers live.

Quality Service

We strive to continually improve homeowner customer satisfaction throughout the pre-sale, sale, construction, closing and post-closing periods. Through the participation of sales associates, on-site construction supervisors and customer care associates, all working in a team effort, we strive to create a quality homebuying experience for our customers, which we believe leads to enhanced customer retention and referrals. The quality of our homes is substantially affected by the efforts of on-site management and others engaged in the construction process, by the materials we use in particular homes and by other similar factors.

We warrant our new homes against defective materials and workmanship for a minimum period of one year after the date of closing. Although we subcontract virtually all segments of construction to others and our contracts call for the subcontractors to repair or replace any deficient items related to their trades, we are primarily responsible to the homebuyers for the correction of any deficiencies.

Deliveries

The table below indicates the number of deliveries for each of our current reportable homebuilding segments and Homebuilding Other during our last three fiscal years:

Years Ended November 30,201220112010East5,4404,5764,539Central2,1541,6611,682West2,3011,8462,079Southeast Florida1,314904536Houston1,9171,4111,645Other676447474Total13,80210,84510,955

Of the total home deliveries listed above, 95, 99 and 96, respectively, represent deliveries from unconsolidated entities for the years ended November 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010.

Backlog

Backlog represents the number of homes under sales contracts. Homes are sold using sales contracts, which are generally accompanied by sales deposits. In some instances, purchasers are permitted to cancel sales contracts if they fail to qualify for financing or under certain other circumstances. We experienced a cancellation rate of17%in 2012, compared to19%and17%, respectively, in 2011 and 2010. The cancellation rate for the year ended November 30, 2012 was within a range that is consistent with historical cancellation rates and substantially below those we experienced from 2007 through 2009. Substantially all homes currently in backlog will be delivered in fiscal year 2013. We do not recognize revenue on homes under sales contracts until the sales are closed and title passes to the new homeowners.

The table below indicates the backlog dollar value for each of our current reportable homebuilding segments and Homebuilding Other as of the end of our last three fiscal years:

Years Ended November 30,(Dollars in thousands)201220112010East$368,361220,974176,588Central168,91265,25652,923West202,95997,29258,072Southeast Florida141,14652,01339,035Houston135,28279,80058,822Other143,72545,32421,852Total$1,160,385560,659407,292









Of the dollar value of homes in backlog listed above, $3.5 million, $1.0 million and $2.1 million, respectively, represent the backlog dollar value from unconsolidated entities at November 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010.

Inventory Impairments and Valuation Adjustments related to Lennar Homebuilding Investments in Unconsolidated Entities

We evaluated our balance sheet quarterly for possible impairment on a community by community basis during fiscal 2012. Based on our evaluations and assessments, during the years ended November 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we recorded the following inventory impairments:

Years Ended November 30,(In thousands)201220112010Valuation adjustments to finished homes, CIP and land on which we intend to build homes$12,57435,72644,717Valuation adjustments to land we intend to sell or have sold to third parties6664563,436Write-offs of option deposits and pre-acquisition costs2,3891,7843,105$15,62937,96651,258

During the years ended November 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we recorded the following valuation adjustments related to Lennar Homebuilding investments in unconsolidated entities:

Years Ended November 30,(In thousands)201220112010Our share of valuation adjustments related to assets of Lennar Homebuilding unconsolidated entities$12,1458,86910,461Valuation adjustments to Lennar Homebuilding investments in unconsolidated entities1810,4891,735$12,16319,35812,196

The inventory impairments and valuation adjustments to Lennar Homebuilding investments in unconsolidated entities recorded above were estimated based on market conditions and assumptions made by management at the time the valuation adjustments were recorded, which may differ materially from actual results if market conditions or our assumptions change.

Lennar Homebuilding Investments in Unconsolidated Entities

For a number of years, we created and participated in joint ventures that acquired and developed land for our homebuilding operations, for sale to third parties or for use in their own homebuilding operations. Through these joint ventures, we reduced the amount we had to invest in order to assure access to potential future homesites, thereby mitigating certain risks associated with land acquisitions, and, in some instances, we obtained access to land to which we could not otherwise have obtained access or could not have obtained access on as favorable terms. Although these ventures initially served their intended purpose of risk mitigation, as the homebuilding market deteriorated and asset impairments resulted in the loss of equity, some of our joint venture partners became financially unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations. During 2012, we continued to reevaluate all of our joint venture arrangements, with particular focus on those ventures with recourse indebtedness, and we continued a process, begun in 2008 of reducing the number of joint ventures in which we were participating as well as the recourse indebtedness of those joint ventures. As of November 30, 2012, we had reduced the number of Lennar Homebuilding unconsolidated joint ventures in which we were participating to 36 from 270 joint ventures at the peak in 2006 and reduced our maximum recourse debt exposure related to Lennar Homebuilding unconsolidated joint ventures to

$66.7 million

from $1,764.4 million at the peak in 2006. As of November 30, 2011, we were participating in 35 Lennar Homebuilding unconsolidated joint ventures, with maximum recourse debt exposure related to Lennar Homebuilding unconsolidated joint ventures of

$108.7 million

. At November 30, 2012 and 2011, our net recourse exposure related to Lennar Homebuilding unconsolidated entities was

$49.9 million

and

$74.9 million

, respectively. In addition, we have 2 multifamily unconsolidated entities as of November 30, 2012.

Lennar Financial Services Operations

Mortgage Financing

We primarily originate conforming conventional, FHA-insured and VA-guaranteed residential mortgage loan products and other products to our homebuyers and others through our financial services subsidiary, Universal American Mortgage Company, LLC, which includes Universal American Mortgage Company, LLC, d/b/a Eagle Home Mortgage, located generally









in the same states as our homebuilding operations as well as some other states. In 2012, our financial services subsidiaries provided loans to 77% of our homebuyers who obtained mortgage financing in areas where we offered services. Because of the availability of mortgage loans from our financial services subsidiaries, as well as independent mortgage lenders, we believe creditworthy purchasers of our homes have access to financing.

During 2012, we originated approximately19,700mortgage loans totaling$4.4 billion, compared to13,800mortgage loans totaling$2.9 billionduring 2011. Substantially all of the loans we originate are sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis. After the loans are sold, we retain potential liability for possible claims by purchasers that we breached certain limited industry-standard representations and warranties in the loan sale agreements. Therefore, we have limited direct exposure related to the residential mortgages we originate. At November 30, 2012 we had a reserve of $7.3 million related to claims of that type.

We have a corporate risk management policy under which we hedge our interest rate risk on rate-locked loan commitments and loans held-for-sale to mitigate exposure to interest rate fluctuations. We finance our mortgage loan activities with borrowings under our financial services warehouse facilities or from our operating funds. One of our 364-day warehouse repurchase facilities with a maximum aggregate commitment of$150 millionand an additional uncommitted amount of$50 millionmatures inFebruary 2013, a 364-day warehouse repurchase facility with a maximum aggregate commitment of$250 millionmatures inJuly 2013, and a 364-day warehouse repurchase facility with a maximum aggregate commitment of$150 million(plus a$100 milliontemporary accordion feature that expired December 31, 2012) and a 364-day warehouse facility with a maximum aggregate commitment of$60 million, both of which mature inNovember 2013. We expect the facilities to be renewed or replaced with other facilities when they mature.

Title Insurance and Closing Services

We provide title insurance and closing services to our homebuyers and others. During 2012, we provided title and closing services for approximately108,200real estate transactions, and issued approximately149,300title insurance policies through our underwriter, North American Title Insurance Company, compared to86,400real estate transactions and121,800title insurance policies issued during 2011. Title and closing services are provided by agency subsidiaries in Arizona, California, Colorado, District of Columbia, Florida, Illinois, Maryland, Minnesota, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Texas, Utah, Virginia and Wisconsin.Title insurance services are provided in these same states, except New York, as well as in Alabama, Delaware, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Massachusetts, Michigan, Mississippi, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Washington and Wyoming.

Rialto Investments Operations

The Rialto segment focuses on real estate investments and asset management.  Rialto utilizes its vertically-integrated investment and operating platform to underwrite, diligence, acquire, manage, workout and add value to diverse portfolios of real estate loans, properties and securities, as well as providing strategic real estate capital.  Rialto's primary focus is to manage third party capital and has invested in or commenced the workout and/or oversight of billions of dollars of real estate assets across the United States, including commercial and residential real estate loans and properties, as well as mortgage backed securities with the objective of generating superior, risk-adjusted returns.  To date, many of its investment and management opportunities have arisen from the dislocation in the United States real estate markets and the restructuring and recapitalization of those markets.

In 2010, our Rialto segment acquired indirectly 40% managing member equity interests in two limited liability companies (“LLCs”), in partnership with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), for approximately $243 million (net of transaction costs and a $22 million working capital reserve). The LLCs hold performing and non-performing distressed residential and commercial real estate loans (“FDIC Portfolios”). The FDIC retained a 60% equity interest in the LLCs and provided $626.9 million of financing with 0% interest, which is non-recourse to us and the LLCs. As of November 30, 2012, the notes payable balance was $470.0 million, however, $223.8 million of cash collections on the loans in excess of expenses were deposited in a defeasance account, established for the repayment of the notes payable, under the agreement with the FDIC.

In 2010, our Rialto segment also acquired distressed residential and commercial real estate loans and real estate owned (“REO”) properties from three financial institutions (“Bank Portfolios”). We paid $310 million for the Bank Portfolios, of which $124 million was financed through a 5-year senior unsecured note provided by one of the selling institutions. During the year endedNovember 30, 2012, we retired$33.0 millionprincipal amount of the 5-year senior unsecured note, thus, as of November 30, 2012, the remaining balance on the note was $90.9 million.

In 2012, our Rialto segment had equity in earnings (loss) from unconsolidated entities of $20.9 million related to our investment in the AB PPIP fund, which included $17.0 million of net gains primarily related to gains realized by the AB PPIP fund from the sale of investments in its portfolio and $6.1 million of interest income earned by the AB PPIP fund. During the second half of 2012, all of the securities in the investment portfolio underlying the AB PPIP fund were monetized in connection with the unwinding of its operations, resulting in liquidating distributions to us of$83.5 million. We also earned$9.1 millionin









fees from the segment's role as a sub-advisor to the AB PPIP fund, which were included in the Rialto Investments segment's revenue. As our role as sub-advisor to the AB PPIP fund has been completed, no further management fees will be received for these services. As of November 30, 2012 and 2011, the carrying value of our investment in the AB PPIP fund was $0.2 million and $65.2 million, respectively. The AB PPIP fund was formed in 2010 under the Federal government’s PPIP to purchase real estate related securities from banks and other financial institutions. Rialto is a sub-advisor to the AB PPIP fund and receives management fees for its sub-advisory services. When it was formed, we committed to invest $75 million in the AB PPIP fund.  Total equity commitments of approximately $1.2 billion were made by private investors in this fund, and the U.S. Treasury committed to a matching amount of approximately $1.2 billion of equity in the fund, and agreed to extend up to approximately $2.3 billion of debt financing.

In 2012, our Rialto segment also had equity in earnings (loss) from unconsolidated entities of $21.0 million related to Fund I that it closed in 2010 with initial equity commitments of $300 million (including $75 million committed and contributed by us). As of November 30, 2012, the equity commitments of Fund I were $700 million (including the $75 million committed and contributed by us). All capital commitments have been called and funded, thus Fund I is closed to additional commitments. Fund I’s objective during its three-year investment period is to invest in distressed real estate assets and other related investments that fit within Fund I’s investment parameters. As of November 30, 2012, the carrying value of our investment in Fund I was $98.9 million.

Subsequent to November 30, 2012, our Rialto segment completed the first closing of Fund II with initial equity commitments of approximately $260 million (including $100 million committed by us).

For both Fund I and Fund II, in order to protect investors in the Funds against the possibility that we would keep attractive investment opportunities for ourselves instead of presenting them to the Funds, we agreed that we would not make investments that are suitable for Fund I or Fund II, as the case may be, except to the extent an Advisory Committee of the applicable fund decides that the fund should not make particular investments, with an exception enabling us to purchase properties for use in connection with our homebuilding operations.

Seasonality

We have historically experienced variability in our results of operations from quarter-to-quarter due to the seasonal nature of the homebuilding business.

Competition

The residential homebuilding industry is highly competitive. We compete for homebuyers in each of the market regions where we operate with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders, as well as with resales of existing homes and with the rental housing market. In recent years, lenders’ efforts to sell foreclosed homes have become an increasingly competitive factor within the homebuilding industry. We compete for homebuyers on the basis of a number of interrelated factors including location, price, reputation, amenities, design, quality and financing. In addition to competition for homebuyers, we also compete with other homebuilders for desirable properties, raw materials and access to reliable, skilled labor. We compete for land buyers with third parties in our efforts to sell land to homebuilders and others. We believe we are competitive in the market regions where we operate primarily due to our:

•Balance sheet, where we continue to focus on inventory management and liquidity;

•Access to land, particularly in land-constrained markets;

•Access to distressed assets through relationships established by our Rialto segment;

•Pricing to current market conditions through sales incentives offered to homebuyers;

•Cost efficiencies realized through our national purchasing programs and production of value-engineered homes;

•Quality construction and home warranty programs, which are supported by a responsive customer care team; and

•Everything’s Included®marketing program, which simplifies the homebuying experience by including most desirable features as standard items.

Our financial services operations compete with other mortgage lenders, including national, regional and local mortgage bankers and brokers, banks, savings and loan associations and other financial institutions, in the origination and sale of mortgage loans. Principal competitive factors include interest rates and other features of mortgage loan products available to the consumer. We compete with other title insurance agencies and underwriters for closing services and title insurance. Principal competitive factors include service and price.

The business of Rialto, and the funds it manages, of purchasing distressed assets is highly competitive and fragmented. A number of entities and funds have formed in recent years for the purpose of acquiring real estate related assets at prices that









reflect the depressed state of the real estate market, and it is likely that additional entities and funds will be formed for this purpose during the next several years. We compete with other purchasers of distressed assets. We compete in the marketplace for distressed asset portfolios based on many factors, including purchase price, representations, warranties and indemnities, timeliness of purchase decisions and reputation. We believe that our major distinction from the competition is that our team is made up of already in place managers who are already working out loans and dealing with similar borrowers. Additionally, because of the high content of loans made to developers, we believe having our homebuilding team participating in the underwriting process provides us with a distinct advantage in our evaluation of these assets. We believe that our experienced team and the infrastructure already in place, including our investment in a service provider, are ahead of our competitors. This has us well positioned for the large pipeline of opportunity that has been building. In marketing real estate investment funds it sponsors, Rialto competes with a large variety of asset managers, including investment banks and other financial institutions and real estate investment firms.

Regulation

Homes and residential communities that we build must comply with state and local laws and regulations relating to, among other things, zoning, construction permits or entitlements, construction material requirements, density requirements, and requirements relating to building design and property elevation, building codes and handling of waste. These include laws requiring the use of construction materials that reduce the need for energy-consuming heating and cooling systems. These laws and regulations are subject to frequent change and often increase construction costs. In some instances, we must comply with laws that require commitments from us to provide roads and other offsite infrastructure to be in place prior to the commencement of new construction. These laws and regulations are usually administered by counties and municipalities and may result in fees and assessments or building moratoriums. In addition, certain new development projects are subject to assessments for schools, parks, streets and highways and other public improvements, the costs of which can be substantial. Also, some states are attempting to make homebuilders responsible for violations of wage and other labor laws by their subcontractors.

The residential homebuilding industry is also subject to a variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. These environmental laws include such areas as storm water and surface water management, soil, groundwater and wetlands protection, subsurface conditions and air quality protection and enhancement. Environmental laws and existing conditions may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs and may prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas.

In recent years, several cities and counties in which we have developments have submitted to voters “slow growth” initiatives and other ballot measures that could impact the affordability and availability of land suitable for residential development within those localities. Although many of these initiatives have been defeated, we believe that if similar initiatives were approved, residential construction by us and others within certain cities or counties could be seriously impacted.

In order to make it possible for some of our homebuyers to obtain FHA-insured or VA-guaranteed mortgages, we must construct the homes they buy in compliance with regulations promulgated by those agencies.

Various states have statutory disclosure requirements relating to the marketing and sale of new homes. These disclosure requirements vary widely from state-to-state. In addition, some states require that each new home be registered with the state at or before the time title is transferred to a buyer (e.g., the Texas Residential Construction Commission Act).

In some states, we are required to be registered as a licensed contractor and comply with applicable rules and regulations. In various states, our new home consultants are required to be registered as licensed real estate agents and to adhere to the laws governing the practices of real estate agents.

Our mortgage and title subsidiaries must comply with applicable real estate laws and regulations. The subsidiaries are licensed in the states in which they do business and must comply with laws and regulations in those states. These laws and regulations include provisions regarding capitalization, operating procedures, investments, lending and privacy disclosures, forms of policies and premiums.

A subsidiary of Newhall, an unconsolidated entity of which we currently indirectly own 15%, provides water to a portion of Los Angeles County, California. This subsidiary is subject to extensive regulation by the California Public Utilities Commission.

Several federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and ordinances, including, but not limited to, the Federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (“FDCPA”) and the Federal Trade Commission Act and comparable state statutes, regulate consumer debt collection activity. Although, for a variety of reasons, we may not be specifically subject to the FDCPA or certain state statutes that govern debt collectors, it is our policy to comply with applicable laws in our collection activities. To the extent that some or all of these laws apply to our collection activities our failure to comply with such laws could have a material adverse effect on us.









We will be subject to regulations regarding residential mortgage loans that were proposed in January 2013 by the Federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.

Because Rialto manages two real estate asset investment funds and two entities partly owned by the FDIC, a Rialto segment entity is required to be registered as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.  This Act has requirements related to dealings between investment advisers and the entities they advise and imposes record keeping and disclosure obligations on investment advisers.

Compliance Policy

Associates

At December 31, 2012, we employed 4,722 individuals of whom 2,327 were involved in the Lennar Homebuilding operations, 2,150 were involved in the Lennar Financial Services operations and 245 were involved in the Rialto operations, compared to November 30, 2011, when we employed 4,062 individuals of whom 2,192 were involved in the Lennar Homebuilding operations, 1,682 were involved in Lennar Financial Services operations and 188 were involved in the Rialto operations. We do not have collective bargaining agreements relating to any of our associates. However, we subcontract many phases of our homebuilding operations and some of the subcontractors we use have associates who are represented by labor unions.

Relationship with LNR Property Corporation

In 1997, we transferred our commercial real estate investment and management business to LNR Property Corporation (“LNR”), and spun-off LNR to our stockholders. As a result, LNR became a publicly-traded company, and the family of Stuart A. Miller, our Chief Executive Officer and a Director, which had voting control of our company, became the controlling shareholder of LNR.

Since the spin-off, we have entered into a number of joint ventures and other transactions with LNR. Many of the joint ventures were formed to acquire and develop land, part of which was subsequently sold to us or other homebuilders for residential building and part of which was subsequently sold to LNR for commercial development. In February 2005, LNR was acquired by a privately-owned entity. Although Mr. Miller’s family was required to purchase a 20.4% financial interest in that privately-owned entity, this interest was non-voting and neither Mr. Miller nor anyone else in his family was an officer or director, or otherwise was involved in the management, of LNR or its parent. Nonetheless, because the Miller family had a financial interest in LNR’s parent, we adopted a bylaw that required that all significant transactions with LNR, or entities in which it has an interest, be reviewed and approved by an Independent Directors Committee of our Board of Directors. In 2011, the Miller family ceased to have any interest in LNR or its parent. Accordingly, in January 2013, the bylaw requiring Independent Director Committee review of transactions involving LNR was deleted.

NYSE Certification

We submitted our 2011 Annual CEO Certification to the New York Stock Exchange on April 20, 2012. The certification was not qualified in any respect.

Available Information

Our corporate website is www.lennar.com. We make available on our website, free of charge, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these documents with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Information on our website is not part of this document.









Our website also includes printable versions of our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the charters for each of the Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees of our Board of Directors. Each of these documents is also available in print to any stockholder who requests a copy by addressing a request to:

Lennar Corporation

Attention: Office of the General Counsel

700 Northwest 107thAvenue

Miami, Florida 33172





