Item 1.    Business.



Overview of Lennar Corporation



We are one of the nation’s largest homebuilders, a provider of financial services and through our Rialto Investments
(“Rialto”) segment, an investor in distressed real estate assets. Our homebuilding operations include the construction and sale of single-family attached and detached homes, as well as the purchase, development and sale of residential land
directly and through unconsolidated entities in which we have investments. We have grouped our homebuilding activities into four reportable segments, which we refer to as Homebuilding East, Homebuilding Central, Homebuilding West and Homebuilding
Houston. Information about homebuilding activities in states in which our homebuilding activities are not economically similar to those in other states in the same geographic area is grouped under “Homebuilding Other.” Our reportable
homebuilding segments and Homebuilding Other have divisions located in:



East:Florida, Maryland, New Jersey and Virginia

Central:Arizona,
Colorado and Texas (1)

West:California and Nevada

Houston:Houston, Texas

Other:Georgia, Illinois, Minnesota, North Carolina and South Carolina

(1)Texas in the Central reportable segment excludes Houston, Texas, which is its own reportable segment.



We have one Financial Services reportable segment that
provides primarily mortgage financing, title insurance and closing services for both buyers of our homes and others. Substantially all of the loans we originate are sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released,
non-recourse basis. After the loans are sold, we retain potential liability for possible claims by purchasers that we breached certain limited industry-standard representations and warranties in the loan sale agreements. Our Financial Services
segment operates generally in the same states as our homebuilding operations, as well as in other states.



Our Rialto segment is a new reportable segment. Rialto’s objective is to generate superior, risk-adjusted returns by focusing on
commercial and residential real estate opportunities arising from dislocation in the United States real estate markets and the eventual restructure and recapitalization of those markets. Rialto expects to be able to deliver these returns through its
abilities to source, underwrite, price, manage and ultimately monetize real estate assets, as well as by providing similar services to others in markets across the country.



For financial information about our Homebuilding, Lennar
Financial Services and Rialto operations, you should review Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is Item 7 of this Report, and our consolidated financial statements and the notes to
our consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Report.



A Brief History of Our Company



We are a national homebuilder that operates in various states with deliveries of 10,955 new homes in 2010. Our company was founded as a local Miami homebuilder in 1954. We completed our initial public
offering in 1971, and listed our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange in 1972. During the 1980s and 1990s, we entered and expanded operations in some of our current major homebuilding markets including California, Florida and Texas through
both organic growth and acquisitions such as Pacific Greystone Corporation in 1997, amongst others. In 1997, we completed the spin-off of our commercial real estate business to LNR Property Corporation. In 2000, we acquired U.S. Home Corporation,
which expanded our operations into New Jersey, Maryland, Virginia, Minnesota and Colorado and strengthened our position in other states. From 2002 through 2005, we acquired several regional homebuilders, which brought us into new markets and
strengthened our position in several existing markets. During 2010, we made several investments through our Rialto segment in distressed real estate assets to take advantage of opportunities arising from dislocation in the United States real estate
market.



Recent Business Developments



Overview



During 2010, we continued to see a housing market that was
trying to stabilize. As expected, this stabilization process was impacted by the expiration of the Federal homebuyer tax credit at the end of April, which resulted in a decline in the housing market sales pace. High unemployment, foreclosures, tight
lending standards and low consumer confidence have continued to present challenges for the housing market.







Despite challenges in the housing market, we returned to profitability in 2010, ending the
year with net earnings of $95.3 million, or $0.51 per diluted share, compared to a net loss of $417.1 million, or $2.45 per diluted share, for the year ended November 30, 2009. We also ended 2010 with $1.2 billion in Lennar Homebuilding cash
and cash equivalents. We extended our debt maturities by issuing $250 million of 6.95% senior notes maturing in 2018, $276.5 million of 2.00% convertible senior notes and $446 million of 2.75% convertible senior notes, both maturing in 2020. In
addition, during the year we repurchased and retired $624.9 million of senior notes and other debt. We continued to reduce the number of Lennar Homebuilding unconsolidated joint ventures in which we have investments to 42 at the end of 2010 from 61
at the end of 2009 and our maximum recourse debt exposure related to those investments was reduced to $173 million at the end of 2010 from $288 million at the end of 2009.



In 2010, we continued focusing on refining our product
offering, reducing the number of floor plans and targeting first time and value oriented homebuyers. Our more efficient product offerings have significantly reduced our construction costs and allowed us to meet our customers’ demands. Our
intense focus on construction costs, product re-engineering and reduced selling, general and administrative expenses, combined with reduced sales incentives, contributed to improved gross and operating margins year over year.



As demand in some of our markets showed signs of
stabilization and our balance sheet strengthened, we continued to contract for new potentially high-margin communities to improve our profitability. These strategic land purchases utilize conservative underwriting standards and began generating high
returns as we started delivering those homes in the second half of 2010.



During 2010, our Lennar Financial Services segment had operating earnings of $31.3 million, compared to $36.0 million in the same period last year. The decrease in operating earnings was primarily due to
decreased volume in the segment’s mortgage and title operations.



In December 2009, Rialto became a sub-advisor to Alliance Bernstein L.P. (“AB”) with regard to a fund formed under the Federal government’s Public-Private Investment Program
(“PPIP”) to purchase real estate related securities from banks and other financial institutions. Rialto receives management fees for sub-advisory services. We committed to invest $75 million of the total equity commitments of approximately
$1.2 billion made by private investors in this fund, and the U.S. Treasury has committed to a matching amount of approximately $1.2 billion of equity in the fund, as well as agreed to extend up to approximately $2.3 billion of debt financing. During
the year ended November 30, 2010, we invested $63.8 million in the AB PPIP fund. As of November 30, 2010, the carrying value of our investment in the AB PPIP fund was $77.3 million.



During 2010, we also invested in several distressed real estate opportunities through our Rialto segment. In
February 2010, our Rialto segment acquired indirectly 40% managing member equity interests in two limited liability companies (“LLCs”), in partnership with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), for approximately
$243 million (net of transaction costs and a $22 million working capital reserve). The LLCs hold performing and non-performing loans formerly owned by 22 failed financial institutions. The two portfolios originally consisted of more than 5,500
distressed residential and commercial real estate loans with an aggregate unpaid principal balance of approximately $3 billion and an initial fair value of approximately $1.2 billion. The FDIC retained a 60% equity interest in the LLCs and provided
$626.9 million of notes with 0% interest, which are non-recourse to us.



In September 2010, Rialto completed the acquisitions of over $700 million of distressed real estate assets, in separate transactions, from three financial institutions. The combined portfolios included
approximately 400 loans with a total aggregate unpaid principal balance of over $500 million and over 300 real estate owned (“REO”) properties with an original appraised value of approximately $200 million. We paid $310 million for the
distressed real estate assets of which $125 million was financed through a 5-year senior unsecured note provided by one of the selling institutions.



In November 2010, Rialto completed its first closing of a real estate investment fund (the “Fund”) with initial equity
commitments of $300 million (including $75 million committed by us). The Fund’s objective during its three-year investment period is to invest in distressed real estate assets and other related investments that fit within the Fund’s
investment parameters.







Homebuilding Operations



Overview



We primarily sell single-family attached and detached homes
in communities targeted to first-time, move-up and active adult homebuyers. The average sales price of a Lennar home was $243,000 in both fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, compared to $270,000 in fiscal 2008. We operate primarily under the Lennar brand
name.



Through our own efforts and those of
unconsolidated entities in which Lennar Homebuilding has investments, we are involved in all phases of planning and building in our residential communities including land acquisition, site planning, preparation and improvement of land and design,
construction and marketing of homes. For additional information about our investments in and relationships with unconsolidated entities, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of
this Report.



Inventory Impairments and
Valuation Adjustments related to Lennar Homebuilding Investments in Unconsolidated Entities



We continued evaluating our balance sheet quarterly for impairment on an asset-by-asset basis during fiscal 2010. Based on our evaluations and assessments, during the years ended November 30, 2010,
2009 and 2008, we recorded the following inventory impairments:



Years Ended November 30,201020092008(In thousands)Valuation adjustments to finished homes, CIP and land on which we intend to build homes$44,717180,239195,518Valuation adjustments to land we intend to sell or have sold to third parties3,43695,31447,791Write-offs of option deposits and pre-acquisition costs3,10584,37297,172Total inventory impairments$51,258359,925340,481



During the years ended
November 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we recorded the following valuation adjustments related to Lennar Homebuilding investments in unconsolidated entities:



Years Ended November 30,201020092008(In thousands)Our share of valuation adjustments related to assets of Lennar Homebuilding unconsolidated entities$10,461101,89332,245Valuation adjustments to Lennar Homebuilding investments in unconsolidated entities1,73588,972172,790Total valuation adjustments to Lennar Homebuilding investments in unconsolidated entities$12,196190,865205,035



The inventory impairments and
valuation adjustments to Lennar Homebuilding investments in unconsolidated entities recorded above were estimated based on market conditions and assumptions made by management at the time the valuation adjustments were recorded, which may differ
materially from actual results if market conditions or our assumptions change.



Lennar Homebuilding Investments in Unconsolidated Entities



For a number of years, we created and participated in joint ventures that acquired and developed land for our homebuilding operations, for sale to third parties or for use in their own homebuilding
operations. Through these joint ventures, we reduced the amount we had to invest in order to assure access to potential future homesites, thereby mitigating certain risks associated with land acquisitions, and, in some instances, we obtained access
to land to which we could not otherwise have obtained access or could not have obtained access on as favorable terms. Although these ventures initially served their intended purpose of risk mitigation, as the homebuilding market deteriorated and
asset impairments resulted in the loss of equity, some of our joint venture partners became financially unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations. During 2010, we continued reevaluating all of our joint venture arrangements, with particular
focus on those ventures with recourse indebtedness, and reduced







the number of joint ventures in which we were participating as well as the recourse indebtedness of those joint ventures. As of November 30, 2010, we had reduced the number of Lennar
Homebuilding unconsolidated joint ventures in which we were participating to 42 from 270 joint ventures at the peak in 2006 and reduced our maximum recourse debt exposure related to Lennar Homebuilding unconsolidated joint ventures to $172.9 million
from $1,764.4 million at the peak in 2006. At November 30, 2010, our net recourse exposure related to Lennar Homebuilding unconsolidated entities was $114.0 million.



Management and Operating Structure



We balance a local operating structure with centralized
corporate level management. Decisions related to our overall strategy, acquisitions of land and businesses, risk management, financing, cash management and information systems are centralized at the corporate level. Our local operating structure
consists of divisions, which are managed by individuals who generally have significant experience in the homebuilding industry and, in most instances, in their particular markets. They are responsible for operating decisions regarding land
identification, entitlement and development, the management of inventory levels for our current volume levels, community development, home design, construction and marketing of our homes.



Diversified Program of Property Acquisition



We generally acquire land for development and for the construction of homes that we sell to homebuyers. Land is
subject to specified underwriting criteria and is acquired through our diversified program of property acquisition, which may consist of the following:



•Acquiring land directly from individual land owners/developers or homebuilders;



•Acquiring local or regional homebuilders that own, or have options to purchase, land in strategic markets;



•Acquiring land through option contracts, which generally enables us to control portions of properties owned by third parties (including land funds) and
unconsolidated entities until we have determined whether to exercise the option;



•Acquiring parcels of land through joint ventures, primarily to reduce and share our risk, among other factors, by limiting the amount of our capital
invested in land, while increasing our access to potential future homesites and allowing us to participate in strategic ventures; and



•Acquiring distressed assets from banks, government sponsored enterprises and opportunity funds.



At November 30, 2010, we owned 84,482 homesites and had
access through option contracts to an additional 19,974 homesites, of which 8,490 were through option contracts with third parties and 11,484 were through option contracts with Lennar Homebuilding unconsolidated entities in which we have
investments. At November 30, 2009, we owned 82,703 homesites and had access through option contracts to an additional 21,173 homesites, of which 7,423 were through option contracts with third parties and 13,750 were through option contracts
with Lennar Homebuilding unconsolidated entities in which we have investments.



Construction and Development



We generally supervise and control the development of land and the design and building of our residential communities with a relatively small labor force. We hire subcontractors for site improvements and
virtually all of the work involved in the construction of homes. Arrangements with our subcontractors generally provide that our subcontractors will complete specified work in accordance with price schedules and applicable building codes and laws.
The price schedules may be subject to change to meet changes in labor and material costs or for other reasons. We believe that the sources and availability of raw materials to our subcontractors are adequate for our current and planned levels of
operation. We generally do not own heavy construction equipment. We finance construction and land development activities primarily with cash generated from operations, debt issuances and equity offerings.



Marketing



We offer a diversified line of homes for first-time, move-up
and active adult homebuyers available in a variety of environments ranging from urban infill communities to golf course communities. We sell our homes primarily from models that we have designed and constructed. During 2010, the homes we delivered
had an average sales price of $243,000.







We employ sales associates who are paid salaries, commissions or both to complete on-site
sales of homes. We also sell homes through independent brokers. We advertise our communities through newspapers, radio advertisements and other local and regional publications, on billboards and on the Internet, including our website,
www.lennar.com. In addition, we advertise our active adult communities in areas where prospective active adult homebuyers live.



Quality Service



We strive to continually improve homeowner customer satisfaction throughout the pre-sale, sale, construction, closing and post-closing
periods. Through the participation of sales associates, on-site construction supervisors and customer care associates, all working in a team effort, we strive to create a quality homebuying experience for our customers, which we believe leads to
enhanced customer retention and referrals. The quality of our homes is substantially affected by the efforts of on-site management and others engaged in the construction process, by the materials we use in particular homes or by other similar
factors.



We warrant our new homes against
defective materials and workmanship for a minimum period of one year after the date of closing. Although we subcontract virtually all segments of construction to others and our contracts call for the subcontractors to repair or replace any deficient
items related to their trades, we are primarily responsible to the homebuyers for the correction of any deficiencies.



Deliveries



The table below indicates the number of deliveries for each of our homebuilding segments and Homebuilding Other during our last three
fiscal years:



201020092008East4,1953,8174,957Central1,6821,7962,442West2,0792,4804,031Houston1,6452,1502,736Other1,3541,2351,569Total10,95511,47815,735



Of the total home deliveries
listed above, 96, 56 and 391, respectively, represent deliveries from unconsolidated entities for the years ended November 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008.



Backlog



Backlog represents the number of homes under sales contracts. Homes are sold using sales contracts, which are generally accompanied by
sales deposits. In some instances, purchasers are permitted to cancel sales contracts if they fail to qualify for financing or under certain other circumstances. We experienced a cancellation rate of 17% in 2010, compared to 18% and 26%,
respectively, in 2009 and 2008. Substantially all homes currently in backlog will be delivered in fiscal year 2011. We do not recognize revenue on homes under sales contracts until the sales are closed and title passes to the new homeowners.



The table below indicates the backlog dollar
value for each of our homebuilding segments and Homebuilding Other as of the end of our last three fiscal years:



201020092008(In thousands)East$190,095179,175202,791Central52,92336,15823,736West58,072143,868108,779Houston58,82260,87657,785Other47,38059,49463,179Total$407,292479,571456,270



Of the dollar value of homes in
backlog listed above, $2.1 million, $7.2 million and $12.5 million, respectively, represent the backlog dollar value from unconsolidated entities at November 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008.







Lennar Financial Services Operations



Mortgage Financing



We primarily originate conforming conventional, FHA-insured,
VA-guaranteed residential mortgage loan products and other products to our homebuyers and others through our financial services subsidiaries, Universal American Mortgage Company, LLC and Eagle Home Mortgage, LLC, which are located generally in the
same states as our homebuilding operations as well as other states. In 2010, our financial services subsidiaries provided loans to 85% of our homebuyers who obtained mortgage financing in areas where we offered services. Because of the availability
of mortgage loans from our financial services subsidiaries, as well as independent mortgage lenders, we believe most creditworthy purchasers of our homes have access to financing.



During 2010, we originated approximately 15,200 mortgage
loans totaling $3.3 billion, compared to 17,900 mortgage loans totaling $4.0 billion during 2009. Substantially all of the loans we originate are sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse
basis. After the loans are sold, we retain potential liability for possible claims by purchasers that we breached certain limited industry-standard representations and warranties in the loan sale agreements. Therefore, we have limited direct
exposure related to the residential mortgages we originate.



We have a corporate risk management policy under which we hedge our interest rate risk on rate-locked loan commitments and loans held-for-sale to mitigate exposure to interest rate fluctuations. We
finance our mortgage loan activities with borrowings under our financial services warehouse repurchase facilities or from our operating funds. One of our warehouse repurchase facilities with a maximum aggregate commitment of $150 million and an
additional uncommitted amount of $50 million matures in April 2011, and the other warehouse repurchase facility with a maximum aggregate commitment of $175 million matures in July 2011. We expect the facilities to be renewed or replaced with other
facilities when they mature.



Title
Insurance and Closing Services



We provide title
insurance and closing services to our homebuyers and others. During 2010, we provided title and closing services for approximately 102,500 real estate transactions, and issued approximately 107,600 title insurance policies through our underwriter,
North American Title Insurance Company, compared to 120,500 real estate transactions and 92,500 title insurance policies issued during 2009. Title and closing services are provided by agency subsidiaries in Arizona, California, Colorado, District of
Columbia, Florida, Illinois, Maryland, Minnesota, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Texas, Virginia and Wisconsin.Title insurance services are provided in these same states, as well as in Alabama, Delaware, Georgia, North Carolina,
Ohio, South Carolina and Tennessee.



Rialto Investments Operations



The Rialto segment was formed to focus on
acquisitions of distressed debt and other real estate assets utilizing Rialto’s abilities to source, underwrite, price, turnaround and ultimately monetize such assets in markets across the United States. For more detail regarding the
acquisitions and investments made by our Rialto segment during 2010, refer to the Overview of Lennar Corporation section discussed earlier in Item 1 of this Report.



Seasonality



We have historically experienced variability in our results of operations from quarter-to-quarter due to the
seasonal nature of the homebuilding business.



Competition



The residential homebuilding industry is
highly competitive. We compete for homebuyers in each of the market regions where we operate with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders, as well as with resales of existing homes and with the rental housing market. In recent years,
lenders’ efforts to sell foreclosed homes have become an increasingly competitive factor within the homebuilding industry. We compete for homebuyers on the basis of a number of interrelated factors including location, price, reputation,
amenities, design, quality and financing. In addition to competition for homebuyers, we also compete with other homebuilders for desirable properties, raw materials and reliable, skilled labor. We compete for land buyers with third parties in our
efforts to sell land to homebuilders and others. We believe we are competitive in the market regions where we operate primarily due to our:



•Balance sheet, where we continue to focus on inventory management and liquidity;



•Access to land, particularly in land-constrained markets;







•Pricing to current market conditions through sales incentives offered to homebuyers;



•Cost efficiencies realized through our national purchasing programs and production of value-engineered homes; and



•Quality construction and home warranty program, which are supported by a responsive customer care team.



Our financial services operations compete with other mortgage
lenders, including national, regional and local mortgage bankers and brokers, banks, savings and loan associations and other financial institutions, in the origination and sale of mortgage loans. Principal competitive factors include interest rates
and other features of mortgage loan products available to the consumer. We compete with other title insurance agencies and underwriters for closing services and title insurance. Principal competitive factors include service and price.



Rialto’s business of purchasing distressed assets is
highly competitive and fragmented. A number of entities and funds have been formed recently for the purpose of acquiring real estate related assets at prices that reflect the depressed state of the real estate market, and it is likely that
additional entities and funds will be formed for this purpose in the next several years. We compete with other purchasers of distressed assets. We compete in the marketplace for distressed asset portfolios based on many factors, including purchase
price, representations, warranties and indemnities, timeliness of purchase decisions and reputation. We believe that our major distinction from the competition is that our team is made up of already in place managers who are already working out
loans and dealing with similar borrowers. Additionally, because of the high content of loans made to developers, we believe having our homebuilding team participating in the underwriting process provides us with a distinct advantage in our
evaluation of these assets. We believe that our experienced team and the infrastructure already in place, including our investment in a service provider, are ahead of our competitors. This has us well positioned for the large pipeline of opportunity
that has been building.



Regulation



Homes and residential communities that we build must comply
with state and local laws and regulations relating to, among other things, zoning, construction permits or entitlements, construction material requirements, density requirements, and requirements relating to building design and property elevation,
building codes and handling of waste. These include laws requiring the use of construction materials that reduce the need for energy-consuming heating and cooling systems. These laws and regulations are subject to frequent change and often increase
construction costs. In some instances, we must comply with laws that require commitments from us to provide roads and other offsite infrastructure to be in place prior to the commencement of new construction. These laws and regulations are usually
administered by counties and municipalities and may result in fees and assessments or building moratoriums. In addition, certain new development projects are subject to assessments for schools, parks, streets and highways and other public
improvements, the costs of which can be substantial.



The residential homebuilding industry is also subject to a variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. These
environmental laws include such areas as storm water and surface water management, soil, groundwater and wetlands protection, subsurface conditions and air quality protection and enhancement. Environmental laws and existing conditions may result in
delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs and may prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas.



In recent years, several cities and counties in which we have
developments have submitted to voters “slow growth” initiatives and other ballot measures that could impact the affordability and availability of land suitable for residential development within those localities. Although many of these
initiatives have been defeated, we believe that if similar initiatives were approved, residential construction by us and others within certain cities or counties could be seriously impacted.



In order to make it possible for some of our homebuyers to obtain FHA-insured or VA-guaranteed mortgages, we
must construct the homes they buy in compliance with regulations promulgated by those agencies.



Various states have statutory disclosure requirements relating to the marketing and sale of new homes. These disclosure requirements vary widely from state-to-state. In addition, some states require that
each new home be registered with the state at or before the time title is transferred to a buyer (e.g., the Texas Residential Construction Commission Act).







In some states, we are required to be registered as a licensed contractor and comply with
applicable rules and regulations. In various states, our new home consultants are required to be registered as licensed real estate agents and to adhere to the laws governing the practices of real estate agents.



Our mortgage and title subsidiaries must comply with
applicable real estate laws and regulations. The subsidiaries are licensed in the states in which they do business and must comply with laws and regulations in those states. These laws and regulations include provisions regarding capitalization,
operating procedures, investments, lending and privacy disclosures, forms of policies and premiums.



A subsidiary of Newhall, an unconsolidated entity of which we currently indirectly own 15%, provides water to a portion of Los Angeles County, California. This subsidiary is subject to extensive
regulation by the California Public Utilities Commission.



Several federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and ordinances, including, but not limited to, the Federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (“FDCPA”) and the Federal Trade Commission
Act and comparable state statutes, regulate consumer debt collection activity. Although, for a variety of reasons, we may not be specifically subject to the FDCPA or certain state statutes that govern debt collectors, it is our policy to comply with
applicable laws in our collection activities. To the extent that some or all of these laws apply to our collection activities or failure to comply with such laws could have a material adverse effect on us.



Compliance Policy



We have a Code of Business and Ethics that requires every associate (i.e., employee) and officer to at all
times deal fairly with the Company’s customers, subcontractors, suppliers, competitors and associates, and states that all our associates, officers and directors are expected to comply at all times with all applicable laws, rules and
regulations. Despite this, there are instances in which subcontractors or others through which we do business engage in practices that do not comply with applicable regulations and guidelines. There have been instances in which some of our
associates were aware of these practices and did not take adequate steps to prevent them. When we learn of practices relating to homes we build or financing we provide that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines, we move actively to
stop the non-complying practices as soon as possible and we have taken disciplinary action with regard to our associates who were aware of the practices, including in some instances terminating their employment. Our Code of Business and Ethics also
has procedures in place that allows whistleblowers to submit their concerns regarding our operations, financial reporting, business integrity or any other related matter anonymously to the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and/or to the
non-management directors of our Board of Directors, thus helping protect them from any possibility of retaliation.



Associates



At December 31, 2010, we employed 4,087 individuals of whom 2,208 were involved in the Lennar Homebuilding operations, 1,767 were involved in the Lennar Financial Services operations, and 112 were
involved in the Rialto operations, compared to November 30, 2009, when we employed 3,873 individuals of whom 2,204 were involved in the Lennar Homebuilding operations and 1,669 were involved in Lennar Financial Services operations. We do not
have collective bargaining agreements relating to any of our associates. However, we subcontract many phases of our homebuilding operations and some of the subcontractors we use have associates who are represented by labor unions.



Relationship with LNR Property Corporation



In 1997, we transferred our commercial real estate
investment and management business to LNR Property Corporation (“LNR”), and spun-off LNR to our stockholders. As a result, LNR became a publicly-traded company, and the family of Stuart A. Miller, our President, Chief Executive Officer and
a Director, which had voting control of our company, became the controlling shareholder of LNR.



Since the spin-off, we have entered into a number of joint ventures and other transactions with LNR. Many of the joint ventures were formed to acquire and develop land, part of which was subsequently sold
to us or other homebuilders for residential building and part of which was subsequently sold to LNR for commercial development. In February 2005, LNR was acquired by a privately-owned entity. Although Mr. Miller’s family was required to
purchase a 20.4% financial interest in that privately-owned entity, this interest is non-voting and







neither Mr. Miller nor anyone else in his family is an officer or director, or otherwise is involved in the management, of LNR or its parent. Nonetheless, because the Miller family continues
to have a financial, non-voting, interest in LNR’s parent, although reduced from the percentage interest initially acquired, significant transactions with LNR, or entities in which it has an interest, have historically been and continued to be
reviewed and approved by the Independent Directors Committee of our Board of Directors.



LandSource/Newhall Transactions



In January 2004, a company of which we and LNR each owned 50% acquired The Newhall Land and Farming Company for approximately $1 billion,
including $200 million we contributed and $200 million that LNR contributed (the remainder came from borrowings and sales of properties to LNR). Subsequently, we and LNR each transferred our interests in most of our joint ventures to the
jointly-owned company that had acquired The Newhall Land and Farming Company, and that company was renamed LandSource Communities Development LLC (“LandSource”).



In February 2007, LandSource admitted MW Housing Partners as
a new strategic partner. As part of the transaction, the joint venture obtained $1.6 billion of non-recourse financing, which consisted of a $200 million five-year Revolving Credit Facility, a $1.1 billion six-year Term Loan B Facility and a $244
million seven-year Second Lien Term Facility. The transaction resulted in a cash distribution to us of $707.6 million and a similar distribution to LNR. Our resulting ownership of LandSource was 16%.



In June 2008, LandSource and a number of its subsidiaries
commenced proceedings under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware. In November 2008, our land purchase options with LandSource were terminated, thus, in 2008 we recognized a deferred
profit of $101.3 million (net of $31.8 million of write-offs of option deposits and pre-acquisition costs and other write-offs) related to the 2007 recapitalization of LandSource.



In July 2009, the United States Bankruptcy Court for the
District of Delaware confirmed the plan of reorganization for LandSource. As a result of the bankruptcy proceedings, LandSource was reorganized into a new company named Newhall Land Development, LLC, (“Newhall”). The reorganized company
emerged from Chapter 11 free of its previous bank debt. As part of the reorganization, we invested $140 million in exchange for approximately a 15% equity interest in the reorganized Newhall, ownership in several communities that were formerly owned
by LandSource, the settlement and release of any claims that might have been asserted against us and certain other claims LandSource had against third parties.



NYSE Certification



We submitted our 2009 Annual CEO Certification to the New York Stock Exchange on April 16, 2010. The certification was not qualified
in any respect.



Available Information



Our corporate website is www.lennar.com. We make available
on our website, free of charge, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as
reasonably practicable after we electronically file these documents with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Information on our website is not part of this document.



Our website also includes printable versions of our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Code of Business
Conduct and Ethics and the charters for each of our Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees of our Board of Directors. Each of these documents is also available in print to any stockholder who requests a copy by
addressing a request to:



Lennar Corporation

Attention: Office of the General Counsel

700 Northwest 107thAvenue

Miami, Florida 33172







