Item 1.Business

Overview of Lennar Corporation

We are one of the nation’s largest homebuilders, a provider of real estate related financial services, a commercial real estate investment, investment management and finance company through our Rialto segment and a developer of multifamily rental properties in select U.S. markets primarily through unconsolidated entities.

Our homebuilding operations are the most substantial part of our business, comprising$7.0 billionin revenues, or approximately90%of consolidated revenues in fiscal 2014. We have grouped our homebuilding activities into five reportable segments, which we refer to as Homebuilding East, Homebuilding Central, Homebuilding West, Homebuilding Southeast Florida and Homebuilding Houston. Information about homebuilding activities in states in which our homebuilding activities are not economically similar to those in other states in the same geographic area is grouped under “Homebuilding Other.” Our reportable homebuilding segments and Homebuilding Other have operations located in:

East:Florida(1), Georgia, Maryland, New Jersey, North Carolina, South Carolina and Virginia

Central:Arizona, Colorado and Texas(2)

West:California and Nevada

Southeast Florida: Southeast Florida

Houston: Houston, Texas

Other:Illinois, Minnesota, Tennessee, Oregon and Washington

(1)Florida in the East reportable segment excludes Southeast Florida, which is its own reportable segment.

(2)Texas in the Central reportable segment excludes Houston, Texas, which is its own reportable segment.

Our other reportable segments are Lennar Financial Services, Rialto and Lennar Multifamily.For financial information about our Homebuilding, Lennar Financial Services, Rialto and Lennar Multifamily operations, you should review Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is Item 7 of this Report, and our consolidated financial statements and the notes to our consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Report.

A Brief History of Our Company

We are a national homebuilder that operates in various states with deliveries of

21,003

new homes in


. Our company was founded as a local Miami homebuilder in 1954. We completed our initial public offering in 1971 and listed our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange in 1972. During the 1980s and 1990s, we entered and expanded operations in a number of homebuilding markets, including California, Florida and Texas, through both organic growth and acquisitions, such as Pacific Greystone Corporation in 1997. In 1997, we completed the spin-off of our then commercial real estate business, LNR Property Corporation. In 2000, we acquired U.S. Home Corporation, which expanded our operations into New Jersey, Maryland, Virginia, Minnesota and Colorado and strengthened our position in other states. From 2002 through 2005, we acquired several regional homebuilders, which brought us into new markets and strengthened our position in several existing markets. From 2010 through 2013, we started and expanded our homebuilding operations in the Atlanta, Oregon, Seattle and Nashville markets. More recently, we have been strengthening and expanding our competitive position through the development of land that was strategically purchased at favorable prices during the real estate market downturn, and through a focus on our ancillary and complementary platforms, including Rialto, Lennar Multifamily and FivePoint, a consolidated joint venture that was formed to manage master planned mixed use developments.

Homebuilding Operations

Overview

Our homebuilding operations include the construction and sale of single-family attached and detached homes, as well as the purchase, development and sale of residential land directly and through unconsolidated entities in which we have investments. We primarily sell single-family attached and detached homes in communities targeted to first-time, move-up and active adult homebuyers. We operate primarily under the Lennar brand name. Our homebuilding mission is focused on the profitable development of these residential communities. Key elements of our strategy include:

•Strong Operating Margins -We believe our operating leverage combined with our attractive land purchases position us for strong operating margins.

•Everything’s Included®Approach- We are focused on distinguishing our products, including through our Everything’s Included®approach, which maximizes our purchasing power to include luxury features as standard items in our homes.









•Innovative Homebuilding -We are constantly innovating the homes we build to create products that meet our customers' needs. Our latest innovation, NextGen homes, or a home within a home, provides a unique new home solution for multi-generational households as homebuyers often need to accommodate children and parents to share the cost of their mortgage and other living expenses.

•Flexible Operating Structure- Our local operating structure gives us the flexibility to make operating decisions based on local homebuilding conditions and customer preferences, while our centralized management structure provides oversight for our homebuilding operations.

Diversified Program of Property Acquisition

We generally acquire land for development and for the construction of homes that we sell to homebuyers. Land purchases are subject to specified underwriting criteria and are made through our diversified program of property acquisition, which may consist of the following:

•Acquiring land directly from individual land owners/developers or homebuilders;

•Acquiring local or regional homebuilders that own, or have options to purchase, land in strategic markets;

•Acquiring land through option contracts, which generally enables us to control portions of properties owned by third parties (including land funds) and unconsolidated entities in which we have investments until we have determined whether to exercise the options;

•Acquiring parcels of land through joint ventures, which among other factors, limits the amount of our capital invested in land while increasing our access to potential future homesites and allowing us to participate in strategic ventures;

•Acquiring land in conjunction with Lennar Multifamily and Lennar Commercial; and

•Acquiring distressed assets from banks and opportunity funds, often through relationships established by our Rialto segment.

AtNovember 30, 2014, we owned132,679homesites and had access through option contracts to an additional31,890homesites, of which24,855homesites were through option contracts with third parties and7,035homesites were through option contracts with unconsolidated entities in which we have investments. AtNovember 30, 2013, we owned125,643homesites and had access through option contracts to an additional28,133homesites, of which20,966homesites were through option contracts with third parties and7,167homesites were through option contracts with unconsolidated entities in which we have investments.

Construction and Development

Through our own efforts and those of unconsolidated entities in which Lennar Homebuilding has investments, we are involved in all phases of planning and building in our residential communities, including land acquisition, site planning, preparation and improvement of land and design, construction and marketing of homes. We use independent subcontractors for most aspects of home construction. AtNovember 30, 2014, we were actively building and marketing homes in625communities, including3communities being developed by unconsolidated entities.

We generally supervise and control the development of land and the design and building of our residential communities with a relatively small labor force. We hire subcontractors for site improvements and virtually all of the work involved in the construction of homes. Arrangements with our subcontractors generally provide that our subcontractors will complete specified work in accordance with price schedules and in compliance with applicable building codes and laws. The price schedules may be subject to change to meet changes in labor and material costs or for other reasons. We believe that the sources and availability of raw materials to our subcontractors are adequate for our current and planned levels of operation. We generally do not own heavy construction equipment. We finance construction and land development activities primarily with cash generated from operations and debt issuances.

For additional information about our investments in and relationships with unconsolidated entities, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Report.

Marketing

We offer a diversified line of homes for first-time, move-up and active adult homebuyers in a variety of environments ranging from urban infill communities to golf course communities. Our Everything’s Included®marketing program simplifies the home buying experience by including the most desirable features as standard items. This marketing program enables us to differentiate our homes from those of our competitors by creating value through standard upgrades and competitive pricing, while reducing construction and overhead costs through a simplified manufacturing process, product standardization and volume purchasing. In addition, our innovative NextGen homes and our advances in including solar powered technology in









certain of the homes we sell, enhance our image and improve our marketing and sales efforts. We sell our homes primarily from models that we have designed and constructed.

We employ sales associates who are paid salaries, commissions or both to conduct on-site sales of homes. We also sell homes through independent brokers. Our marketing strategy is focused on advertising through digital and social media, including through our Internet website, www.lennar.com, which has allowed us to attract more knowledgeable homebuyers. However, we also continue to advertise through more traditional media, including newspapers, radio advertisements and other local and regional publications and on billboards. We tailor our marketing strategy based on the community being advertised, such as advertising our active adult communities in areas where prospective active adult homebuyers live.

Quality Service

We strive to continually improve homeowner customer satisfaction throughout the pre-sale, sale, construction, closing and post-closing periods. We strive to create a quality home buying experience for our customers through the participation of sales associates, on-site construction supervisors and customer care associates, all working in a team effort, which we believe leads to enhanced customer retention and referrals. The quality of our homes is substantially affected by the efforts of on-site management and others engaged in the construction process, by the materials we use in particular homes and by other similar factors.

We warrant our new homes against defective materials and workmanship for a minimum period of one year after the date of closing. Although we subcontract virtually all segments of construction to others and our contracts call for the subcontractors to repair or replace any deficient items related to their trades, we are primarily responsible to the homebuyers for the correction of any deficiencies.

Local Operating Structure and Centralized Management

We balance a local operating structure with centralized corporate level management. Our local operating structure consists of homebuilding divisions across the country, which are generally managed by a division president, a controller, management personnel focused on land entitlement, acquisition and development, sales, construction, customer service and purchasing. We decentralize our homebuilding operations to give our division presidents and their teams, who generally have significant experience in the homebuilding industry, and in most instances, in their particular markets, the flexibility to make local operating decisions, including land identification, entitlement and development, the management of inventory levels for our current sales volume, community development, home design, construction and marketing of our homes.

We centralize at the corporate level decisions related to our overall strategy, acquisitions of land and businesses, risk management, financing, cash management and information systems.

Deliveries

We primarily sell single-family attached and detached homes in communities targeted to first-time, move-up and active adult homebuyers. The average sales price of a Lennar home was$326,000in fiscal2014, compared to$290,000in fiscal2013and$255,000in fiscal2012.

The table below indicates the number of deliveries for each of our current reportable homebuilding segments and Homebuilding Other during our last three fiscal years:

Years Ended November 30,201420132012East7,8246,9415,440Central3,1562,8142,154West4,1413,3232,301Southeast Florida2,0861,7411,314Houston2,4822,2661,917Other1,3141,205676Total21,00318,29013,802

Of the total home deliveries listed above,32,56and95represent deliveries from unconsolidated entities for the years endedNovember 30, 2014,2013and2012, respectively.









Backlog

Backlog represents the number of homes under sales contracts. Homes are sold using sales contracts, which are generally accompanied by deposits. In some instances, purchasers are permitted to cancel sales contracts if they fail to qualify for financing or under certain other circumstances. We experienced a cancellation rate of17%in2014, compared to16%and17%in2013and2012, respectively. The cancellation rate for the year endedNovember 30, 2014was within a range that is consistent with historical cancellation rates and below those we experienced from 2006 through 2009. We expect that substantially all homes currently in backlog will be delivered in fiscal year2015. We do not recognize revenue on homes under sales contracts until the sales are closed and title passes to the new homeowners.

The table below indicates the backlog dollar value for each of our current reportable homebuilding segments and Homebuilding Other as of the end of each of our last three fiscal years:

November 30,(In thousands)201420132012East$672,204600,257368,361Central310,726195,762168,912West437,492257,498202,959Southeast Florida214,606215,988141,146Houston225,737180,665135,282Other113,563169,431143,725Total$1,974,3281,619,6011,160,385

Of the total dollar value of homes in backlog listed above,$39.8 million,$2.5 millionand$3.5 millionrepresent the dollar value of homes in backlog from unconsolidated entities atNovember 30, 2014,2013and2012, respectively.

Lennar Homebuilding Investments in Unconsolidated Entities

We create and participate in joint ventures that acquire and develop land for our homebuilding operations, for sale to third parties or for use in their own homebuilding operations. Through these joint ventures, we reduce the amount we invest in order to assure access to potential future homesites, thereby mitigating certain risks associated with land acquisitions, and, in some instances, we obtain access to land to which we could not otherwise have obtained access or could not have obtained access on as favorable terms. As ofNovember 30, 2014and2013, we had35and 36 Lennar Homebuilding unconsolidated joint ventures, respectively, in which we were participating, and our maximum recourse debt exposure related to Lennar Homebuilding unconsolidated joint ventures was$24.5 millionand$41.0 million, respectively.

Ancillary Businesses

We have ancillary business activities that are related to our homebuilding business, but are not components of our core homebuilding operations.

FivePoint Communities- In 2011, we transferred the management of several large properties in California to FivePoint Communities Management, Inc., a consolidated joint venture. FivePoint Communities is currently undertaking six master planned mixed use developments, three in Southern California and three in or near San Francisco. These developments are planned for a total of 50,000 homesites and 20 million square feet of commercial space, as well as parks and sports and entertainment venues.

Lennar Commercial- Lennar Commercial is focused on the development, investment and management of retail, office and mixed-use projects generally in the same states as our homebuilding operations.

Sunstreet- Lennar’s solar business is currently focused on providing homeowners in California and Colorado through its solar power purchase program, a high-efficiency solar system that generates most of a home's annual expected energy needs at a cost below current utility rates for the average homeowner.









Lennar Financial Services Operations

Mortgage Financing

We primarily offer conforming conventional, FHA-insured and VA-guaranteed residential mortgage loan products and other products to buyers of our homes and others through our financial services subsidiary, Universal American Mortgage Company, LLC, which includes Universal American Mortgage Company, LLC, d/b/a Eagle Home Mortgage, from locations in most of the states in which we have homebuilding operations, as well as some other states. In2014, our financial services subsidiaries provided loans to78%of our homebuyers who obtained mortgage financing in areas where we offered services. Because of the availability of mortgage loans from our financial services subsidiaries, as well as from independent mortgage lenders, we believe almost all creditworthy purchasers of our homes have access to financing.

During2014, we originated approximately23,300residential mortgage loans totaling$6.0 billion, compared to22,300residential mortgage loans totaling$5.3 billionduring2013. Substantially all of the residential mortgage loans we originate are sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market, the majority of which are sold on a servicing released, non-recourse basis. After the loans are sold, we retain potential liability for possible claims by purchasers that we breached certain limited industry-standard representations and warranties in the loan sale agreements. Therefore, we have limited direct exposure related to the residential mortgages we originate.

We finance our mortgage loan activities with borrowings under our financial services warehouse facilities or from our operating funds. AtNovember 30, 2014, our financial services warehouse facilities had a maximum aggregate commitment of$925 millionincluding$150 millionof accordion features. The facilities have various maturity dates and we expect the facilities to be renewed or replaced with other facilities when they mature. We have a corporate risk management policy under which we hedge our interest rate risk on rate-locked loan commitments and loans held-for-sale to mitigate exposure to interest rate fluctuations.

Title Insurance and Closing Services

We provide title insurance and closing services to our homebuyers and others. During2014, we provided title and closing services for approximately90,700real estate transactions, and issued approximately220,400title insurance policies through our underwriter, North American Title Insurance Company, compared to101,200real estate transactions and192,400title insurance policies during2013. Title and closing services are provided by agency subsidiaries in Arizona, California, Colorado, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Maryland, Minnesota, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Texas, Utah, Virginia and Wisconsin. Title insurance services are provided in 40 states.

Rialto Operations

The Rialto segment is a commercial real estate investment, investment management, and finance company. Rialto’s primary focus is to manage third-party capital and to originate commercial mortgage loans which it sells into securitizations. It also has invested its own capital in mortgage loans, properties and real estate related securities.

Rialto is the sponsor of and an investor in private equity vehicles that invest in and manage real estate related assets. This includes:

•Rialto Real Estate Fund, LP ("Fund I") that was formed in 2010 to invest in distressed real estate assets and other related investments to which investors have committed and contributed a total of$700 millionof equity (including$75 millionby us);

•Rialto Real Estate Fund II, LP ("Fund II") that was formed in 2012 to invest in distressed real estate assets and other related investments to which investors have committed$1.3 billion(including$100 millionby us); and

•Rialto Mezzanine Partners Fund (the "Mezzanine Fund") that was formed in 2013 with a target of raising$300 millionin capital (including$27 millioncommitted by us) to invest in performing mezzanine commercial loans that have expected durations of one to two years and are secured by equity interests in the borrowing entity owning the real estate assets.

Rialto also earns fees for its role as a manager of these vehicles and for providing asset management and other services to those vehicles and other third parties. In addition, Rialto owns general partner interests in each of the funds, which entitle it to a share of the sums distributed by the funds after investors have recovered their investments and received specified internal rates of return on those investments. For both Fund I and Fund II, in order to protect investors in the Funds, we agreed that while the Funds were seeking investments (which no longer is the case with regard to Fund I) we would not make investments that are suitable for the applicable Fund, except to the extent an Advisory Committee of the Fund decides that the Fund should not make particular investments, with an exception enabling us to purchase properties for use in connection with our homebuilding operations.









During 2013, Rialto Mortgage Finance ("RMF") was formed and began originating and selling into securitizations five, seven and ten year commercial first mortgage loans, generally with principal amounts between$2 millionand$75 million, which are secured by income producing properties. RMF has secured two warehouse repurchase financing agreements that mature in fiscal year 2015 with commitments totaling$650 millionto help finance the loans it makes. This business has become a significant contributor to the Rialto segment's revenues.

In 2010, our Rialto segment also acquired distressed residential and commercial real estate loans and real estate owned ("REO") properties from three financial institutions (“Bank Portfolios”). We paid$310 millionfor the Bank Portfolios, of which$124 millionwas financed through a 5-year senior unsecured note provided by one of the selling institutions.

In 2010, our Rialto segment also acquired indirectly40%managing member equity interests in two limited liability companies (“LLCs”), in partnership with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), which retained60%equity interest in the LLCs, for approximately$243 million(net of transaction costs and a$22 millionworking capital reserve). The LLCs held performing and non-performing distressed residential and commercial real estate loans (“FDIC Portfolios”). If the LLCs exceed expectations and meet certain internal rate of return and distribution threshold, our equity interest in the LLCs could be reduced from40%down to30%, with a corresponding increase to the FDIC’s equity interest from60%up to70%. As these thresholds have not been met, distributions continue being shared60%/40%with the FDIC.

Lennar Multifamily Operations

We are actively involved, primarily through unconsolidated entities, in the development of multifamily rental properties. Our Lennar Multifamily segment focuses on developing a geographically diversified portfolio of institutional quality multifamily rental properties in select U.S. markets. We currently use third-party management companies to rent the apartments though we anticipate renting the apartments through our own entities in the future.

Our net investment in the Lennar Multifamily segment as ofNovember 30, 2014and2013was$203.7 millionand$105.6 million, respectively. Our Lennar Multifamily segment was participating in26and13unconsolidated entities as ofNovember 30, 2014and2013, respectively. During 2014, our Lennar Multifamily segment sold two operating properties through unconsolidated entities. As ofNovember 30, 2014, it had interests in24communities with development costs of approximately$1.5 billion, of whichonecommunity was completed and operating,threecommunities were partially completed and leasing,19communities were under construction andonewas under development. Our Lennar Multifamily segment had a pipeline of future projects totaling$4.3 billionin assets across a number of states that will be developed by unconsolidated entities. We are exploring opportunities to create a fund, which we would manage and in which we would make an investment, to provide funding for the rental communities we develop.

For additional information about our investments in and relationships with unconsolidated entities, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Report.

Seasonality

We historically have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, variability in quarterly results. Our homebuilding business is seasonal in nature and generally reflects higher levels of new home order activity in our second fiscal quarter and increased deliveries in the second half of our fiscal year. However, periods of economic downturn in the industry, such as we experienced in recent years, can alter seasonal patterns.

Competition

The residential homebuilding industry is highly competitive. We compete for homebuyers in each of the market regions where we operate with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders, as well as with resales of existing homes and with the rental housing market. In recent years, lenders’ efforts to sell foreclosed homes have been a significant competitive factor within the home sales industry. We compete for homebuyers on the basis of a number of interrelated factors including location, price, reputation, amenities, design, quality and financing. In addition to competition for homebuyers, we also compete with other homebuilders for desirable properties, raw materials and access to reliable, skilled labor. We compete for land buyers with third parties in our efforts to sell land to homebuilders and others. We believe we are competitive in the market regions where we operate primarily due to our:

•Financial position, where we continue to focus on inventory management and liquidity;

•Access to land, particularly in land-constrained markets;

•Access to distressed assets, primarily through relationships established by our Rialto segment;

•Pricing to current market conditions through sales incentives offered to homebuyers;

•Cost efficiencies realized through our national purchasing programs and production of value-engineered homes;

•Quality construction and home warranty programs, which are supported by a responsive customer care team; and









•Everything’s Included®marketing program, which simplifies the home buying experience by including most desirable features as standard items.

Our financial services operations compete with other mortgage lenders, including national, regional and local mortgage bankers and brokers, banks, savings and loan associations and other financial institutions, in the origination and sale of residential mortgage loans. Principal competitive factors include interest rates and other features of mortgage loan products available to the consumer. We compete with other title insurance agencies and underwriters for closing services and title insurance. Principal competitive factors include service and price.

Rialto’s RMF business competes with other commercial mortgage lenders in a competitive market and its profitability depends on our ability to originate and sell into securitizations commercial real estate loans at attractive prices. Some of our competitors may have a lower cost of funds than we do and access to funding sources that may not be available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or make different risk assessments, than we do, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. We believe that our major distinction from many of our competitors is that our team is made up of highly seasoned managers who have been originating and securitizing loans for over 25 years with long-standing relationships and can leverage Rialto’s/Lennar’s infrastructure facilities for a rapid market entrance as well as Rialto’s current underwriting platform.

Our multifamily operations compete with other multifamily apartment developers and operators, including REITs, across the United States. In addition, our multifamily operations compete in securing capital, partners and equity, and in securing tenants within the large supply of already existing rental apartments. Principal competitive factors include location, rental price and quality, and management of the apartment buildings.

Regulation

The residential communities and multifamily apartment developments that we build are subject to a large variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations relating to, among other things, zoning, construction permits or entitlements, construction materials, density, building design and property elevation, building codes and handling of waste. These include laws requiring the use of construction materials that reduce the need for energy-consuming heating and cooling systems. These laws and regulations are subject to frequent change and often increase construction costs. In some instances, we must comply with laws that require commitments from us to provide roads and other offsite infrastructure, and may require them to be in place prior to the commencement of new construction. These laws and regulations are usually administered by counties and municipalities and may result in fees and assessments or building moratoriums. In addition, certain new development projects are subject to assessments for schools, parks, streets and highways and other public improvements, the costs of which can be substantial. Also, some states are attempting to make homebuilders responsible for violations of wage and other labor laws by their subcontractors.

Residential homebuilding and apartment development are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. These environmental laws include such areas as storm water and surface water management, soil, groundwater and wetlands protection, subsurface conditions and air quality protection and enhancement. Environmental laws and existing conditions may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs and may prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas.

In recent years, several cities and counties in which we have developments have submitted to voters “slow growth” initiatives and other ballot measures that could impact the affordability and availability of land suitable for residential development within those localities. Although many of these initiatives have been defeated, we believe that if similar initiatives were approved, residential construction by us and others within certain cities or counties could be seriously impacted.









In order to make it possible for some of our homebuyers to obtain FHA-insured or VA-guaranteed mortgages, we must construct the homes they buy in compliance with regulations promulgated by those agencies. Various states have statutory disclosure requirements relating to the marketing and sale of new homes. These disclosure requirements vary widely from state-to-state. In addition, some states require that each new home be registered with the state at or before the time title is transferred to a buyer (e.g., the Texas Residential Construction Commission Act). In some states, we are required to be registered as a licensed contractor and comply with applicable rules and regulations. In various states, our new home consultants are required to be registered as licensed real estate agents and to adhere to the laws governing the practices of real estate agents.

Our mortgage and title subsidiaries must comply with applicable real estate laws and regulations. The subsidiaries are licensed in the states in which they do business and must comply with laws and regulations in those states. These laws and regulations include provisions regarding capitalization, operating procedures, investments, lending and privacy disclosures, forms of policies and premiums. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains a number of new requirements relating to mortgage lending and securitizations. These include, among others, minimum standards for lender practices, limitations on certain fees and a requirement that the originator of loans that are securitized retain a portion of the risk, either directly or by holding interests in the securitizations.

Several federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and ordinances, including, but not limited to, the Federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (“FDCPA”) and the Federal Trade Commission Act and comparable state statutes, regulate consumer debt collection activity. Although, for a variety of reasons, we may not be specifically subject to the FDCPA or certain state statutes that govern debt collectors, it is our policy to comply with applicable laws in our collection activities. To the extent that some or all of these laws apply to our collection activities our failure to comply with such laws could have a material adverse effect on us. We are also subject to regulations promulgated by the Federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau regarding residential mortgage loans.

Because Rialto manages two real estate asset investment funds, one mezzanine loan fund and two entities partly owned by the FDIC, a Rialto segment entity is registered as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. This Act has requirements related to dealings between investment advisers and the entities they advise and imposes record keeping and disclosure obligations on investment advisers. Our RMF subsidiary must comply with laws and regulations applicable to commercial mortgage lending. It or its subsidiaries must be licensed in states in which they make loans and must comply with laws and regulations in those states.

Associates

AtNovember 30, 2014, we employed 6,825 individuals of whom 3,578 were involved in the Lennar Homebuilding operations, 2,707 were involved in the Lennar Financial Services operations, 383 were involved in the Rialto operations and 157 were involved in the Lennar Multifamily operations, compared toNovember 30, 2013, when we employed 5,708 individuals of whom 2,944 were involved in the Lennar Homebuilding operations, 2,377 were involved in the Lennar Financial Services operations, 300 were involved in the Rialto operations and 87 were involved in the Lennar Multifamily operations. We do not have collective bargaining agreements relating to any of our associates. However, we subcontract many phases of our homebuilding operations and some of the subcontractors we use have employees who are represented by labor unions.

NYSE Certification

On April 9, 2014, we submitted our Annual CEO Certification to the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") in accordance with NYSE's listing standards. The certification was not qualified in any respect.









Available Information

Our corporate website is www.lennar.com. We make available on our website, free of charge, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these documents with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Information on our website is not part of this document.

Our website also includes printable versions of our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the charters for each of the Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees of our Board of Directors. Each of these documents is also available in print to any stockholder who requests a copy by addressing a request to:

Lennar Corporation

Attention: Office of the General Counsel

700 Northwest 107thAvenue

Miami, Florida 33172





