Item 1.    Business.



Overview of Lennar Corporation



We are one of the nation’s largest homebuilders and a provider of financial services. Our homebuilding operations include the
construction and sale of single-family attached and detached homes, and to a lesser extent multi-level residential buildings, as well as the purchase, development and sale of residential land directly and through unconsolidated entities in which we
have investments. We have grouped our homebuilding activities into four reportable segments, which we refer to as Homebuilding East, Homebuilding Central, Homebuilding West and Homebuilding Houston. Information about homebuilding activities in
states in which our homebuilding activities are not economically similar to those in other states in the same geographic area is grouped under “Homebuilding Other.” Our reportable homebuilding segments and Homebuilding Other have
operations located in:



East:Florida,
Maryland, New Jersey and Virginia

Central:Arizona, Colorado and Texas(1)

West:California and Nevada

Houston:Houston, Texas

Other:Illinois, Minnesota, New York, North
Carolina and South Carolina

(1)Texas in the Central reportable segment excludes Houston, Texas, which is its own reportable segment.



We have one Financial Services reportable segment that provides
primarily mortgage financing, title insurance and closing services for both buyers of our homes and others. Substantially all of the loans that we originate are sold in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis;
although, we remain liable for certain limited representations and warranties related to loan sales. Our Financial Services segment operates generally in the same states as our homebuilding operations, as well as in other states. For financial
information about both our homebuilding and financial services operations, you should review Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is Item 7 of this Report, and our consolidated
financial statements and the notes to our consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Report.



A Brief History of Our Company



Our company was founded as a local Miami homebuilder in 1954. We completed our initial public offering in 1971, and listed our common stock
on the New York Stock Exchange in 1972. During the 1980s and 1990s, we entered and expanded operations in some of our current major homebuilding markets including California, Florida and Texas through both organic growth and acquisitions such as
Pacific Greystone Corporation in 1997, amongst others. In 1997, we completed the spin-off of our commercial real estate business to LNR Property Corporation. In 2000, we acquired U.S. Home Corporation, which expanded our operations into New Jersey,
Maryland, Virginia, Minnesota and Colorado and strengthened our position in other states. From 2002 through 2005, we acquired several regional homebuilders, which brought us into new markets and strengthened our position in several existing markets.
We are a national homebuilder that operates in various states with deliveries of 11,478 new homes in 2009.



Recent Business Developments



Overview



During 2009, we continued to adapt our business in light of the current economic landscape. Despite high unemployment rates, increased foreclosures and tightening credit standards, recent demand trends in the communities in which we are
selling homes indicate that the markets may be stabilizing as more confident homebuyers are taking advantage of increased affordability resulting from declining home prices, historically low interest rates and government stimulus programs.



We ended the year with $1.3 billion in cash and a
homebuilding debt-to-total capital ratio, net of homebuilding cash, of 36.9%. Additionally, as a result of tax legislation that was enacted in our fourth quarter, we will receive a tax refund of approximately $320 million in early 2010. We extended
our debt maturities by issuing $400 million of senior notes maturing in 2017 and retiring $448 million of senior notes and other debt. We also issued $225 million of stock under our $275 million equity draw down program. During 2009, we continued to
reduce the number of unconsolidated joint ventures in which we have investments to 62 at the end of 2009 from 116 at the end of 2008 and our maximum recourse debt related to those investments to $288 million at the end of 2009 from $520 million at
the end of 2008.






In late 2008, we experienced higher cancellation rates resulting in an increase in
completed, unsold inventory. In the first half of 2009, we were able to convert this inventory into cash by offering higher sales incentives. Additionally, in 2009 we continued focusing on refining our product offering, reducing the number of floor
plans and targeting first time and value oriented homebuyers. Our more efficient product offerings have significantly reduced our construction costs and allowed us to meet our customers’ demands. These cost savings, combined with reduced sales
incentives, improved our gross margins throughout the second half of 2009.



As demand in some of our markets showed signs of stabilization and our balance sheet strengthened, we increased our land purchases in the second half of the year in premium locations that should generate
high returns once we start delivering those homes, as well as investing in strategic land-buying opportunities, such as purchasing land from distressed land sellers and banks.



During 2009, one of our more significant joint ventures, LandSource Communities Development LLC
(“LandSource”), which filed for bankruptcy in 2008, was reorganized into a new company named Newhall Land Development, LLC, (“Newhall”). The reorganized company emerged from Chapter 11 free of its previous bank debt. As part of
the reorganization, we invested $140 million in exchange for approximately a 15% equity interest in the reorganized Newhall, ownership in several communities that were formerly owned by LandSource, the settlement and release of any claims that might
have been asserted against us and certain other claims LandSource had against third parties.



We are also looking to invest in distressed real estate opportunities through Rialto Capital Management (“Rialto”). We may participate in investments Rialto may make, whether through a fund
formed by Rialto or as a direct participant in particular investments. Rialto is actively evaluating investment opportunities in various types of residential and commercial real estate assets and/or loans and is currently bidding on pools of
distressed real estate assets and/or loans.



During 2009, Rialto became a sub-advisor to AllianceBernstein L.P. with regard to a fund formed under the Federal government’s Public-Private Investment Program (“PPIP”) to purchase real estate related securities from banks
and other financial institutions. We committed to invest $75 million of the total equity commitments of approximately $1.1 billion made by private investors in this fund, and the U.S. Treasury committed to a matching amount of approximately $1.1
billion of equity in the fund, as well as agreed to extend up to approximately $2.2 billion of financing. Subsequent to November 30, 2009, we invested $23 million in the PPIP fund, which is focused on acquiring securities backed by real estate
loans.



Inventory Impairments and Valuation
Adjustments related to Investments in Unconsolidated Entities



We continued evaluating our balance sheet quarterly for impairment on an asset-by-asset basis during fiscal 2009. Based on our evaluation and assessment, during the years ended November 30, 2009,
2008 and 2007, we recorded the following inventory impairments:



Years Ended November 30,200920082007(In thousands)Valuation adjustments to finished homes, CIP and land on which we intend to build homes$180,239195,518747,843Valuation adjustments to land we intend to sell or have sold to third parties (1)95,31447,7911,167,294Write-offs of option deposits and pre-acquisition costs84,37297,172529,981Total inventory impairments$359,925340,4812,445,118



(1)The $1.2 billion of valuation adjustments recorded in 2007 to land we intend to sell or have sold to third parties included $740.4 million of valuation adjustments
related to a portfolio of land we sold to a strategic land investment venture with Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund II, L.P., an affiliate of Morgan Stanley & Co., Inc., which was formed in November 2007 and in which we have a 20% ownership
interest.






During the years ended November 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we recorded the following
valuation adjustments related to our investments in unconsolidated entities:



Years Ended November 30,200920082007(In thousands)Our share of valuation adjustments related to assets of unconsolidated entities$101,89332,245364,162Valuation adjustments to our investments in unconsolidated entities88,972172,790132,206Total valuation adjustments to our investments in unconsolidated entities$190,865205,035496,368



The
inventory impairments and valuation adjustments to our investments in unconsolidated entities recorded above were estimated based on market conditions and assumptions made by management at the time the valuation adjustments were recorded, which may
differ materially from actual results if market conditions or our assumptions change.



Investments in Unconsolidated Entities



For a number of years, we created and participated in joint ventures that acquired and developed land for our homebuilding operations, for
sale to third parties or for use in their own homebuilding operations. Through these joint ventures, we reduced the amount we had to invest in order to assure access to potential future homesites, thereby mitigating certain risks associated with
land acquisitions, and, in some instances, we obtained access to land to which we could not otherwise have obtained access or could not have obtained access on as favorable terms. Although these ventures served their initial intended purpose of risk
mitigation, as the homebuilding market deteriorated and asset impairments resulted in the loss of equity, some of our joint venture partners became financially unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations. During 2009, we continued reevaluating
all of our joint venture arrangements, with particular focus on those ventures with recourse indebtedness, and reduced the number of joint ventures in which we were participating and the recourse indebtedness of those joint ventures. As of
November 30, 2009, we had reduced the number of unconsolidated joint ventures in which we were participating to 62 from 261 joint ventures at November 30, 2006 and reduced our net recourse exposure related to unconsolidated joint ventures
to $194.6 million from $1,102.9 million at November 30, 2006.



Homebuilding Operations



Overview



We primarily sell
single-family attached and detached homes, and to a lesser extent, multi-level residential buildings, in communities targeted to first-time, move-up and active adult homebuyers. The average sales price of a Lennar home was $243,000 in fiscal 2009,
compared to $270,000 in fiscal 2008 and $297,000 in fiscal 2007. We operate primarily under the Lennar brand name.



Through our own efforts and unconsolidated entities in which we have investments, we are involved in all phases of planning and building in
our residential communities including land acquisition, site planning, preparation and improvement of land and design, construction and marketing of homes. For additional information about our investments in and relationships with unconsolidated
entities, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Report.



Management and Operating Structure



We balance a local operating structure with centralized corporate level management. Decisions related to our overall strategy, acquisitions
of land and businesses, risk management, financing, cash management and information systems are centralized at the corporate level. Our local operating structure consists of divisions, which are managed by individuals who generally have significant
experience in the homebuilding industry and, in most instances, in their particular markets. They are responsible for operating decisions regarding land identification, entitlement and development, the management of inventory levels for our current
volume levels, community development, home design, construction and marketing our homes.






Diversified Program of Property Acquisition



We generally acquire land for development and for the
construction of homes that we sell to homebuyers. Land is subject to specified underwriting criteria and is acquired through our diversified program of property acquisition which may consist of the following:



•Acquiring land directly from individual land owners/developers or homebuilders;



•Acquiring local or regional homebuilders that own, or have options to purchase, land in strategic markets;



•Acquiring land through option contracts, which generally enables us to control portions of properties owned by third parties (including land funds) and
unconsolidated entities until we have determined whether to exercise the option;



•Acquiring parcels of land through joint ventures, primarily to reduce and share our risk, among other factors, by limiting the amount of our capital
invested in land, while increasing our access to potential future homesites and allowing us to participate in strategic ventures; and



•Acquiring distressed assets from banks, government sponsored enterprises and opportunity funds.



At November 30, 2009, we owned 82,703 homesites and had
access through option contracts to an additional 21,173 homesites, of which 7,423 were through option contracts with third parties and 13,750 were through option contracts with unconsolidated entities in which we have investments. At
November 30, 2008, we owned 74,681 homesites and had access through option contracts to an additional 38,589 homesites, of which 12,718 were through option contracts with third parties and 25,871 were through option contracts with
unconsolidated entities in which we have investments.



Construction and Development



We generally supervise and control the development of land and the design and building of our residential communities with a relatively small labor force. We hire subcontractors for site improvements and
virtually all of the work involved in the construction of homes. Arrangements with our subcontractors generally provide that our subcontractors will complete specified work in accordance with price schedules and applicable building codes and laws.
The price schedules may be subject to change to meet changes in labor and material costs or for other reasons. We believe that the sources and availability of raw materials to our subcontractors are adequate for our current and planned levels of
operation. We generally do not own heavy construction equipment. We finance construction and land development activities primarily with cash generated from operations, debt issuances and equity offerings.



Marketing



We offer a diversified line of homes for first-time, move-up
and active adult homebuyers available in a variety of environments ranging from urban infill communities to golf course communities. We sell our homes primarily from models that we have designed and constructed. During 2009, the homes we delivered
had an average sales price of $243,000.



We employ
sales associates who are paid salaries, commissions or both to complete on-site sales of homes. We also sell homes through independent brokers. We advertise our communities through newspapers, radio advertisements and other local and regional
publications, on billboards and on the Internet, including our website, www.lennar.com. In addition, we advertise our active adult communities in areas where prospective active adult homebuyers live.



Quality Service



We strive to continually improve homeowner customer
satisfaction throughout the pre-sale, sale, construction, closing and post-closing periods. Through the participation of sales associates, on-site construction supervisors and customer care associates, all working in a team effort, we strive to
create a quality homebuying experience for our customers, which we believe leads to enhanced customer retention and referrals.



The quality of our homes is substantially affected by the efforts of on-site management and others engaged in the construction process, by
the materials we use in particular homes or by other similar factors. To the extent bonuses have been paid, management incentive programs have consistently been contingent upon achieving certain customer satisfaction standards.






We warrant our new homes against defective materials and workmanship for a minimum period of
one year after the date of closing. Although we subcontract virtually all segments of construction to others and our contracts call for the subcontractors to repair or replace any deficient items related to their trades, we are primarily responsible
to the homebuyers for the correction of any deficiencies.



Deliveries



The table below indicates the number of deliveries for each of our homebuilding segments and Homebuilding Other during our last three fiscal years:



200920082007East3,8174,9579,840Central1,7962,4427,020West2,4804,0318,739Houston2,1502,7364,380Other1,2351,5693,304Total11,47815,73533,283



Of the total home deliveries listed above, 56, 391 and 1,701, respectively, represent deliveries from unconsolidated entities for the years ended November 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007.



Backlog



Backlog represents the number of homes under sales contracts.
Homes are sold using sales contracts, which are generally accompanied by sales deposits. In some instances, purchasers are permitted to cancel sales contracts if they fail to qualify for financing or under certain other circumstances. We experienced
a cancellation rate of 18% in 2009, compared to 26% and 30%, respectively, in 2008 and 2007. Substantially all homes currently in backlog will be delivered in fiscal year 2010. We do not recognize revenue on homes under sales contracts until the
sales are closed and title passes to the new homeowners.



The table below indicates the backlog dollar value for each of our homebuilding segments and Homebuilding Other as of the end of our last three fiscal years:



200920082007(In thousands)East$179,175202,791587,100Central36,15823,73667,344West143,868108,779408,280Houston60,87657,785128,340Other59,49463,179193,073Total$479,571$456,2701,384,137



Of the dollar value of homes in backlog listed above, $7.2 million, $12.5 million and $182.7 million, respectively, represent the backlog dollar value from unconsolidated entities at November 30,
2009, 2008 and 2007.



Financial Services Operations



Mortgage Financing



We primarily originate conforming conventional, FHA-insured,
VA-guaranteed residential mortgage loan products and other products to our homebuyers and others through our financial services subsidiaries, Universal American Mortgage Company, LLC and Eagle Home Mortgage, LLC, located generally in the same states
as our homebuilding operations as well as other states. In 2009, our financial services subsidiaries provided loans to 87% of our homebuyers who obtained mortgage financing in areas where we offered services. Because of the availability of mortgage
loans from our financial services subsidiaries, as well as independent mortgage lenders, we believe most creditworthy purchasers of our homes have access to financing.



During 2009, we originated approximately 17,900 mortgage loans totaling $4.0 billion, compared to 18,300 mortgage loans
totaling $4.3 billion during 2008. Substantially all of the loans we originate are sold in the






secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis; although, we remain liable for certain limited representations. Therefore, we have little direct exposure related to the
residential mortgages we sell.



We have a
corporate risk management policy under which we hedge our interest rate risk on rate-locked loan commitments and loans held-for-sale to mitigate exposure to interest rate fluctuations. We finance our mortgage loan activities with borrowings under
our financial services warehouse facilities or from our operating funds. Two of our warehouse repurchase facilities with a maximum aggregate commitment of $200 million and $100 million, respectively, mature in June 2010, and the other warehouse
facility with a maximum aggregate commitment of $125 million matures in July 2010. We expect the facilities to be renewed or replaced with other facilities when they mature.



Title Insurance and Closing Services



We provide title insurance and closing services to our homebuyers and others. During 2009, we provided title
and closing services for approximately 120,500 real estate transactions, and issued approximately 92,500 title insurance policies through our underwriter, North American Title Insurance Company. Title and closing services are provided by agency
subsidiaries in Arizona, California, Colorado, District of Columbia, Florida, Illinois, Maryland, Minnesota, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Texas, Virginia and Wisconsin.Title insurance services are provided in these same
states, as well as in Alabama, Delaware, Georgia North Carolina, South Carolina and Tennessee.



Seasonality



We have historically experienced variability in our results of operations from quarter-to-quarter due to the seasonal nature of the homebuilding business.



Competition



The residential homebuilding industry is highly competitive. We compete for homebuyers in each of the market regions where we operate with
numerous national, regional and local homebuilders, as well as with resales of existing homes and with the rental housing market. In recent years, lenders’ efforts to sell foreclosed homes have become an increasingly competitive factor within
the homebuilding industry. We compete for homebuyers on the basis of a number of interrelated factors including location, price, reputation, amenities, design, quality and financing. In addition to competition for homebuyers, we also compete with
other homebuilders for desirable properties, raw materials and reliable, skilled labor. We compete for land buyers with third parties in our efforts to sell land to homebuilders and others. We believe we are competitive in the market regions where
we operate primarily due to our:



•Balance sheet, where we continue to focus on inventory management and liquidity;



•Access to land, particularly in land-constrained markets;



•Pricing to current market conditions through sales incentives offered to homebuyers; and



•Production of value-engineered homes for first-time and valued-oriented homebuyers.



Our financial services operations compete with other mortgage
lenders, including national, regional and local mortgage bankers and brokers, banks, savings and loan associations and other financial institutions, in the origination and sale of mortgage loans. Principal competitive factors include interest rates
and other features of mortgage loan products available to the consumer. We compete with other title insurance agencies and underwriters for closing services and title insurance. Principal competitive factors include service and price.



Regulation



Homes and residential communities that we build must comply with state and local laws and regulations relating
to, among other things, zoning, construction permits or entitlements, construction material requirements, density requirements, and requirements relating to building design and property elevation, building codes and handling of waste. These include
laws requiring the use of construction materials that reduce the need for energy-consuming heating and cooling systems. These laws and regulations are subject to frequent change and often increase construction costs. In some instances, we must
comply with laws that require commitments from us to provide roads and other offsite infrastructure to be in place prior to the commencement of new construction. These laws and regulations are usually administered by counties and municipalities and
may result in fees and






assessments or building moratoriums. In addition, certain new development projects are subject to assessments for schools, parks, streets and highways and other public improvements, the costs of
which can be substantial.



The residential
homebuilding industry is also subject to a variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. These environmental laws include such areas as storm water and
surface water management, soil, groundwater and wetlands protection, subsurface conditions and air quality protection and enhancement. Environmental laws and existing conditions may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance and
other costs and may prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas.



In recent years, several cities and counties in which we have developments have submitted to voters “slow growth” initiatives and
other ballot measures that could impact the affordability and availability of land suitable for residential development within those localities. Although many of these initiatives have been defeated, we believe that if similar initiatives were
approved, residential construction by us and others within certain cities or counties could be seriously impacted.



In order to make it possible for some of our homebuyers to obtain FHA-insured or VA-guaranteed mortgages, we must construct the homes they
buy in compliance with regulations promulgated by those agencies.



Various states have statutory disclosure requirements relating to the marketing and sale of new homes. These disclosure requirements vary widely from state-to-state. In addition, some states require that
each new home be registered with the state at or before the time title is transferred to a buyer (e.g., the Texas Residential Construction Commission Act).



In some states, we are required to be registered as a licensed contractor and comply with applicable rules and regulations. In various
states, our new home consultants are required to be registered as licensed real estate agents and to adhere to the laws governing the practices of real estate agents.



Our mortgage and title subsidiaries must comply with applicable real estate laws and regulations. The
subsidiaries are licensed in the states in which they do business and must comply with laws and regulations in those states. These laws and regulations include provisions regarding capitalization, operating procedures, investments, lending and
privacy disclosures, forms of policies and premiums.



A subsidiary of Newhall, of which we currently, indirectly own 15%, provides water to a portion of Los Angeles County, California. This subsidiary is subject to extensive regulation by the California Public Utilities Commission.



Compliance Policy



We have a Code of Business and Ethics that requires every associate (i.e., employee) and officer to at all
times deal fairly with the Company’s customers, subcontractors, suppliers, competitors and associates, and states that all our associates, officers and directors are expected to comply at all times with all applicable laws, rules and
regulations. Despite this, there are instances in which subcontractors or others through which we do business engage in practices that do not comply with applicable regulations and guidelines. There have been instances in which some of our
associates were aware of these practices and did not take steps to prevent them. When we learn of practices relating to homes we build or financing we provide that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines, we move actively to stop the
non-complying practices as soon as possible and we have taken disciplinary action with regard to our associates who were aware of the practices, including in some instances terminating their employment. Our Code of Business and Ethics also has
procedures in place that allows whistleblowers to submit their concerns regarding our operations, financial reporting, business integrity or any other related matter anonymously to the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and/or to the
non-management directors of our Board of Directors, thus ensuring their protection from retaliation.



Associates



At December 31, 2009, we employed 3,835 individuals of whom 2,184 were involved in our homebuilding operations and 1,651 were involved in our financial services operations, compared to November 30, 2008, when we employed 4,913
individuals of whom 3,055 were involved in our homebuilding operations and 1,858 were involved in our financial services operations. We do not have collective bargaining agreements relating to any of our associates. However, we subcontract many
phases of our homebuilding operations and some of the subcontractors we use have associates who are represented by labor unions.






Relationship with LNR Property Corporation



In 1997, we transferred our commercial real estate investment and management business to LNR Property
Corporation (“LNR”), and spun-off LNR to our stockholders. As a result, LNR became a publicly-traded company, and the family of Stuart A. Miller, our President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director, which had voting control of us, became
the controlling shareholder of LNR.



Since the
spin-off, we have entered into a number of joint ventures and other transactions with LNR. Many of the joint ventures were formed to acquire and develop land, part of which was subsequently sold to us or other homebuilders for residential building
and part of which was subsequently sold to LNR for commercial development. In February 2005, LNR was acquired by a privately-owned entity. Although Mr. Miller’s family was required to purchase a 20.4% financial interest in that
privately-owned entity, this interest is non-voting and neither Mr. Miller nor anyone else in his family is an officer or director, or otherwise is involved in the management, of LNR or its parent. Nonetheless, because the Miller family has a
20.4% financial, non-voting, interest in LNR’s parent, significant transactions with LNR, or entities in which it has an interest, have historically been and continued to be reviewed and approved by the Independent Directors Committee of our
Board of Directors.



LandSource/Newhall
Transactions



In January 2004, a company of which
we and LNR each owned 50% acquired The Newhall Land and Farming Company for approximately $1 billion, including $200 million we contributed and $200 million that LNR contributed (the remainder came from borrowings and sales of properties to LNR).
Subsequently, we and LNR each transferred our interests in most of our joint ventures to the jointly-owned company that had acquired The Newhall Land and Farming Company, and that company was renamed LandSource Communities Development LLC
(“LandSource”).



In February 2007,
LandSource admitted MW Housing Partners as a new strategic partner. As part of the transaction, the joint venture obtained $1.6 billion of non-recourse financing, which consisted of a $200 million five-year Revolving Credit Facility, a $1.1 billion
six-year Term Loan B Facility and a $244 million seven-year Second Lien Term Facility. The transaction resulted in a cash distribution to us of $707.6 million. Our resulting ownership of LandSource was 16%. As a result of the recapitalization, we
recognized a pretax financial statement gain of $175.9 million in 2007.



In June 2008, LandSource and a number of its subsidiaries commenced proceedings under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware. In November
2008, our land purchase options with LandSource were terminated, thus, in 2008 we recognized a deferred profit of $101.3 million (net of $31.8 million of write-offs of option deposits and pre-acquisition costs and other write-offs) related to the
2007 recapitalization of LandSource.



In July
2009, the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware confirmed the plan of reorganization for LandSource. As a result of the bankruptcy proceedings, LandSource was reorganized into a new company named Newhall Land Development, LLC,
(“Newhall”). The reorganized company emerged from Chapter 11 free of its previous bank debt. As part of the reorganization, we invested $140 million in exchange for approximately a 15% equity interest in the reorganized Newhall, ownership
in several communities that were formerly owned by LandSource, the settlement and release of any claims that might have been asserted against us and certain other claims LandSource had against third parties.



Relationship with Rialto Capital Management



Over the last three years we have had a correction in housing
values, which resulted in a significant drop in consumer spending and impairment in housing values. Currently, the FDIC, many banks and financial institutions have billions of dollars of underperforming and illiquid assets on their balance sheets,
which have significantly curtailed their lending capacity. In 2007, Rialto was formed by Jeffrey Krasnoff, who was the co-founder of LNR Property Corporation, to focus on acquisitions of distressed debt and other real estate assets utilizing
Rialto’s abilities to source, underwrite, price, turnaround and ultimately monetize such assets in markets across the Untied States. We might participate in investments Rialto may make, whether through a fund formed by Rialto or as a direct
participant in particular investments. We will participate in profits generated by Rialto and receive fees related to those investments. In addition, this may give us access to assets for use in our homebuilding operations.






Rialto’s first venture was to become a sub-advisor to AllianceBernstein L.P. with
regard to Alliance Bernstein Legacy Securities Master Fund LLC, a fund formed under the Federal government’s PPIP to purchase real estate related securities from banks and other financial institutions. We committed to invest $75 million of the
total of approximately $1.1 billion of equity commitments made by private investors in this fund, and the U.S. Treasury committed to a matching amount of approximately $1.1 billion of equity in the fund, as well as agreeing to extend up to
approximately $2.2 billion of financing. Subsequent to November 30, 2009, we invested $23 million in the PPIP fund, which is focused on acquiring securities backed by real estate loans.



NYSE Certification



We submitted our 2008 Annual CEO Certification to the New York Stock Exchange on April 17, 2009. The
certification was not qualified in any respect.



Available Information



Our corporate website is www.lennar.com. We
make available on our website, free of charge, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these
documents with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Information on our website is not part of this document.



Our website also includes printable versions of our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the charters
for each of our Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees of our Board of Directors. Each of these documents is also available in print to any stockholder who requests a copy by addressing a request to:



Lennar Corporation

Attention: Office of the General Counsel

700 Northwest 107thAvenue

Miami, Florida 33172



