
10-K
DOMINION RESOURES, INC. 10-K



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                ---------------
                                   Form 10-K
                                ---------------
       (Mark One)
          ( X )  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997

                                      or

        (  )  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
            For the transition period from ---------  to ---------

                         Commission file number 1-8489
                           -------------------------
                           Dominion Resources, Inc.
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)




                                (804) 775-5700
             (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:





          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                     None

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes x  No

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

     The aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
registrant was $7,767,853,323 at February 27, 1998, based on the closing price
of the Common Stock on such date, as reported on the composite tape by The Wall
Street Journal.

     Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's
classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date.





                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:


   (a) Portions of the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year
       ended December 31, 1997 are incorporated by reference in Parts I, II and
       IV hereof.

   (b) Portions of the 1998 Proxy Statement, dated March 11, 1998, are
       incorporated by reference in Part III hereof.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



                           DOMINION RESOURCES, INC.








                                    PART I


                               ITEM 1. BUSINESS
                                  THE COMPANY

     Dominion Resources, Inc. (Dominion Resources), organized in 1983, has its
principal office at 901 East Byrd Street, Richmond, Virginia 23219-4072,
telephone (804) 775-5700. The principal assets of Dominion Resources are its
investments in its subsidiaries.

     At December 31, 1997, Dominion Resources owned directly or indirectly all
of the outstanding common stock of its subsidiaries: Dominion Capital, Inc.
(Dominion Capital); Dominion Energy, Inc. (Dominion Energy); East Midlands
Electricity plc (East Midlands); and Virginia Electric and Power Company
(Virginia Power), its largest subsidiary. Dominion Resources is currently
exempt from registration as a holding company under the Public Utility Holding
Company Act of 1935 (the 1935 Act).

     Dominion Resources and its subsidiaries had 15,458 full-time employees as
of December 31, 1997.


                                Dominion Capital

     Dominion Capital, established as a subsidiary of Dominion Resources in
1985, is a diversified investment and financial services company. The principal
assets of Dominion Capital are First Source Financial, LLP, a middle market
commercial lender; Saxon Mortgage, Inc. and its affiliates, subsidiaries
engaged in the origination, servicing and securitization of residential
mortgages; Cambrian Capital Partners, LP, a merchant banking enterprise for
emerging independent oil and natural gas producers; First Dominion Capital LLC,
an integrated merchant bank and asset management business; a 50% limited
partnership interest in a Louisiana hydroelectric project; investments in
marketable securities and fixed income instruments; OptaCor Financial Services
Company, a consumer lender and Rincon Securities, Inc., a subsidiary which
holds a diversified portfolio of preferred stocks. Dominion Capital also has
subsidiaries involved in planned community real estate development and
management, a commercial real estate management company and investments in
affordable housing.


                                Dominion Energy

     Dominion Energy, established as a subsidiary of Dominion Resources in
1987, is active in the nonutility electric power generation businesses outside
the territory served by Virginia Power and the development, exploration and
operation of oil and natural gas reserves. Dominion Energy is involved in power
projects in six states, Argentina, Bolivia, Belize and Peru, which total
approximately 2,561 Mw. Domestic power projects in operation throughout 1997 in
which Dominion Energy has an interest include three gas-fueled projects in
Texas; two geothermal projects, two gas-fueled projects and one solar project
in California; four small hydroelectric projects in New York; a waste
coal-fueled project in West Virginia and a waste wood- and coal-fueled project
in Maine. International power projects in operation throughout 1997 in which
Dominion Energy has an interest include one hydroelectric and one gas-fired
project in Argentina, two hydroelectric projects in Bolivia, a run-of-river
hydroelectric project in Belize and two hydroelectric projects and six diesel
oil-fueled projects in Peru. Dominion Energy is involved in oil and natural gas
development and exploration in the Appalachian Basin, the Michigan Basin, the
Illinois Basin, the Black Warrior Basin, the Uinta Basin, the Powder River
Basin, the Gulf Coast and the Mid-Continent, and owns net proved oil and
natural gas reserves in such areas totaling approximately 461 billion cubic
feet (BCFE). In 1997, Dominion Energy added approximately 119 BCFE of natural
gas reserves. Production from Dominion Energy's reserve holdings in 1997
totaled approximately 59 BCFE.

     On March 29, 1996, a subsidiary of Dominion Energy, Kincaid Generation,
L.L.C. (LLC) entered into an asset sale agreement with Commonwealth Edison
Company (ComEd) to purchase ComEd's 1,108 Mw coal-fired Kincaid Power Station
in Central Illinois and entered into a power purchase agreement with ComEd to
sell, upon closing under the asset sale agreement, capacity and energy back to
ComEd for a period of 15 years. The sale was completed on February 27, 1998.

     On August 1, 1997, Dominion Energy sold to Chilgener S.A. 49% of its
interest in Inversiones Dominion Peru S.A., a Peruvian company which holds a
60% interest in EGENOR S.A., a 405 megawatt electric generation business in
which Dominion Energy had invested in Peru.


                                 East Midlands

     Dominion Resources purchased East Midlands, the principal operating
subsidiary of our UK holding company, Dominion UK Holding, Inc. (Dominion UK)
in the first quarter of 1997. East Midlands' principal businesses are the
distribution





of electricity and the supply of electricity to approximately 2.3 million
customers in the East Midlands region of the United Kingdom. East Midlands'
primary business is its distribution business which is a regulated monopoly and
its electricity supply business. Together these businesses produced
substantially all of East Midlands' consolidated operating income. East
Midlands is also focused on taking advantage of the opportunity in the domestic
gas supply business.

     East Midlands' Franchise Area (or service area) has a resident population
of over five million and covers approximately 6,200 square miles extending from
Coventry to the Lincolnshire coast and from Milton Keynes to Chesterfield of
which the southernmost part is less than 60 miles from London

     Dominion UK, through wholly-owned subsidiaries, holds an 80% interest in
Corby Power Limited (Corby), a 350 MW gas-fired power station. Corby was
commissioned in 1994 and is one of the earliest UK independent power generation
projects in the deregulated UK.


Distribution Business

     East Midlands owns, manages and operates the electricity distribution
network within its Franchise Area. The primary activity of the distribution
business is the receipt of electricity from the national grid transmission
system and its distribution to end users connected to East Midlands' power
lines. Because East Midlands is the exclusive holder of a Public Electricity
Supply (PES) license for its Franchise Area, virtually all electricity supplied
(whether by East Midland's supply business or by other suppliers) to consumers
in East Midland's Franchise Area is transported through East Midlands'
distribution network. As a holder of a PES license, East Midlands is subject to
a price control regulatory framework that retains economic incentives to
increase the number of units of electricity distributed and to operate in a
more cost-efficient manner.

     In addition to the network division, East Midlands' distribution business
also includes construction and metering divisions. The construction division
provides construction, standby and maintenance services to the network as well
as performing similar services for certain third-parties. East Midlands'
metering division focuses on the ownership and management of metering and
related assets as well as data collection and transmission service. While
portions of construction and metering businesses are gradually opening to
competition, the network division, which generates over 80% of the distribution
business' profits, is expected to remain a regulated monopoly subject to price
regulation.


         Distribution Facilities

      Electricity is transported across the national grid transmission system
   (the high voltage transmission system in UK that carries the generated
   electricity in bulk from power stations to regional and local distribution
   systems) at 400kv or 275kv to 14 grid supply points within East Midlands'
   distribution network, where East Midlands transforms the voltage to 132kv
   for entry into East Midlands' distribution system. Electricity is also
   transported to one national grid supply point located in a neighboring
   Regional Electric Companies (REC) franchise area, which is connected to
   East Midlands' distribution system by overhead lines and underground
   cables. Substantially all electricity which enters East Midlands' system is
   received at these 15 grid supply points.

      East Midlands' distribution facilities also include approximately:





      Substantially all substations are owned and the balance are leased under
   arrangements which will not expire for 10 years.





Supply Business

     East Midlands' supply business consists of selling electricity to end
users, purchasing electricity primarily from the Pool and arranging for its
distribution to those end users. The Pool is the wholesale trading market that
was established at the time of privatization (1990) for bulk trading of
electricity in UK between generators and suppliers. Basically all electricity
generated in UK must be sold and purchased through the Pool. The Pool does not
buy or sell electricity. East Midlands' supply business supplies Franchise
Supply Customers and Non-Franchise Supply Customers and is further developing
its gas business to supply domestic and business customers. East Midlands
currently supplies gas to approximately 6,000 customers and has contracted to
supply gas to more than 80,000 customers.


      Franchise Supply Market

      East Midlands holds a PES License under which it currently has the
   exclusive right to supply electricity to Franchise Supply Customers, who
   have a peak demand of less than 100kW, within its Franchise Area. At the
   time that the electricity industry was privatized, "Franchise Supply
   Customers" included all customers whose supply peak demand was less than
   1MW. The 1MW threshold was reduced to 100 kW on April 1, 1994. The
   exclusive right to supply Franchise Supply Customers is currently scheduled
   to be phased in over a 6 month period beginning June 1998 and ending in
   December 1998. On completion of this phase-in period, there will be no
   Franchise Supply Customers and all supply customers will have the ability
   to choose their electricity supplier. Supply prices of electricity from
   Franchise Supply Customers are based on the Supply Price Control Formula,
   whereby certain limits are placed on East Midlands as to the prices it can
   charge customers for the supply of electricity.

      From April 1, 1998 there will be a revised Supply Price Control Formula
   in the form of price caps for all residential customers and small business
   customers.

      Following the Supply Price Control Review in 1997, the supply prices to
   franchise customers will reduce by 6.4% from April 1998 and an additional
   3% from April 1999.


      Non-Franchise Supply Market

      Non-Franchise Supply Customers are currently defined as customers whose
   peak demand equals or exceeds 100kW. In addition to competing for
   Non-Franchise Supply Customers in its Franchise Area, East Midlands holds a
   second tier license to compete with the RECs and other suppliers to provide
   electricity to Non-Franchise Supply Customers outside its Franchise Area.

      The market to supply Non-Franchise Supply Customers is fully competitive,
   with the principal competitors being other RECs and major generators.
   Non-Franchise Supply Customers are typically supplied through individual
   12-month contracts with competitively bid or negotiated prices.


      Power Purchasing and Risk Management

      In order to manage its power purchasing risks, the supply business enters
   into arrangements such as contracts for differences (CFDs) to hedge against
   Pool price volatility. CFDs are contracts predominantly entered into
   between generators and suppliers to fix the price of a contracted quantity
   of electricity over a specific period. Differences between the actual
   prices set by the Pool and the agreed prices give rise to difference
   payments between the parties to the particular CFD. At the present time,
   East Midlands' forecast franchise supply market demand for fiscal 1998 is
   substantially hedged through various types of agreements, including CFDs.

      The most common contracts for supply to Non-Franchise Supply customers
   are for a twelve-month term and contain fixed rates. East Midlands is
   exposed to two principal-risks associated with such contracts: (a)
   purchasing price risk (East Midlands' cost of purchased electricity
   relative to the price East Midlands receives from the supply customer) and
   (b) load shape risk (the risk associated with a shift in the customer's
   usage pattern, including absolute amounts demanded and timing of amounts
   demanded). East Midlands seeks to hedge purchasing price risk through a
   variety of risk management tools, including management of its supply
   contract portfolio, CFDs, option arrangements and other means which
   mitigate risk of future Pool price volatility. Load shape risk is mitigated
   by paying detailed attention to forecasting demand.


Competition

     The UK electricity industry has changed significantly since 1994, as the
UK government has privatized and deregulated the industry. As a result, East
Midlands' distribution and supply businesses are subject to varying degrees of
competition.





     On the distribution side of the business, East Midlands' network
distribution division is currently a regulated monopoly that does not face
direct competition. This division contributes 80% of the distribution business'
profits, but could face indirect competition from alternative energy sources
such as gas. In addition, the distribution business' metering division faces
full competition by the year 2000 and the construction division's work is open
to competition from a number of firms.

     East Midlands' supply business has Franchise and Non-Franchise markets.
East Midlands' exclusive right to supply electricity to its Franchise customers
is currently scheduled to end over a 6-month phase-in period beginning December
1, 1998. At that time, East Midlands will compete directly with electricity
generators and other suppliers of electricity, primarily other PES license
holders. The Non-Franchise portion of the business currently competes with
those generators and suppliers.

     Beginning March 27, 1998, the residential gas market will be open to
competition in the East Midlands franchise region.


Environmental Regulation

     East Midlands' businesses are subject to numerous regulatory requirements
with respect to the protection of the environment. The Electricity Act of 1989
obligates the UK Secretary of State for Trade and Industry to take into account
the effect of electricity generation, transmission and supply activities upon
the environment in approving applications for the construction of generating
facilities and the location of overhead power lines. The Electricity Act
requires East Midlands to adhere to such guidelines when it formulates
proposals for development. East Midlands is required to mitigate any effect its
proposals may have on the environment and may be required to carry out an
environmental assessment when it intends to construct overhead lines. East
Midlands also has produced an Environmental Policy Statement which sets out the
manner in which it intends to comply with its obligations under the Electricity
Act.

     The Environmental Protection Act 1990 addresses waste management issues
and imposes certain obligations and duties on companies which handle and
dispose of waste. Some of East Midlands' distribution activities produce waste,
but Dominion Resources believes East Midlands is in compliance with applicable
standards.


                                 Virginia Power

     Virginia Electric and Power Company is a regulated public utility engaged
in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy
within a 30,000 square-mile area in Virginia and northeastern North Carolina.
It transacts business under the name Virginia Power in Virginia and under the
name North Carolina Power in North Carolina. Virginia Power has retail
customers (including governmental agencies) and wholesale customers such as
rural electric cooperatives, power marketers and municipalities and serves more
than 80% of Virginia's population. Virginia Power has certificates of
convenience and necessity from the State Corporation Commission of Virginia
(the Virginia Commission) for service in all territories served at retail in
Virginia. The North Carolina Utilities Commission (the North Carolina
Commission) has assigned territory to Virginia Power for substantially all of
its retail service outside certain municipalities in North Carolina.

     The electric utility industry in the United States is undergoing an
evolutionary change toward less regulation and more competition. To meet the
challenges of this new competitive environment, Virginia Power has developed a
broad array of "non-traditional" product and service offerings from its
operating business units and subsidiaries:

   o Energy Services -- offering electric energy and capacity in the emerging
     wholesale market as well as natural gas and other energy-related products
     and services;

   o Fossil & Hydro -- targeting process type industries, such as chemical,
     paper, plastics and petroleum to become a service provider of
     instrumentation equipment;

   o Nuclear Services -- offering management and operations services to other
     electric utilities;

   o Commercial Operations -- providing power distribution related services,
     including transmission and distribution, engineering and metering services
     to other gas, water and electric utilities; and

   o Telecommunications -- offering telecommunications services through the
     Company's existing fiber-optic network.


Competition and Strategic Initiatives

     A number of developments in the United States are causing a trend toward
less regulation and more competition in the electric utility industry. This is
evidenced by legislative and regulatory action at both the federal and state
levels. To the extent that competition is either authorized or mandated and
regulation is eliminated or relaxed, electric utilities may no





longer be guaranteed an opportunity to recover all of their prudently incurred
costs, and utilities with costs that exceed the market prices established by
the competitive market will run the risk of suffering losses, which may be
substantial.

     Virginia Power has responded to these trends by undertaking cost-cutting
measures, engaging in re-engineering efforts, restructuring its core business
processes, and pursuing a strategic planning initiative to encourage innovative
approaches to serving traditional markets. Virginia Power has established
separate business units, as discussed above, to fully execute these strategies.
 

     Virginia Power also is vigorously participating in the state and federal
legislative actions currently underway to bring about competition in the
electric utility industry, in an effort to ensure an orderly transition from a
regulated environment.

     Virginia Power's non-traditional businesses face competition from a
variety of utility and non-utility entities.

     For a full discussion of the regulatory and legislative issues related to
competition, read the Future Issues section of MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A) on pages 26 through 30 of the 1997 Annual Report
to Shareholders.


Regulation

      General

      In a wide variety of matters in addition to rates, Virginia Power is
   presently subject to regulation by the Virginia Commission and the North
   Carolina Commission, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Department
   of Energy (DOE), Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), the Federal Energy
   Regulatory Commission (FERC), the Army Corps of Engineers, and other
   federal, state and local authorities. Compliance with numerous laws and
   regulations increases Virginia Power's operating and capital costs by
   requiring, among other things, changes in the design and operation of
   existing facilities and changes or delays in the location, design,
   construction and operation of new facilities. The commissions regulating
   Virginia Power's rates have historically permitted recovery of such costs.

      Virginia Power may not construct, or incur financial commitments for
   construction of, any substantial generating facilities or large capacity
   transmission lines without the prior approval of various state and federal
   governmental agencies. Such approvals relate to, among other things, the
   environmental impact of such activities, the relationship of such
   activities to the need for providing adequate utility service and the
   design and operation of proposed facilities.

      Both federal and state legislative bodies have been studying competition
   and restructuring in the electric utility industry. See Future Issues --
   Competition -- Legislative Initiatives section of MD&A on page 27 of the
   1997 Annual Report to Shareholders.


      Virginia

      In 1995, the Virginia Commission instituted an ongoing generic
   investigation on electric industry restructuring, resulting in a number of
   reports by its Staff covering such issues as retail wheeling experiments
   and the status of wholesale power markets. The Staff also submitted a
   report to the General Assembly calling for a cautious, two-phase, five-year
   period to address restructuring issues. The report acknowledged the need
   for direction from the Virginia legislature concerning policy issues
   surrounding competition in the electric industry.

      In November 1996, the Virginia Commission instituted a proceeding
   concerning Virginia Power's cost of service and possible restructuring of
   the electric utility industry as it might relate to Virginia Power. On
   March 24, 1997, Virginia Power filed in that proceeding a calculation of
   its cost of service for 1996 and a proposed Alternative Regulatory Plan
   (ARP). Subsequently, the Commission consolidated this proceeding with the
   proceeding concerning Virginia
   Power's 1995 Annual Informational Filing, in which Virginia Power's base
   rates were made interim and subject to refund as of March 1, 1997. Please
   carefully read the Future Issues -- Competition -- Legislative Initiatives
   and Regulatory Initiatives sections of MD&A on page 27 of the 1997 Annual
   Report to Shareholders and Rates--Virginia, below for details concerning
   the ARP, its current status and related legislative developments.

      In December 1995, Virginia Power applied to the Virginia Commission for
   approval of arrangements with Chesapeake Paper Products Company (CPPC),
   under which Virginia Power would facilitate the design, construction and
   financing of a cogeneration plant to meet CPPC's energy requirements for
   its industrial processes at its plant in West Point, Virginia. On August
   13, 1997, the Virginia Commission approved, in substantial part, the
   proposed transactions





   between Virginia Power and CPPC's successor in ownership, St. Laurent Paper
   Products Co. St. Laurent later determined that the current design of the
   facility was no longer compatible with its long-term business strategies
   and terminated its contractual arrangement with Virginia Power. The
   Virginia Commission dismissed the proceeding on January 15, 1998.

      In June 1997, the Virginia Commission granted Virginia Power's request to
   implement a monitoring program that requires certain non-utility generators
   to provide certain information sufficient to determine continued compliance
   with the "Qualifying Facility" (QF) requirements of the Public Utility
   Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (PURPA).

      On August 8, 1997, the Virginia Commission granted Virginia Power's
   request to provide interchange telecommunications services and approved the
   proposed affiliate agreements between Virginia Power and our wholly-owned
   subsidiary, VPS Communications, Inc. (VPSC). Under the authority granted,
   VPSC will provide a range of telecommunications services, including private
   line and special access services and high-capacity fiberoptic services.

      On September 3, 1997, the Virginia Commission granted Virginia Power's
   request to provide services to our wholly-owned subsidiary, Virginia Power
   Services, Inc. (VPS), which would enable Virginia Power Nuclear Services
   Company (VPN), a VPS subsidiary, to furnish nuclear management and
   operation services to electric utilities seeking assistance in the
   management and operation of their nuclear generating facilities. VPN
   currently provides such services to Northeast Utilities at its Millstone
   Unit 2 nuclear plant.


      FERC

      In April 1996, FERC issued final rules in Order Nos. 888 and 889
   addressing open access transmission service, stranded costs, standards of
   conduct and open access same-time information systems (OASIS). In July
   1996, Virginia Power filed an open access transmission service tariff in
   compliance with FERC's Order No. 888. In compliance with FERC's directive,
   Virginia Power's OASIS became operational on January 3, 1997. Also, on that
   date the standards of conduct requiring separation of transmission
   operations/reliability functions from wholesale merchant/marketing
   functions became effective. Virginia Power also made filings to comply with
   FERC's directive that, effective January 1, 1997, utilities could no longer
   make bundled sales of transmission and generation services in economy
   energy transactions. In certain of those filings, Virginia Power canceled
   or committed not to use the economy energy rate schedules contained in
   interconnection agreements with neighboring utilities. On March 4, 1997,
   FERC issued Order Nos. 888-A and 889-A, which addressed requests for
   rehearing of Order Nos. 888 and 889. Orders No. 888-A and 889-A essentially
   reaffirm the basic principles of 888 and 889 and clarify and make limited
   modifications to those orders. On December 17, 1997, FERC issued Order Nos.
   888-B and 889-B. FERC rejected all requests for rehearing filed with
   respect to Order Nos. 888-A and 889-A and clarified and made limited
   modifications to those orders. Several parties have appealed the 888 orders
   to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.


      For a discussion of the status of Virginia Power's Open Access
   Transmission Tariff filing, see Rates -- FERC below.

      For additional discussion of open access issues see Future Issues --
   Competition under MD&A on pages 26 through 28 of the 1997 Annual Report to
   Shareholders.

      LG&E Westmoreland Southampton owns a cogeneration facility in Franklin,
   Virginia, and sells its output to Virginia Power. Southampton has sought a
   waiver of FERC operating requirements for Qualifying Facilities (QF's)
   under PURPA, however FERC refused to grant such a waiver. On March 31,
   1997, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
   Circuit granted FERC's motion to dismiss Southampton's Petition for Review.



      Environmental

      From time to time, Virginia Power may be designated by the EPA as a
   potentially responsible party (PRP) with respect to a Superfund site. As a
   result of that designation or other regulations regarding the remediation
   of waste, we may become obligated to fund remedial investigations or
   actions. We do not believe that any currently identified sites will result
   in significant liabilities. For a discussion of Virginia Power's site
   remediation efforts, see Note Q to the CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS on
   page 53 of the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders.

      Permits under the Clean Water Act and state laws have been issued for all
   of Virginia Power's steam generating stations now in operation. These
   permits are subject to reissuance and continuing review. The Clean Air Act,
   as amended in 1990, requires Virginia Power to reduce its emissions of
   sulfur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen oxides (NOx). Beginning in 1995, the SO2
   reduction program is based on the issuance of a limited number of SO2
   emission allowances, each of





   which may be used as a permit to emit one ton of SO2 into the atmosphere or
   may be sold to someone else. The program is administered by the EPA.

      For additional information on Environmental Matters and related issues
   see Future Issues -- Environmental Matters section of MD&A on pages 28 and
   29 of the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders.


      Nuclear

      All aspects of the operation and maintenance of Virginia Power's nuclear
   power stations are regulated by the NRC. Operating licenses issued by the
   NRC are subject to revocation, suspension or modification, and operation of
   a nuclear unit may be suspended if the NRC determines that the public
   interest, health or safety so requires.

      From time to time, the NRC adopts new requirements for the operation and
   maintenance of nuclear facilities. In many cases, these new regulations
   require changes in the design, operation and maintenance of existing
   nuclear facilities. If the NRC adopts such requirements in the future, it
   could result in substantial increases in the cost of operating and
   maintaining Virginia Power's nuclear generating units.

      In July 1995, the Virginia Commission instituted an investigation
   regarding spent nuclear fuel disposal. As directed, Virginia Power and
   others filed comments on legal and public policy issues related to spent
   nuclear fuel storage and disposal. In February 1996, the Commission Staff
   filed its Report recommending that adoption of a definitive policy on spent
   nuclear fuel disposal issues be delayed pending the outcome of litigation
   against the Department of Energy concerning spent nuclear fuel acceptance,
   the outcome of proposed federal legislation concerning development of an
   interim storage facility, and development of a vision of the likely outcome
   of the electric utility industry's restructuring efforts. The Virginia
   Commission consolidated the proceeding with Virginia Power's pending fuel
   cost recovery proceeding in October 1996. On March 20, 1997, the Virginia
   Commission returned the spent nuclear fuel disposal issue to a separate
   proceeding.

      On January 31, 1997, Virginia Power joined thirty-five other electric
   utilities in filing a petition in the United States Court of Appeals for
   the District of Columbia Circuit, seeking to compel DOE to comply with its
   obligation to begin accepting the utilities' spent nuclear fuel for
   disposal by January 31, 1998, the date imposed by the Nuclear Waste Policy
   Act. Additional utilities have joined since the original filing. On
   November 14, 1997, the Court issued an Order finding that DOE's obligation
   to begin accepting spent nuclear fuel by the deadline is unconditional, and
   that DOE may not excuse its delay on the grounds that it has not prepared a
   permanent repository or interim storage facility. The Court found that
   DOE's spent fuel disposal contracts with the utilities offer a potentially
   adequate remedy for DOE's failure to meet its obligation. DOE filed a
   petition for rehearing on December 29, 1997.


Rates

     Virginia Power electric service sales were subject to rate regulation in
1997 as follows:





- ---------
* Excludes wholesale power marketing sales subject to FERC regulation.

     Substantially all of Virginia Power's electric service sales are subject
to recovery of changes in fuel costs either through fuel adjustment factors or
periodic adjustments to base rates, each of which requires prior regulatory
approval.

     Each of these jurisdictions has the authority to disallow recovery of
costs it determines to be excessive or imprudently incurred. Various cost items
may be reviewed on occasion, including costs of constructing or modifying
facilities, on-going purchases of capacity or providing replacement power
during generating unit outages.





      FERC

      In compliance with FERC's Order No. 888, Virginia Power filed an open
   access transmission service tariff, which became effective on July 9, 1996.
   In October 1996, FERC issued a procedural order, scheduling a hearing for
   April 28, 1997. Virginia Power and all parties reached a settlement of
   issues raised in the proceeding, and on March 20, 1997, those parties
   jointly filed with FERC the Settlement Agreement and Motion to Certify the
   Settlement Agreement. On April 23, 1997 the presiding Administrative Law
   Judge certified the Settlement Agreement to the FERC and on June 11, 1997,
   the FERC approved the settlement.

      In compliance with FERC's Order No. 889, on January 3, 1997, Virginia
   Power filed its Procedures For Standards of Conduct for Unbundled
   Transmissions and Wholesale Merchant Function (Standards of Conduct)
   effective on that date. On July 1, 1997, Virginia Power filed an amendment
   to the Standards of Conduct in Compliance with FERC's Order No. 889-A. On
   July 16, 1997, Virginia Power filed another amendment in response to a FERC
   Staff request. Virginia Power is awaiting FERC action on the filing.

      On September 11, 1997, FERC authorized Virginia Power to sell power at
   market-based rates but set for hearing the issue of the impact of any
   transmission constraints on Virginia Power's ability to exercise generation
   market power in localized areas within its service territory. If FERC finds
   that transmission constraints give Virginia Power generation dominance, it
   could either revoke or limit the scope of the market-based rate authority.
   The hearing is scheduled to commence June 2, 1998.

      On October 31, 1997, Virginia Power filed at FERC three agreements with
   Old Dominion Electric Cooperative (ODEC) to amend the parties'
   Interconnection and Operating Agreement (I&O Agreement) and to unbundle
   transmission services provided to ODEC under the I&O Agreement. On December
   22, 1997, FERC issued a deficiency letter with respect to the filing
   directing Virginia Power to provide additional information. On January 21,
   1998, Virginia Power provided the requested information. FERC accepted the
   agreements on March 12, 1998.


      Virginia

      In March 1997, the Virginia Commission issued an order that Virginia
   Power's base rates be made interim and subject to refund as of March 1,
   1997. This order was the result of the Commission Staff's report on its
   review of Virginia Power's 1995 Annual Informational Filing, which
   concluded that Virginia Power's present rates would cause Virginia Power to
   earn in excess of its authorized return on equity. The Staff found that,
   for purposes of establishing rates prospectively, a rate reduction of $95.6
   million (including a one-time adjustment of $29.7 million to Virginia
   Power's deferred capacity balance at December 31, 1996) may be necessary in
   order to realign rates to the authorized level. Virginia Power filed its
   Alternative Regulatory Plan (ARP) in March 1997, based on 1996 financial
   information. Subsequently, the Commission consolidated the proceeding
   concerned with the 1995 Annual Informational Filing with the proceeding
   that includes the ARP proposed by Virginia Power.

      In December 1997, Virginia Power sought to withdraw its ARP, having
   concluded that resolution of the cost recovery issues raised by the ARP was
   unlikely without General Assembly action. The Commission has agreed that
   Virginia Power may withdraw its support of the ARP but has reserved the
   right to continue consideration of the ARP as well as other regulatory
   alternatives. In addition, the Commission will continue to consider the
   issues arising out of the 1995 Annual Informational Filing. The
   Commission's Staff is scheduled to file its testimony on March 24, 1998;
   Virginia Power's rebuttal is to be filed by April 27, 1998; and the reply
   testimony is to be filed by May 11, 1998. A public hearing is scheduled to
   commence on May 19, 1998.

      Virginia Power's previous filings in this proceeding support maintaining
   Virginia Power's rates at current levels; however, opposing parties have
   made filings recommending rate reductions in excess of $200 million. At
   this time, management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the proceeding
   and its impact on Virginia Power's results of operations, cash flows or
   financial position.

      In July 1996, Virginia Power proposed to substantially reduce the rates
   paid under Schedule 19 to cogenerators and small power producers of 100 kW
   or less. The rates became effective on an interim basis on January 1, 1997.
   On January 21, 1998, the Virginia Commission approved revised Schedule 19
   rates. The approved rates do not differ in any significant way from the
   rates originally proposed by Virginia Power.





      In October 1996, Virginia Power filed an application with the Virginia
   Commission to increase its fuel factor from 1.299 cents per kWh to 1.322
   cents per kWh, reflecting a fuel factor annual revenue increase of
   approximately $48.2 million. The increase became effective on an interim
   basis on December 1, 1996. On June 11, 1997, the Commission entered an
   Order Establishing Fuel Factor approving the requested increase.

      On October 31, 1997, Virginia Power filed with the Virginia Commission
   its application for a reduction of $45.6 million in its fuel cost recovery
   factor for the period December 1, 1997 through November 30, 1998. The
   reduction became effective on an interim basis on December 1, 1997.
   Subsequently, as a result of amendments to two non-utility power purchase
   contracts, the Company proposed two additional reductions of approximately
   $30.2 million and $18 million for the same period, bringing the total
   proposed fuel factor reduction to $93.8 million. Both additional reductions
   were approved on an interim basis, effective March 1, 1998. A hearing is
   scheduled for April 9, 1998.


      North Carolina

      On November 4, 1996, Virginia Power filed for approval of a new Schedule
   19 which governs purchases from cogenerators and small power producers.
   Virginia Power proposed rates substantially lower than those previously
   specified. It also proposed to reduce the applicability threshold to 100 kW
   and shorten the maximum term of contracts under Schedule 19 to five years.
   On June 19, 1997, the North Carolina Commission issued an Order requiring
   Virginia Power to offer long-term (5-, 10- and 15-year) levelized capacity
   payments to hydroelectric and certain landfill and waste facilities
   contracting for up to 5 MW; a 5-year levelized rate option to other QFs
   contracting for up to 100 kW; and optional long-term levelized energy
   payments for QFs rated at 100 kW or less capacity.





Sources Of Power

      Virginia Power Generating Units



  ---------
     (a) Includes an undivided interest of 11.6 percent (208 MW) owned by ODEC.
     (b) Includes an undivided interest of 50 percent (441 MW) owned by ODEC.
     (c) Effective January 25, 1996, this unit was placed in a cold reserve
         status.
     (d) Reflects Virginia Power's 60 percent undivided ownership interest in
         the 2,100 MW station. A 40 percent undivided interest in the facility
         is owned by Allegheny Generating Company, a subsidiary of Allegheny
         Energy, Inc (AE).

      Virginia Power's highest one-hour integrated service area summer peak
   demand was 14,537 MW on July 28, 1997, and an all-time high one-hour
   integrated winter peak demand of 14,910 MW was reached on February 5, 1996.






      Energy Used And Fuel Costs

      System energy output by energy source and the average fuel cost for each
   are shown below. Fuel cost is presented in mills (one tenth of one cent)
   per kilowatt hour.





  ---------
     (*) Excludes ODEC's 11.6 percent ownership interest in the North Anna
Power Station.

     (**) Excludes ODEC's 50 percent ownership interest in the Clover Power
  Station.


      Nuclear Operations and Fuel Supply

      In 1997, Virginia Power's four nuclear units achieved a combined capacity
factor of 91.1 percent.

      Virginia Power utilizes both long-term contracts and spot purchases to
   support its needs for nuclear fuel. Virginia Power continually evaluates
   worldwide market conditions in order to ensure a range of supply options at
   reasonable prices. Current agreements, inventories and spot market
   availability will support Virginia Power's current and planned fuel supply
   needs for fuel cycles throughout the remainder of the 1990's and into the
   early 2000's. Beyond that period, additional fuel will be purchased as
   required to ensure optimum cost and inventory levels.

      The DOE is not expected to begin the acceptance of spent fuel in 1998 as
   specified in Virginia Power's contract with the DOE. However, on-site spent
   nuclear fuel storage at the Surry Power Station (spent fuel pool and dry
   cask storage) is expected to be adequate for Virginia Power's needs until
   the DOE begins accepting spent fuel. The North Anna Power Station will
   require additional spent fuel storage capacity in 1998. Virginia Power
   submitted a license application to the NRC in May 1995 for a dry cask
   facility at North Anna. Virginia Power anticipates that this application
   will be approved in mid-1998.

      For details on the issues of decommissioning and nuclear insurance, see
   Note Q to the CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS on page 54 of the 1997
   Annual Report to Shareholders.


      Fossil Operations and Fuel Supply

      Virginia Power's fossil fuel mix consists of coal, oil and natural gas.
   In 1997, Virginia Power consumed approximately 13 million tons of coal. As
   with nuclear fuel, Virginia Power utilizes both long-term contracts and
   spot purchases to support its needs. Virginia Power presently anticipates
   that sufficient coal supplies at reasonable prices will be available for
   the remainder of the 1990's. Current projections for an adequate supply of
   oil remain favorable, barring unusual international events or extreme
   weather conditions which could affect both price and supply.

      Virginia Power uses natural gas as needed throughout the year for two
   combined cycle units and at several combustion turbine units. For winter
   usage at the combined cycle sites, gas is purchased and stored during the
   summer and fall and consumed during the colder months when gas supplies are
   not available at favorable prices. Virginia Power has firm transportation
   contracts for the delivery of gas to the combined cycle units. Current
   projections indicate gas supplies will be available for the next several
   years.


      Purchases and Sales of Energy

      Virginia Power relies on purchases of power to meet a portion of its
   capacity requirements. Virginia Power also makes economy purchases of power
   from other utility systems when it is available at a cost lower than
   Virginia Power's own generation costs.





      Under contracts effective January 1, 1985, Virginia Power agreed to
   purchase 400 MW of electricity annually through 1999 from Hoosier Energy
   Rural Electric Cooperative, Inc. (Hoosier), and agreed to purchase 500 MW
   of electricity annually during 1987-99 from certain operating units of
   American Electric Power Company, Inc. (AEP).

      Virginia Power has a diversity exchange agreement with AE under which AE
   delivers 200 MW to Virginia Power in the summer and Virginia Power delivers
   200 MW to AE in the winter.

      Virginia Power also has 57 non-utility power purchase contracts with a
   combined dependable summer capacity of 3,277 MW (for information on the
   financial obligations under these agreements see Note Q to the CONSOLIDATED
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS on page 53 of the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders).
   In a continuing effort to mitigate its exposure to above-market long-term
   purchased power contracts, Virginia Power is evaluating its long-term
   purchased power contracts and negotiating modifications to their terms,
   including cancellations, where it is determined to be economically
   advantageous to do so.

      Virginia Power's wholesale power group actively participates in the
   purchase and sale of wholesale electric power and natural gas in the open
   market. The wholesale power group has expanded Virginia Power's trading
   range beyond the geographic limits of the Virginia Power service territory,
   and has developed trading relationships with energy buyers and sellers on a
   nationwide basis.

      In July 1997, Virginia Power executed three agreements with Old Dominion
   Electric Cooperative (ODEC) which provide for the amendment of the parties'
   Interconnection and Operating Agreement (I&O Agreement). The first
   agreement provides for the transition from cost-based rates for capacity
   and energy purchases by ODEC to market-based rates by 2002. The second two
   agreements are the Service and Operating Agreements for Network Integration
   Transmission Service, which unbundled the transmission services provided to
   ODEC under the I&O Agreement.

      As reported above, both the Hoosier 400 MW long-term purchase and the AEP
   500 MW long-term purchase will expire on December 31, 1999. Virginia Power
   presently anticipates adding peaking capacity beginning in the year 2000 to
   meet its anticipated load growth. Virginia Power has and will pursue
   capacity acquisition plans to provide that capacity and maintain a high
   degree of service reliability. This capacity may be owned and operated by
   others and sold to Virginia Power or may be built by Virginia Power if it
   determines it can build capacity at a lower overall cost. Virginia Power
   also pursues conservation and demand-side management. No Virginia Power
   owned generation is currently in the planning or construction stages.

      For additional information, see Note Q to the CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
   STATEMENTS on page 53 of the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders.


Interconnections

     Virginia Power maintains major interconnections with Carolina Power and
Light Company, AEP, AE and the utilities in the Pennsylvania-New
Jersey-Maryland Power Pool. Through this major transmission network, Virginia
Power has arrangements with these utilities for coordinated planning,
operation, emergency assistance and exchanges of capacity and energy.

     In December 1996, Virginia Power joined with Allegheny Power Service
Corporation, Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company, Toledo Edison Company,
Ohio Edison Company, Pennsylvania Power Company and Southern Company Services,
Inc. (the Transmission Alliance) to file a contract with the FERC entitled the
GAPP Experiment Participation Agreement (GAPP Agreement). The Transmission
Alliance and the GAPP Agreement were established to promote fair and equitable
use of the transmission systems based on the General Agreement on Parallel
Paths (GAPP) model for coordinating the flow of bulk supplies of electricity
among utilities. GAPP principles allow electric companies to determine where
electricity actually flows in bulk power transactions, as opposed to the
"contract" paths that are based on power purchase and transmission agreements
among buying, selling and transmitting utilities.

     Compensation for transmission services has historically been based on
contract paths. The GAPP Agreement was designed to determine the physical path
electricity actually takes through the system and allocate open access
transmission revenues among the parties. The GAPP Agreement was designed as an
experiment to test the GAPP methods and procedures for a period of two years.
The FERC accepted the contract on March 25, 1997. Virginia Power and the
Transmission Alliance implemented the GAPP Agreement on April 2, 1997.

     On November 14, 1997, in accordance with the FERC order accepting the GAPP
Agreement, the Transmission Alliance issued a report detailing the results of
the first six months of the experiment. The preliminary results of the
experiment indicate that it is technically possible to monitor and predict the
physical flow of electricity over multiple systems and that





transmission revenues reallocated according to actual use of the system differ
significantly from collections under a contract path approach. In October 1997,
Virginia Power gave notice to the Transmission Alliance that, effective January
1, 1998, it was exercising its option under the GAPP Agreement to terminate its
involvement in the experiment.

     On December 9, 1997, Virginia Power, the Transmission Alliance and other
utilities agreed to study the creation of an independent regional transmission
entity. The memorandum of understanding to initiate this study was signed by
eleven investor-owned electric companies, including Virginia Power, Consumers
Energy, Detroit Edison, Duquesne Light Company, The Illuminating Company, Ohio
Edison Company, Pennsylvania Power Company, Toledo Edison Company, and the
Allegheny Energy Companies (Monongahela Power Company, The Potomac Edison
Company, and West Penn Power Company). This group is an outgrowth of the GAPP
Agreement and its key goals are to maintain the long-term reliability and
security of the utilities' interconnected transmission systems; ensure the most
efficient use of resources; eliminate pancaking of rates within and between
transmission entities; avoid duplication of costs and achieve transmission cost
savings; and, strike an appropriate balance among the diverse interests of
energy suppliers, customers, and shareholders. The group will also explore
cooperative agreements designed to achieve these goals while ensuring
nondiscriminatory and comparable access to all users of the group's
transmission system. The companies intend to be responsive to industry changes,
especially with the introduction of retail competition in some of the areas
served by the signatories and as some other industry participants consider
creation of independent transmission operating companies or separate
transmission companies. Further, the companies will have the flexibility to
continue to investigate and pursue other opportunities and arrangements that
could develop regarding independent system operators or independent
transmission companies.

     Virginia Power and Appalachian Power Company (AEP-Virginia), an operating
unit of AEP, each sought approval from the SCC in 1991 to construct certain
interconnecting transmission facilities. These applications resulted from a
joint planning effort of Virginia Power and AEP to meet the requirements of
their customers. At the time of Virginia Power's application, particularly
during the summer of 1992, constraints were being experienced on transfers of
power into the Virginia Power service territory from the west. On November 7,
1997, the SCC issued an Order directing Virginia Power to report to the
Commission on the continued need for certain new interconnected transmission
facilities, on the relationship between Virginia Power's application to build
the new facilities and certain other pending proceedings, and on Virginia
Power's construction plans, if the SCC grants Virginia Power's application.

     On December 15, 1997, Virginia Power filed a report in compliance with the
SCC Order stating that since the filing of Virginia Power's application, the
constraints have been less frequent, due in part to less severe summer weather,
and actual power requirements have been less than originally forecasted. In
addition, generating resources within the Virginia Power service area have been
increased by the higher performance level of the nuclear units, as well as the
completion of the Clover Station. Completion of the AEP project is a
prerequisite for the Virginia Power project to go forward. The proposed
Virginia Power project would not fulfill its intended purpose without the AEP
line being built. AEP has withdrawn its original application and has instituted
a new proceeding before the Commission in which different routing is proposed.
Virginia Power continues to monitor closely the progress of AEP in this
proceeding with respect to its new proposal, but until more is known about
these proceedings, Virginia Power cannot predict what its construction plans
will be.





                   CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS AND FINANCING PROGRAM

     See MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF CASH FLOWS AND FINANCIAL
CONDITION on pages 37 through 40 of the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders.


                               ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

     Dominion Resources owns the building at One James River Plaza, Richmond,
Virginia, in which Virginia Power has its principal offices. Dominion
Resources' other assets consist primarily of its investments in its
subsidiaries, which invest various enterprises and assets, as described in THE
COMPANY under Item 1. BUSINESS above. See also Virginia Power Generating Units
under Item 1. BUSINESS above.


                           ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     From time to time, Dominion Resources and its subsidiaries are alleged to
be in violation or in default under orders, statutes, rules or regulations
relating to the environment, compliance plans imposed upon or agreed to by
them, or permits issued by various local, state and federal agencies for the
construction or operation of facilities. From time to time, there may be
administrative proceedings on these matters pending. In addition, in the normal
course of business, Dominion Resources and its subsidiaries are in involved in
various legal proceedings. Management believes that the ultimate resolution of
these proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the company's
financial position, liquidity or results of operations.

     In reference to the lawsuit filed by Dominion Energy and Dominion Cogen
D.C., Inc. against the District of Columbia and the District's counterclaims to
the lawsuit, the parties settled all claims and dismissed the lawsuit and
related counterclaims on August 20, 1997.


          ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

                                      None


                      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT











                                    PART II

             ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND
                          RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     Dominion Resources common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange
and at December 31, 1997 there were 215,685 registered common shareholders of
record. Quarterly information concerning stock prices and dividends contained
on page 56 of the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 1997 in Note U to CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS which is filed
herein as Exhibit 13, is hereby incorporated herein by reference.


                        ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     This information contained under the caption "Selected Consolidated
Financial Data" on page 60 of the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1997 filed herein as Exhibit 13, is hereby
incorporated herein by reference.





                 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     This information contained under the caption MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF OPERATIONS on pages 22 through 33 and MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF CASH FLOWS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION on pages 37 through 40 of the
1997 Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997,
filed herein as Exhibit 13, is hereby incorporated herein by reference.


      ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     This information contained under the caption MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF OPERATIONS on pages 30 through 33 of the 1997 Annual to
Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997, filed herein as
Exhibit 13, is hereby incorporated herein by reference.


              ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     This information contained in the CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS on
pages 21, 34 through 36, NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS on pages 37
through 56 and related report thereon of Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent
auditors, appearing on page 57 of the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997, filed herein as Exhibit 13, is hereby
incorporated herein by reference.


    ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
                              FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

                                     None.


                                   PART III

          ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Information regarding the Directors of Dominion Resources contained on
pages 6 through 8 of the 1998 Proxy Statement, File No. 1-8489, dated March 11,
1998 is hereby incorporated herein by reference. The information concerning the
executive officers of Dominion Resources required by this Item is set forth in
Part I, under the section EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT. Information
regarding Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance is contained
on page 26 of the 1998 Proxy Statement, dated March 11, 1998, which is
incorporated herein by reference.


                        ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The information regarding executive and director compensation contained on
pages 6 through 19 of the 1998 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated herein by
reference.


    ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     The information concerning stock ownership by directors and executive
officers contained on page 12 of the 1998 Proxy Statement is hereby
incorporated herein by reference. There is no person known by Dominion
Resources to be the beneficial owner of more than five percent of Dominion
Resources common stock.


            ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

                                      None
 




                                    PART IV

   ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     A. Certain documents are filed as part of this Form 10-K and are
incorporated herein by reference and found on the pages noted.


1. Financial Statements







2. Exhibits














- ---------
* Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

B. Reports on Form 8-K

     Dominion Resources filed a report on Form 8-K, dated December 11, 1997,
reporting the issuance of 250,000 7.83% Capital Securities (liquidation amount
$1,000 per security) through its Dominion Resources Capital Trust I, a Delaware
business trust.

     Dominion Resources filed a report on Form 8-K, dated January 15, 1998,
reporting the issuance of 6,500,000 shares of Common Stock.





                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                         DOMINION RESOURCES, INC.

                     By:   THOS. E. CAPPS
                         ------------------------------------------------------
                          (Thos. E. Capps, Chairman of the Board of Directors,
                           President and Chief Executive Officer)


Date: MARCH 20, 1998

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated and on the 20th day of March, 1998.














                           DOMINION RESOURCES, INC.




                                   PORTIONS
                                    OF THE
                                 ANNUAL REPORT
                                      TO
                                 SHAREHOLDERS
                          (Incorporated by Reference)



