10-K


d10k.htm

FORM 10-K

Prepared by R.R. Donnelley Financial -- FORM 10-K


SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM
10-K

(Mark One)

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001

OR

¨

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from

to

Commission File Number 1-8489

DOMINION RESOURCES, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Virginia

(State or other jurisdiction

of incorporation or organization)

120 Tredegar Street

Richmond, Virginia

(Address of principal executive offices)

54-1229715

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification Number)


(Zip Code)

(804) 819-2000

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

¨

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was over $15.6 billion based
on the closing price of our Common Stock on March 1, 2002, as reported on the composite tape by the Wall Street Journal.

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each registrant’s class of common stock, as of the latest practicable date.

Class

Outstanding at

March 1, 2002

Common Stock, no par value

265,355,254

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.

(a)

Portions of the 2001 Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001 are incorporated by reference in Parts I, II and IV.

(b)

Portions of the 2002 Proxy Statement, are incorporated by reference in Part III.


DOMINION RESOURCES, INC.



PART I

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS

THE COMPANY

Dominion Resources, Inc. is a fully integrated gas and electric holding company
headquartered in Richmond, Virginia. Incorporated in Virginia in 1983, Dominion is a registered public utility holding company under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (the 1935 Act).

The term “Dominion” is used throughout this report and, depending on the context of its use, may represent any of the following: the legal entity, Dominion Resources,
Inc., one of Dominion Resources, Inc.’s consolidated subsidiaries or the entirety of Dominion Resources, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Recent Developments

With the completion of the acquisition of Consolidated Natural Gas Company (CNG)
in January 2000, Dominion evolved from an utility holding company principally engaged in the production and sale of electric power to a fully integrated electric and natural gas utility serving wholesale and retail markets in the Midwest, Northeast,
and Mid-Atlantic portions of the United States. This region is home to approximately 40% of the nation’s energy consumption. Dominion refers to this region as “MAIN to Maine.” MAIN is an acronym for the Mid-America Interconnected
Network, which comprises all or parts of the states of Missouri, Illinois, Wisconsin, Michigan, Iowa and Minnesota.

Dominion
made two significant acquisitions in 2001. In March 2001, Dominion acquired Millstone Power Station (Millstone), a nuclear power station located in Waterford, Connecticut, for $1.3 billion in cash. The acquisition includes a 100 percent ownership
interest in Unit 1 and Unit 2 and a 93.47 percent ownership interest in Unit 3 for a total of 1,954 Mw of generating capacity. Unit 1 is being decommissioned and is no longer in service. As part of the transaction, Dominion acquired the
decommissioning trusts for all three units. The trusts were fully funded to the regulatory minimum at closing.

In November
2001, Dominion acquired Louis Dreyfus Natural Gas Corp. (Louis Dreyfus) for $1.8 billion in cash and Dominion common stock. Louis Dreyfus is a natural gas and oil exploration and production company headquartered in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. The
addition of Louis Drefyus increased Dominion’s proved gas and oil reserves by approximately 60 percent.

In February 2002,
Dominion reached an agreement to purchase Mirant State Line Ventures, Inc. (State Line), whose assets include a 515 Mw coal-fired generation facility located near Hammond, Indiana. Under terms of the agreement, Dominion will acquire 100 percent
ownership of State Line from Mirant Corporation for approximately $182 million. The transaction is subject to approval under the United States antitrust laws, by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, and other customary closing conditions.
Dominion expects the transaction to close during the second quarter of 2002.

Dominion became a registered public utility
holding company when it completed the CNG acquisition. The 1935 Act prohibits registered companies from owning businesses unrelated to utility operations or other energy related businesses. To comply, Dominion has divested the core operating
businesses of Dominion Capital, Inc. (DCI), its financial services subsidiary. To secure regulatory approval for the merger, Dominion and CNG also agreed to divest Virginia Natural Gas, Inc. (VNG), CNG’s gas distribution subsidiary located in
Norfolk, Virginia. In October 2000, Dominion sold VNG to AGL Resources Inc.

Because the Company is no longer investing in or
creating energy business overseas, Dominion divested all of its Latin American generation businesses and its 80 percent interest in the Corby Power Station in the United Kingdom in 1999 and 2000. Dominion continues to explore the sale of CNG’s
remaining international operations in Australia.

As part of the acquisition of CNG, Dominion created a subsidiary service
company, Dominion Resources Services, Inc. (Services). Services provides administrative, financial, legal, and other services to Dominion’s operating subsidiaries. During 2000, CNG also had a service company, Consolidated Natural Gas Service
Company, Inc. Effective January 1, 2001, the two service companies were combined into one service company.

Dominion’s
acquisitions and divestitures are described in more detail in Notes 5 and 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2001 Annual Report.



Operating Segments

Dominion manages its operations along three primary business lines that integrate
its electric and gas services, streamline operations and position it for long-term growth in the competitive marketplace.

•

Dominion Energy

—Dominion Energy manages nearly 22,000-megawatts of generation, 7,600 miles of gas transmission pipeline, and a 959 billion cubic foot natural gas
storage network. It also manages Dominion’s generation growth strategy, energy trading, marketing, and risk management activities. Dominion Energy operates generation facilities in Virginia, West Virginia, North Carolina, Illinois and
Connecticut.

•

Dominion Delivery

—Dominion Delivery manages the local electric and gas distribution systems serving nearly 4 million customers, about 6,000 miles of electric
transmission lines and customer service operations. Dominion Delivery operates transmission and distribution systems in Virginia, West Virginia, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Ohio. Dominion Delivery also includes our interest in Dominion Fiber
Ventures LLC, which owns Dominion Telecom with its 14,700 route-mile fiber optic network (including 4,600 route-miles of lit fiber) and related telecommunications and advanced data services.

•

Dominion Exploration & Production

—Dominion Exploration & Production (Dominion E&P) manages the onshore and offshore gas and oil exploration, development
and production activities, including the properties acquired from the acquisition of Louis Dreyfus. With approximately 4.9 trillion cubic feet equivalent of proved natural gas reserves and an annual production capacity exceeding 450 billion cubic
feet, Dominion E&P is one of the nation’s largest independent oil and gas operators. Dominion E&P operates on the outer continental shelf and deepwater areas of the Gulf of Mexico, western Canada, the Appalachian Basin, the Permian
Basin, the Mid-Continent Region and other selected regions in the continental United States.

While Dominion
manages its daily operations as described above, its assets remain wholly-owned by its legal subsidiaries, which are described below. For additional financial information on business segments and geographic areas, see Note 30 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements of the 2001 Annual Report.

Dominion’s principal direct legal subsidiaries are Virginia Electric and
Power Company (Virginia Power), Consolidated Natural Gas Company (CNG), Dominion Energy, Inc. (DEI) and DCI. Virginia Power is a regulated public utility that generates, transmits and distributes power for sale in Virginia and northeastern North
Carolina. CNG is a producer, transporter, distributor and retail marketer of natural gas, serving customers in Pennsylvania, Ohio, West Virginia, and other states. DEI is an independent power and natural gas and exploration subsidiary. Dominion has
substantially completed its strategy to exit the core operating business of DCI. DCI’s primary business was financial services including loan administration, commercial lending and residential mortgage lending.

As of December 31, 2001, Dominion and its subsidiaries had approximately 17,100 full-time employees. Approximately, 6,500 employees are subject to
collective bargaining agreements. Contracts of certain employees represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) and Services Employees International Union (SEIU) expire at the end of the first quarter of 2002. Contract
negotiations between Dominion and both unions have commenced.

Dominion’s principal executive offices are located at 120
Tredegar Street, Richmond, Virginia 23219 and its telephone number is (804) 819-2000.

COMPETITION

Ongoing deregulation and restructuring in the electric and gas industries are creating
issues that affect or will likely affect the markets where Dominion Energy and Dominion Delivery do business, and govern the way these business units and their competitors operate. The electric power and natural gas industries are in the process of
evolving into a competitive marketplace where energy companies will compete to provide energy and energy services to a broad range of customers.



Electric Industry

The electric industry has come under increased scrutiny in the past year with the
California energy crisis as well as the Enron Corp. bankruptcy. Although progress varies, pro-competition electric legislation is still under consideration in many states.

Prior to 2002, competition for retail electric sales in Virginia was limited to the extent customers moved into another utility service territory, used other energy sources instead of
electric power, generated their own electricity or participated in a retail pilot program. The Virginia Electric Utility Restructuring Act (Virginia Restructuring Act) provides for a phased-in transition to a fully competitive retail electric market
during the period January 1, 2002 through January 1, 2004. The Virginia Commission has ordered that retail choice be fully implemented in Virginia by January 1, 2003.

Under the Virginia Restructuring Act, the generation portion of Dominion’s Virginia jurisdictional operations is no longer
subject to cost-based rate regulation effective January 1, 2002. Base rates (excluding fuel costs and certain other allowable adjustments) are capped and will remain unchanged until July 2007 unless terminated sooner as provided by the Virginia
Restructuring Act. Recovery of generation-related costs will continue to be provided through capped rates and a wires charge. A wires charge, where applicable, will be assessed to those customers opting for alternative suppliers. The Virginia
Restructuring Act also requires Dominion to join or establish a regional transmission entity, phase in retail choice beginning January 1, 2002, and functionally separate its electric generation from its electric transmission and distribution
operations. For additional information on electric deregulation in Virginia, see Regulated Electric Operations in Future Issues and Outlook of Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) of the 2001 Annual Report.

In North Carolina, regulators and legislators continue to explore the issues related to electric industry restructuring, the development of a
competitive, wholesale market and retail competition. However, there has been little recent activity.

Dominion plans to
continue to participate actively in both the legislative and regulatory processes to ensure an orderly transition from a regulated environment. Dominion has responded to the trends toward competition by cutting costs, re-engineering core business
processes, and pursuing innovative approaches to serving traditional and future markets.

Gas Industry

Dominion Delivery

Deregulation is at varying stages in the three states in which Dominion’s gas distribution subsidiaries operate. In Pennsylvania, supplier choice is available for all residential
and small commercial customers. In Ohio, legislation has not been enacted to require supplier choice for residential and commercial natural gas consumers. However, Dominion offers Energy Choice to customers on its own initiative, in cooperation with
The Public Utilities Commission of Ohio. West Virginia legislation currently does not require customer choice in its retail natural gas markets nor has Dominion voluntarily initiated an Energy Choice program. However, the West Virginia Public
Service Commission recently issued regulations to govern pooling services. These services are one of the tools that natural gas suppliers may utilize to provide retail customer choice in the future.

See Regulated Gas Distribution Operations in Future Issues and Outlook of MD&A of the 2001 Annual Report for additional information.

Dominion Energy

Dominion’s large underground natural gas storage capacity and the location of its gridlike pipeline system are a significant link between the country’s major gas pipelines and large markets on the East Coast. The Company’s
pipelines are part of an interconnected gas transmission system which continues to provide retail end users the accessibility of supplies nationwide as gas utilities unbundle services at the retail level.

Dominion competes with domestic as well as Canadian pipeline companies and gas marketers seeking to provide or arrange transportation, storage and other
services for customers. Alternative energy sources, such as



fuel oil or coal, provide another level of competition. Although competition is based primarily on price, the array of services that can be provided to customers is also an important factor. The
combination of capacity rights held on certain longline pipelines, a large storage capability and the availability of numerous receipt and delivery points along its own pipeline system enables Dominion to tailor its services to meet the needs of
individual customers.

Dominion Exploration & Production

Dominion conducts exploration and production operations in several major gas and oil producing basins in the United States, both onshore and offshore, and in Canada. Competitors range
from major, international oil companies, to the smaller, independent producers.

Dominion faces significant competition in the
bidding for federal offshore leases and in obtaining leases and drilling rights for onshore properties. Since Dominion is the operator of a number of properties, it also faces competition in securing drilling equipment and supplies for exploration
and development.

In terms of its production activities, Dominion faces a diverse and active market with purchasers seeking to
balance the advantage of flexible spot market supplies with the security of longer-term contracts. The growth of energy marketing firms has introduced additional competition for Dominion. When the economics warrant, Dominion attempts to sell its gas
production under long-term contracts to customers such as electric power generators and others that require a secure source of supply. However, these arrangements represent only a portion of the Dominion’s gas production. The deliverability of
gas produced is influenced by competition for downstream pipeline transportation capacity. Dominion continues to develop marketing strategies, contracts and arrangements to address customer needs for intermediate and long-term gas supplies as well
as other energy services. Dominion also participates in price risk management activities to manage exposure to price volatility in connection with the production and sale of natural gas and oil.

REGULATION

General

Dominion is subject to regulation by various federal, state, and local governmental agencies.
These include the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Department of Energy (DOE), the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), the Army Corps of Engineers,
and other federal, state and local authorities.

State Regulation

Electric

The Virginia State Corporation Commission (Virginia Commission) and the North Carolina Utilities Commission (North Carolina Commission) regulate rates for retail electric sales in those
states and FERC approves rates for electric sales to wholesale customers. The current Virginia fuel factor applied to Dominion’s regulated electric generation is 1.613 cents per kWh which will remain in effect through December 31, 2002. The
North Carolina Commission has approved a fuel adjustment factor of 1.285 cents per kWh, effective January 1, 2002.

Under the
Virginia Restructuring Act, the generation portion of Dominion’s Virginia jurisdictional operations is no longer subject to cost-based rate regulation. Base rates (excluding fuel costs and certain other allowable adjustments) will remain
unchanged until July 2007 unless terminated sooner as provided by the Virginia Restructuring Act. Recovery of generation-related costs will continue to be provided through capped rates and, where applicable, wires charges for those customers opting
for alternative suppliers of electricity. The Virginia Restructuring Act also requires Dominion to join or establish a regional transmission entity, phase in retail choice beginning January 1, 2002, and functionally separate its electric generation
from its



electric transmission and distribution operations.

In connection with the
North Carolina Commission approval of the CNG acquisition, Dominion agreed not to request an increase in North Carolina retail electric base rates for both the Dominion Energy and Dominion Delivery segments until 2006, except for certain events that
would have a significant financial impact on the Company. Fuel rates are still subject to change under the annual fuel cost adjustment proceedings.

Dominion’s electric utility subsidiary holds certificates of public convenience and necessity authorizing it to construct and operate its electric facilities now in operation and to sell electricity to customers.
However, it may not construct or incur financial commitments for construction of any substantial generating facilities or large capacity transmission lines without the prior approval of various state and federal government agencies.

For additional information on deregulation in the electric industry and current rate matters, see Electric Industry in COMPETITION and
Regulated Electric Operations in Future Issues and Outlook of MD&A of the 2001 Annual Report.

Gas

Dominion’s gas distribution business subsidiaries are subject to regulation of rates and other aspects of their businesses by the states
in which they operate—Pennsylvania, Ohio, and West Virginia. Dominion’s regulated gas subsidiaries continue to seek general rate increases with regard to their regulated gathering, transmission, storage and gas distribution services. Such
rate changes are requested on a timely basis to recover increased operating costs and to ensure that rates of return are compatible with the cost of raising capital. In addition to general rate increases, certain of Dominion’s gas distribution
subsidiaries make separate filings with their respective regulatory commissions to reflect changes in the costs of purchased gas.

For additional information on deregulation in the gas industry and current rate matters, see Gas Industry in COMPETITION and Regulated Gas Distribution Operations in Future Issues and Outlook of MD&A of the 2001 Annual Report.

Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (1935 Act)

Dominion is a registered holding company under
the 1935 Act. The 1935 Act and related regulations issued by the SEC govern activities of Dominion and its subsidiaries with respect to the issuance and acquisition of securities, acquisition and sale of utility assets, certain transactions among
affiliaties, engaging in business activities not directly related to the utility or energy business, and other matters. Over the past few years, several bills have been introduced in Congress to repeal the 1935 Act, and repeal provisions are
currently again pending before Congress. The likelihood that such repeal will be enacted is highly uncertain.

Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)

Electric

Under the Federal Powers Act, FERC regulates wholesale sales of electricity and transmission of electricity in interstate commerce by public utilities.
Dominion’s electric utility subsidiary sells electricity in the wholesale market under its market-based sales tariff authorized by FERC but has agreed not to make wholesale power sales under this tariff to loads located within its service
territory. In January 2002, Dominion filed for FERC approval of a tariff to sell wholesale power within or outside its service territory at capped rates based on Dominion’s embedded cost of generation. For additional discussion on this matter,
see Regulated Electric Operations—Wholesale Competition in Future Issues and Outlook of MD&A of the 2001 Annual Report.

FERC Order No. 2000 requires that each public utility that owns, operates, or controls facilities for the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce make certain filings with respect to forming and participating in a regional
transmission organization (RTO). To meet the requirements of Order No. 2000,



Dominion and eight other member companies (Alliance Companies), filed with FERC for approval of a proposed “Alliance RTO”. In December 2001, FERC concluded the Alliance Companies lack
sufficient scope as an RTO and also ordered the Alliance Companies to determine how they could fit within the Midwest Independent System Operator. Dominion will examine the possibility of joining RTOs other than those representing Midwest utilities,
as directed by FERC. For discussion on the current status of the Alliance RTO, see Regulated Electric Operations—Alliance RTO in Future Issues and Outlook of MD&A of the 2001 Annual Report.

Gas

FERC regulates the
transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, as amended. FERC also has jurisdiction over the construction of pipeline and related facilities used
in transportation and storage of natural gas in interstate commerce.

Dominion’s interstate gas transportation and storage
activities are regulated under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 and are conducted in accordance with certificates, tariffs and service agreements on file with FERC. Dominion is also subject to the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, which authorizes
the establishment and enforcement of federal pipeline safety standards and places jurisdiction of these standards with the Department of Transportation.

Competition in the natural gas industry was significantly increased by FERC Order 636, issued in 1992. FERC Order 636 requires transmission pipelines to operate as open-access transporters and provide transportation
and storage services on an equal basis for all gas supplies, whether purchased from Dominion or from another gas supplier.

FERC
has also issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on modifying code of conduct regulations. FERC proposes to eliminate the separate code of conduct regulations for natural gas pipelines and electric transmission utilities and replace these
requirements with uniform standards applicable to interstate “Transmission Providers” of both natural gas and electricity. For additional discussion on this matter, see Regulated Gas Operations—FERC Policy Developments in Future
Issues and Outlook of MD&A of the 2001 Annual Report.

Environmental Matters

Each segment of our business faces substantial regulation and compliance costs
with respect to environmental matters. For discussion of significant aspects of these matters, including current and planned capital expenditures relating to environmental compliance, see Environmental Matters in Future Issues and Outlook of
MD&A of the 2001 Annual Report. Additional information can also be found in Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS and Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2001 Annual Report.

From time to time Dominion may be identified as a potentially responsible party to a superfund site. The EPA (or a state) can either (a) allow such a party to conduct and pay for a
remedial investigation, feasibility study and remedial action or (b) conduct the remedial investigation and action and then seek reimbursement from the parties. Each party can be held jointly, severally and strictly liable for all costs. These
parties can also bring contribution actions against each other and seek reimbursement from their insurance companies. As a result, Dominion may be responsible for the costs of remedial investigation and actions under the Superfund Act or other laws
or regulations regarding the remediation of waste. Dominion does not believe that any currently identified sites will result in significant liabilities.

Dominion has determined that it is associated with 20 former manufactured gas plant sites. Studies conducted by other utilities at their former manufactured gas plants have indicated that their sites contain coal tar
and other potentially harmful materials. None of the 20 former sites with which Dominion is associated is under investigation by any state or federal environmental agency, and no investigation or action is currently



anticipated. At this time it is not known to what degree these sites may contain environmental contamination. Dominion is not able to estimate the cost, if any, that may be required for the
possible remediation of these sites.

Dominion has applied for or obtained the necessary environmental permits material to the
operation of its electric generating stations. Many of these permits are subject to re-issuance and continuing review.

Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC)

All aspects of the operation and maintenance of Dominion’s
nuclear power stations, which are part of the Dominion Energy segment, are regulated by the NRC. Operating licenses issued by the NRC are subject to revocation, suspension or modification, and operation of a nuclear unit may be suspended if the NRC
determines that the public interest, health or safety so requires.

Dominion filed applications for 20 year life-extension for
the North Anna and Surry units in May 2001. The NRC has accepted and is reviewing the applications. Dominion has also initiated preparations to apply for a 20 year extension of the licenses for both of its operating Millstone units. For more
information on this matter, see Nuclear Relicensing in Future Issues and Outlook of MD&A of the 2001Annual Report.

From
time to time, the NRC adopts new requirements for the operation and maintenance of nuclear facilities. In many cases, these new regulations require changes in the design, operation and maintenance of existing nuclear facilities. If the NRC adopts
such requirements in the future, it could result in substantial increases in the cost of operating and maintaining Dominion’s nuclear generating units.

Disposal of spent nuclear fuel (SNF) is a significant issue associated with the operation and decommissioning of nuclear facilities. The Nuclear Waste Policy Act (NWPA) of 1982 requires the federal government to make
available by January 31, 1998 a permanent repository for high-level radioactive waste and SNF. In February 2002, the Secretary of Energy recommended that Yucca Mountain located in the state of Nevada be developed as the permanent repository. The
plan may be appealed by the state of Nevada and is subject to various congressional approvals and NRC licensing.

Dominion and
other utilities have petitioned for review in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit, a matter involving the DOE and PECO Energy Company (PECO). The petitioners are challenging the DOE’s action in allowing PECO to take credits against
payments PECO would have been making into the Nuclear Waste Fund (NWF). The credits are part of a DOE settlement agreement with PECO for potential claims arising out of DOE’s breach of its SNF storage obligation. The petition asserts that DOE
violated the NWPA by improperly depleting the NWF and releasing PECO from a portion of its NWF obligation. The petition also seeks a declaration that credits against NWF payments violate the NWPA, an injunction against DOE implementing the credit
and fee reduction provisions of the settlement agreement, and an injunction against DOE entering into similar agreements. The case was argued in December 2001, and is pending before the court.

The NRC also requires Dominion to decontaminate nuclear facilities once operations cease. This process is referred to as decommissioning, and Dominion is required by the NRC to
prepare for it financially. For information on compliance with the NRC financial assurance requirements, see Note 16 to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2001 Annual Report.

SOURCES OF ENERGY

Sources of Energy—Electricity

Dominion Energy provides electricity for use on a wholesale and a
retail level. Dominion Energy can supply electricity demand either from its generation facilities in Virginia, West Virginia, North Carolina, Illinois and Connecticut or through purchased power contracts when needed. The following table outlines
Dominion’s generating units and capability.



Dominion’s Power Generation

Note:

(CT) denotes combustion turbine and (CC) denotes combined cycle

(a)

Excludes 11.6 percent undivided interest owned by Old Dominion Electric Cooperative (ODEC).

(b)

Excludes 50 percent undivided interest owned by ODEC.

(c)

Excludes 40 percent undivided interest owned by Allegheny Generating Company, a subsidiary of Allegheny Energy, Inc.

(d)

Excludes 6.53 percent undivided interest in Unit 3 owned by Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric Company and Central Vermont Public Service
Company.

(e)

Excludes 50 percent undivided interest owned by Peoples Energy.

(f)

Excludes 50 percent undivided interest owned by Cogen Technologies Morgantown, Ltd. and Hickory Power Corporation.



Power Purchase Contracts

Dominion Energy purchases electricity under contracts with other suppliers to meet a portion of its system capacity requirements. As of December 31, 2001, Dominion has 43 power purchase
contracts with a combined dependable summer capacity of 3,770 Mw. For information on the financial obligations under these agreements, see Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2001 Annual Report.

In 2001, Dominion completed the purchase of three generating facilities and the termination of seven long-term power purchase contracts with non-utility
generators. Dominion recorded a charge of approximately $136 million, after taxes, in connection with these transactions.

Fuel for Electric Generation

Dominion uses a variety of fuels to power its electric generation. These include a
mix of both nuclear fuel and fossil fuel as described further below.

Nuclear Fuel Supply

Dominion utilizes both long-term contracts and spot purchases to support the Company’s nuclear fuel requirements. Worldwide market conditions are
continuously evaluated to ensure a range of supply options at reasonable prices. Current agreements, inventories and spot market availability are expected to support current and planned fuel supply needs. Additional fuel is purchased as required to
ensure optimum cost and inventory levels.

The DOE did not begin accepting SNF in 1998 as specified in the DOE contract.
However, on-site SNF pool and dry container storage at the Surry and North Anna Power Stations are expected to be adequate for Dominion’s needs until the DOE begins accepting SNF. See Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) in REGULATION for
additional information regarding SNF.

Fossil Fuel Supply

Dominion Energy utilizes coal, oil, and natural gas in its fossil fuel operations. Dominion Energy’s coal supply is obtained through long-term contracts and spot purchases. Dominion
anticipates sufficient supplies of coal will continue to be available at reasonable prices.

Oil and oil-fired generation are
used primarily to support heavier system generation loads during very cold or very hot weather periods. System requirements are purchased under both short-term spot agreements and longer term contracts. A sufficient supply of oil is expected to be
available over the next five to ten year period.

Dominion Energy uses natural gas as needed throughout the year for
Dominion’s jurisdictional and non-jurisdictional generation facilities. The Company’s gas supply is obtained from various sources including: purchases from major and independent producers in the Southwest and Midwest regions; purchases
from local producers in the Appalachian area; purchases from gas marketers; production from Company-owned wells in the Appalachian area, the Southwest, Midwest and offshore; and withdrawals from the Company’s and third party underground storage
fields. Dominion has the capability to buy and store natural gas at summer prices, which will then be consumed at the facilities during the winter.

Firm natural gas transportation contracts (capacity) exist that allow delivery of gas to our facilities. Dominion’s capacity portfolio allows flexible natural gas deliveries to its gas turbine fleet, while
minimizing costs. With natural gas being the preferred energy source for new electric generation, competition for existing gas capacity has increased. In order to ensure reliable delivery of natural gas, Dominion has acquired additional natural gas
capacity and has a capacity plan in place designed to protect its fleet from any perceived or real capacity shortage in the market.



Interconnections

Dominion maintains major interconnections with Carolina Power and Light Company, American Electric Power Company, Inc., Allegheny Energy, Inc. and the utilities in the Pennsylvania-New
Jersey-Maryland Power Pool. Through this major transmission network, Dominion has arrangements with these utilities for coordinated planning, operation, emergency assistance and exchanges of capacity and energy.

Sources of Energy—Gas

Gas Supply

Dominion Energy is engaged in the sale and storage of natural gas through its operating subsidiaries. Sources of gas supplies for sale to customers are the same as those described
in Fossil Fuel Supply above.

Dominion continues to purchase volumes from the array of accessible producing basins using its
firm capacity resources. These purchased supplies include Appalachian resources in Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia, and production from the Gulf Coast, Mid-Continent and offshore areas. Upon FERC’s restructuring of the interstate pipeline
business in 1992 and 1993, pipelines no longer sell the delivered natural gas commodity; rather, customers provide their own gas supply for wholesale storage and/or delivery by the pipelines. Much of the supply is purchased by local distributors,
energy marketing companies or end users, under seasonal or spot purchase agreements. While the average term of Dominion’s gas purchase agreements has decreased, the reliability of supply continues to be adequate. The availability of supplies
and heightened competition has forged a viable market, which has proven capable of satisfying the firm delivery requirement for supplies to Dominion’s markets in a highly reliable manner.

Considering the large storage capacity, the volumes obtainable under its firm interstate pipeline capacity and gas supply contracts, Dominion-owned proved natural gas reserves, and
assuming the future availability of spot market gas, management believes that supplies will be available to meet sales requirements for at least the next several years.

Gas Storage—Transmission

Dominion Energy’s
underground storage facilities play an important part in balancing gas supply with sales demand and are essential to servicing Dominion’s large volume of space-heating business. In addition, storage capacity is an important element in the
effective management of both gas supply and pipeline transport capacity. Dominion operates 26 underground gas storage fields located in Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia and New York. Dominion owns 20 of these storage fields and has joint-ownership
with other companies in six of the fields. The total designed capacity of the storage fields, including native gas, is approximately 959 billion cubic feet (bcf). Dominion’s share of the total capacity is about 717 bcf. About one-half of the
total capacity is base gas which remains in the reservoirs at all times to provide the primary pressure which enables the balance of the gas to be withdrawn as needed.

Dominion Transmission operates 756 bcf of the total designed storage capacity and owns 514 bcf of Dominion’s capacity. Dominion Transmission utilizes a large portion of its turnable
capacity to provide approximately 242 bcf of gas storage service for others. This service is provided principally to local distributors, end users, and other customers serving the Northeast.

Two of Dominion’s gas distribution subsidiaries, Dominion East Ohio and Dominion Peoples, own and operate the remaining 203 bcf of storage capacity. In addition to owning their own
storage, these companies, as well as several of Dominion’s other subsidiaries, have access to a portion of the storage capacity operated by Dominion Transmission. The distribution subsidiaries also have capacity available in storage fields
owned by others. Dominion controls other acreage in the Appalachian area suitable for the development of additional storage facilities which would enable further expansion of capacity to meet possible future storage needs.



FUTURE SOURCES OF ENERGY

In March 2001, the Virginia Commission issued an order approving
Dominion’s application to make modifications to its Possum Point Power Station. The order approves Dominion’s plan to remove two existing oil-fired units from service, convert two existing coal-fired units to natural gas, and construct a
new 540 Mw combined cycle unit to be operational by May 2003.

Dominion has identified capacity expansion of more than 6,000 Mw
through 2006. This includes the Armstrong (600 Mw), Troy (600 Mw) and Pleasant (300 Mw) plants which will be operation in 2002, as well as the State Line acquisition (515 Mw) which is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2002.

Dominion plans to expand its natural gas transmission system with a $497 million, 263-mile interstate pipeline. Plans call for
the Greenbrier Pipeline to originate in Kanawha County, West Virginia, with connections to Dominion Transmission and Tennessee Gas pipelines, and extend through southwest Virginia and into Granville County, North Carolina. In September 2001,
Dominion announced that Piedmont Natural Gas would be a 33 percent owner in the pipeline project.

In 2001, Dominion announced
it would develop its Devils Tower field. The project will utilize a spar that can produce up to 60,000 barrels of oil per day. First production is expected in mid-2003. Dominion owns 75 percent working interest in Devils Tower, with Pioneer
Natural Resources Company owning the remaining 25 percent interest.

In November 2001, Dominion acquired Louis Dreyfus for
$1.8 billion in cash and Dominion common stock. The acquisition of Louis Dreyfus provided a 60 percent increase in Dominion’s proved gas and oil reserves.

ITEM 2.

PROPERTIES

Dominion owns the corporate office of its electric subsidiary. Substantially all of
Dominion’s electric subsidiary’s property is subject to the lien of a mortgage securing its First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds.

Dominion also leases its principal executive office in Richmond, Virginia as well corporate offices in other cities in which its subsidiaries operate.

Dominion’s assets consist primarily of its investments in its subsidiaries, the principal properties of which are described below.



Dominion Energy utilizes the electric generation facilities listed under the heading Sources of
Energy—Dominions’s Power Generation in Item 1. BUSINESS. Additionally, in connection with gas transmission and storage operations, Dominion Energy’s storage operation consists of 26 storage fields, 342,105 acres of operated
leaseholds, 2,069 storage wells and 822 miles of pipe. A significant portion of Dominion’s investment in gas transmission facilities is for 6,440 miles of pipe required to move large volumes of gas throughout Dominion’s operating area. The
map below illustrates Dominion’s gas transmission pipelines and storage facilities.

Dominion Energy also has 104 compressor stations with 555,628 installed compressor horsepower
located in Ohio, West Virginia, Pennsylvania and New York. Some of the stations are used interchangeably for several functions.

Dominion Delivery has approximately 6,000 miles of electric transmission lines. Right-of-way grants from the apparent owners of real estate have been obtained for most electric lines, but underlying titles have not been examined except for
transmission lines of 69 Kv or more. Where rights of way have not been obtained, they could be acquired from private owners by condemnation, if necessary. Many electric lines are on publicly owned property, where permission to operate can be
revoked. Portions of Dominion Delivery’s transmission lines cross national parks and forests under permits entitling the federal government to use, at specified charges, surplus capacity in the line if any exists.

Dominion Delivery’s investment in its gas distribution network is located in the states of Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia. The gas
distribution network includes 27,277 miles of pipe, exclusive of service pipe.

Information detailing Dominion’s oil and
gas production and proved gas and oil reserves is as follows:



Company-Owned Proved Gas and Oil Reserves

Estimated net quantities of proved gas and oil reserves at December 31 of each of the last three years were as follows:

Certain subsidiaries of Dominion file Form EIA-23 with the DOE. The difference
between the proved reserves reported on Form EIA-23 and the Company-owned proved reserves does not exceed five percent.

Estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2001 are based upon studies prepared by Dominion’s staff engineers and reviewed by Ralph E. Davis Associates, Inc. Calculations
were prepared using standard geological and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry and in accordance with SEC guidelines.



Quantities of Gas and Oil Produced

Quantities of gas and oil produced during each of the last three years ending December 31 follows:

The average sales price (including transfers to other operations as determined
under Financial Accounting Standards Board rules) per thousand cubic feet (mcf) of gas produced during the years 2001, 2000 and 1999 was $3.90, $3.10 and $2.06, respectively. The respective average sales prices for oil were $21.73, $22.88 and $13.55
per barrel. The average production (lifting) cost per mcf equivalent of gas and oil produced during the years 2001, 2000 and 1999 was $0.69, $0.49 and $0.71 respectively.

Net Wells Drilled in the Calendar Year

The number of net wells completed during each of
the last three years ending December 31 follows:

As of December 31, 2001, 116 gross (82 net) wells were in process of drilling,
including wells temporarily suspended.



Acreage

The following table sets forth the gross and net developed and undeveloped acreage of Dominion’s subsidiaries at December 31, 2001:

Productive Wells

The number of productive gas and oil wells in which Dominion’s subsidiaries had an interest at December 31, 2001, follow:

Includes 178 gross (69 net) multiple completion gas wells and 8 gross (3 net) multiple
completion oil wells.



ITEM 3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

From time to time, Dominion and its subsidiaries are alleged to be in violation or
in default under orders, statutes, rules or regulations relating to the environment, compliance plans, or permits issued by various local, state and federal agencies for the construction or operation of facilities. From time to time, there may be
administrative proceedings on these matters pending. In addition, in the normal course of business, Dominion and its subsidiaries are involved in various legal proceedings. Management believes that the ultimate resolution of these proceedings will
not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, liquidity or results of operations.

See REGULATION
under Item 1. BUSINESS, Rate Matters in Future Issues and Outlook of MD&A of the 2001 Annual Report, and Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2001 Annual Report for additional information on rate matters and various regulatory
proceedings to which Dominion is a party.

In August 1990, Dominion Transmission entered into a Consent Order and Agreement with
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) in which Dominion Transmission agreed with the DEP’s determination of certain violations of the Pennsylvania Solid Waste Management Act, the Pennsylvania Clean
Streams Law and related rules and regulations. No civil penalties have been assessed. The Order and Agreement requires Dominion Transmission to perform sampling, testing and analysis, and remediation at some of its Pennsylvania facilities. All
actions under the Order and Agreement have been substantially completed as of December 31, 2001.

Before being acquired by
Dominion, Louis Dreyfus was named as a defendant in several lawsuits originally filed in 1995 that were subsequently consolidated. The lawsuit is now pending in the Texas 93rd Judicial District Court in Hildago County, Texas. The lawsuit alleges
that gas wells and related pipeline facilities operated by Louis Dreyfus, and other facilities operated by other defendants, caused an underground hydrocarbon plume in McAllen, Texas. The plaintiffs claim that they have suffered damages, including
property damage and lost profits as a result of the plume and seek compensation for these items.

In July 1997, Jack Grynberg,
an oil and gas entrepreneur, brought suit against CNG and several of its subsidiaries. The suit seek damages for alleged fraudulent mismeasurement of gas volumes and underreporting of gas royalties from gas production taken from federal leases. In
April 2001, the U.S. District Court of the Eastern District of Wyoming issued an order denying a motion to dismiss filed by the defendants in this matter. The defendants in this matter have filed a motion to certify the case for appeal.

In April 1999, the Department of Justice (DOJ) notified Virginia Power of alleged noncompliance with the EPA’s oil spill
prevention, control and countermeasures (SPCC) plans and facility response plan (FRP) requirements at one of its power stations. In December 2001, Virginia Power reached a settlement agreement with the DOJ and EPA covering all alleged noncompliance
issues. The settlement will not have a material impact on Virginia Power’s financial condition or results of operations. Virginia Power also identified matters at other power stations that the EPA might view as not in compliance with the SPCC
and FRP requirements and reported these matters to the EPA, including its plans for correcting the issues.

In 1999, a class
action was filed by Quinque Operating Co. and others against approximately 300 defendants, including CNG and several of its subsidiaries, in Stevens County, Kansas. The complaint seeks damages for alleged fraud, misrepresentation, conversion
and assorted other claims, in the measurement and payment of gas royalties from privately held gas leases. The case has been remanded to the Kansas state court by the federal judge overseeing the Grynberg case. The plaintiffs will seek class
certification and expedited discovery in Kansas. The defendants have filed motions to dismiss the case.



During 2000, Virginia Power received a Notice of Violation from EPA alleging that the company
failed to obtain New Source Review permits under the Clean Air Act prior to undertaking specified construction projects at the Mt. Storm Power Station in West Virginia. The Attorney General of New York filed a suit against Virginia Power alleging
similar violations of the Clean Air Act at the Mt. Storm Power Station. Virginia Power also received notices from the Attorneys General of Connecticut and New Jersey of their intentions to file suit for similar violations. Management believes that
Virginia Power has obtained the necessary permits for its generating facilities. Virginia Power has reached an agreement in principle with the federal government and the state of New York to resolve this situation. The agreement in principle
includes payment of a $5 million civil penalty, a commitment of $14 million for environmental projects in Virginia, West Virginia, Connecticut, New Jersey and New York, and a 12-year, $1.2 billion capital investment program for environmental
improvements at Virginia Power’s coal-fired generating stations in Virginia and West Virginia. Dominion had already committed to a substantial portion of the $1.2 billion expenditures for SO


and NO

x

emissions controls.
The negotiations over the terms of a binding settlement have expanded beyond the basic agreement in principle and are ongoing.

In 2001, the Delaware Court of Chancery dismissed a Class Action Complaint that was filed against CNG and certain directors in 1999 upon the announcement of Dominion’s merger with CNG.

ITEM 4.

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT





PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Dominion Resources
common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. At December 31, 2001, there were approximately 184,000 registered shareholders, including approximately 94,000 certificate holders. Quarterly information concerning stock prices and dividends
contained in Note 32 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2001 Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001, filed as Exhibit 13 to this report on Form 10-K, is incorporated by reference.

ITEM 6.

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

This information contained under the caption ‘‘Selected
Consolidated Financial Data’’ on page 50 of the 2001 Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001, filed as Exhibit 13 to this report on Form 10-K, is incorporated by reference.

ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

This
information contained under the caption Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations on pages 31 through 50 of the 2001 Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001, filed as Exhibit 13 to
this Form 10-K, is incorporated by reference.

ITEM 7A.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

This information contained under the
following captions:

Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements That May Affect Future Results

Market Rate Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management

Commodity Price Risk—Trading Activities

Commodity Price Risk—Non-Trading Activities

Interest Rate Risk

Foreign Exchange Risk

Equity Price Risk

Risk
Management Policies

under Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations on pages 31 through 32 and pages 49
through 50 of the 2001 Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001, filed as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K, is incorporated by reference.

ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

This information contained in the Consolidated Financial
Statements on pages 25 through 30, pages 51 through 85 and the related report of Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent auditors, appearing on page 86 of the 2001 Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001, filed as Exhibit 13 to this
report on Form 10-K, is incorporated by reference.

ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.



PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Information regarding the directors of Dominion
contained in the 2002 Proxy Statement, under the heading The Board, File No. 1-8489, which will be filed on or around March 19, 2002 (the 2002 Proxy Statement), is incorporated by reference. Information regarding Section 16(a) beneficial ownership
is contained in the 2002 Proxy and is incorporated by reference. The information concerning the executive officers of Dominion required by this item is included in Part I of this Form 10-K under the caption EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information regarding executive compensation contained under the heading
Executive Compensation and the information regarding director compensation contained under the heading Compensation and Other Programs in the 2002 Proxy Statement, is incorporated by reference.

ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information concerning stock
ownership by directors and executive officers contained under the heading Share Ownership Table in the 2002 Proxy Statement, is incorporated by reference. There is no person known by Dominion to be the beneficial owner of more than five percent of
Dominion common stock.

ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information concerning certain transactions with
executive officers under the Stock Purchase and Loan Program contained under the heading Executive Compensation in the 2002 Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference.



PART IV

ITEM 14.

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  Certain documents
are filed as part of this Form 10-K and are incorporated by reference and found on the pages noted.

1.

Financial Statements

2.

Financial Statement Schedules

Page

Independent Auditors’ Report


Schedule II—Valuation and Qualifying Accounts


All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable, or the required
information is shown in the financial statements or the related notes.

3.

Exhibits











10.24*

Arrangements with certain executive officers regarding additional credited years of service for retirement and retirement life
insurance purposes (Exhibit 10(xxii), Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997, File No. 1-8489, incorporated by reference).





*

Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K

1.  Dominion filed a report on
Form 8-K, dated November 14, 2001, relating to the acquisition of Louis Dreyfus.

2.  Dominion filed
a report on Form 8-K/A, dated January 11, 2002, relating to required financial statement disclosures for the Louis Dreyfus acquisition.

3.  Dominion filed a report on Form 8-K, dated January 29, 2002, relating to Dominion’s press release announcing unaudited results of operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001.



INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of

Dominion Resources,
Inc.

Richmond, Virginia

We have audited the
consolidated financial statements of Dominion Resources, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2001, and have issued our report thereon dated January 22, 2002, which
report includes an explanatory paragraph as to a change in accounting principle for derivative instruments and hedging activities in 2001 and a change in the method of accounting used to develop the market-related value of pension plan assets in
2000; such consolidated financial statements and report are included in your 2001 Annual Report to Shareholders and are incorporated herein by reference. Our audits also included the consolidated financial statement schedule of Dominion Resources,
Inc. and subsidiaries, listed in Item 14. This consolidated financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such consolidated
financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

/s/ D

ELOITTE

& T

OUCHE

LLP

Richmond, Virginia

January 22, 2002



DOMINION RESOURCES, INC.

SCHEDULE II—VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

(a)

Represents net amounts charged off as uncollectible.

(b)

Amounts are adjustments reflecting changes in estimates.

(c)

Represents payments for workforce reductions and/or restructuring liabilities.

(d)

Includes balance of acquired company at date of acquisition



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.

Date: March 11, 2002

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 11th day of March, 2002.





DOMINION RESOURCES, INC.

PORTIONS

OF THE


ANNUAL REPORT

TO

SHAREHOLDERS

(Incorporated by Reference)

34