ITEM 1.        BUSINESS

Business Overview

Xylem, with2012revenue of$3.8 billion, is a world leader in the design, manufacturing, and application of highly engineered technologies for the water industry with approximately 12,700 employees. We are a leading equipment and service provider for water and wastewater applications with a broad portfolio of products and services addressing the full cycle of water, from collection, distribution and use to the return of water to the environment. We have leading market positions among equipment and service providers in the core application areas of the water equipment industry: transport, treatment, test, building services, industrial processing and irrigation. Our Company’s brands, such as Bell & Gossett and Flygt, are well known throughout the industry and have served the water market for many years.

We operate in two segments, Water Infrastructure and Applied Water. The Water Infrastructure segment focuses on the transportation, treatment and testing of water, offering a range of products including water and wastewater pumps, treatment and testing equipment, and controls and systems. Key brands in this segment include Flygt, Wedeco, Godwin Pumps, WTW, Sanitaire, YSI and Leopold. The Applied Water segment encompasses the uses of water and focuses on the residential, commercial, industrial and agricultural markets. The segment’s major products include pumps, valves, heat exchangers, controls and dispensing equipment. Key brands in this segment include Goulds Water Technology, Bell & Gossett, AC Fire, Standard, Flojet, Lowara, Jabsco and Flowtronex. In both our segments, we benefit from a large and growing installed base of products driving growth in aftermarket revenue for replacement parts and services.

We serve a global customer base across diverse end markets while offering localized expertise. We sell our products in more than 150 countries through a balanced distribution network consisting of our direct sales force and independent channel partners. In2012, approximately63%of our revenues were generated outside the United States.












Our Industry

Our planet faces a serious water challenge. Less than 1% of the total water available on earth is fresh water, and this percentage is declining due to factors such as the draining of aquifers, increased pollution and climate change. In addition, demand for fresh water is rising rapidly due to population growth, industrial expansion, and increased agricultural development, with consumption estimated to double every 20 years. By 2025, over 30% of the world’s population is expected to live in areas without adequate water supply. Even in developed countries with sufficient supply, existing infrastructure for water supply is relatively underfunded and aging. In the United States, degrading pipe systems leak one out of every six gallons of water, on average, on its way from a treatment plant to the customer. These challenges are driving opportunities for growth in the global water industry, which we estimate to have a total market size of approximately$500 billion.

The water industry supply chain is comprised of Equipment and Services companies, Design and Build service providers, and water utilities. Equipment and Service providers serve two distinct customer types. The first, utilities, supply water through an infrastructure network. Companies that operate on this side of the supply chain provide single, or sometimes combined, functions from equipment manufacturing and services to facility design (engineering, procurement and construction, or “EPC” firms) to plant operations (utilities), as depicted below in Figure 1. The utility and EPC customers are looking for technology and application expertise from their Equipment and Services providers, due to trends such as rising pollution, stricter regulations, and the increased outsourcing of process knowledge. The second customer type, the end users of water, comprises a wide array of entities, ranging from farms to power plants to residential homes. These customers are predominately served through specialized distributors and original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”).



Figure 1: Water Industry Supply Chain, based upon Global Water Intelligence’s “Global Water Market 2011” and Management Estimates

Our business focuses on the beginning of the supply chain by providing technology-intensive equipment and services. We sell our equipment and services via direct and indirect channels that serve the needs of each customer type. On the utility side, we provide over 70% direct sales with strong application expertise, with the remaining amount going through distribution partners. To end users of water, we provide over 85% of our sales through long-standing relationships with the world’s leading distributors, with the remainder going direct to customers. The total market opportunity for this Equipment and Services portion of the water industry supply chain is estimated at approximately $280 billion.

The Equipment and Services market addresses the key processes of the water industry, which are best illustrated through the cycle of water, as depicted in Figure 2, below. We believe this industry has two distinct sectors within the cycle of water: Supply Infrastructure and Usage Applications. The key processes of this cycle begin when raw water is extracted by pumps, which provide the necessary pressure and flow, to move, or Transport, this water from natural sources, such as lakes, oceans or aquifers, through pipes to a treatment facility. Treatment facilities can provide many forms of treatment, such as filtration, disinfection and desalination, to remove solids, bacteria, and










salt, respectively. A network of pipes and pumps again Transports this clean water to where it is needed, such as to crops for Irrigation, to power plants to provide cooling in Industrial Water, or to an apartment building as drinking water in residential and commercial buildings. After usage, the wastewater is collected by a separate network of pipes and pumps and transported to a wastewater treatment facility, where processes such as digestion deactivate and reduce the volume of solids, and disinfection purifies effluent water. Once treated, analytical instruments Test the treated water to ensure regulatory requirements are met so that it can be discharged back to the environment, thereby completing the cycle.



Figure 2: Cycle of Water

Our two operating segments are aligned with each of the sectors in the cycle of water: Water Infrastructure serves the Supply Infrastructure sector, and Applied Water serves the Usage Applications sector. Within the Supply Infrastructure sector, our pump systems Transport water from aquifers, lakes, rivers and seas. From there, our filtration, UV and ozone systems provide Treatment, making the water fit for use. After consumption, our pump lift stations move the wastewater to treatment facilities where our mixers, biological treatment, monitoring, and control systems provide the primary functions in the treatment process. Throughout each of these stages, our analytical systems Test to ensure quality of water for consumption as well as for return to nature. Our served market size in this sector is approximately $20 billion.

In the Usage Applications sector, we participate in all major areas of water demand. Agricultural Irrigation constitutes approximately 70% of all water usage globally. Examples of what we provide include: boosting systems for farming irrigation, pumps for dairy operations, and rainwater reuse systems for small scale crop and turf irrigation. Industrial Processing applications account for approximately 20% of global consumption. Our pumps, heat exchangers, valves and controls provide cooling to power plants and manufacturing facilities, as well as circulation for food and beverage processing. The remaining 10% of global water use resides in human and building consumption, where we deliver water boosting systems for drinking, heating, ventilation and air conditioning ("HVAC") and fire protection systems to Residential and Commercial Building Services. Our served market size in this sector is estimated at $15 billion.

Customers in the water industry vary by end market. Two end markets exist within the Supply Infrastructure sector: public utility and industrial, representing 85% and 15% of the total equipment and services market, respectively. The public utility market comprises public, private and public-private institutions that handle water and wastewater for mostly residential and commercial purposes. The industrial market involves the supply of water and removal of wastewater for industrial facilities. We view the main macro drivers of this sector to be water quality, the desire for energy-efficient products, water scarcity and infrastructure needs, for both the repair of aging systems in developed countries as well as new installations in emerging markets. These markets tend to be less cyclical and are estimated to grow annually in the low to mid-single digits through 2015, according to management estimates.










In the Usage Applications sector, end-use customers fall into four main markets: residential, commercial, industrial and agricultural. Homeowners represent the end users in the residential market. Owners and managers of properties such as apartment buildings, retail stores, restaurants, hospitals, and hotels are examples of end users in the commercial market. The industrial market is wide ranging, involving developers and managers of facilities operated by electrical power generators, chemical manufacturers, machine shops, clothing manufacturers, beverage production and dispensing firms, and car washes. The agricultural market end users are owners and operators of businesses such as crop and livestock farms, aquaculture, golf courses, and other turf applications. We believe population growth and urbanization are the two primary macro drivers of these markets, as these trends drive the need for housing, food, community services and retail goods within growing city centers. Water reuse and conservation are driving the need for new technologies. Annual total market growth in these industrial, commercial, residential, and agricultural markets is estimated to be in the low to mid-single digits through 2015, according to management estimates.

Business Strategy

Our strategy is focused on enhancing shareholder value by providing solutions for our customers and by growing revenues, both organically and through strategic acquisitions, as well as streamlining our cost structure. Key elements of our strategy are summarized below:

•Differentiated Portfolio of Offerings.We will continue to extend leading market positions where we have a strong competitive position, cost leadership and proven technology. In addition, we will invest in the differentiation of our core product lines to build on our strong product and application expertise. We also plan to expand into adjacent and complementary technologies, as demonstrated by our recent acquisitions of analytical instrumentation and dewatering solutions businesses.

•Drive Customer Excellence Initiatives.Our global customer excellence initiative, deploying people, processes and tools to make our sales and marketing teams more effective and efficient in serving our customers continues to drive commercial performance. We have trained approximately 80% of our front-line sales agents under this initiative and have a team of customer excellence leaders to support continued program roll-out and updating. In addition, we have launched digital selling tools, which improve our value propositions, and have built a strategic accounts program to focus on our most important customers. These efforts have already improved the revenue generated per sales agent across our businesses. We will continue to make investments in customer relationship management, mobile technologies, customer applications and other technologies that improve our knowledge of customers and the critical activities that drive growth.

•Investing in New Technology and Innovation.We will continue to make targeted investments in research and development activities to develop breakthrough products and solutions. We will continue to pursue and execute a robust pipeline of opportunities in core and emerging markets. We have established a wastewater Center of Excellence in Stockholm, Sweden, with more than 100 research, development and engineering employees. We have also established engineering Centers of Excellence in India and China, where we are accelerating the customization of our application expertise to local needs. Our engineers will continue to work closely with our customers in an effort to identify new applications for our products and develop new technologies and solutions to further expand our current portfolio.

•Build on Our Presence in Fast-Growing Emerging Markets.Urbanization trends and growth in the middle class in developing countries are generating significant demand for water applications. We intend to continue to capture this growth by further expanding into emerging markets, such as China, India and Latin America. We plan to leverage our strong global reach, manufacturing footprint and extensive distribution network to capitalize on growth opportunities in these regions. We will continue to establish and reinforce local capabilities by growing our local presence in these markets with investments in sales, marketing and manufacturing capabilities globally.

•Execute Disciplined Acquisitions.Acquisitions are an important part of our growth strategy. Certain segments of the global water industry we serve are highly fragmented, providing numerous acquisition opportunities. We have completed and integrated 15 acquisitions over the past five years, including Godwin Pumps, Nova Analytics, YSI Incorporated, OI Corporation, MJK Automation and Heartland Pumps and we will selectively pursue acquisitions that will broaden our core product portfolio, expand our geographic footprint and enhance our position in strategic markets.

•Driving Business Efficiencies.We will continue to maintain focus on improving the efficiency and effectiveness in all we do. We are committed to optimizing our cost structure and simplifying the business by










streamlining product relationships across our businesses. We have announced our plan to simplify our business in Europe through restructuring and realignment actions in 2013 which will better position the Company for the future. We will also continue to align the Company to leverage our existing cost structure and scale of product reach into a greater competitive advantage.

Business Segments

We operate in two business segments that are aligned with the cycle of water and the key strategic market applications they provide: Water Infrastructure (collection, distribution, return) and Applied Water (usage). See Note 20, “Industry Segment and Geographic Data” in our consolidated financial statements for financial information about segments and geographic areas.

The table and descriptions below provide an overview of our business segments.



MarketApplications2012 Revenue%RevenueMajor ProductsPrimary BrandsWater InfrastructureTransport$1,74573%•   Water and wastewater pumps•   Filtration, disinfection and biological treatment equipment•   Test equipment•   Controls•   Flygt•   WEDECO•   Godwin Pumps•   WTW•   Sanitaire•   YSI•   LeopoldTreatment36615%Test29812%$2,409100%Applied WaterBuilding Services$73653%•   Pumps•   Valves•   Heat exchangers•   Controls•   Dispensingequipment systems•   Goulds Water Technology•   Bell & Gossett•   AC Fire•   Standard•   Lowara•   Jabsco•   Flojet•   FlowtronexIndustrial Water55040%Irrigation967%$1,382100%

In recent years, we have expanded our capabilities in Treatment, the cleaning of water and wastewater, and Test, the measurement of water characteristics such as quality. Both of these application areas, Treatment and Test, reside within the Water Infrastructure segment.

Water Infrastructure

Water Infrastructure involves the process that collects water from a source and distributes it to users, and then returns the wastewater responsibly to the environment. Water Infrastructure serves three basic closely linked applications: Transport, Treatment and Test of water and wastewater for two types of customers: public utilities and industrial facilities.










Transport

The Transport application includes all of the equipment and services involved in the safe and efficient movement of water from sources such as oceans, lakes, rivers and ground water, to treatment facilities, and then to users. It also includes the movement of wastewater from the point of use to a treatment facility and then back into the environment. We serve the higher-value equipment markets, such as water and wastewater submersible pumps, monitoring controls, and application solutions; we do not serve the market for lower-value equipment such as pipes and fittings. We believe our business is the largest player in this served market based on management estimates. With operations on six continents, we also have the world’s largest dewatering rental fleet, serviced with our Flygt and Godwin brands. In our Water Infrastructure Segment, Transport accounted for approximately73%of our segment revenue in both2012and2011.

Flygt — Flygt is the world’s premier manufacturer of submersible pumps and mixers for use in environments such as water and wastewater treatment, raw water supply, abrasive or contaminated industrial processes, mining and crop irrigation. The Flygt brand was founded in 1901 in Lindås, Sweden and developed the world’s first submersible close-coupled motor-driven pump. Flygt products have leading non-clogging capabilities and innovative N-technology, which provide customers with highly sustainable efficiencies and lowest total cost of ownership. Flygt products have applications in various markets, including wastewater lift stations, water and wastewater treatment facilities, pressurized sewage systems, oil and gas, steel, mining and leisure markets. Customers include public utility wastewater and clean water treatment facilities, oil and gas platforms, and steel manufacturing companies. As an example, Flygt recently served the village of Hartland, WI, population 8,350, located in Wisconsin’s Lake Country. The Hartland Department of Public Works ("DPW") is, among other things, responsible for operation and maintenance of sanitary sewers, lift stations and manholes. The DPW had experienced a range of problems resulting from ongoing clogging of the pumps in their collection-system lift stations. Replacing the pumps with self-cleaning Flygt N-pumps eliminated the clogging as well as unscheduled and costly service calls.

Godwin Pumps — With more than 35 years as a leader in pump manufacturing and applications, Godwin Pumps ("Godwin") has established itself as a well-recognized, market leading brand in the global portable pump market. Godwin manufactures, sells, rents and services their products. Their quick response and 24/7 capabilities allow them to provide customized pumping solutions to meet the specific needs of their customers. Founded in Quenington, England, Godwin Pumps is currently headquartered in Bridgeport, NJ. Godwin Pumps’ products include the fully automatic self-priming Dri-Prime pump, a full range of Flygt electric submersible pumps, Heidra hydraulic submersible pumps, Wet-Prime gasoline-powered contractor pumps and a broad line of generators and portable light towers, as well as a multitude of pumping accessories and pipe. Godwin products are primarily used in construction, industrial mining, municipal, oil & gas markets, fracking, as well as environmental marine, agriculture, temporary fire protection and water & wastewater transport. Godwin products are also instrumental in disaster relief and aversion efforts. Godwin’s fleet of equipment is rented through 41 U.S. branches and a global network of distributors and Xylem rental & sales facilities.

Treatment

The Treatment application includes equipment and services that treat both water for consumption and wastewater to be returned responsibly to the environment. Primary served markets include public utilities and industrial operations. While there are several treatment solutions in the market today, we focus on three basic treatment types: (i) filtration, (ii) disinfection and (iii) biological treatment systems. Filtration uses gravity-based media filters and clarifiers to clean both water and wastewater. Leopold, with more than 80 years of experience, is our leading filtration brand. Disinfection systems, both ultraviolet ("UV") and ozone oxidation, treat both public utility drinking water and wastewater, as well as industrial process water, and are provided through our WEDECO brand. Biological treatment systems are key to the treatment of solids in wastewater plants, which are provided through our Sanitaire brand. We believe our business is the largest player in this served market based on management estimates. In our Water Infrastructure Segment, Treatment accounted for approximately15%of our segment revenue in2012and 18% in2011.

Leopold — Founded in 1924 in Pittsburgh, PA, Leopold is a leader in rapid gravity media filtration and clarification solutions for the water and wastewater industry. In potable drinking water treatment plants, the Clari-DAF system is used to clarify raw water to remove contaminants such as turbidity, algae, color, iron/ manganese, organics, and taste and odor compounds. Several years ago, we augmented our filtration products with membrane technology. Our filtration products include the rapid gravity media, membranes and reverse osmosis/ultrafine filtration. Leopold gravity media filtration is used in potable water treatment plants to remove particulate in the final filtration step. In public utility wastewater treatment plants, the ClariVAC system is used in final clarifiers to remove the sludge solids.










For those areas where nitrogen and phosphorus nutrient removal is required, we provide elimi-NITE systems which convert the filters to become biologically active so that the effluent meets the mandated nitrate and phosphorus levels. In desalination systems, Leopold Clari-DAF systems and Filterworx systems are provided to remove contaminants that will harm reverse osmosis membranes, so that salt can be removed from the seawater to make it potable. Primary customers are public utility water and wastewater systems, as well as desalination plant facilities.

WEDECO — WEDECO was founded in 1975 in Herford, Germany to develop chemical-free and environmentally friendly water treatment technologies, including ultraviolet light and ozone systems. There are more than 250,000 installed WEDECO systems for UV disinfection and ozone oxidation globally in private, public utility and industrial locations. WEDECO introduced ozone technology in 1988 and has been expanding internationally ever since. UV disinfection systems have a number of applications including water treatment and aquaculture. Ozone disinfection systems have applications in drinking water, wastewater, process water, product polishing, bleaching, ozonolysis/synthesis and desodoration. Customers include public utility wastewater and clean water treatment facilities, power plants, pulp and paper mills, food products manufacturers and aquaculture facilities.

Sanitaire — Launched in 1967, the Sanitaire brand provides complete biological wastewater treatment solutions for public utility and industrial applications. Sanitaire’s comprehensive offering includes diffused aeration, sequencing batch reactors, drum filters and state-of-the-art controls that drive efficient operations. Sanitaire is regarded as a leading brand in diffused aeration, which is a process that introduces air into a liquid, providing an aerobic environment for degradation of organic matter. Fine-pore diffusion of air is highly competitive due to its high oxygen transfer efficiency and lower energy costs. Sanitaire wide-band aeration systems are used in applications such as grit chambers and sludge that require non-clogging, maintenance-free systems. Principal Sanitaire customers are public utility and industrial wastewater treatment facilities.

Test

Analytical instrumentation is used across most industries to ensure regulatory requirements are met. Growth in this market is primarily driven by increasing regulation of water and wastewater in North America, Europe and Asia. Our served market is predominately focused on water and the environment for quality levels throughout the water infrastructure loop. Analytical systems are applied in three primary ways: in the field, in a facility laboratory, or real time, online monitoring in a treatment facility process. We believe we have a leading position in this served market based on management estimates. In our Water Infrastructure Segment, Test accounted for approximately12%of our segment revenue in2012and 9% in2011.

WTW — In wastewater treatment facilities, WTW-branded systems monitor parameters such as dissolved oxygen, pH, and turbidity throughout the water process to ensure regulatory standards are met before water is discharged back into the environment. Founded in 1945 as a major brand in Europe, WTW has particularly strong market penetration in the environmental, water and wastewater segments. WTW holds leading market positions in both field and on-line instrumentation and manufactures premium positioned robust and reliable analysis products for the measurement of pH, dissolved oxygen, conductivity, total dissolved solids, turbidity, specific ions and biological oxygen demand. WTW’s product offering includes meters, sensors, data-loggers, photometers and software providing customer solutions for even the most challenging applications.

YSI — Yellow Springs Instrument Company ("YSI"), founded in 1948, develops and manufactures sensors, instruments, software and data collection platforms for environmental and coastal water quality monitoring and testing. YSI also offers Life Sciences products including biochemical analyzers for bioprocess monitoring, food and beverage processing, and sports physiology. The main market areas are marine transportation, environmental and ocean research, oil and gas, aquaculture, road and traffic, and construction.

OI Analytical — Oceanography International Corporation ("OIC"), founded in 1969, provides innovative products used for chemical analysis. We develop, manufacture, sell, and service analytical instruments that detect, measure, analyze, and monitor chemicals in liquids, solids, and gases. OIC was originally focused on oceanography equipment. This led to OIC’s production of water-quality measurement instrumentation, as oceanography equipment sales declined. OIC developed the Company’s first total organic carbon analyzer. Since that time, the Company has become recognized worldwide as a provider of quality analytical instrumentation. We also provide products used to digest, extract, and separate components of chemical mixtures.

AADI — Aanderaa Data Instruments AS ("AADI"), founded in 1966 and headquartered in Bergen, Norway, offers sensors, instruments and systems for measuring and monitoring in the most demanding environments such as rivers, oceans and the polar regions through fully networked systems using wireless technology that monitors temperature, salinity, oxygen, turbidity, current and waves for ecosystem health. The main market areas are marine










transportation, environmental and ocean research, oil and gas, aquaculture, road and traffic, and construction. AADI’s new technologies underlie the most advanced distributed instrumentation for underwater and atmospheric measurements. Hydro-acoustic, electro-optical, electro-chemical, pressure, temperature and meteorological data are captured by observing networks and self-contained instrumentation using real-time communication. Key customers include many oceanographic institutes, universities, geophysical surveyors, navies, offshore oil and gas companies, drilling companies, port and harbor authorities, government agencies, water authorities and international electric power utilities.

Applied Water

Applied Water encompasses the uses of water. Since water is used to some degree in almost every aspect of human, economic and environmental activity, this segment has innumerable applications. Our served market today consists of the main uses of global water: Building Services, Industrial Water and Irrigation.

Building Services

This business is defined by four main uses of water in building services applications, such as in residential homes and commercial buildings, including offices, hotels, restaurants and malls. The first is the supply of potable water for consumption, such as for drinking and hygiene. The Goulds Water Technology brand is a leader in pumps and boosting systems utilized within buildings, sourcing water from distribution networks or from wells. The second application is wastewater removal with sump and sewage pumps. The third application is in HVAC, where Bell & Gossett specializes in pumps and valves that are used in water-based heating and cooling systems. The fourth water-related building service area is fire protection, where our AC Fire brand supplies full pump systems for emergency fire suppression. In Europe, Lowara is a leading brand in the commercial and residential water market with applications in the four main uses of water. We believe our business is the second largest player in this served market based on management estimates. In our Applied Water Segment, Building Services accounted for approximately53%of our segment revenue in2012and 51% in2011.

Industrial Water

Water is used in most industrial facilities to provide processing steps such as cooling, cleaning and mixing. Our Goulds Water Technology brand supplies vertical multistage pumps to boost pressure for purposes such as circulating water through a manufacturing facility to cool machine tools. Our Lowara brand focuses on water treatment, industrial washing equipment and machine tool cooling. Our Standard brand delivers heat exchangers for combined heat and power ("CHP") applications within power generation plants. We also provide niche applications such as flexible impeller pumps for wine processing facilities served by our Jabsco brand, and water-based detergent dispensing and water circulation within car washes served by Flojet and Goulds Water Technology air-operated diaphragm and end suction pumps. Across all these various end applications, we believe our business is the second largest player in this served market based on management estimates. In our Applied Water Segment, Industrial Water accounted for approximately40%of our segment revenue in2012and 42% in2011.

Irrigation

The irrigation business consists of irrigation-related equipment and services associated with bringing water from a source to the plant or livestock need, including hoses, sprinklers, center pivot and drip irrigation. We focus on the pumps and boosting systems that supply this ancillary equipment with water. Our Goulds Water Technology brand brings mixed flow pumps, and our Flowtronex group specializes in equipment solutions such as the Hydrovar boosting system, which incorporates monitoring and controls to optimize energy efficiency in irrigation delivery. Our Lowara brand also produces pumps for agriculture applications and irrigation of gardens and parks. We believe we have a leading position in this served market based on management estimates. In our Applied Water Segment, Irrigation accounted for approximately7%of our segment revenue in2012and 7% in2011.

As described above, the following brands and products are used across the applications in our Applied Water segment:

Our Brands

Goulds Water Technology — With origins dating back more than 150 years, Goulds Water Technology is a leading brand of centrifugal and turbine pumps, controllers, variable frequency drives and accessories for residential and commercial water supply and wastewater applications. Goulds Water Technology is a leader in the water technologies market with its line of residential water well pumps. The Goulds Water Technology product portfolio










includes submersible and line shaft turbine, 4” submersible, jet, sump, effluent, sewage and centrifugal pumps for residential, agriculture and irrigation, sewage and drainage, commercial and light industrial use. Goulds Water Technology submersible, deepwell or other pumps can be found in more than a quarter of the existing 15 million household wells and more than 380,000 public and community wells in the United States. Products for commercial wastewater include sewage, effluent and grinder pumps and packages. Agriculture products include pump and control products for irrigation, stockwater, wash systems, cooling systems and waste management, with turf irrigation products, including submersible and surface pumps for landscape and turf irrigation systems. We serve the building trades market with filtration, chilling, pressure boost, wash system, water supply, wastewater and boiler feed applications. We also have a range of standard cast iron and bronze end-suction and multistage pumps for various commercial applications.

Lowara — Founded in 1968, and headquartered in Vicenza, Italy, Lowara is a leader in stainless steel pump manufacturing technology for water technology applications. The Lowara range includes submersible, sump, effluent, sewage, centrifugal pumps and booster packages for water supply and water pumping needs in the residential, agriculture, industrial, public utility, building service and commercial markets worldwide, with particular strength in Europe. Residential applications include pumps for pressurization, conditioning, fire-fighting systems, lifting stations and dewatering. Agriculture applications include pumps for irrigation of gardens and parks. Industrial applications include drinking water, water treatment, industrial washing equipment and machine tool cooling. As an example of how Lowara has served the commercial building services market, seven Lowara water booster sets are used for even pressure water supply in the world’s tallest building, the “Burj Khalifa” in the United Arab Emirates.

Bell & Gossett — Founded in 1916 in Chicago, IL, Bell & Gossett ("B&G") has been headquartered in Morton Grove, IL since 1941. B&G is a leader in plumbing and water-based heating and air conditioning markets. Products are used in residential applications where single- or multi-family homes are heated with hot water or steam. Key products include circulating pumps, valves, and specialty products used in these systems. B&G also sells wastewater pumps for residential applications. In commercial applications, B&G provides a broad range of products, including a wide variety of pumps, heat exchangers, valves and controls for heating and air-conditioning systems, sump pumps for wastewater systems, condensate pumping systems for steam heating systems and a comprehensive line of energy-saving variable speed controls. Training is provided for Building System Design Engineers at B&G’s industry renowned Little Red Schoolhouse in Morton Grove. Key commercial building types include hospitals, schools, and data centers. B&G products are sold globally by independent manufacturer representatives and distributed locally by HVAC wholesalers. B&G recently sold some of its largest pumps to the new Children’s Memorial Hospital building in Chicago, IL. These pumps will circulate chilled water throughout the building to provide air-conditioning for the occupants.

A-C Fire Pump — Allis-Chalmers Company ("A-C Fire Pump") was founded in the 1840s in Milwaukee, WI. It offers turnkey fire pump systems for commercial, residential and industrial applications. A-C Fire Pump designs and custom-builds a wide range of fire pump systems, including prefabricated packages and house units that meet every fire protection need. A-C Fire Pump products include In-Line Pumps, Vertical Turbine, Package Systems, Split Case (various series) and 13D Home Defender for residential fire pump service. The 13D Home Defender is designed to boost water pressure for automatic residential sprinkler systems. In addition to residential applications, turnkey fire pumping systems from A-C Fire Pump protect an increasing number of petrochemical facilities, commercial buildings and factories around the world.

Flowtronex — Flowtronex, founded in 1974 as Pumping Systems, Inc., began by producing some of the golf industry’s first prefabricated water pumping systems. The Silent Storm package and Pace Integrated Pump Controller are our two primary products sold into the golf market. In landscape, Flowtronex products, primarily the Floboy system, are sold to customers such as cities and nurseries. In golf, Flowtronex products are sold to golf course superintendents through our Toro Distribution partnership. Retrofit sales of golf pumping systems are sold through our FlowNet Service Network, a group of factory authorized service technicians that provide set up and start up, and service and repair of Flowtronex pump stations.

Standard — For close to 90 years, Standard has been the leader in the design and manufacture of shell and tube heat exchangers. Standard is the brand of our complete line of heat transfer products used in industrial and process applications such as heating or cooling liquids or gases, heat recovery in chemical processing, power and co-generation, paper and pulp, OEM and commercial marine markets. Products include basic shell-and-tube heat exchangers, air coolers, heat transfer coils, compact brazed, welded, gasketed plate units and packaged steam condensers.










Jabsco — The Jabsco brand is known for its marine, industrial, and hygienic/sanitary pumps and systems that are used in many industries, including marine, industrial, healthcare and food processing. It was founded in 1941 by the inventors of the flexible impeller pump. Jabsco is a leader in the leisure marine market, with a broad range of products including water system, engine cooling pumps, searchlights and marine waste systems. Jabsco also offers industrial pumps for hygienic applications, fluid transfer in chemical processing, laboratory, paint processing, plating, and construction. Jabsco rotary lobe pumps offer outstanding performance with unique capabilities. Jabsco Hy-line and Ultima rotary lobe pumps support food and dairy product production, healthcare, chemical, pharmaceutical and biotech applications, whether the product is thin, viscous or fragile. Jabsco also offers multi-purpose and specialized flexible impeller, diaphragm and sliding vane pumps for chemical and general transfer applications.

Flojet — Established in 1975, the Flojet brand encompasses a broad range of small pumps, motors and dispensing pumps for the beverage, industrial, RV, marine and food processing markets. Flojet is a leader in the small pump market, offering a versatile range of products serving the beverage market, including both air- and motor-operated diaphragm pumps and centrifugal chilling pumps, as well as booster systems and accumulator tanks. Flojet’s beverage pumps can be found in applications such as beer dispensing, syrup mixing for carbonated drinks, re-circulation in vending machines and refrigerators, bottled water dispensers, icemakers and coffee machines. In addition to significant beverage applications, Flojet’s electric and air-operated diaphragm pumps are utilized in street sweepers, car washes, carpet cleaners, parts washers, agricultural spraying and road rollers. Flojet’s positive displacement diaphragm pumps can be driven by air, electric motor or solenoid. The positive displacement diaphragm design of Flojet pumps makes them ideal for use in conditions that require self-priming and dry running capability for short periods of time. Additionally, the compact size of these pumps makes them very useful in tight spaces where one cannot ensure a flooded suction. Flojet pumps are designed to be more efficient and are often the choice of customers for applications where low power consumption is critical.

Geographic Profile

In addition to the traditional markets of the United States and Western Europe, opportunities in emerging markets within Asia Pacific, Eastern Europe, Latin America and other countries are growing. Revenue derived from emerging markets comprised20%of our revenue in2012including growth in Latin America and the Middle East.

The table below illustrates the property, plant & equipment, by geographic area, and annual revenue for each of the three years endedDecember 31, 2012.



(in millions)RevenueProperty, Plant & Equipment201220112010201220112010United States$1,400$1,363$1,125$183$178$168Europe1,3381,4221,262219209219Asia Pacific469426343655749Other584592472201918Total$3,791$3,803$3,202$487$463$454

Percentage of revenue by geographic area

201220112010United States37%36%35%Europe35%37%39%Asia Pacific12%11%11%Other16%16%15%

Distribution, Training and End Use

Water Infrastructure provides more than 70% of its sales through direct channels with remaining sales through indirect channels and service capabilities. Both public utility and industrial facility customers increasingly require our teams’ global but locally proficient expertise to use our equipment in their specific applications. Several trends are










increasing the need for this application expertise: (i) the increase in type and amount of contaminants in water supply, (ii) increasing environmental regulations, (iii) the need to increase system efficiencies due to rising energy costs, and (iv) the retirement of a largely aging water industry workforce not systematically replaced at utilities.

In the Applied Water segment, many end-use areas are widely different, so specialized distribution partners are often preferred. Our commercial teams have built long-standing relationships around our brands in many of these industries through which we can continue to leverage new product and service applications. Revenue opportunities are balanced between OEM and after-market customers. Our products in the Applied Water segment are sold through our global direct sales and world-class indirect channels with more than 85% of revenue going through indirect channels. We have long-standing relationships with the leading independent distributors in the markets we serve, and we provide incentives to distributors, such as specialized training programs, to sell our products exclusively.

Aftermarket Parts and Service

We have more than 120 service centers around the world which employ approximately 600 service employees to provide aftermarket parts and services to our customers. During their lifecycle, installed products require maintenance, repair services and parts due to the harsh environments in which they operate.

In addition, depending on the type of product, median lifecycles range from 5 years to over 50 years, at which time they must be replaced. Many of our products are precisely selected and applied within a larger network of equipment driving a strong preference by customers and installers to replace them with the same exact brand and model when they reach the end of their lifecycle. This dynamic establishes a large recurring revenue stream for our business.

Supply and Seasonality

We have a global manufacturing footprint, with production facilities in Europe, North America, Latin America, and Asia. In addition, we maintain a global network of service centers providing after-market customer care. Service centers offer an array of integrated service solutions for the industry including: preventive monitoring, contract maintenance, emergency field service, engineered upgrades, inventory management, and overhauls for pumps and other rotating equipment.

We offer a wide range of highly engineered products. We primarily employ configure-to-order capabilities to maximize manufacturing and logistics efficiencies by producing high volumes of basic product configurations. When we provide a configure-to-order solution, we configure a standard product to our customers’ specifications. To a lesser extent, we provide engineer-to-order products to meet the customization requirements of our customers. This process requires that we apply our technical expertise and production capabilities to provide a non-standard solution to the customer.

Our inventory management and distribution practices seek to minimize inventory holding periods by taking delivery of the inventory and manufacturing immediately prior to the sale or distribution of products to our customers. All of our businesses require various parts and raw materials, of which the availability and prices may fluctuate. Parts and raw materials commonly used in our products include motors, fabricated parts, castings, bearings, seals, nickel, copper, aluminum, and plastics. While we may recover some cost increases through operational improvements, we are still exposed to some pricing risk. We attempt to control costs through fixed-priced contracts with suppliers and various other programs, such as our global strategic sourcing initiative.

Our business relies on third-party suppliers, contract manufacturing and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts and components used in our products. We typically acquire materials and components through a combination of blanket and scheduled purchase orders to support our materials requirements. For most of our products, we have existing alternate sources of supply, or such sources are readily available.

We may experience price volatility or supply constraints for materials that are not available from multiple sources. From time to time, we acquire certain inventory in anticipation of supply constraints or enter into longer-term pricing commitments with vendors to improve the priority, price and availability of supply. There have been no raw material shortages that have had a significant adverse impact on our business as a whole.

Our Water Infrastructure and Applied Water segments experience some modest level of seasonality in its business. Water Infrastructure's revenue is generally higher in the fourth quarter and lower in the first quarter as a result of capital spending patterns of its customer base as well as weather patterns primarily in North America. Applied










Water's seasonality is primarily driven by its HVAC, Residential Pumps and Irrigations businesses, resulting in higher revenues during the second and third quarters of the year.

Customers

Our business is not dependent on any single customer or a few customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on the respective market or on us as a whole. No individual customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated2012revenue.

Backlog

Delivery schedules vary from customer to customer based upon their requirements. Typically, large projects require longer lead production cycles and delays can occur from time to time. Total backlog was$647 millionatDecember 31, 2012and$651 millionatDecember 31, 2011. We anticipate that in excess of90%of the backlog atDecember 31, 2012will be recognized as revenue during2013.

Competition

Given the highly fragmented nature of the water industry, Water Infrastructure competes with a large number of businesses. Competition in the water transport and treatment technologies markets focuses on product performance, application expertise, design, quality, delivery, and price. In the sale of products and services, we benefit from our large installed base of pumps and complementary products, which require maintenance, repair and replacement parts due to the nature of the products and the conditions under which they operate. Timeliness of delivery, quality and the proximity of service centers are important customer considerations when selecting a provider for after-market products and services as well as equipment rentals. In geographic regions where we are locally positioned to provide a quick response, customers have historically relied on us, rather than our competitors, for after-market products relating to our highly engineered and customized solutions. Our key competitors within the Water Infrastructure segment include KSB Inc., Sulzer Ltd., Siemens AG, Danaher Corporation, Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. and Pentair Ltd.

Competition in the Applied Water segment focuses on brand names, application expertise, product delivery and performance, quality, and price. We compete by offering a wide variety of innovative and high-quality products, coupled with world-class application expertise. We believe our distribution through well-established channels and our reputation for quality significantly enhance our market position. Our ability to deliver innovative product offerings has allowed us to compete effectively, to cultivate and maintain customer relationships and to serve and expand into many niche and new markets. Our key competitors within the Applied Water segment include Grundfos, Wilo SE, Pentair Ltd., Franklin Electric Co., Inc. and KSB Inc.

Research and Development

Research and development (“R&D”) is a key element of our engineering culture and is generally focused on the design and development of products and application know-how that anticipate customer needs and emerging trends. Our engineers are involved in new product development and improvement of existing products. Our businesses invest substantial resources for R&D. We anticipate we will continue to develop and invest in our R&D capabilities to promote a steady flow of innovative, high-quality and reliable products and applications to further strengthen our position in the markets we serve. We invested$106 million,$100 million, and$74 millionfor the years ended December 31,2012,2011and2010, respectively, towards R&D.

We have more than 600 engineering and research employees in more than 40 technology centers around the world. R&D activities are initially conducted in our technology centers, located in conjunction with some of our major manufacturing facilities to ensure an efficient development process. We have established a wastewater Center of Excellence in Stockholm, Sweden, with more than 100 research, development and engineering employees. We have launched Centers of Excellence in India and China, where we are accelerating the customization of our application expertise to local needs. In the scale-up process, our R&D activities are conducted at our piloting and testing facilities or at strategic customer sites. These piloting and testing facilities enable us to serve our strategic markets in each region of the world.

We generally seek patent protection for those inventions and improvements that we believe will improve our competitive position. We believe that our patents and applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products and improving our return on research and development investments. While we own, control or license a significant number of patents, trade secrets, proprietary information, trademarks, trade names,










copyrights, and other intellectual property rights which, in the aggregate, are of material importance to our business, management believes that our business, as a whole, as well as each of our core business segments, is not materially dependent on any one intellectual property right or related group of such rights.

Patents, patent applications, and license agreements expire or terminate over time by operation of law, in accordance with their terms or otherwise. As the portfolio of our patents, patent applications, and license agreements has evolved over time, we do not expect the expiration of any specific patent to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Environmental Matters and Regulation

Our manufacturing operations worldwide are subject to many requirements under environmental laws. In the United States, the Environmental Protection Agency and similar state agencies administer laws and regulations concerning air emissions, water discharges, waste disposal, environmental remediation, and other aspects of environmental protection. Such environmental laws and regulations in the United States include, for example, the Federal Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource, Conservation and Recovery Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act. Environmental requirements significantly affect our operations. We have established an internal program to address compliance with applicable environmental requirements and, as a result, management believes that we are in substantial compliance with current environmental regulations.

While environmental laws and regulations are subject to change, such changes can be difficult to predict reliably and the timing of potential changes is uncertain. Management does not believe, based on current circumstances, that compliance costs pursuant to such regulations will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, the effect of future legislative or regulatory changes could be material to our financial condition or results of operations.

Accruals for environmental matters are recorded on a site-by-site basis when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated, based on current law and existing technologies. It can be difficult to estimate reliably the final costs of investigation and remediation due to various factors. Our accrued liabilities for these environmental matters represent the best estimates related to the investigation and remediation of environmental media such as water, soil, soil vapor, air and structures, as well as related legal fees based upon the facts and circumstances as currently known to us. These estimates, and related accruals, are reviewed quarterly and updated for progress of investigation and remediation efforts and changes in facts and legal circumstances. Liabilities for these environmental expenditures are recorded on an undiscounted basis. We do not anticipate these liabilities will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated and combined financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We cannot make assurances that other sites, or new details about sites known to us, that could give rise to environmental liabilities with such material adverse effects on us will not be identified in the future. AtDecember 31, 2012, we had estimated and accrued$11 millionrelated to environmental matters.

Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2012, Xylem had approximately 12,700 employees worldwide. We believe that our facilities are in favorable labor markets with ready access to adequate numbers of workers, and we believe our relations with our employees are good.

Available Information

Xylem’s website address iswww.xyleminc.com. We make available free of charge on or throughwww.investors.xyleminc.comour Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference unless specifically stated therein.

In addition, the public may read or copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may also obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. These reports and other information are also available, free of charge, atwww.sec.gov.














