Items 1 and 2. Business and Properties

OVERVIEW

LyondellBasell Industries N.V. is a global, independent chemical company and was incorporated under Dutch law on October 15, 2009. Unless otherwise indicated, the “Company,” “we,”
“our,” “us” and “LyondellBasell” are used in this report to refer to the businesses of LyondellBasell Industries N.V. and its consolidated subsidiaries. We believe we are one of the world’s top five independent
chemical companies based on revenues. We participate globally across the petrochemical value chain and are an industry leader in many of our product lines. Our chemicals businesses consist primarily of large processing plants that convert large
volumes of liquid and gaseous hydrocarbon feedstock into plastic resins and other chemicals. Our chemical products tend to be basic building blocks for other chemicals and plastics, while our plastic products are typically used in large volume
applications. Our customers use our plastics and chemicals to manufacture a wide range of products that people use in their everyday lives including food packaging, home furnishings, automotive components, paints and coatings. Our refining business
consists of our Houston refinery, which processes crude oil into fuels such as gasoline, diesel and jet fuel.

Our financial
performance is influenced in general by the supply and demand for the products that we produce, the cost and availability of feedstocks, global and regional competitor capacity, our operational efficiency and our ability to control costs. As a
producer of large volume commodities, we have a strong operational focus and continuously strive to differentiate ourselves through safe, reliable and low-cost operations in all our businesses. During recent years the cost of natural gas-derived raw
materials in the U.S. versus the global cost of crude oil-derived raw materials has had a significant influence on the profitability of our North American operations. To a lesser extent, our differentiated assets and technology also influence our
performance as compared to our peers and competitors. These include our propylene oxide and polypropylene technologies; flexible feedstock olefins plants in the U.S.; joint venture olefins and polyolefins plants with access to low-cost feedstock,
particularly in Saudi Arabia; and our Houston refinery which is capable of processing heavy, high-sulfur crude.

SEGMENTS

We operate in five business segments. Our reportable segments are:



•Olefins and Polyolefins—Americas(“O&P—Americas”). Our O&P—Americas segment produces and markets olefins,
including ethylene and ethylene co-products, and polyolefins.



•Olefins and Polyolefins—Europe, Asia, International(“O&P—EAI”). Our O&P—EAI segment produces and markets
olefins, including ethylene and ethylene co-products, polyolefins and polypropylene compounds.



•Intermediates and Derivatives(“I&D”). Our I&D segment produces and markets propylene oxide and its co-products and
derivatives, acetyls, ethanol, ethylene oxide and its derivatives, and oxyfuels.



•Refining. Our Refining segment refines heavy, high-sulfur crude oil on the U.S. Gulf Coast.



•Technology. Our Technology segment develops and licenses chemical and polyolefin process technologies and manufactures and sells polyolefin
catalysts.

The marketing of our oxyfuels products previously was aligned with the sale of our products from
our refining business, particularly our Berre refinery. We moved the management responsibility for business decisions relating to oxyfuels to our I&D business with the closure of the Berre refinery because profits generated by oxyfuels products
are related to sourcing decisions regarding certain co-products of propylene oxide production. Accordingly, results for our oxyfuels business, which were previously included in our Refining segment results, have been reflected in our I&D segment
since the second quarter of 2012. All comparable periods presented have been revised to reflect this change.







Financial information about our business segments and geographical areas can be found in
Note 22,Segment and Related Information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Information about the locations where we produce our primary products can be found under “Description of Properties.”

Industry Dynamics / Competition

We predominantly compete in regional markets impacted by global pricing mechanisms. Success in these markets is determined by competitive pricing, low cost production, product quality, reliability of
product delivery and supply volumes, and customer service. Profitability is affected by regional raw material costs and price competition among producers. Historically, the chemical and refining industries have operated in competitive environments
and those environments are expected to continue.

In addition to other chemical and refining companies, we compete with the
chemical and refining divisions of major national and international oil companies both in the United States and abroad.

Our
products and raw materials are transported by barge, ocean going vessel, pipeline, rail car, bulk truck and tank truck.

In
2012, 2011 and 2010, no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues.

Olefins and
Polyolefins Segments Generally

We are a leading worldwide producer of olefins, including ethylene and propylene. We
are also a leading producer of polyolefins, including polyethylene (“PE”), and the world’s largest producer of polypropylene (“PP”) and PP compounds. We manage our olefin and polyolefin business in two reportable segments,
O&P—Americas and O&P—EAI.

Olefins–Ethylene is the most significant petrochemical in terms of
worldwide production volume and is the key building block for PE and a large number of other chemicals, plastics and synthetics. The production of ethylene results in co-products such as propylene, butadiene and aromatics. Ethylene and its
co-products are fundamental to many parts of the economy, including the production of consumer products, packaging, housing and automotive components and other durable and nondurable goods.

Polyolefins–Polyolefins are thermoplastics and comprise approximately two-thirds of worldwide thermoplastics demand. Since
their industrial commercialization, thermoplastics have been used in wide-ranging applications and products that improve safety and comfort and enhance the everyday quality of life. Our products are used in consumer, automotive and industrial
applications ranging from food and beverage packaging to housewares and construction materials. We produce high density polyethylene (“HDPE”), low density polyethylene (“LDPE”) and linear low density polyethylene
(“LLDPE”). We produce homopolymer, impact copolymer, random copolymer and metallocene PP.

We produce and market
several specialty product lines including PP compounds,Catalloyprocess resins and polybutene-1 (“PB-1”), focusing on unique polyolefins and compounds that offer a wide range of performance characteristics. Typical properties of
such specialty polyolefins and compounds include impact-stiffness balance, scratch resistance, soft touch and heat sealability. End uses include automotive and industrial products and materials. PP compounds are produced from blends of polyolefins
and additives and are sold mainly to the automotive and home appliances industries. We are the only manufacturer ofCatalloyprocess resins, which are our proprietary products and are used primarily in roofing, packaging and automotive
applications.

Sales of PE (HDPE, LDPE and LLDPE, collectively) accounted for 15% of our total revenues in 2012 and 2011 and
16% in 2010. Sales of PP, includingCatalloy, accounted for approximately 19% of our total revenues in 2012 and 2011 and 18% in 2010.







The following table outlines the primary products of our O&P segments, annual processing
capacity as of December 31, 2012, and the primary uses for those products. Capacities, which are presented in pounds unless otherwise indicated, include 100% of the capacity of our joint venture facilities. The joint ventures’ proportional
share of capacity is shown in the footnotes to the table, below.





ProductAnnual Capacity(1)Primary Uses

AmericasEAITotal

Olefins:

Ethylene9.8 billion6.5 billion16.2 billionEthylene is used as a raw material to manufacture polyethylene, ethylene oxide, ethanol, ethylene dichloride, styrene, vinyl acetate monomer (“VAM”) and other
products



Propylene5.5 billion6.0 billion11.5 billionPropylene is used to produce PP, acrylonitrile, propylene oxide (“PO”) and other products



Butadiene1.1 billion550 million1.6 billionButadiene is used to manufacture styrene-butadiene rubber and polybutadiene rubber, which are used in the manufacture of tires, hoses, gaskets and other rubber products. Butadiene
is also used in the production of paints, adhesives, nylon clothing, carpets, paper coatings and engineered plastics



Polyolefins:

HDPE3.3 billion4.5 billion7.8 billionHDPE is used to manufacture grocery, merchandise and trash bags; food containers for items from frozen desserts to margarine; plastic caps and closures; liners for boxes of cereal
and crackers; plastic drink cups and toys; dairy crates; bread trays; pails for items from paint to fresh fruits and vegetables; safety equipment, such as hard hats; house wrap for insulation; bottles for household and industrial chemicals and motor
oil; milk, water, and juice bottles; large tanks for storing liquids such as agricultural and lawn care chemicals; and pipe



LDPE1.3 billion2.8 billion4.1 billionLDPE is used to manufacture food packaging films; plastic bottles for packaging food and personal care items; dry cleaning bags; ice bags; pallet shrink wrap; heavy-duty bags for
mulch and potting soil; boil-in-bags ; coatings on flexible packaging products; and coatings on paper board such as milk cartons.



LLDPE1.3 billion1.3 billionLLDPE is used to manufacture garbage and lawn-leaf bags; industrial can liners; housewares; lids for coffee cans and margarine tubs; dishpans, home plastic storage containers, and
kitchen trash containers; large toys like outdoor gym sets; drip irrigation tubing; insulating resins and compounds used to insulate copper and fiber optic wiring; shrink wrap for multi-packaging canned food, bag-in-box bags, produce bags, and
pallet stretch wrap







ProductAnnual Capacity(1)Primary UsesAmericasEAITotalPP4.4 billion13.0 billion17.4 billionPP is primarily used to manufacture fibers for carpets, rugs and upholstery; housewares; medical products; automotive interior trim, fascia, running boards, battery cases, and
bumpers; toys and sporting goods; fishing tackle boxes; and bottle caps and closuresSpecialty Polyolefins:PP compounds2.6 billion2.6 billionPP compounds are used to manufacture automotive interior and exterior trims, dashboards, bumpers and under-hood applications; base material for products and parts used in
appliances; anti-corrosion coatings for steel piping, wire and cableCatalloy process resins600 million600 million1.2 billionCatalloyprocess resins are used primarily in modifying polymer properties in film applications and molded products; for specialty films, geomembrane liners, and roofing
materials; in bitumen modification for roofing and asphalt applications; and for automotive bumpersPB-1 resins110 million110 millionPB-1 resins are used in flexible pipes, resins for seal-peel film, film modification, hot melt applications, consumer packaging and adhesivesAromatics:Benzene(in gallons)195 million195 millionBenzene is used to produce styrene, phenol and cyclohexane. These products are used in the production of nylon, plastics, synthetic rubber and polystyrene. Polystyrene is used in
insulation, packaging and drink cups



(1)Represents total annual name plate capacity, which includes 1,654 million pounds of ethylene; 2,507 million pounds of propylene; 1,014 pounds of HDPE;
783 million pounds of LDPE; 669 million pounds (Americas) and 4,962 million pounds (EAI) of PP; and 199 million pounds of PP compounds of name plate capacity owned by third parties either through joint venture arrangements or
other contractual relationships. In some situations, the Company and the third parties may have access to the other’s capacity through certain arrangements.

Olefins and Polyolefins—Americas Segment

Overview

Our O&P—Americas segment produces and markets olefins,
polyolefins, aromatics, specialty products and ethylene co-products. Based on published data, we are the largest producer of light olefins (ethylene and propylene) and PP and the third largest producer of PE in North America. In addition, we produce
specialty products includingCatalloyandPlexarresins.

Sales & Marketing / Customers

Our ethylene production is consumed internally as a raw material in the production of polymers and other derivatives with
the balance sold to third party customers. We are a net purchaser of propylene, a raw material







used in the production of PO, PP and other derivatives. Our butadiene production is sold to the external market under multi-year contracts. All of our internal production of benzene is used as a
raw material in the production of styrene by our I&D segment, and we purchase additional benzene to meet our needs.

In
addition to purchases of propylene and benzene, at times we purchase ethylene and butadiene for resale, when necessary, to satisfy customer demand above our own production levels. Volumes of any of these products purchased for resale can vary
significantly from period to period. However, purchased volumes have not historically had a significant impact on profits.

Our PP and PE production is typically sold to an extensive base of established customers servicing both the domestic and export markets
either under annual contracts or on a spot basis. Export sales are generally to customers in Central and South America. We also sell PP into our PP compounds business, which is managed worldwide by our O&P—EAI segment.

Joint Venture Relationships

We participate in a joint venture arrangement in Mexico, which provides us with capacity for 643 million pounds of PP production. The capacity is based on our percentage ownership of the joint
ventures’ total capacity. We do not hold a majority interest in or have operational control of this joint venture.

Raw Materials

Raw material cost is the largest component of the total cost for the production of ethylene and its co-products. The primary raw materials used are heavy liquids and domestically sourced and currently
cost advantaged natural gas liquids (“NGLs”) mainly from regional producers via a mix of contractual and spot arrangements. Heavy liquids include crude oil-based naphtha and gas oil, as well as condensate, a very light crude oil resulting
from natural gas production (collectively referred to as “heavy liquids”). NGLs include ethane, propane and butane. The use of heavy liquid raw materials results in the production of a significant amount of co-products such as propylene,
butadiene and benzene, as well as gasoline blending components, while the use of NGLs results in the production of a smaller amount of co-products.

Historically, facilities using heavy liquids as feedstock have generated higher margins than those using ethane. However, in recent years ethane has had a cost advantage over heavy liquids due to the
recent technological advances for extracting shale gas. A plant’s flexibility to consume a wide range of raw materials generally will provide an advantage over plants that are restricted in their processing capabilities. We can process
significant quantities of either heavy liquids or NGLs. We estimate that in the U.S. we can process up to 85% NGLs. Changes in the raw material feedstock utilized in the production process will result in variances in production capacities among
products. We believe our raw material flexibility in the U.S. is a key advantage in our production of ethylene and its co-products over time.

In North America, we also purchase large amounts of natural gas to be used primarily as an energy source in our business via market-based contractual arrangements from numerous suppliers.

Industry Dynamics / Competition

Based on published data, we believe we were, as of December 31, 2012:



•the second largest producer of ethylene in North America, with ethylene rated capacity of approximately 9.8 billion pounds per year, or approximately
13% of total North American ethylene production capacity;



•the third largest producer of PE in North America with 5.9 billion pounds per year of capacity, or approximately 13% of North American capacity; and







•the largest producer of PP in North America, including our share of our Indelpro joint venture capacity, with 3.3 billion pounds, or approximately 18%
of the North American capacity.

Olefins and Polyolefins—Europe, Asia,
International Segment

Overview

Our O&P—EAI segment produces and markets olefins (ethylene and ethylene co-products) and polyolefins. Based on published data, we are the largest producer of PP in Europe and the largest
worldwide producer of PP compounds. We also produce significant quantities of other differentiated products such asCatalloyprocess resins and PB-1. Our O&P—EAI segment manages our worldwide PP compound business (including our
facilities in North and South America), our worldwide PB-1 business, and ourCatalloyprocess resins produced in Europe.

PP compounds consist of specialty products produced from blends of polyolefins and additives and are sold mainly to the automotive and
durable goods industries. TheCatalloyprocess is proprietary technology that is not licensed to third parties, and as a result, we are the only manufacturer ofCatalloyprocess resins. We believe that we are the largest worldwide
producer of PB-1, a family of butene-based polymers. A majority of the current PB-1 we produce is used in pipe applications and for under-floor heating and thermo sanitary systems.

Sales & Marketing / Customers

Our ethylene production is generally consumed internally as a raw material in the production of polymers. Our propylene production is used as a raw material in the production of PO and PP and we purchase
propylene as our internal needs exceed our internal production. European ethylene and propylene production is generally fully integrated with our downstream facilities in Europe.

We produce and sell butadiene to external customers under multi-year contracts and on a spot basis.

With respect to PP and PE, our production is typically sold to an extensive base of established customers under annual contracts or on a
spot basis. We believe that, over a business cycle, average sales prices and profit margins for specialty polymers tend to be higher than average sales prices and profit margins for higher-volume commodity polyolefins or polymers.

Our regional sales offices are in various locations, including The Netherlands, Hong Kong, China, India and United Arab Emirates. We also
operate through a worldwide network of local sales and representative offices in Europe, Asia and Africa. Our joint ventures typically manage their domestic sales and marketing efforts independently, and we typically operate as their
agent/distributor for all or a portion of their exports.

Joint Venture Relationships

We participate in several manufacturing joint ventures in Saudi Arabia, Thailand, Poland, Australia, Japan and South Korea. We do not hold
majority interests in any of the joint venture relationships, nor do we have operational control. These ventures provide us with additional production capacity of 2,630 million pounds of PP, 810 million pounds of propylene,
550 million pounds of ethylene, 570 million pounds of HDPE, 340 million pounds of LDPE and 160 million pounds of PP compounding. These capacities are based on our percentage ownership interest in the joint ventures’ total
capacities.

We generally license our polyolefin process technologies and supply catalysts to our joint ventures through our
Technology segment. Some of our joint ventures source cost advantaged raw materials from their local shareholders.







Raw Materials

Raw material cost is the largest component of the total cost for the production of ethylene and its co-products. The primary raw materials
used in our European olefin facilities are heavy liquids and, for our Saudi joint venture facilities, locally sourced and cost advantaged NGLs, including ethane, propane and butane. The principal raw materials used by our polyolefin andCatalloyprocess resin businesses are propylene and ethylene. In Europe, we have the capacity to produce approximately 50% of the propylene requirements of our European PP business and approximately 90% of the ethylene requirements of our
European PE business. Propylene and ethylene requirements that are not produced internally generally are acquired via spot purchases or pursuant to long-term contracts with third-party suppliers.

Our PP compounding facilities generally receive their PP and other polymers from one of our wholly owned or joint venture facilities.
PB-1 raw materials are sourced solely from external supply. Some of our joint ventures receive propylene and ethylene from their local shareholders under long-term contracts.

Industry Dynamics / Competition

Based on published data and including our
proportionate share of our joint ventures, we believe we were, as of December 31, 2012:



•the sixth largest producer of ethylene in Europe with an ethylene rated capacity in Europe of approximately 4.3 billion pounds per year, or
approximately 8% of total European ethylene capacity;



•the largest producer of PP in Europe with 5.2 billion pounds per year of capacity, or approximately 22% of European PP capacity;



•the largest producer of PE in Europe with 5.0 billion pounds per year of capacity, or approximately 22% of HDPE and 13% of LDPE European capacity; and



•the largest PP compounds producer in the world with 2.4 billion pounds per year of capacity, with approximately 54% of that capacity in Europe,
21% in North America, and 24% in the rest of the world.

Intermediates and
Derivatives Segment

Overview

Our I&D segment produces and markets PO and its co-products and derivatives; acetyls; ethylene oxide and its derivatives; and oxyfuels (methyl tertiary butyl ether (“MTBE”) and ethyl
tertiary butyl ether (“ETBE”)). PO co-products include styrene monomer (“SM”) and C4 chemicals (tertiary butyl alcohol (“TBA”), most of which is used to make oxyfuels, isobutylene and tertiary butyl hydro peroxide
(“TBHP”)). PO derivatives include propylene glycol (“PG”), propylene glycol ethers (“PGE”) and butanediol (“BDO”). We believe that our proprietary PO and acetyls production process technologies provide us with
a cost advantaged position for these products and their derivatives.

We produce PO through two distinct technologies based on
indirect oxidation processes, one of which yields TBA as the co-product and the other of which yields SM as the co-product. The two technologies are mutually exclusive, meaning that a manufacturing facility must be dedicated either to PO/TBA or to
PO/SM. We believe that we are the largest producer of MTBE/ETBE worldwide.







Capacities, which are presented in pounds unless otherwise indicated, include 100% of the
capacity of joint venture facilities.





ProductAnnual Capacity(1)Primary Uses

Propylene Oxide (“PO”)5.2 billionPO is a key component of polyols, PG, PGE and BDO

PO Co-Products:

Styrene Monomer (“SM”)6.4 billionSM is used to produce plastics, such as expandable polystyrene for packaging, foam cups and containers, insulation products and durables and engineering resins



Isobutylene1.4 billionIsobutylene is a derivative of TBA used in the manufacture of synthetic rubber as well as fuel and lubricant additives, such as MTBE and ETBE

PO Derivatives:

Propylene Glycol (“PG”)1.2 billionPG is used to produce unsaturated polyester resins for bathroom fixtures and boat hulls; antifreeze, coolants and aircraft deicers; and cosmetics and cleaners



Propylene Glycol Ethers (“PGE”)545 millionPGE are used as solvents for paints, coatings, cleaners and a variety of electronics applications



Butanediol (“BDO”)395 millionBDO is used in the manufacture of engineering resins, films, personal care products, pharmaceuticals, coatings, solvents and adhesives

Acetyls:

Methanol (in gallons)190 millionMethanol is a raw material used to produce acetic acid, MTBE, formaldehyde and several other products



Acetic Acid1.2 billionAcetic acid is a raw material used to produce VAM, terephthalic acid (used to produce polyester for textiles and plastic bottles), industrial solvents and a variety of other
chemicals



Vinyl Acetate Monomer (“VAM”)700 millionVAM is used to produce a variety of polymers, products used in adhesives, water-based paint, textile coatings and paper coatings

Ethylene Derivatives:

Ethylene Oxide (“EO”)800 million EO equivalents; 400 million as pure EOEO is used to produce surfactants, industrial cleaners, cosmetics, emulsifiers, paint, heat transfer fluids and ethylene glycol



Ethylene Glycol (“EG”)650 millionEG is used to produce polyester fibers and film, polyethylene terephthalate resin, heat transfer fluids and automobile antifreeze







ProductAnnual Capacity(1)Primary UsesEthylene Glycol Ethers225 millionEthylene glycol ethers are used to produce paint and coatings, polishes, solvents and chemical intermediatesEthanol (in gallons)50 millionEthanol is used as a fuel and a fuel additive and in the production of solvents as well as household, medicinal and personal care productsGasoline Blending Components:Methyl Tertiary Butyl Ether (“MTBE”) / Ethyl Tertiary Butyl Ether (“ETBE”) (in barrels per
day)75,000MTBE is a high octane gasoline blending component; ETBE is an alternative gasoline blending component based on agriculturally produced ethanol



(1)The annual capacities include 2,516 million pounds of PO; 2,894 million pounds of SM; 132 million pounds of PG; and 29 million gallons of methanol
production owned by third parties through joint venture or other contractual relationships.

Sales &
Marketing / Customers

We produce and deliver our PO and its co-products and derivatives through sales agreements,
processing agreements and spot sales as well as product exchanges. We have a number of multi-year processing (or tolling) and sales agreements. We sell most of our SM production into the North American and European merchant markets and to Asian and
South American export markets through long-term sales contracts and processing agreements. We purchase SM for resale, when necessary, to satisfy customer demand that exceeds our production levels. Volumes of SM purchases made for resale can vary
significantly from period to period. However, purchased volumes have not historically had a significant impact on profits.

Our I&D segment converts most of its TBA, which is produced as a co-product of the PO process, to isobutylene. Over half of the
isobutylene is reacted with methanol or ethanol to produce MTBE and ETBE. The remaining isobutylene is sold into the external market as high purity and purity grade isobutylene.

We sell our MTBE and ETBE production under market-based sales agreements and in the spot market. Substantially all refiners and blenders
have discontinued the use of MTBE in the U.S., partly as a result of governmental initiatives to increase use of bio-ethanol in gasoline and to reduce or effectively ban the use of MTBE. However, MTBE/ETBE demand for gasoline blending remains strong
within most of the remaining worldwide market. Accordingly, we market MTBE and ETBE produced in the U.S. for use outside of the U.S. Japan has opted to use ETBE as a means of meeting its carbon dioxide reduction commitments under the Kyoto Protocol,
and we source a significant portion of Japan’s bio-fuels needs. Some of our plants have the flexibility to produce either MTBE or ETBE to accommodate market needs.

Sales of MTBE, ETBE, acetyls, PO and PO co-products and derivatives are made by our marketing and sales personnel, and also through distributors and independent agents in the Americas, Europe, the Middle
East, Africa and the Asia Pacific region.

Acetyls, including acetic acid and VAM, are consumed internally and sold worldwide
under multi-year contracts and on a spot basis. Our acetyls business uses methanol, which we produce internally, as a raw material for the production of acetic acid and also sells the methanol under annual contracts and on a spot basis to large U.S.
customers.

EO and EG typically are sold under multi-year contracts and on a spot basis, with market-based pricing. Glycol
ethers are sold primarily into the solvent and distributor markets at market prices. The vast majority of the ethylene derivative products are sold in North America and Asia, primarily through our sales organizations.







Joint Venture Relationships

Our U.S. PO joint venture, in which Bayer Corporation has an interest, operates four of our U.S. operating units. Bayer’s interest
represents ownership of an in-kind portion of the PO production of 1.5 billion pounds per year. We take, in-kind, the remaining PO production and all co-product (SM and TBA) production. We do not share marketing or product sales with Bayer under the
U.S. PO joint venture. The parties’ rights in the joint venture are based on off take volumes as opposed to ownership percentages. Bayer also has the right to 50% of the PO and SM production of our European PO joint venture. Our proportional
additional production capacity provided through this venture is 345 million pounds of PO and 740 million pounds of SM.

We also have joint venture manufacturing relationships in Japan and China. These ventures provide us with additional production capacity of 314 million pounds of PO, 680 million pounds of SM and
88 million pounds of PG. These capacities are based on our ownership percentage of the joint ventures’ total capacities.

Raw Materials

The primary raw materials used for the production of PO and
its co-products and derivatives are propylene, isobutane, mixed butane, ethylene and benzene. The market prices of these raw materials historically have been related to the price of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas, as well as supply and demand for
the raw materials.

In the U.S., we obtain a large portion of our propylene, benzene and ethylene raw materials needed for the
production of PO and its co-products and derivatives internally from our O&P–Americas segment. Raw materials for the non-U.S. production of PO and its co-products and derivatives are obtained internally and also from third parties. We
consume a significant portion of our internally-produced PO in the production of PO derivatives.

The cost of raw materials
generally is the largest component of total production cost for PO and its co-products and derivatives. The raw material requirements for these businesses are purchased at market-based prices from numerous suppliers in the U.S. and Europe with which
we have established contractual relationships, as well as in the spot market.

We purchase our ethanol requirements for the
production of ETBE from third parties; the methanol for our MTBE production comes from internal production and third parties. The primary raw materials required for the production of acetic acid are carbon monoxide and methanol. We purchase carbon
monoxide pursuant to a long-term contract under which pricing is based primarily on the cost of production. All methanol required for acetyls production is internally sourced. Natural gas is the primary raw material required for the production of
methanol.

In addition to ethylene, acetic acid is a primary raw material for the production of VAM. For the production of
VAM, we obtain our entire requirements for acetic acid and ethylene from our internal production. Historically we have used a large percentage of our acetic acid production to produce VAM.

Industry Dynamics / Competition

Based on published data regarding PO capacity, we believe that, excluding our partners’ shares of joint venture capacity, we are the second largest producer of PO worldwide, with approximately 13% of
the total worldwide capacity for PO. Based on published data regarding SM capacity, we believe that we are one of the largest producers of SM worldwide, with approximately 5% of the total worldwide capacity for SM as of December 31, 2012. We
believe that we are the ninth and eighth largest producer of acetic acid and VAM, respectively, each with approximately 3% and 4% of the total worldwide capacity as of December 31, 2012.







Refining

Overview

Our Houston refinery, which is located on the Houston Ship Channel in Houston, Texas, has a heavy, high-sulfur crude oil processing
capacity of approximately 268,000 barrels per day on a calendar day basis (normal operating basis), or approximately 292,000 barrels per day on a stream day basis (maximum achievable over a 24 hour period). The Houston refinery has a Nelson
Complexity Index of 12.5. The Houston refinery is a full conversion refinery designed to refine heavy, high-sulfur crude oil. This crude oil is more viscous and dense than traditional crude oil and contains higher concentrations of sulfur and heavy
metals, making it more difficult to refine into gasoline and other high-value fuel products. However, this crude oil has historically been less costly to purchase than light, low-sulfur crude oil such as Brent. Recently, certain crudes such as West
Texas Intermediate (WTI) and West Texas Sour (WTS) have been priced lower than normal trends due to transportation constraints.

On January 4, 2012, we ceased refinery operations at our Berre refinery in France. The cessation of operations was in
accordance with an agreement executed in the fourth quarter of 2011 by certain of our French subsidiaries and union representatives. Additional information about the cessation of operations can be found in “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

The following table outlines the primary products of our
Refining segment capacity as of December 31, 2012, unless otherwise noted and the primary uses for those products.



ProductCapacityPrimary UsesGasoline and components120,000 barrels per dayAutomotive fuelUltra Low Sulfur Diesel95,000 barrels per dayDiesel fuel for cars and trucksJet Fuel25,000 barrels per dayAviation fuelLube Oils4,000 barrels per dayIndustrial lube oils, railroad engine additives and white oils for food-grade applicationsAromatics7,000 barrels per dayIntermediate chemicals

Sales & Marketing / Customers

Gasoline sales accounted for 10% of our total revenues in 2012, 7% in 2011 and 9% in 2010. The Houston refinery’s products primarily
are sold in bulk to other refiners, marketers, distributors and wholesalers at market-related prices. Most of the Houston refinery’s products are sold under contracts with a term of one year or less or are sold in the spot market. The Houston
refinery’s products generally are transported to customers via pipelines and terminals owned and operated by other parties.

Raw Materials

We purchase the crude oil used as a raw material for the
Houston refinery on the open market on a spot basis and under a number of supply agreements with regional producers.

Industry Dynamics / Competition

Based on published data, as of January 2012, there were 144 operable crude oil refineries in the U.S., and total U.S. refinery capacity was approximately 17.3 million barrels per day. During 2012,
the Houston refinery processed an average of approximately 255,000 barrels per day of crude oil, representing approximately 1.5% of all U.S. crude processing capacity.







A crack spread is a benchmark indication of refining margins based on the processing of a
specific type of crude oil into an assumed selection of refined products. The Houston refinery generally tracks the Maya 2-1-1 crack spread, which represents the difference between the first month futures price of two barrels of Maya crude oil as
set by Pemex and one barrel each of U.S. Gulf Coast 87 Octane Conventional Gasoline and U.S. Gulf Coast No. 2 Heating Oil (high-sulfur diesel). While these benchmark refining spreads are generally indicative of the level of profitability at the
Houston refinery and the refining industry generally, there are many other factors specific to each refinery that influence operating results.

Technology Segment

Overview

Our Technology segment develops and licenses chemical, polyolefin and other process technologies and provides associated
engineering and other services. Our Technology segment also develops, manufactures and sells polyolefin catalysts. We market our process technologies and our polyolefin catalysts to external customers and also use them in our own manufacturing
operations.

Our polyolefin process licenses are structured to provide a standard core technology, with individual customer
needs met by adding customized modules that provide the required capabilities to produce the defined production grade slate and plant capacity. In addition to the basic license agreement, a range of services can also be provided, including project
assistance; training; start-up assistance of the plant; and ongoing technical support after start-up. We may also offer marketing and sales services. In addition, licensees may continue to purchase polyolefin catalysts that are consumed in the
production process, generally under long-term catalyst supply agreements with us.

Process Technology Licensing

We are a leading licensor of polyolefin process technologies. In addition, we license a selective portfolio of chemical
process technologies in the fields of olefin recovery, olefin conversion, aromatics extraction and acetyls.

Polyolefin
Catalysts

Under theAvantbrand, we are a leading manufacturer and supplier of polyolefin catalysts. As a large
polyolefin producer, approximately 25% of catalyst sales are inter-company.

Research and Development

Our research and development activities are designed to improve our existing products and processes, and discover and commercialize new
materials, catalysts and processes. These activities focus on product and application development, process development, catalyst development and fundamental polyolefin focused research.

In 2012, 2011 and 2010, our research and development expenditures were $172 million, $196 million and $154 million,
respectively. A portion of these expenses are related to technical support and customer service and are allocated to the other business segments.

GENERAL

Intellectual Property

We maintain an extensive patent portfolio and continue to file new patent applications in the U.S. and other countries. As of December 31, 2012, we owned approximately 5,000 patents and patent
applications worldwide. Our patents and trade secrets cover our processes, products and catalysts and are significant to our competitive







position, particularly with regard to PO, intermediate chemicals, petrochemicals, polymers and our process technologies. We own globally registered and unregistered trademarks including the
“LyondellBasell,” “Lyondell” and “Equistar” trade names. While we believe that our intellectual property provides competitive advantages, we do not regard our businesses as being materially dependent upon any single
patent, trade secret or trademark. Some of our heritage production capacity operates under licenses from third parties.

Environmental

Regulation

We are subject to extensive international, national, state,
local and environmental laws, regulations, directives, rules and ordinances and are required to have permits and licenses concerning emissions to the air, discharges onto land or waters and the generation, handling, storage, transportation,
treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials.

Under the European Union Integrated
Pollution Prevention and Control Directive (“IPPC”), EU Member State governments are to adopt rules and implement an environmental permitting program relating to air, water and waste for individual facilities. The EU countries are at
varying stages in their respective implementation of the IPPC permit program. We do not know with certainty what future IPPC permits will require, or the future costs of compliance with the IPPC permit program. The EU also has passed legislation
governing the registration, evaluation and authorization of chemicals, known as REACh, pursuant to which we are required to register chemicals and gain authorization for the use of certain substances. As an importer of chemicals and materials from
outside the EU, we are subject to additional registration obligations.

We also are subject to environmental laws that may
have a significant effect on the nature and scope of cleanup of contamination at current and former operating facilities and at other sites at which hazardous substances generated by our current or former subsidiaries were disposed. Such laws may
also have a significant effect on the costs of transportation and storage of raw materials and finished products, and the costs of the storage and disposal of wastewater. In the U.S., the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
Liability Act of 1980, as amended and also known as Superfund (“CERCLA”), imposes joint and several liability for the costs of remedial investigations and cleanup actions, as well as damages to natural resources, on entities that generated
hazardous substances, arranged for disposal of the hazardous substances, transported to or selected the disposal sites and the past and present owners and operators of such sites. All such responsible parties (or any one of them) can be required to
bear all of such costs regardless of fault, the legality of the original disposal or ownership of the disposal site. We are subject to potential liability under CERCLA as an owner or operator of facilities at which hazardous substances have been
disposed or as a generator or transporter of hazardous substances disposed at other locations.

Under the EU Environmental
Liability Directive, EU Member States can require the remediation of soil and groundwater contamination in certain circumstances, under the “polluter pays principle.” The scope of events and circumstances that could trigger remediation
requirements and the level of remediation required vary from Member State to Member State.

Under the U.S. Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, various U.S. state and non-U.S. government regulations regulate the handling, transporting and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous waste. Our manufacturing sites have, and may in the future, handle on-site
waste disposal, subjecting us to these laws and regulations.

Capital Expenditures

In some cases, compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations can only be achieved by capital expenditures.
Regulatory-related capital expenditures at our facilities were $159 million in 2012, and we estimate such expenditures to be approximately $157 million in 2013 and $194 million in 2014.







Our regulatory-related capital expenditures in 2012 primarily relate to projects designed to
reduce and control emissions from our plant operations in both the U.S. and Europe.

Stricter environmental, safety and health
laws, regulations and enforcement policies could result in increased environmental capital expenditures by us above current estimates.

Employee Relations

As of
December 31, 2012, we had approximately 13,500 full-time and part-time employees. Of these, approximately 5,800 were in North America, approximately 6,600 were in Europe and approximately 1,100 were in other locations.

As of December 31, 2012, approximately 800 of our employees in North America were represented by labor unions. The vast majority of
our employees in Europe and South America are subject to staff council or works council coverage or collective bargaining agreements.

In addition to our own employees, we use the services of contractors in the routine conduct of our businesses.

We believe our relations with our employees are satisfactory.
