Items 1 and 2. Business and Properties

OVERVIEW

LyondellBasell Industries N.V. is a global, independent chemical company and was incorporated under Dutch law on October 15, 2009. Unless otherwise indicated, the “Company,” “we,”
“our,” “us” and “LyondellBasell” are used in this report to refer to the businesses of LyondellBasell Industries N.V. and its consolidated subsidiaries. We are one of the world’s top five independent chemical
companies based on revenues.

We participate globally across the petrochemical value chain and are an industry leader in many
of our product lines. Our chemicals businesses consist primarily of large processing plants that convert large volumes of liquid and gaseous hydrocarbon feedstocks into plastic resins and other chemicals. Our chemical products tend to be basic
building blocks for other chemicals and plastics, while our plastic products are typically used in large volume applications. Our customers use our plastics and chemicals to manufacture a wide range of products that people use in their everyday
lives including food packaging, home furnishings, automotive components, paints and coatings. Our refining business consists of our Houston refinery, which processes crude oil into products such as gasoline, diesel and jet fuel.

Our financial performance is influenced in general by the supply and demand for the products that we produce, the cost and availability
of feedstocks, global and regional competitor capacity, our operational efficiency and our ability to control costs. We have a strong operational focus and, as a producer of large volume commodities, continuously strive to differentiate ourselves
through safe, reliable and low-cost operations in all our businesses. During recent years the cost of natural gas-derived raw materials in the U.S. versus the global cost of crude oil-derived raw materials has had a significant positive influence on
the profitability of our North American operations. To a lesser extent, our differentiated assets and technology also positively influence our performance as compared to our peers and competitors. These include our propylene oxide and polypropylene
technologies; flexible feedstock olefins plants in the U.S.; joint venture olefins and polyolefins plants with access to low-cost feedstock, particularly in Saudi Arabia; and our Houston refinery which is capable of processing heavy, high-sulfur
crude.

SEGMENTS

We manage our operations through five operating segments. Our reportable segments are:



•Olefins and Polyolefins—Americas(“O&P—Americas”). Our O&P—Americas segment produces and markets olefins,
including ethylene and ethylene co-products, and polyolefins.



•Olefins and Polyolefins—Europe, Asia, International(“O&P—EAI”). Our O&P–EAI segment produces and markets
olefins, including ethylene and ethylene co-products, polyolefins and polypropylene compounds.



•Intermediates and Derivatives(“I&D”). Our I&D segment produces and markets propylene oxide and its co-products and
derivatives, acetyls, including methanol, ethanol, ethylene oxide and its derivatives, and oxygenated fuels, or oxyfuels.



•Refining. Our Refining segment refines heavy, high-sulfur crude oil and other crude oils of varied types and sources available on the U.S. Gulf
Coast.



•Technology. Our Technology segment develops and licenses chemical and polyolefin process technologies and manufactures and sells polyolefin
catalysts.

We regularly review our segments and the approach used by management to evaluate performance and
resource allocation. In 2012, we moved the management responsibility for business decisions relating to oxyfuels







to our I&D segment because profits generated by oxyfuels are more closely related to sourcing decisions regarding certain co-products of propylene oxide production, which is the core of our
I&D segment. All comparable periods presented were revised to reflect this change.

Financial information about our
business segments and geographical areas can be found in Note 22,Segment and Related Information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Information about the locations where we produce our primary products can be found under
“Description of Properties.”

In 2013, 2012 and 2011, no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our total
revenues.

Olefins and Polyolefins Segments Generally

We are a leading worldwide producer of olefins, including ethylene and propylene. We are also a leading producer of polyolefins, including
polyethylene (“PE”), and the world’s largest producer of polypropylene (“PP”) and PP compounds. We manage our olefin and polyolefin business in two reportable segments, O&P–Americas and O&P–EAI.

Olefins—Ethylene is the most significant petrochemical in terms of worldwide production volume and is the key building block
for PE and a large number of other chemicals, plastics and synthetics. The production of ethylene results in co-products such as propylene, butadiene and aromatics. Ethylene and its co-products are fundamental to many parts of the economy, including
the production of consumer products, packaging, housing and automotive components and other durable and nondurable goods.

Polyolefins—Polyolefins are thermoplastics and comprise approximately two-thirds of worldwide thermoplastics demand. Since
their industrial commercialization, thermoplastics have been used in wide-ranging applications and products that improve safety and comfort and enhance the everyday quality of life. Our products are used in consumer, automotive and industrial
applications ranging from food and beverage packaging to housewares and construction materials. We produce high density polyethylene (“HDPE”), low density polyethylene (“LDPE”) and linear low density polyethylene
(“LLDPE”). We also produce PP homopolymers, PP impact copolymers and PP random copolymers. We produce and market several specialty product lines including PP compounds,Catalloyprocess resins and polybutene-1 (“PB-1”),
focusing on unique polyolefins and compounds that offer a wide range of performance characteristics. Typical properties of such specialty polyolefins and compounds include impact-stiffness balance, scratch resistance, soft touch and heat
sealability. End uses include automotive and industrial products and materials. PP compounds are produced from blends of polyolefins and additives and are sold mainly to the automotive and home appliances industries. TheCatalloyprocess is
proprietary technology that is not licensed to third parties. As a result, we are the only manufacturer ofCatalloyprocess resins, which are used primarily in roofing, packaging and automotive applications.

Sales of PE (HDPE, LDPE and LLDPE, collectively) accounted for 17% of our total revenues in 2013 and 15% in each of 2012 and 2011. Sales
of PP, includingCatalloy, accounted for approximately 21% of our total revenues in 2013 and 19% in each of 2012 and 2011.







The following table outlines the primary products of our O&P segments, annual processing
capacity as of December 31, 2013, and the primary uses for those products. Capacities, which are presented in pounds unless otherwise indicated, include 100% of the capacity of our joint venture facilities. The joint ventures’ proportional
share of capacity is shown in the footnotes to the table, below.





ProductAnnual Capacity(1)Primary Uses

AmericasEAITotal

Olefins:

Ethylene9.9 billion6.5 billion16.4 billionEthylene is used as a raw material to manufacture polyethylene, ethylene oxide, ethanol, ethylene dichloride, styrene, vinyl acetate monomer (“VAM”) and other
products.



Propylene5.5 billion6.0 billion11.5 billionPropylene is used to produce PP, acrylonitrile, propylene oxide (“PO”) and other products.



Butadiene1.1 billion700 million1.8 billionButadiene is used to manufacture styrene-butadiene rubber and polybutadiene rubber, which are used in the manufacture of tires, hoses, gaskets and other rubber products. Butadiene
is also used in the production of paints, adhesives, nylon clothing, carpets, paper coatings and engineered plastics.



Polyolefins:

HDPE3.3 billion4.2 billion7.5 billionHDPE is used to manufacture grocery, merchandise and trash bags; food containers for items from frozen desserts to margarine; plastic caps and closures; liners for boxes of cereal
and crackers; plastic drink cups and toys; dairy crates; bread trays; pails for items from paint to fresh fruits and vegetables; safety equipment, such as hard hats; house wrap for insulation; bottles for household and industrial chemicals and motor
oil; milk, water, and juice bottles; large tanks for storing liquids such as agricultural and lawn care chemicals; and pipe.



LDPE1.3 billion2.8 billion4.1 billionLDPE is used to manufacture food packaging films; plastic bottles for packaging food and personal care items; dry cleaning bags; ice bags; pallet shrink wrap; heavy-duty bags for
mulch and potting soil; boil-in-bags; coatings on flexible packaging products; and coatings on paper board such as milk cartons.









ProductAnnual Capacity(1)Primary Uses

AmericasEAITotal

LLDPE1.3 billion—1.3 billionLLDPE is used to manufacture garbage and lawn-leaf bags; industrial can liners; housewares; lids for coffee cans and margarine tubs; dishpans, home plastic storage containers, and
kitchen trash containers; large toys like outdoor gym sets; drip irrigation tubing; insulating resins and compounds used to insulate copper and fiber optic wiring; shrink wrap for multi-packaging canned food, bag-in-box bags, produce bags, and
pallet stretch wrap.



PP4.4 billion13.0 billion17.4 billionPP is primarily used to manufacture fibers for carpets, rugs and upholstery; housewares; medical products; automotive interior trim, fascia, running boards, battery cases, and
bumpers; toys and sporting goods; fishing tackle boxes; and bottle caps and closures.



Specialty Polyolefins:

PP compounds—2.6 billion2.6 billionPP compounds are used to manufacture automotive interior and exterior trims, dashboards, bumpers and under-hood applications; base material for products and parts used in
appliances; anti-corrosion coatings for steel piping, wire and cable.



Catalloy process resins600 million600 million1.2 billionCatalloyprocess resins are used primarily in modifying polymer properties in film applications and molded products; for specialty films, geomembrane liners, and roofing
materials; in bitumen modification for roofing and asphalt applications; and for automotive bumpers.



PB-1 resins—110 million110 millionPB-1 resins are used in flexible pipes, resins for seal-peel film, film modification, hot melt applications, consumer packaging and adhesives.

Aromatics:

Benzene (in gallons)195 million—195 millionBenzene is used to produce styrene, phenol and cyclohexane. These products are used in the production of nylon, plastics, synthetic rubber and polystyrene. Polystyrene is used in
insulation, packaging and drink cups.









(1)Represents total annual name plate capacity, which includes approximately 1,650 million pounds of ethylene; approximately 2,500 million pounds of propylene;
approximately 1,010 million pounds of HDPE; approximately 780 million pounds of LDPE; approximately 670 million pounds (Americas) and 4,960 million pounds (EAI) of PP; and approximately 200 million pounds of PP compounds of
name plate capacity owned by third parties either through joint venture arrangements or other contractual relationships. In some situations, the Company and the third parties may have access to the other’s capacity through certain arrangements.

Olefins and Polyolefins—Americas Segment

Overview

Our O&P—Americas segment produces and markets olefins, polyolefins, aromatics, specialty products and ethylene co-products. In
addition, we produce specialty products includingCatalloyandPlexarresins.

Sales & Marketing /
Customers

Our ethylene production is consumed internally as a raw material in the production of polymers and other
derivatives, with the balance sold to third party customers under multi-year contracts or on a spot basis. We have announced ethylene expansion projects for our La Porte, Channelview and Corpus Christi, Texas facilities which are projected for
completion in 2014 (La Porte) and 2015 (Channelview and Corpus Christi). In total, we expect that these projects will add additional ethylene capacity of approximately 1.85 billion pounds per year.

We are a net purchaser of propylene, a raw material used in the production of PO, PP and other derivatives. Our butadiene production is
sold to the external market under multi-year contracts. All of our production of benzene is used as a raw material in the production of styrene by our I&D segment, and we purchase additional benzene to meet our needs.

In addition to purchases of propylene and benzene, at times we purchase ethylene and butadiene for resale, when necessary, to satisfy
customer demand above our own production levels. Volumes of any of these products purchased for resale can vary significantly from period to period. However, purchased volumes have not historically had a significant impact on profits.

In the U.S., most of the ethylene and propylene production of our Channelview, Corpus Christi and La Porte, Texas facilities is shipped
via a pipeline system, which has connections to numerous U.S. Gulf Coast consumers. This pipeline system, some of which is owned and some of which is leased, extends from Corpus Christi to Mont Belvieu to Port Arthur, Texas, as well as into the Lake
Charles, Louisiana area. In addition, exchange agreements with other ethylene and co-products producers allow access to customers who are not directly connected to this pipeline system. Some ethylene is shipped by rail car from Clinton, Iowa to
Morris, Illinois and also to customers. A pipeline owned and operated by an unrelated party is used to transport ethylene from Morris, Illinois to Tuscola, Illinois and is used as a raw material in the production of ethanol. Some propylene is
shipped by ocean going vessel. Butadiene, benzene, toluene and other products are distributed by pipeline, rail car, truck, barge or ocean going vessel.

Our PP and PE production is typically sold through our sales organization to an extensive base of established customers and distributors servicing both the domestic and export markets either under annual
contracts or on a spot basis. We have regional sales offices in various locations in North America and our polyolefins primarily are transported in North America by railcar or truck. Export sales are generally to customers in Central and South
America. We also sell PP into our PP compounds business, which is managed worldwide by our O&P–EAI segment.







Joint Venture Relationships

We participate in a joint venture arrangement in Mexico, which provides us with capacity for approximately 640 million pounds of PP
production. The capacity is based on our percentage ownership of the joint ventures’ total capacity. We do not hold a majority interest in or have operational control of this joint venture.

Raw Materials

Raw material cost is the most significant cost component for the production of ethylene and its co-products. The primary raw materials that can be used are heavy liquids and natural gas liquids
(“NGLs”). Heavy liquids include crude oil-based naphtha and gas oil, as well as domestically sourced condensate, a very light crude oil resulting from natural gas production (collectively referred to as “heavy liquids”). NGLs
include ethane, propane and butane. The use of heavy liquid raw materials results in the production of a significant amount of co-products such as propylene, butadiene and benzene, as well as gasoline blending components, while the use of NGLs
results in the production of a smaller amount of co-products.

Historically, facilities using heavy liquids as feedstock
generated higher margins than those using ethane. However, in recent years ethane has had a significant cost advantage over heavy liquids due to technological advances for extracting shale gas which have led to increased supplies of NGLs. A
plant’s flexibility to consume a wide range of raw materials generally will provide an advantage over plants that are restricted in their processing capabilities. We can process significant quantities of either heavy liquids or NGLs. We
estimate that in the U.S. we can process more than 85% NGLs. Changes in the raw material feedstock utilized in the production process will result in variances in production capacities among products. We believe our raw material flexibility in the
U.S. is a key advantage in our production of ethylene and its co-products.

In North America, we also purchase large amounts
of natural gas to be used primarily as an energy source in our business and as the primary feedstock for methanol production by our I&D segment via market-based contractual arrangements from numerous suppliers.

Industry Dynamics / Competition

With respect to olefins and polyolefins, competition is based on price, product quality, product delivery, reliability of supply, product performance and customer service. Industry consolidation in North
America has led to fewer, although larger, competitors. Profitability is affected not only by supply and demand for olefins and polyolefins, but also by raw material costs and price competition among producers, which may intensify due to, among
other things, the addition of new capacity. In general, demand is a function of worldwide economic growth, which fluctuates.

We compete in North America with other large marketers and producers, including global chemical companies, chemical divisions of large
oil companies and regional marketers and producers.

Based on published data, we believe we were, as of December 31,
2013:



•the largest producer of ethylene in North America, with ethylene rated capacity of approximately 9.9 billion pounds per year, or approximately 13% of
total North American ethylene production capacity;



•the third largest producer of PE in North America with 5.9 billion pounds per year of capacity, or approximately 13% of North American capacity; and



•the largest producer of PP in North America, including our share of our Indelpro joint venture capacity, with 3.3 billion pounds, or approximately 18%
of the North American capacity.







Olefins and Polyolefins–Europe, Asia, International
Segment

Overview

Our O&P—EAI segment produces and markets olefins (ethylene and ethylene co-products) and polyolefins. We also produce significant quantities of other differentiated products such asCatalloyprocess resins and PB-1. Our O&P–EAI segment manages our worldwide PP compound business (including our facilities in North and South America), our worldwide PB-1 business, and ourCatalloyprocess resins produced in
Europe. PP compounds consist of specialty products produced from blends of polyolefins and additives and are sold mainly to the automotive and durable goods industries. PB-1, a family of butene-based polymers, is mainly used in pipe applications and
for under-floor heating and thermo sanitary systems.

Sales & Marketing / Customers

Our ethylene production is primarily consumed internally as a raw material in the production of polymers and we purchase additional
ethylene to meet our production needs. Our propylene production is used as a raw material in the production of propylene oxide (“PO”) and PP, and we purchase propylene where our internal needs exceed our internal production. European
ethylene and propylene production is generally fully integrated with our downstream facilities in Europe.

We produce and sell
butadiene to external customers under multi-year contracts and on a spot basis.

With respect to PP and PE, our production is
typically sold through our sales organization to an extensive base of established customers under annual contracts or on a spot basis and is also sold through distribution. Our polyolefins primarily are transported in Europe by railcar or truck. We
believe that, over a business cycle, average sales prices and profit margins for specialty polymers tend to be higher than average sales prices and profit margins for higher-volume commodity polyolefins or polymers.

Our regional sales offices are in various locations, including The Netherlands, Hong Kong, China, India, Australia and United Arab
Emirates. We also operate through a worldwide network of local sales and representative offices in Europe, Asia and Africa. Our joint ventures typically manage their domestic sales and marketing efforts independently, and we typically operate as
their agent/distributor for all or a portion of their exports.

Joint Venture Relationships

We participate in several manufacturing joint ventures in Saudi Arabia, Thailand, Poland, Australia, Japan and South Korea. We do not hold
majority interests in any of the joint venture relationships, nor do we have operational control. These ventures provide us with additional production capacity of approximately 2,630 million pounds of PP, approximately 810 million pounds
of propylene, approximately 550 million pounds of ethylene, approximately 570 million pounds of HDPE, approximately 340 million pounds of LDPE and approximately 160 million pounds of PP compounding. These capacities are based on
our percentage ownership interest in the joint ventures’ total capacities. We realize profits or losses from these ventures as income from equity investments.

We generally license our polyolefin process technologies and supply catalysts to our joint ventures through our Technology segment. Some of our joint ventures source cost advantaged raw materials from
their local shareholders.

Raw Materials

Raw material cost is the largest component of the total cost for the production of ethylene and its co-products. The primary raw materials used in our European olefin facilities are heavy liquids and, for
our Saudi joint venture facilities, locally sourced and cost advantaged NGLs, including ethane, propane and butane. The







principal raw materials used by our polyolefin andCatalloyprocess resin businesses are propylene and ethylene. In Europe, we have the capacity to produce approximately 50% of the
propylene requirements of our European PP business and approximately 90% of the ethylene requirements of our European PE business. Propylene and ethylene requirements that are not produced internally are generally acquired via spot purchases or
pursuant to long-term contracts with third-party suppliers.

Our PP compounding facilities generally receive their PP and
other polymers from one of our wholly owned or joint venture facilities. PB-1 raw materials are sourced solely from external supply. Some of our joint ventures receive propylene and ethylene from their local shareholders under long-term contracts.

Industry Dynamics / Competition

With respect to olefins and polyolefins, competition is based on price, product quality, product delivery, reliability of supply, product performance and customer service. We compete with regional and
multinational chemical companies and divisions of large oil companies. The petrochemical market in the EU has been affected by the volatility of naphtha, the primary feedstock for olefins in the region, as well as fluctuating demand as a result of
uncertain economic conditions.

Based on published data and including our proportionate share of our joint ventures, we
believe we were, as of December 31, 2013:



•the fourth largest producer of ethylene in Europe with an ethylene rated capacity in Europe of approximately 4.3 billion pounds per year, or
approximately 8% of total European ethylene capacity;



•the largest producer of PP in Europe with 5.2 billion pounds per year of capacity, or approximately 22% of European PP capacity;



•the largest producer of PE in Europe with 4.8 billion pounds per year of capacity, or approximately 21% of HDPE and 13% of LDPE European capacity; and



•the largest PP compounds producer in the world with 2.4 billion pounds per year of capacity, with approximately 55% of that capacity in Europe,
20% in North America, and 25% in the rest of the world.

Intermediates and
Derivatives Segment

Overview

Our I&D segment produces and markets PO and its co-products and derivatives, acetyls, including methanol, ethylene oxide and its derivatives, and oxyfuels (methyl tertiary butyl ether
(“MTBE”) and ethyl tertiary butyl ether (“ETBE”)). PO co-products include styrene monomer (“SM”) and C4 chemicals (tertiary butyl alcohol (“TBA”), most of which is used to make oxyfuels, isobutylene and
tertiary butyl hydro peroxide (“TBHP”)). PO derivatives include propylene glycol (“PG”), propylene glycol ethers (“PGE”) and butanediol (“BDO”). We believe that our proprietary PO and acetyls production
process technologies provide us with a cost advantaged position for these products and their derivatives.

We produce PO
through two distinct technologies, one of which yields TBA as the co-product and the other of which yields SM as the co-product. The two technologies are mutually exclusive, meaning that a manufacturing facility must be dedicated either to PO/TBA or
to PO/SM. Based on published data regarding MTBE and ETBE capacity, we believe that we are the largest producer of MTBE/ETBE worldwide.







The following table outlines the primary products, annual capacities, and primary uses for
I&D’s products. Capacities, which are presented in pounds unless otherwise indicated, include 100% of the capacity of joint venture facilities.





ProductAnnual Capacity(1)Primary Uses



Propylene Oxide5.1 billionPO is a key component of polyols, PG, PGE and BDO.



PO Co-Products:



Styrene Monomer5.6 billionSM is used to produce plastics, such as expandable polystyrene for packaging, foam cups and containers, insulation products and durables and engineering resins.



Tertiary Butyl Alcohol5.8 billionTBA is a precursor to Isobutylene, MTBE and ETBE. Isobutylene is used in the manufacture of synthetic rubber and lubricant additives as well as a gasoline blending component. MTBE
is a high octane gasoline blending component; ETBE is an alternative gasoline blending component based on agriculturally produced ethanol.



PO Derivatives:



Propylene Glycol1.0 billionPG is used to produce unsaturated polyester resins for bathroom fixtures and boat hulls; antifreeze, coolants and aircraft deicers; and cosmetics and cleaners.



Propylene Glycol Ethers560 millionPGE are used as solvents for paints, coatings, cleaners and a variety of electronics applications.



Butanediol390 millionBDO is used in the manufacture of engineering resins, films, personal care products, pharmaceuticals, coatings, solvents and adhesives.



Acetyls:



Methanol (in gallons)440 million(2)Methanol is a raw material used to produce acetic acid, MTBE, formaldehyde and several other products, including adhesives, foams, plywood subfloors, solvents and windshield washer
fluid.



Acetic Acid1.2 billionAcetic acid is a raw material used to produce VAM, terephthalic acid (used to produce polyester for textiles and plastic bottles), industrial solvents and a variety of other
chemicals.



Vinyl Acetate Monomer (“VAM”)700 millionVAM is used to produce a variety of polymers, products used in adhesives, water-based paint, textile coatings and paper coatings.



Ethylene Derivatives:



Ethylene Oxide (“EO”)800 million EO equivalents; 400million as pure EOEO is used to produce surfactants, industrial cleaners, cosmetics, emulsifiers, paint, heat transfer fluids and ethylene glycol.



Ethylene Glycol (“EG”)650 millionEG is used to produce polyester fibers and film, polyethylene terephthalate resin, heat transfer fluids and automobile
antifreeze.







ProductAnnual Capacity(1)Primary UsesEthylene Glycol Ethers220 millionEthylene glycol ethers are used to produce paint and coatings, polishes, solvents and chemical intermediates.Ethanol (in gallons)50 millionEthanol is used as a fuel and a fuel additive and in the production of solvents as well as household, medicinal and personal care products.



(1)The annual capacities include approximately 2,280 million pounds of PO; approximately 2,390 million pounds of SM; approximately 110 million pounds of
PGE; and approximately 30 million gallons of methanol production owned by third parties through joint venture or other contractual relationships.

(2)The capacities above include an additional 250 million gallons of methanol as a result of our December 2013 restart of a methanol unit at our Channelview facility.

Sales & Marketing / Customers

We sell our PO and its co-products and derivatives through multi-year sales agreements and spot sales and have a number of multi-year
processing (or tolling) agreements. We sell most of our SM production into the North American and European merchant markets and to Asian and South American export markets through long-term sales contracts and processing agreements. We purchase SM
for resale, when necessary, to satisfy customer demand that exceeds our production levels. Volumes of SM purchases made for resale can vary significantly from period to period. However, purchased volumes have not historically had a significant
impact on profits. PO and SM are transported by barge, ocean going vessel, pipeline, railcar and tank truck.

Our I&D
segment converts most of its TBA, which is produced as a co-product of the PO process, to isobutylene. Over half of the isobutylene is reacted with methanol or ethanol to produce MTBE and ETBE. The remaining isobutylene is sold into the external
market as high purity and purity grade isobutylene.

We sell our MTBE and ETBE production under market and cost-based sales
agreements and in the spot market. MTBE and ETBE are transported by barge, ocean going vessel and tank truck. Substantially all refiners and blenders have discontinued the use of MTBE in the U.S., partly as a result of governmental initiatives to
increase use of bio-ethanol in gasoline and to reduce or effectively ban the use of MTBE. However, MTBE/ETBE demand for gasoline blending remains strong within most of the remaining worldwide market. Accordingly, we market MTBE and ETBE produced in
the U.S. for use outside of the U.S. Japan has opted to use ETBE as a means of meeting its carbon dioxide reduction commitments under the Kyoto Protocol, and we source a significant portion of Japan’s bio-fuels needs. Some of our plants have
the flexibility to produce either MTBE or ETBE to accommodate market needs.

Sales of MTBE, ETBE, acetyls, PO and PO
co-products and derivatives are made by our marketing and sales personnel, and also through distributors and independent agents in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Africa and the Asia Pacific region.

Acetyls, including acetic acid and VAM, are consumed internally and sold worldwide under multi-year contracts and on a spot basis. Acetic
Acid and VAM are shipped by barge, ocean going vessel, pipeline, railcar and tank truck. Sales are made through a direct sales force, agents and distributors. Our acetyls business uses methanol, which we produce internally, as a raw material for our
production of acetic acid, solvents and MTBE, and we also sell the methanol under annual contracts and on a spot basis to large U.S. customers. In December, we restarted our 250 million gallon per year methanol plant in Channelview, Texas in
order to take advantage of low-cost natural gas from shale formations. The methanol unit had been out of service since 2004 due to the rising cost of natural gas, the key feedstock for methanol production. Methanol is shipped by barge and pipeline.

EO and EG typically are sold under multi-year contracts and on a spot basis, with market and cost-based pricing. Glycol
ethers are sold primarily into the solvent and distributor markets at market prices. The vast







majority of the ethylene derivative products are sold in North America and Asia, primarily through our sales organizations. EO is shipped by railcar and its derivatives are shipped by railcar,
truck, isotank and ocean going vessel.

Joint Venture Relationships

We have two PO joint ventures with Bayer Corporation. We operate four of our U.S. operating units for the U.S PO joint venture.
Bayer’s interest represents ownership of an in-kind portion of the PO production of 1.5 billion pounds per year. We take, in-kind, the remaining PO production and all co-product (SM and TBA) production. We do not share marketing or product
sales with Bayer under the U.S. PO joint venture. The parties’ rights in the joint venture are based on off take volumes as opposed to ownership percentages. Bayer also has the right to 50% of the PO and SM production of our European PO joint
venture. Our proportional additional production capacity provided through this venture is approximately 340 million pounds of PO and approximately 740 million pounds of SM.

We also have joint venture manufacturing relationships in China. These ventures provide us with additional production capacity of
approximately 115 million pounds of PO. This capacity is based on our operational share of the joint ventures’ total capacities.

In December 2013, we sold our 40% ownership interest in Nihon Oxirane Company, a joint venture in Japan that produces PO, PG and SM. For more information, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Raw Materials

The cost of raw materials generally is the largest component of total production cost for PO and its co-products and derivatives. The primary raw materials used for the production of PO and its
co-products and derivatives are propylene, isobutane, mixed butane, ethylene and benzene. The market prices of these raw materials historically have been related to the price of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas, as well as supply and demand for the
raw materials.

In the U.S., we obtain a large portion of our propylene, benzene and ethylene raw materials needed for the
production of PO and its co-products and derivatives from our O&P–Americas segment. Raw materials for the non-U.S. production of PO and its co-products and derivatives are obtained from our O&P–EAI segment and from third parties.
We consume a significant portion of our internally-produced PO in the production of PO derivatives.

The raw material
requirements not sourced internally are purchased at market-based prices from numerous suppliers in the U.S. and Europe with which we have established contractual relationships, as well as in the spot market.

We purchase our ethanol requirements for the production of ETBE from third parties; the methanol for our MTBE production comes from
internal production and third parties. The primary raw materials required for the production of acetic acid are carbon monoxide and methanol. We purchase carbon monoxide pursuant to a long-term contract under which pricing is based primarily on the
cost of production. All methanol required for acetyls production is internally sourced. Natural gas is the primary raw material required for the production of methanol.

In addition to ethylene, acetic acid is a primary raw material for the production of VAM. For the production of VAM, we obtain our entire requirements for acetic acid and ethylene from our internal
production. Historically we have used a large percentage of our acetic acid production to produce VAM.

Industry Dynamics /
Competition

With respect to PO, its co-products and derivatives, competition is based on a variety of factors, including
product quality and price, reliability of supply, technical support, customer service and potential substitute







materials. Profitability is affected by the worldwide level of demand along with price competition, which may intensify due to, among other things, new industry capacity. PO demand growth could
be impacted by further development of alternative bio-based PO derivatives. It is not possible to predict accurately the changes in raw material costs, market conditions and other factors that will affect industry profitability in the future. Our
major worldwide competitors for sales of PO, it co-products and derivatives include other multinational chemical companies as well as some regional marketers and producers.

Based on published data regarding PO capacity, we believe that, excluding our partners’ shares of joint venture capacity, we are the second largest producer of PO worldwide, with approximately 13% of
the total worldwide capacity for PO. Based on published data regarding MTBE and ETBE capacity, we believe we are the largest producer of MTBE/ETBE worldwide, with approximately 12% of the total worldwide capacity to produce these combined oxyfuels
as of December 31, 2013. Based on published data regarding SM capacity, we believe that we are one of the largest producers of SM worldwide, with approximately 5% of the total worldwide capacity for SM as of December 31, 2013. We believe
that we are the ninth and seventh largest producer of acetic acid and VAM, respectively, each with approximately 3% and 4% of the total worldwide capacity as of December 31, 2013.

Refining Segment

Overview

Our Houston refinery, which is located on the Houston Ship
Channel in Houston, Texas, has a heavy, high-sulfur crude oil processing capacity of approximately 268,000 barrels per day on a calendar day basis (normal operating basis), or approximately 292,000 barrels per day on a stream day basis (maximum
achievable over a 24 hour period). The Houston refinery has a Nelson Complexity Index of 12.5. The Houston refinery is a full conversion refinery designed to refine heavy, high-sulfur crude oil. This crude oil is more viscous and dense than
traditional crude oil and contains higher concentrations of sulfur and heavy metals, making it more difficult to refine into gasoline and other high-value fuel products. However, this crude oil has historically been less costly to purchase than
light, low-sulfur crude oil such as Brent. Recently, certain crudes such as West Texas Intermediate (WTI) and West Texas Sour (WTS) have been priced lower than normal trends due to transportation constraints.

On January 4, 2012, we ceased refinery operations at our Berre refinery in France. The cessation of operations was in
accordance with an agreement executed in the fourth quarter of 2011 by certain of our French subsidiaries and union representatives. Additional information about the cessation of operations can be found in “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 3,Discontinued Operations and Related Items, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The following table outlines the primary products of our Refining segment capacity as of December 31, 2013, unless otherwise noted, and the primary uses for those products.



ProductCapacity(1)Primary UsesGasoline and components120,000 barrels per dayAutomotive fuelUltra Low Sulfur Diesel95,000 barrels per dayDiesel fuel for cars and trucksJet Fuel25,000 barrels per dayAviation fuelLube Oils4,000 barrels per dayIndustrial lube oils, railroad engine additives and white oils for food-grade applicationsAromatics7,000 barrels per dayIntermediate chemicals



(1)Only key products for the Houston refinery are identified and therefore, the sum of capacities shown does not equal the facility’s total capacity.







Sales & Marketing / Customers

Gasoline sales accounted for 9% of our total revenues in 2013, 10% in 2012 and 7% in 2011. The Houston refinery’s products primarily
are sold in bulk to other refiners, marketers, distributors and wholesalers at market-related prices. Most of the Houston refinery’s products are sold under contracts with a term of one year or less or are sold in the spot market. The Houston
refinery’s products generally are transported to customers via pipelines and terminals owned and operated by other parties.

Raw Materials

We purchase the crude oil used as a raw material for the
Houston refinery on the open market on a spot basis and under a number of supply agreements with regional producers generally with terms varying from one to three years.

Industry Dynamics / Competition

Our refining competitors are major
integrated oil companies, refineries owned or controlled by foreign governments and independent domestic refiners. Based on published data, as of January 2013, there were 143 operable crude oil refineries in the U.S., and total U.S. refinery
capacity was approximately 17.8 million barrels per day. During 2013, the Houston refinery processed an average of approximately 232,000 barrels per day of crude oil, representing approximately 1.3% of all U.S. crude processing capacity.

Our refining operations compete for the purchases of crude oil based on price and quality. Supply disruptions could impact
the availability and pricing. We compete in gasoline and distillate markets as a bulk supplier of fungible products satisfying industry and government specifications. Competition is based on price and location.

The markets for fuel products tend to be volatile as well as cyclical as a result of the changing global economy and changing crude oil
and refined product prices. Crude oil prices are impacted by worldwide political events, the economics of exploration and production and refined products demand. Prices and demand for fuel products are influenced by seasonal and short-term factors
such as weather and driving patterns, as well as by longer term issues such as the economy, energy conservation and alternative fuels. Industry fuel products supply is dependent on short-term industry operating capabilities and on long-term refining
capacity.

A crack spread is a benchmark indication of refining margins based on the processing of a specific type of crude
oil into an assumed selection of refined products. The Houston refinery generally tracks the Maya 2-1-1 crack spread, which represents the difference between the first month futures price of two barrels of Maya crude oil as set by Pemex and one
barrel each of U.S. Gulf Coast 87 Octane Conventional Gasoline and U.S. Gulf Coast Ultralow-sulfur Diesel (“ULSD”). While these benchmark refining spreads are generally indicative of the level of profitability at the Houston refinery and
similarly configured refineries, there are many other factors specific to each refinery and the industry in general, such as the cost of Renewable Identification Numbers (RINs) and the value of by-products, which influence operating results.

Technology Segment

Overview

Our Technology segment develops and licenses chemical, polyolefin and other process technologies and provides associated engineering and
other services. Our Technology segment also develops, manufactures and sells polyolefin catalysts. We market our process technologies and our polyolefin catalysts to external customers and also use them in our own manufacturing operations.







Our polyolefin process licenses are structured to provide a standard core technology, with
individual customer needs met by adding customized modules that provide the required capabilities to produce the defined production grade slate and plant capacity. In addition to the basic license agreement, a range of services can also be provided,
including project assistance; training; start-up assistance of the plant; and ongoing technical support after start-up. We may also offer marketing and sales services. In addition, licensees may continue to purchase polyolefin catalysts that are
consumed in the production process, generally under long-term catalyst supply agreements with us.

Process Technology
Licensing

We are a leading licensor of polyolefin process technologies. In addition, we license a selective portfolio of
chemical process technologies in the fields of olefin recovery, olefin conversion, aromatics extraction and acetyls.

Polyolefin Catalysts

We are a leading manufacturer and supplier of polyolefin catalysts. Approximately 25% of our catalyst sales are intercompany as we are a large polyolefin producer.

Research and Development

Our research and development activities are designed to improve our existing products and processes, and discover and commercialize new materials, catalysts and processes. These activities focus on
product and application development, process development, catalyst development and fundamental polyolefin focused research.

In 2013, 2012 and 2011, our research and development expenditures were $150 million, $172 million and $196 million,
respectively. A portion of these expenses are related to technical support and customer service and are allocated to the other business segments.

GENERAL

Intellectual Property

We maintain an extensive patent portfolio and continue to file new patent applications in the U.S. and other countries. As of December 31, 2013, we owned approximately 5,000 patents and patent
applications worldwide. Our patents and trade secrets cover our processes, products and catalysts and are significant to our competitive position, particularly with regard to PO, intermediate chemicals, petrochemicals, polymers and our process
technologies. We own globally registered and unregistered trademarks including the “LyondellBasell,” “Lyondell” and “Equistar” trade names. While we believe that our intellectual property provides competitive
advantages, we do not regard our businesses as being materially dependent upon any single patent, trade secret or trademark. Some of our heritage production capacity operates under licenses from third parties.

Environmental

Most of our operations are affected by national, state, regional and local environmental laws. Matters pertaining to the environment are discussed in Part I, Item 1A.Risk Factors; Part I,
Item 3.Legal Proceedings; Part II, Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; and Notes 2 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

We have made, and intend to continue to make, the expenditures necessary for compliance with applicable laws and regulations relating to
environmental, health and safety matters. We incurred capital expenditures in 2013 for health, safety and environmental compliance purposes and improvement programs of $121 million in 2013, and estimate such expenditures to be approximately $215
million in 2014 and $274 million in 2015.







While capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance, including
compliance with potential legislation and potential regulation related to climate change, cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not believe they will have a material effect on our competitive position.

While there can be no assurance that physical risks to our facilities and supply chain due to climate change will not occur in the
future, we have reviewed the potential for these risks and have concluded that, because of our facility locations and our existing distribution networks, we do not believe these risks are material in the near term.

Employee Relations

As of December 31, 2013, we employed approximately 13,300 full-time and part-time employees around the world. Of these, approximately 5,900 were in North America, approximately 6,300 were in Europe
and approximately 1,100 were in other locations.

As of December 31, 2013, approximately 850 of our employees in North
America were represented by labor unions. The vast majority of our employees in Europe and South America are subject to staff council or works council coverage or collective bargaining agreements.

In addition to our own employees, we use the services of contractors in the routine conduct of our businesses.







EXECUTIVE OFFICERS





Name and Age*Significant Experience

James L. Gallogly, 61Chairman and Sole Member of the Management Board since April 2010 and Chief Executive Officer since May 2009.Executive Vice President of Exploration and Production for ConocoPhillips from
October 2008 to May 2009.



Karyn F. Ovelmen, 50Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since October 2011.Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Petroplus Holdings AG from
2006 to 2010. (1)



Craig B. Glidden, 56Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer since August 2009.Senior Vice President, Legal and Public Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate
Secretary of Chevron Phillips Chemical Company from April 2004 to August 2009.



Bhavesh V. (“Bob”) Patel, 47Executive Vice President, Olefins and Polyolefins—EAI and Technology since October 2013.Senior Vice President, Olefins and Polyolefins—EAI and Technology from November
2010 to October 2013.Senior Vice President, Olefins and
Polyolefins—Americas from March 2010 to June 2011.General Manager,
Olefins and NGLs of Chevron Phillips Chemical Company from 2009 to 2010.



Timothy D. Roberts, 52Executive Vice President, Olefins and Polyolefins—Americas since October 2013.Senior Vice President, Olefins and Polyolefins—Americas from June 2011 to
October 2013.Vice President of Planning and Development for Chevron
Phillips Chemical from February 2011 to May 2011.President and CEO of
Americas Styrenics LLC, a joint venture between the Dow Chemical Company and Chevron Phillips Chemical, from May 2008 to January 2011.



Kevin W. Brown, 56Senior Vice President, Refining since October 2009.Director of Sinclair Oil from January 2006 to September 2009.Executive Vice President, Operations of Sinclair Oil from June 2004 to September 2009.



Massimo Covezzi, 56Senior Vice President, Research and Development since January 2008.



(1)In January 2012, Petroplus Holdings AG filed an insolvency petition in Switzerland.


