Items 1 and 2.BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES

CORPORATE
    STRUCTURE AND OVERVIEW



LyondellBasell Industries N.V. was incorporated under Dutch law
    by deed of incorporation dated October 15, 2009. The
    Company was formed to serve as the new parent holding company
    for certain subsidiaries of LyondellBasell AF S.C.A. From
    January 2009 through April 2010, LyondellBasell AF and 93 of its
    subsidiaries were debtors in jointly administered bankruptcy
    cases in U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of
    New York. As of April 30, 2010, the date of emergence from
    bankruptcy proceedings, LyondellBasell AF’s equity
    interests in its indirect subsidiaries terminated and
    LyondellBasell Industries N.V. now owns and operates, directly
    and indirectly, substantially the same business as
    LyondellBasell AF owned and operated prior to emergence from the
    bankruptcy cases, including subsidiaries of LyondellBasell AF
    that were not involved in the bankruptcy cases.



Our Company is the successor to the combination in December 2007
    of Lyondell Chemical Company (“Lyondell Chemical”) and
    Basell AF S.C.A. (“Basell”), which created one of the
    world’s largest private petrochemical companies with
    significant worldwide scale and leading product positions.



We are the world’s third largest independent chemical
    company based on revenues and an industry leader in many of our
    product lines. We participate in the full petrochemical value
    chain, from refining to specialized end uses of petrochemical
    products, and we believe that our vertically integrated
    facilities, broad product portfolio, manufacturing flexibility,
    superior technology base and operational excellence allow us to
    extract value across the full value chain.

SEGMENTS



As of December 31, 2009, we began reporting our results of
    operations based on five business segments through which our
    operations are managed. Our reportable segments include:



•Olefins and Polyolefins — Americas
    (“O&P — Americas”).Our
    O&P — Americas segment produces and markets
    olefins, including ethylene and ethylene co-products, and
    polyolefins•Olefins and Polyolefins — Europe, Asia,
    International (“O&P —
    EAI”).Our O&P — EAI segment
    produces and markets olefins, including ethylene and ethylene
    co-products, and polyolefins.•Intermediates and Derivatives
    (“I&D”).Our I&D segment
    produces and markets propylene oxide (“PO”) and its
    co-products and derivatives, acetyls, ethylene oxide and its
    derivatives.•Refining & Oxyfuels.Our
    Refining & Oxyfuels segment refines heavy, high-sulfur
    crude oil in the U.S. Gulf Coast, refines light and medium
    weight crude oil in southern France and produces oxyfuels at
    several of our olefin and PO units.•Technology.Our Technology segment develops
    and licenses polyolefin process technologies and provides
    associated engineering and other services. Our Technology
    segment also develops, manufactures and sells polyolefin
    catalysts. We market our process technologies and our polyolefin
    catalysts to external customers and use them for our own
    manufacturing operations.







The following chart sets out our business segments’ key
    products:



O&P AmericasandO&P EAII&DRefining & OxyfuelsTechnologyOlefins— Ethylene— Propylene— ButadienePolyolefins— Polypropylene (PP)— Polyethylene (PE)— High densitypolyethylene (HDPE)— Low densitypolyethylene (LDPE)— Linear low densitypolyethylene (LLDPE)— Propylene-basedcompounds, materialsand alloys(PP compounds)*—Catalloyprocess resins— Polybutene-1(PB-1)*Aromatics— Benzene— TolueneEthylene derivatives— EthanolPropylene oxide,co-products and derivatives— Propylene oxide (PO)— Styrene monomer (SM)— Tertiary butyl alcohol (TBA)— Isobutylene— Tertiary butylhydro-peroxide (TBHP)— Propylene glycol (PG)— Propylene glycol ethers (PGE)— Butanediol (BDO)Acetyls— Vinyl acetate monomer (VAM)— Acetic acid— MethanolEthylene derivatives— Ethylene oxide (EO)— Ethylene glycol (EG)— Ethylene Glycol EthersFlavor and fragrance chemicals**GasolineUltra low sulfur dieselJet fuelLube oilsGasoline blendingcomponents— Methyl tertiary butylether (MTBE)— Ethyl tertiary butylether (ETBE)AlkylateVacuum Gas Oil (VGO)Light crude oilPP process technologies—Spheripol—Spherizone—MetocenePolyethylene processtechnologies—Lupotech—Spherilene—HostalenPolyolefin catalysts—AvantSelected chemicaltechnologies









*O&P — EAI only.**Through December 2010, when the flavor and fragrance business
    was sold.

Olefins
    and Polyolefins Segments Generally



We are a top worldwide producer of ethylene, propylene and PE,
    and the world’s largest producer of PP and PP compounds. We
    manage our olefin and polyolefin business in two reportable
    segments, O&P — Americas and O&P —
    EAI.



Ethylene is the most significant petrochemical in terms of
    worldwide production volume and is the key building block for PE
    and a large number of other chemicals, plastics and synthetics.
    The production of ethylene results in co-products such as
    propylene, butadiene and aromatics, which include benzene and
    toluene. Ethylene and its co-products are fundamental to many
    segments of the economy, including the production of consumer
    products, packaging, housing and automotive components and other
    durable and nondurable goods.



Polyolefins are thermoplastics and comprise approximately
    two-thirds of worldwide thermoplastics demand. Since their
    industrial commercialization, thermoplastics have found
    wide-ranging applications and continue to replace traditional
    materials such as metal, glass, paper and wood. Our products are
    used in consumer, automotive and industrial applications ranging
    from food and beverage packaging to housewares and construction
    materials. PE is the most widely used thermoplastic, measured on
    a production capacity basis. We produce HDPE, LDPE, LLDPE and
    metallocene linear low density polyethylene. PP is the single
    largest polyolefin product produced worldwide, and we produce
    homopolymer, impact copolymer, random copolymer and metallocene
    PP.





We specialize in several specialty product lines: PP compounds;Catalloyprocess resins; andPB-1,focusing on specialty polyolefins and compounds that offer a
    wide range of performance characteristics. Typical properties of
    such specialty polyolefins and compounds include
    impact-stiffness balance, scratch resistance, soft touch and
    heat scalability. End uses include automotive and industrial
    products and materials. PP compounds consist of specialty
    products produced from blends of polyolefins and additives and
    are sold mainly to the automotive and home appliances industries.



We are the only manufacturer ofCatalloyprocess resins,
    which are our proprietary products. TheCatalloyprocess
    resins business focuses on specialty polyolefins that offer a
    wide range of performance characteristics.Catalloyprocess resins compete with a number of other materials,
    such as other PP resins, flexible PVC, ethylene propylene
    rubber, acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (“ABS”),
    polycarbonate, metals and reinforced polyurethanes.



Sales of ethylene accounted for approximately 3% of our total
    revenues in 2010. Sales of PP accounted for approximately 18% of
    our total revenues in 2010. Sales of PE (HDPE, LDPE and LLDPE,
    collectively) accounted for 16% of our total revenues in 2010.

Olefins
    and Polyolefins — Americas Segment



Overview



Our O&P — Americas segment produces and markets
    olefins, polyolefins, aromatics, specialty products and ethylene
    co-products. We are the largest producer of light olefins
    (ethylene and propylene) and PP and the third largest producer
    of PE in North America. In addition, we produce significant
    quantities of specialty products. In 2010, our
    O&P — Americas segment generated operating
    revenues of $9.2 billion (excluding inter-segment revenue).



The following table outlines:



•the primary products of our O&P — Americas
    segment;•annual processing capacity as of December 31, 2010, unless
    otherwise noted; and•the primary uses for those products.



ProductAnnual CapacityPrimary UsesOlefins:Ethylene9.6 billion poundsEthylene is used as a raw material to manufacture polyethylene,
    EO, ethanol, ethylene dichloride, styrene and VAMPropylene5.5 billion pounds(1)Propylene is used to produce PP, acrylonitrile and POButadiene1.1 billion poundsButadiene is used to manufacture styrene-butadiene rubber and
    polybutadiene rubber, which are used in the manufacture of
    tires, hoses, gaskets and other rubber products. Butadiene is
    also used in the production of paints, adhesives, nylon
    clothing, carpets, paper coatings and engineered plasticsAromatics:Benzene195 million gallonsBenzene is used to produce styrene, phenol and cyclohexane.
    These products are used in the production of nylon, plastics,
    synthetic rubber and polystyrene. Polystyrene is used in
    insulation, packaging and drink cups







ProductAnnual CapacityPrimary Uses



Toluene40 million gallonsToluene is used as an octane enhancer in gasoline, as a chemical
    raw material for benzene and/or paraxylene production and as a
    core ingredient in toluene diisocyanate, a compound used in
    urethane production

Polyolefins:

PP4.4 billion pounds(2)PP is primarily used to manufacture fibers for carpets, rugs and
    upholstery; housewares; medical products; automotive interior
    trim, fascia, running boards, battery cases, and bumpers; toys
    and sporting goods; fishing tackle boxes; and bottle caps and
    closures

HDPE3.3 billion poundsHDPE is used to manufacture grocery, merchandise and trash bags;
    food containers for items from frozen desserts to margarine;
    plastic caps and closures; liners for boxes of cereal and
    crackers; plastic drink cups and toys; dairy crates; bread
    trays; pails for items from paint to fresh fruits and
    vegetables; safety equipment, such as hard hats; house wrap for
    insulation; bottles for household and industrial chemicals and
    motor oil; milk, water, and juice bottles; large (rotomolded)
    tanks for storing liquids such as agricultural and lawn care
    chemicals; and pipe

LDPE1.3 billion poundsLDPE is used to manufacture food packaging films; plastic
    bottles for packaging food and personal care items; dry cleaning
    bags; ice bags; pallet shrink wrap; heavy-duty bags for mulch
    and potting soil; boil-in-bags ; coatings on flexible packaging
    products; and coatings on paper board such as milk cartons.
    Ethylene vinyl acetate is a specialized form of LDPE used in
    foamed sheets, bag-in-box bags, vacuum cleaner hoses, medical
    tubing, clear sheet protectors and flexible binders





ProductAnnual CapacityPrimary UsesLLDPE1.3 billion poundsLLDPE is used to manufacture garbage and lawn-leaf bags;
    industrial can liners; housewares; lids for coffee cans and
    margarine tubs; dishpans, home plastic storage containers, and
    kitchen trash containers; large (rotomolded) toys like outdoor
    gym sets; drip irrigation tubing; insulating resins and
    compounds used to insulate copper and fiber optic wiring; shrink
    wrap for multi-packaging canned food, bag-in-box bags, produce
    bags, and pallet stretch wrapSpecialty Polyolefins:Catalloyprocess resins600 million poundsCatalloyprocess resins are used primarily in modifying
    polymer properties in film applications and molded products; for
    specialty films, geomembranes, and roofing materials; in bitumen
    modification for roofing and asphalt applications; and to
    manufacture automotive bumpersEthylene Derivatives:Ethanol50 million gallonsEthanol is used as a fuel and a fuel additive and in the
    production of solvents as well as household, medicinal and
    personal care products









(1)Includes (i) refinery-grade material from the Houston
    Refinery and (ii) 1 billion pounds per year of
    capacity from the product flex unit at the Channelview facility,
    which can convert ethylene and other light petrochemicals into
    propylene.(2)Includes 100% of 1.31 billion pounds of capacity of our
    Indelpro joint venture (described below).



See “Description of Properties” for the locations
    where we produce the primary products of our
    O&P — Americas segment. Annual processing
    capacity as of December 31, 2010 was calculated by
    estimating the average number of days in a typical year that a
    production unit of a plant is expected to operate, after
    allowing for downtime for regular maintenance, and multiplying
    that number by an amount equal to the unit’s optimal daily
    output based on the design raw material mix. Because the
    processing capacity of a production unit is an estimated amount,
    actual production volumes may be more or less than the
    capacities set forth below. Capacities shown include 100% of the
    capacity of joint venture facilities.



Sales &
    Marketing / Customers



In 2010, no single external O&P — Americas
    segment customer accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues.



We currently produce ethylene at five sites in the U.S. Our
    ethylene production in the U.S. generally is consumed
    internally as a raw material in the production of polymers and
    other derivatives, or is shipped by pipeline to customers. In
    North America, we are a net seller of ethylene.



We currently produce propylene at six sites in the U.S., which
    includes production from the Houston Refinery’s fluid
    catalytic cracker coproduct stream. We use propylene as a raw
    material for production of PO, PP, and other derivatives. The
    propylene production within the U.S. that is not consumed
    internally is generally sold under multi-year contracts. In
    North America, we are a net seller of propylene.





We have butadiene and aromatics (benzene and toluene) production
    capabilities at two sites in the U.S. We generally sell our
    butadiene under multi-year contracts. We use the benzene as a
    raw material for production of styrene. In the U.S., we are a
    net purchaser of benzene. Our Refining & Oxyfuels
    business uses the toluene to blend into gasoline. Of the toluene
    production that is not consumed internally, a majority is sold
    on a spot basis.



We at times purchase ethylene, propylene, benzene and butadiene
    for resale, when necessary, to satisfy customer demand for these
    products above production levels. Volumes of ethylene,
    propylene, benzene and butadiene purchased for resale can vary
    significantly from period to period. However, purchased volumes
    have not historically had a significant impact on profits.



In the U.S., most of the ethylene and propylene production of
    our Channelview, Corpus Christi and La Porte facilities is
    shipped via a pipeline system, which has connections to numerous
    U.S. Gulf Coast consumers. This pipeline system, some of
    which is owned and some of which is leased, extends from Corpus
    Christi to Mont Belvieu to Port Arthur, Texas, as well as into
    the Lake Charles, Louisiana area. In addition, exchange
    agreements with other ethylene and co-products producers allow
    access to customers who are not directly connected to this
    pipeline system. Some ethylene is shipped by rail car from
    Clinton, Iowa to Morris, Illinois and also to customers. A
    pipeline owned and operated by an unrelated party is used to
    transport ethylene from Morris, Illinois to Tuscola, Illinois
    and is used as a raw material in the production of ethanol. Some
    propylene is shipped by ocean going vessel. Butadiene, benzene,
    toluene and other products are distributed by pipeline, rail
    car, truck, barge or ocean going vessel.



We produce PP at three sites in North America, one of which is
    owned by our Mexican joint venture, and one site in South
    America. We manufacture PE using a variety of technologies at
    six sites in the U.S. Our PP and PE production is typically
    sold to an extensive base of established customers under annual
    contracts or under customary terms and conditions without formal
    contracts. We also sell PP into our PP compounds business, which
    is managed worldwide by our O&P — EAI segment. We
    also have a facility in Ohio that produces performance polymer
    products, which include enhanced grades of PE. We believe that,
    over a business cycle, average selling prices and profit margins
    for specialty polymers tend to be higher than average selling
    prices and profit margins for higher-volume commodity PEs.



The majority of our polyolefin products sold in North America
    are sold through our sales organization. We have regional sales
    offices in various locations throughout the
    U.S. Polyolefins primarily are distributed in North America
    by rail car or truck.



Joint
    Venture Relationships



The following table describes our O&P — Americas
    segment’s significant manufacturing joint venture
    relationships.



LyondellBasell2010 CapacityNameLocationOther PartiesOwnershipProduct(In millions of pounds)IndelproMexicoAlfa S.A.B. de C.V.49%PP1,310(1)









(1)Represents the joint venture’s total capacity and not our
    proportional capacity.



Indelpro’s output is marketed by the joint venture.
    Indelpro’s annual capacity includes 770 million pounds
    produced from ourSpherizoneprocess technology. We
    receive equity distributions and revenues from technology
    licensing and catalyst sales from the joint venture. Further, we
    believe the geographic diversification provides benefits to our
    Company.



We also have a limited partnership with respect to our LaPorte,
    Texas olefin facility. The partnership produces ethylene and
    propylene. Our partner’s partnership interest entitles it
    to 500 million pounds of propylene annually. Our
    partnership interest entitles us to receive all remaining
    ethylene and propylene production, as well as other products
    produced.





Raw
    Materials



Raw material cost is the largest component of the total cost for
    the production of ethylene and its co-products. The primary raw
    materials used are heavy liquids and natural gas liquids
    (“NGLs”). Heavy liquids include crude oil-based
    naphtha and gas oil, as well as condensate, a very light crude
    oil resulting from natural gas production (collectively referred
    to as “heavy liquids”). NGLs include ethane, propane
    and butane. The use of heavy liquid raw materials results in the
    production of a significant amount of co-products such as
    propylene, butadiene, benzene and toluene, as well as gasoline
    blending components, while the use of NGLs results in the
    production of a smaller amount of co-products.



Historically, facilities using heavy liquids as feedstock have
    generated higher margins than those using ethane. However, in
    recent years ethane has had a cost advantage for use as
    feedstock based on higher crude oil prices relative to NGLs. As
    a result, a plant’s flexibility to consume a wide range of
    raw materials generally will provide an advantage over plants
    that are restricted in processing capabilities over a number of
    years. We have the capability to process significant quantities
    of either heavy liquids or NGLs. We estimate that in the
    U.S. we can process between 35% and 85% NGLs. Changes in
    the raw material feedstock will result in variances in
    production capacities among products. We believe our raw
    material flexibility in the U.S. is a key advantage in the
    production of ethylene and its co-products.



We source our heavy liquids requirements worldwide via a mix of
    contractual and spot arrangements. Spot market purchases are
    made in order to maintain raw material flexibility and to take
    advantage of raw material pricing opportunities. We purchase NGL
    requirements via long term and spot contractual arrangements
    from a variety of sources. A portion of the heavy liquids
    requirements for ethylene production are also obtained from our
    Refining & Oxyfuels segment. Heavy liquids generally
    are delivered by ship or barge, and NGLs are generally delivered
    via pipeline.



In North America, we also purchase large amounts of natural gas
    to be used for consumption (not as a raw material) in our
    business via market-based contractual arrangements with a
    variety of sources.



The principal raw materials used by our polyolefin business are
    ethylene and propylene. During 2010, our North American ethylene
    and propylene production exceeded the North American raw
    material requirements of the polyolefin business of our
    O&P — Americas segment. However, not all raw
    material requirements for ethylene and propylene in this region
    are sourced internally. Our Mexican joint venture, Indelpro,
    receives the majority of its chemical grade and refinery grade
    propylene needs from Pemex, the state owned oil company of
    Mexico, under a long-term contract. We purchase ethylene and
    propylene on a spot and contract basis to meet our internal and
    external demands as needed.



The raw materials for polyolefins andCatalloyprocess
    resins are, in general, commodity chemicals with numerous bulk
    suppliers and ready availability at competitive prices.



Industry
    Dynamics / Competition



With respect to olefins and polyolefins, competition is based on
    price, product quality, product delivery, reliability of supply,
    product performance and customer service. Industry consolidation
    in North America has led to fewer, although larger, competitors.
    Profitability is affected not only by supply and demand for
    olefins and polyolefins, but also by raw material costs and
    price competition among producers. Price competition may
    intensify due to, among other things, the addition of new
    capacity. In general, demand is a function of worldwide economic
    growth, which fluctuates. It is not possible to accurately
    predict the changes in raw material costs, market conditions,
    capacity utilization and other factors that will affect industry
    profitability in the future.



Based on published rated production capacities, we were the
    second largest producer of ethylene in North America as of
    December 31, 2010. North American ethylene rated capacity
    at December 31, 2010 was approximately 72 billion
    pounds per year, with approximately 84% of that North American
    capacity located along the Gulf Coast. At December 31,
    2010, our ethylene rated capacity in the U.S. was
    approximately 9.6 billion pounds per year, or approximately
    13% of total North American ethylene production capacity.





We compete in North America with other large marketers and
    producers for sales of ethylene and its co-products such as Dow,
    ExxonMobil, International Petroleum Investment Company
    (“IPIC”), Shell, INEOS, ChevronPhillips, TPC Group and
    others.



Based on published data regarding PP capacity, we believe that,
    including our proportionate share of the Indelpro joint venture,
    we are the largest producer of PP in North America as of
    December 31, 2010, with a proportionate share capacity of
    3.3 billion pounds, or approximately 17% of the total North
    American capacity. Our largest competitors for sales of PP in
    North America are ExxonMobil, Total, Braskem, Formosa Plastics
    and INEOS.



With respect to PE, we believe that we are the third largest
    producer in North America as of December 31, 2010, with
    5.8 billion pounds per year of capacity, or approximately
    13% of North American capacity. Our largest competitors for
    sales of PE in North America are Dow, ExxonMobil, IPIC, Chevron
    Phillips, INEOS and Westlake.

Olefins
    and Polyolefins — Europe, Asia, International
    Segment



Overview



Our O&P — EAI segment produces and markets
    olefins (ethylene and ethylene co-products) and polyolefins. We
    are the largest producer of PP and PE in Europe and the largest
    worldwide producer of PP compounds. We also produce significant
    quantities of other specialty products such asCatalloyprocess resins andPB-1.Our
    O&P — EAI segment manages our worldwide PP
    compound business (including our facilities in North and South
    America), our worldwidePB-1business, and ourCatalloyprocess resins produced in
    Europe and Asia. We have eight joint ventures located
    principally in regions with access to low cost feedstocks or
    access to growing markets. In 2010, our O&P — EAI
    segment generated operating revenues of $12.5 billion
    (excluding inter-segment revenue).



We currently produce ethylene, propylene and co-products at
    three sites in Europe and one joint venture site in the Middle
    East. Butadiene is an important co-product of this production.
    We produce polyolefins (PP and PE) at 19 facilities in the EAI
    region, including 10 facilities located in Europe, four
    facilities located in East Asia, three facilities located in the
    Middle East and two facilities located in Australia. Our joint
    ventures own one of the facilities in Europe, four of the
    facilities in East Asia and three in the Middle East.



PP compounds consist of specialty products produced from blends
    of polyolefins and additives and are sold mainly to the
    automotive and white goods industries. We manufacture PP
    compounds at 15 facilities worldwide (a number of which are the
    same facilities as the polyolefin facilities described above),
    consisting of four facilities in Europe, five facilities in East
    Asia, three in North America, two in South America and one
    facility in Australia.



We produceCatalloyprocess resins at two sites in the
    EAI region, including one in The Netherlands and one in Italy.
    The process is proprietary technology that is not licensed to
    third parties, and as a result, we are the only manufacturer ofCatalloyprocess resins.



We producePB-1at one
    facility in Europe. We believe that we are the largest worldwide
    producer ofPB-1,a
    family of flexible, strong and durable butene-based polymers. A
    majority of the currentPB-1we
    produce is used in pipe applications and for under-floor heating
    and thermo sanitary systems.PB-1is
    being developed to target new opportunities in applications such
    as “easy-open” packaging (seal-peel film),
    construction, fibers and fabrics, compounds, adhesives and
    coatings.



The following table outlines:



•the primary products of our O&P — EAI segment;•annual processing capacity as of December 31, 2010, unless
    otherwise noted; and•the primary uses for those products.









ProductAnnual CapacityPrimary Uses



Olefins

Ethylene6.4 billion pounds(1)Ethylene is used as a raw material to manufacture polyethylene,
    EO, ethanol, ethylene dichloride, styrene and VAM

Propylene5.4 billion pounds(1)(2)Propylene is used to produce PP, acrylonitrile and PO

Butadiene550 million pounds(1)Butadiene is used to manufacture styrene-butadiene rubber and
    polybutadiene rubber, which are used in the manufacture of
    tires, hoses, gaskets and other rubber products. Butadiene is
    also used in the production of paints, adhesives, nylon
    clothing, carpets, paper coatings and engineered plastics

Polyolefins:

PP12.4 billion  pounds(3)(4)PP is primarily used to manufacture fibers for carpets, rugs and
    upholstery; housewares; medical products; automotive interior
    trim, fascia, running boards, battery cases, and bumpers; toys
    and sporting goods; fishing tackle boxes; and bottle caps and
    closures

HDPE4.4 billion pounds(4)(5)HDPE is used to manufacture grocery, merchandise and trash bags;
    food containers for items from frozen desserts to margarine;
    plastic caps and closures; liners for boxes of cereal and
    crackers; plastic drink cups and toys; dairy crates; bread
    trays; pails for items from paint to fresh fruits and
    vegetables; safety equipment, such as hard hats; house wrap for
    insulation; bottles for household and industrial chemicals and
    motor oil; milk, water, and juice bottles; large (rotomolded)
    tanks for storing liquids such as agricultural and lawn care
    chemicals; and pipe

LDPE2.8 billion pounds(4)(6)LDPE is used to manufacture food packaging films; plastic
    bottles for packaging food and personal care items; dry cleaning
    bags; ice bags; pallet shrink wrap; heavy-duty bags for mulch
    and potting soil; boil-in-bag bags; coatings on flexible
    packaging products; and coatings on paper board such as milk
    cartons. Ethylene vinyl acetate is a specialized form of LDPE
    used in foamed sheets, bag-in-box bags, vacuum cleaner hoses,
    medical tubing, clear sheet protectors and flexible binders





ProductAnnual CapacityPrimary UsesSpecialty Polyolefins:PP compounds2.4 billion pounds(7)PP compounds are used to manufacture automotive interior and
    exterior trims, dashboards, bumpers and under-hood applications;
    base material for products and parts used in appliances;
    anti-corrosion coatings for steel piping, wire and cableCatalloyprocess resins600 million poundsCatalloyprocess resins are used primarily in modifying
    polymer properties in film applications and molded products; for
    specialty films, geomembranes, and roofing materials; in bitumen
    modification for roofing and asphalt applications; and to
    manufacture automotive bumpersPB-1resins110 million poundsPB-1 resins are used in flexible pipes, resins for seal-peel
    film, film modification, hot melt and polyolefin modification
    applications, consumer packaging and adhesives











(1)Includes 100% of olefin capacity of SEPC (described below) of
    which we own 25%, which includes 2.2 billion pounds of
    ethylene and 630 million pounds of propylene.



(2)Includes (i) refinery-grade material from our French
    refinery; (ii) 100% of the 1.015 billion pounds of
    capacity of the propane dehydrogenation (“PDH”) plant
    owned by SPC (described below) of which we own 25%; and
    (iii) 1.015 billion pounds of capacity from the
    Al-Waha joint venture (described below), of which we currently
    own 21%. Excludes 660 million pounds of capacity of HMC
    (described below) that came on line in late 2010.



(3)Includes: (i) 100% of the 1.59 billion pounds of
    capacity at SPC; (ii) 100% of the 800 million pounds
    of capacity of SunAllomer (described below) of which we own 50%;
    (iii) 100% of the 880 million pounds of capacity of
    BOP (described below) of which we own 50%; (iv) 100% of the
    990 million pounds of capacity of HMC (described below) of
    which we own 29%, but does not include 600 million pounds
    of expansion capacity that came on line in late 2010;
    (v) 100% of the 1.545 billion pounds of capacity of
    PolyMirae (described below) of which we own 42%; and
    (vi) 100% of the 990 million pounds of capacity at Al
    Waha. Excludes all capacity at our Terni, Italy location, where
    production ceased in July 2010.



(4)Includes 100% of 880 million pounds of LDPE capacity and
    880 million pounds of HDPE capacity from SEPC.



(5)Includes 100% of the 705 million pounds of capacity of BOP.
    Also includes 705 million pounds of capacity at a site in
    Münchsmünster, Germany that was rebuilt following a
    fire in 2005 and started up in August 2010



(6)Includes 100% of the 240 million pounds of capacity of BOP.



(7)Includes 100% of the 165 million pounds of capacity of
    PolyPacific Pty (described below) of which we own 50% and
    110 million pounds of capacity of SunAllomer.



See “Description of Properties” for the locations
    where we produce the primary products of our
    O&P — EAI segment. Annual processing capacity as
    of December 31, 2010 was calculated by estimating the
    average number of days in a typical year that a production unit
    of a plant is expected to operate, after allowing for downtime
    for regular maintenance, and multiplying that number by an
    amount equal to the unit’s optimal daily output based on
    the design raw material mix. Because the processing capacity of
    a production unit is an





estimated amount, actual production volumes may be more or less
    than the capacities set forth below. Capacities shown include
    100% of the capacity of joint venture facilities.



Sales &
    Marketing / Customers



In 2010, no single external O&P — EAI segment
    customer accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues.



We currently produce ethylene at one site in France, two sites
    in Germany, and one joint venture site in the Middle East. Our
    ethylene production is generally consumed internally as a raw
    material in the production of polymers. In Western Europe, we
    are essentially balanced in our ethylene supply and demand.



We currently produce propylene at two sites in France, two sites
    in Germany and the three joint venture sites in the Middle East.
    We use propylene as a raw material for production of PO and PP.
    In Europe, we are a net purchaser of propylene.



We currently produce butadiene at one site in France and one
    site in Germany. We generally sell our butadiene under
    multi-year contracts.



We at times purchase ethylene, propylene, benzene and butadiene
    for resale, when necessary, to satisfy customer demand for these
    products above production levels. Volumes of ethylene,
    propylene, benzene and butadiene purchased for resale can vary
    significantly from period to period. However, purchased volumes
    have not historically had a significant impact on profits.



European ethylene and propylene production is generally either
    fully integrated with, or is transported via pipeline to, our PE
    and PP facilities in Europe.



We produce PP at nine sites in Europe, four sites in East Asia,
    two sites in Australia and two sites in the Middle East. All of
    the sites in East Asia and the Middle East and one of the sites
    in Europe (Poland) are owned by joint ventures.



We manufacture PE at five sites in Europe, including one joint
    venture facility in Poland, and one joint venture site in the
    Middle East.



With respect to PP and PE, our production is typically sold to
    an extensive base of established customers under annual
    contracts or under customary terms and conditions without formal
    contracts. We believe that, over a business cycle, average
    selling prices and profit margins for specialty polymers tend to
    be higher than average selling prices and profit margins for
    higher-volume commodity PPs.



For the O&P — EAI segment, we typically have
    marketing arrangements with our joint venture partners to sell
    and market PP and PE outside the country where such a joint
    venture facility is located.



Polyolefins primarily are distributed in Europe by rail car or
    truck.



We and our joint ventures manufacture PP compounds at five sites
    in East Asia (two of which are owned by joint ventures), four
    sites in Europe, three sites in North America, two sites in
    South America and one joint venture site in Australia. We
    manufactureCatalloyprocess resins at one facility in
    Italy and one facility in The Netherlands. We also manufacturePB-1at the
    facility in The Netherlands.



Our regional sales offices are located in various locations,
    including The Netherlands; Hong Kong, China; India; and United
    Arab Emirates. We also operate through a worldwide network of
    local sales and representative offices in Europe, Asia and
    Africa. Our joint ventures typically manage their domestic sales
    and marketing efforts independently, and we typically operate as
    their agent/distributor for exports.





Joint
    Venture Relationships



The following table describes our O&P — EAI
    segment’s significant manufacturing joint venture
    relationships.



LyondellBasell2010NameLocationOther PartiesOwnershipProductCapacity(1)(In millionsof pounds)SPCAl-Jubail IndustrialTasnee25%PP1,590City, Saudi ArabiaPropylene1,015SEPCAl-Jubail IndustrialTasnee, Sahara25%Ethylene2,200City, Saudi ArabiaPetrochemicalPropylene630CompanyHDPE880LDPE880Al-WahaAl-Jubail IndustrialSahara Petrochemical21%(2)PP990City, Saudi ArabiaCompany and othersPropylene1,015HMCThailandPTT and others29%PP990Basell Orlen PolyolefinsPolandOrlen50%PP880HDPE705LDPE240PolyPacificAustralia, MalaysiaMirlex Pty.50%PP Compounding165SunAllomerJapanShowa Denko,50%PP940Nippon OilPP Compounding110PolymiraeSouth KoreaDailem, SunAllomer42%(3)PP1,540









(1)Represents the joint venture’s total capacity and not our
    proportional capacity.(2)Reflects our current ownership percentage. Assuming the joint
    venture pays dividends over time, we anticipate our ownership
    will increase to a maximum of 25%.(3)Reflects our 35% direct ownership and 7% indirect ownership
    through SunAllomer.



These joint ventures provide us with additional income streams
    from cash dividends, licensing revenues, catalyst sales and
    marketing fees from selling joint venture products, as well as
    geographical diversification and access to local market skills
    and expertise. We generally license our polyolefin process
    technologies and supply catalysts to our joint ventures. Some of
    our joint ventures source cost advantaged raw materials from
    their local shareholders.



We market approximately 70% of the PP produced annually by SPC
    and are currently the exclusive marketer for the PP produced by
    Al-Waha that is sold outside of Saudi Arabia. We also market all
    of BOP’s PP, HPDE and LDPE sales outside of Poland. Our
    PolyPacific Pty. Joint venture markets all of its PP compounds
    production, and we market a portion of the PP produced by
    SunAllomer.



Raw
    Materials



Raw material cost is the largest component of the total cost for
    the production of ethylene and its co-products. The primary raw
    materials used in our European olefin facilities are heavy
    liquids and, for our Saudi joint venture facilities, NGLs,
    including include ethane, propane and butane. The principal raw
    materials used by our polyolefin andCatalloyprocess
    resins businesses are propylene and ethylene. In Western Europe,
    we have the capacity to produce approximately 50% of the
    propylene requirements of our European PP business and nearly
    90% of the ethylene requirements of our European PE business.
    European propylene and ethylene requirements that are not
    produced internally generally are purchased pursuant to
    long-term contracts with third-party suppliers and are delivered
    via pipeline. Prices under these third-party contracts are
    market related and are negotiated monthly, and are generally
    based on published market indicators, normally with discounts.



In our wholly owned operations in Australia, greater than 90% of
    our propylene normally comes fromthird-partyrefinery grade propylene purchased underlong-termcontracts linked to Saudi or Singapore fuel markers and is
    processed at our integrated splitters located on each
    manufacturing site. Some of our EAI joint





ventures receive propylene from their local shareholders underlong-termcontracts. The remaining supply for the joint ventures is
    purchased from local suppliers underlong-termcontracts and some spot purchases. Our Saudi joint ventures,Al-Waha,SEPC and SPC, produce their own olefins utilizing cost
    advantaged Saudi Arabian propane and ethane.



The raw materials for polyolefins are, in general, commodity
    chemicals with numerous bulk suppliers and ready availability at
    competitive prices.



A significant portion of the raw materials for our PP compounds
    are PP and other polymers (primarilyCatalloyprocess
    resins). Our PP compounding facilities generally receive their
    PP and other polymers from one of our wholly owned or joint
    venture facilities via truck or rail car. In addition, there are
    four sites (two in Europe, one in North America and one in South
    America) that have both PP and PP compounding operations
    co-located, thereby minimizing product handling.PB-1raw
    materials are sourced solely from external supply.



Industry
    Dynamics / Competition



Our ethylene rated capacity in Western Europe at
    December 31, 2010 was approximately 4.2 billion pounds
    per year, or approximately 8% of the 53 billion pounds per
    year of total Western Europe ethylene production capacity. Based
    on these published rated production capacities, we are the
    seventh largest producer of ethylene in Western Europe. In
    Western Europe, key ethylene competitors include INEOS, Dow,
    Polimeri Europa, Total, SABIC, Shell, BASF and ExxonMobil.



Based on published data regarding PP capacity, we believe that
    we are the largest producer of PP in Western Europe as of
    December 31, 2010, with 5.7 billion pounds per year of
    capacity, or approximately 25% of the Western European capacity
    for PP. Our largest competitors for sales of PP are Polimeri
    Europa, Total, SABIC, INEOS and Dow.



Based on published data regarding PE capacity, we believe that
    we are the largest producer of PE in Western Europe as of
    December 31, 2010, with 5.5 billion pounds per year of
    capacity, or approximately 16% of HDPE and LDPE Western European
    capacity. Our largest competitors for sales of PE are
    ExxonMobil, Dow, INEOS, SABIC, Total, Polimeri Europe, and
    Repsol.



We believe we are the largest PP compounds producer in the world
    with 2.3 billion pounds (which includes our proportionate
    share of joint ventures) of installed annual capacity as of
    December 31, 2010. Approximately 54% of our PP compounding
    capacity is in Europe, 20% is in North America, and 26% is in
    the rest of the world (including the capacity of our joint
    ventures). Our competitors for sales of PP compounds are
    Borealis, ExxonMobil, King Fa, Mitsubishi, Mitsui , SABIC,
    Sumitomo Chemical Co., Ltd., Washington Penn and many other
    independent companies.



Our 110 million poundPB-1capacity competes with polybutene producers, of which Mitsui is
    the largest, and other polymers, plastomers and elastomers.

Intermediates
    and Derivatives Segment



Overview



Our I&D segment produces and markets PO and its co-products
    and derivatives; acetyls; and ethylene oxide and its
    derivatives. PO co-products include SM and
    C4chemicals (TBA, oxyfuels (which is managed in the
    Refining & Oxyfuels segment), isobutylene and TBHP).
    PO derivatives include PG, PGE and BDO. We believe that our
    proprietary PO and acetyls production process technologies
    provide us with a cost advantaged position for these products
    and their derivatives. In 2010, our I&D segment generated
    $5.5 billion of revenues (excluding inter-segment revenue).



We produce PO through two distinct technologies based on
    indirect oxidation processes that yield co-products. One process
    yields TBA as the co-product; the other process yields SM as the
    co-product. The two technologies are mutually exclusive,
    necessitating that a manufacturing facility be dedicated either
    to PO/TBA or to PO/SM. Isobutylene and TBHP are derivatives of
    TBA. MTBE and ETBE are derivatives of isobutylene and are
    gasoline blending components reported in our
    Refining & Oxyfuels segment. PG, PGE and BDO are





derivatives of PO. PG collectively refers to mono-propylene
    glycol (“MPG”), which is PG meeting
    U.S. pharmacopeia standards, and several grades of
    dipropylene glycol (“DPG”) and tri-propylene glycol
    (“TPG”).



The following table outlines:



•the primary products of our I&D segment;•annual processing capacity as of December 31, 2010, unless
    otherwise noted; and•the primary uses for those products.





ProductAnnual CapacityPrimary Uses



Propylene Oxide (PO)5.2 billion pounds(1)PO is a key component of polyols, PG, PGE and BDO

PO Co-Products:

Styrene Monomer (SM)6.4 billion pounds(2)SM is used to produce plastics, such as expandable polystyrene
    for packaging, foam cups and containers, insulation products and
    durables and engineering resins

TBA Derivative Isobutylene1.4 billion pounds(3)Isobutylene is a derivative of TBA used in the manufacture of
    synthetic rubber as well as fuel and lubricant additives, such
    as MTBE and ETBE

PO Derivatives:

Propylene Glycol (PG)1.2 billion pounds(4)PG is used to produce unsaturated polyester resins for bathroom
    fixtures and boat hulls; antifreeze, coolants and aircraft
    deicers; and cosmetics and cleaners

Propylene Glycol Ethers (PGE)545 million pounds(5)PGE are used as solvents for paints, coatings, cleaners and a
    variety of electronics applications

Butanediol (BDO)395 million poundsBDO is used in the manufacture of engineering resins, films,
    personal care products, pharmaceuticals, coatings, solvents and
    adhesives

Acetyls:

Methanol190 million gallons(6)Methanol is a raw material used to produce acetic acid, MTBE,
    formaldehyde and several other products

Acetic Acid1.2 billion poundsAcetic acid is a raw material used to produce VAM, terephthalic
    acid (used to produce polyester for textiles and plastic
    bottles), industrial solvents and a variety of other chemicals

Vinyl Acetate Monomer (VAM)700 million poundsVAM is used to produce a variety of polymers, products used in
    adhesives, water-based paint, textile coatings and paper coatings

Ethylene Derivatives:

Ethylene Oxide (EO)800 million pounds EOequivalents; 400million poundsas pure EOEO is used to produce surfactants, industrial cleaners,
    cosmetics, emulsifiers, paint, heat transfer fluids and ethylene
    glycol

Ethylene Glycol (EG)700 million poundsEG is used to produce polyester fibers and film, polyethylene
    terephthalate resin, heat transfer fluids and automobile
    antifreeze

Ethylene Glycol Ethers225 million poundsEthylene glycol ethers are used to produce paint and coatings,
    polishes, solvents and chemical intermediates

Other:

Flavor and Fragrance Chemicals(7)Flavor and fragrance chemicals include terpene-based fragrance
    ingredients and flavor ingredients, primarily for the oral care
    markets, and also include products used in applications such as
    chemical reaction agents, or initiators, for the rubber industry
    and solvents and cleaners, such as pine oil, for the hard
    surface cleaner markets









(1)Includes (i) 100% of the 385 million pounds of
    capacity of Nihon Oxirane (described below) of which we own 40%;
    (ii) 1.5 billion pounds of capacity that represents
    Bayer Corporation’s (“Bayer”) share of PO
    production from the Channelview PO/SM I plant and the Bayport,
    Texas PO/TBA plants under the U.S.





PO Joint Venture (described below); (iii) 100% of the
    690 million pounds of capacity of the Maasvlakte PO/SM
    plant owned by the European PO Joint Venture, as to which Bayer
    has the right to 50% of the production; and (iv) 100% of
    the 600 million pounds of capacity of Ningbo ZRCC
    (described below) of which we own 27%.(2)Includes (i) approximately 700 million pounds of SM
    production from the Channelview PO/SM II plant that is committed
    to unrelated equity investors under processing agreements;
    (ii) 100% of the 830 million pounds of capacity of
    Nihon Oxirane; (iii) 100% of the 1.5 billion pounds of
    capacity of the Maasvlakte PO/SM plant; and
    (iv) 1.3 billion pounds of capacity from Ningbo ZRCC.(3)Represents total high-purity isobutylene capacity and purified
    isobutylene capacity.(4)PG capacity includes 100% of the approximately 220 million
    pounds of capacity of Nihon Oxirane. The capacity stated is MPG
    capacity. Smaller quantities of DPG and TPG are co-produced with
    MPG.(5)Includes 100% of the 110 million pounds associated with a
    tolling arrangement with Shiny Chemical Co., Ltd.
    (“Shiny”).(6)Represents 100% of the methanol capacity at the La Porte,
    Texas facility, which is owned by La Porte Methanol
    Company, a partnership owned 85% by us.(7)The Flavor and Fragrance chemicals business was sold in December
    2010.



See “Description of Properties” for the locations
    where we produce the primary products of our I&D segment.
    Annual processing capacity as of December 31, 2010 was
    calculated by estimating the average number of days in a typical
    year that a production unit of a plant is expected to operate,
    after allowing for downtime for regular maintenance, and
    multiplying that number by an amount equal to the unit’s
    optimal daily output based on the design raw material mix.
    Because the processing capacity of a production unit is an
    estimated amount, actual production volumes may be more or less
    than the capacities set forth below. Except as indicated,
    capacities shown include 100% of the capacity of joint venture
    facilities.



Sales &
    Marketing / Customers



In 2010, no single I&D segment customer accounted for 10%
    or more of our total revenues.



We estimate, based in part on published data, that worldwide
    demand for PO was approximately 15.1 billion pounds in
    2010. More than 75% of that volume was consumed in the
    manufacture of three families of PO derivative products:
    polyols, glycols and glycol ethers. The remainder was consumed
    in the manufacture of performance products, including BDO and
    its derivatives.



We produce and deliver our PO and PO co-products through sales
    agreements, processing agreements and spot sales as well as
    product exchanges. We have a number of multi-year processing (or
    tolling) and sales agreements. In addition, Bayer’s
    ownership interest in the U.S. PO Joint Venture, which
    operates four of the U.S. operating units, represents
    ownership of an in-kind portion of the PO production. Bayer also
    has the right to 50% of the production of one of the facilities
    in The Netherlands. Our PO derivatives are sold through
    market-based sales contracts and spot sales. PO sold in the
    merchant market accounted for less than 10% of our total
    revenues in 2010.



Production levels at the PO/SM and PO/TBA co-product facilities
    are primarily determined by the demand for PO and PO
    derivatives. As a result, production levels of SM and TBA and
    its derivatives, isobutylene, TBHP, MTBE, and ETBE is based
    primarily on the demand for PO and PO derivatives and
    secondarily on the relative market demand for the co-products
    and the operational flexibility of our facilities in meeting
    this demand. MTBE and ETBE our reported in our
    Refining & Oxyfuels segment.



Based on published data, worldwide demand for SM in 2010 is
    estimated to have been approximately 56 billion pounds. SM
    accounted for less than 10% of our total revenues in 2010. We
    sell most of our SM production into the North American and
    European merchant markets and to Asian and South American export
    markets through long-term sales contracts and processing
    agreements.





We purchase SM for resale, when necessary, to satisfy customer
    demand above production levels. Volumes of SM purchases made for
    resale can vary significantly from period to period. However,
    purchased volumes have not historically had a significant impact
    on profits.



Our I&D segment converts most of its TBA, which is produced
    as a co-product to the PO process, to isobutylene and sells some
    of the TBA into the market. Over half of the isobutylene from
    the I&D segment is reacted with methanol or ethanol to
    produce MTBE and ETBE, which is marketed by the
    Refining & Oxyfuels segment. The remaining isobutylene
    is sold as high purity and purity grade isobutylene by the
    I&D segment. Isobutylene sales accounted for less than 10%
    of our total revenues in 2010.



Sales of our PO, its co-products, and its derivatives are made
    by us, Nihon Oxirane (a joint venture of which we own 40%) and
    their affiliates directly, and through distributors and
    independent agents located in the Americas, Europe, the Middle
    East, Africa and the Asia Pacific region. We have centralized
    certain sales and order fulfillment functions in regional
    customer service centers located in Houston, Texas; Rotterdam,
    The Netherlands; and Hong Kong, China. PO, PG and SM are
    transported by barge, ocean going vessel, pipeline, rail car and
    tank truck. BDO is primarily transported by tank truck and rail
    car.



Acetic acid and VAM are manufactured at a facility in
    La Porte, Texas, and are consumed internally, sold
    worldwide generally under multi-year contracts and sold on a
    spot basis. Acetic acid and VAM are shipped by barge, ocean
    going vessel, pipeline, rail car and tank truck. We have bulk
    storage arrangements in Europe and South America to serve our
    customers’ requirements in those regions. Sales are made
    through a direct sales force, agents and distributors. Sales of
    acetyls, including acetic acid and VAM, collectively accounted
    for less than 10% of our total revenues in 2010.



We estimate, based on published data, that worldwide demand in
    2010 for acetic acid and VAM was 23.3 billion pounds and
    11.4 billion pounds, respectively.



Methanol is produced at a La Porte, Texas facility owned by
    La Porte Methanol Company, our 85% owned joint venture with
    Linde. Each party to the joint venture receives its respective
    share of the methanol production. Our acetyls business uses the
    methanol as a raw material for acetic acid and also sells the
    methanol under annual contracts and on a spot basis to large
    U.S. customers. The product is shipped by barge and
    pipeline.



Ethylene oxide (“EO”) or EO equivalents, and EO’s
    primary derivative, ethylene glycol (“EG”), are
    produced at a wholly owned facility located in Bayport, Texas.
    The Bayport facility also produces other derivatives of EO,
    principally glycol ethers.



EO and EG typically are sold under multi-year contracts, with
    market-based pricing. Glycol ethers and ethanolamines are sold
    primarily into the solvent and distributor markets at market
    prices. EO is shipped by rail car, and its derivatives are
    shipped by rail car, truck, isotank or ocean-going vessel. EO
    and EG sales accounted for less than 10% of our total revenues
    in 2010.



The vast majority of the ethylene derivative products are sold
    in North America and Asia, primarily through our sales
    organizations.





Joint
    Venture Relationships



The following table describes our I&D segment’s
    significant manufacturing joint venture relationships.



LyondellBasellNameLocationOther PartiesOwnershipProduct2010 Capacity (1)(In millions of pounds)U.S. PO Joint VentureChannelview, TXBayer(2)Propylene Oxide1,500(3)Bayport, TXEuropean PO Joint VentureRotterdam,Bayer50%Propylene Oxide690The NetherlandsStyrene Monomer1,480PO/ SM II LPChannelview, TXIPIC & BASF(2)Styrene Monomer700(3)Nihon OxiraneChiba, JapanSumitomo40%Propylene Oxide385Styrene Monomer830Propylene Glycol220Ningbo ZRCC LCC Ltd.(4)Ningbo, ChinaZRCC27%Propylene Oxide600Styrene Monomer1,300La Porte MethanolLa Porte, TXLinde85%Methanol190 million gallons









(1)Unless otherwise noted, represents the joint venture’s
    total capacity and not our proportional capacity.(2)The parties’ rights in the joint ventures are based on
    off-takes, as opposed to ownership percentages.(3)Amount of off-take by other parties in the joint venture.(4)Start-upoccurred in mid-2010.



Bayer’s ownership interest in the U.S. PO Joint
    Venture represents its off-take of 1.5 billion pounds of
    the joint venture’s PO production. We take, in-kind, the
    remaining PO production and all co-product (SM and TBA)
    production. Lyondell Chemical and Bayer have a separate joint
    venture, the PO Technology Joint Venture, through which Bayer
    was granted a non-exclusive and non-transferable right to use
    certain of our proprietary PO technology in the U.S. PO
    Joint Venture. Under the terms of operating and logistics
    agreements, we operate the U.S. PO Joint Venture plants and
    arrange and coordinate the logistics of PO delivery from the
    plants. We do not share marketing or product sales with Bayer
    under the U.S. PO Joint Venture.



Lyondell Chemical and Bayer also have a 50/50 joint venture, the
    European PO Joint Venture, for the ownership of the Maasvlakte
    PO/SM plant near Rotterdam, The Netherlands. Each party takes
    in-kind 50% of the PO and SM production of the European PO Joint
    Venture.



Lyondell Chemical’s PO/SM II plant at the Channelview,
    Texas complex was created through a joint venture among Lyondell
    Chemical, BASF and IPIC. Lyondell Chemical retains a majority
    interest in the joint venture and is the operator of the plant.
    As of December 31, 2010, 700 million pounds of SM
    capacity was committed to BASF and IPIC under processing
    arrangements.



In addition to the Nihon Oxirane joint venture shown in the
    table above, we participate in marketing most of the PO capacity
    from a 440 million pound facility in Rabigh, Saudi Arabia
    owned by Sumitomo and Saudi Aramco, through NOC Asia Co. Ltd. in
    which we have a 40% equity interest.



We jointly market all of the PO manufactured by the Ningbo ZRCC
    joint venture.



We also have a multi-year processing agreement, entered into by
    Lyondell Chemical and Shiny, whereby we provide the raw
    materials used to produce PGE at Shiny’s PGE plant in
    Tainan, Taiwan.



Raw
    Materials



The primary raw materials used for the production of PO and its
    co-products and derivatives are propylene, isobutane, mixed
    butane, ethylene and benzene. The market prices of these raw
    materials historically have been related to the price of crude
    oil, NGLs and natural gas, as well as market conditions for the
    raw materials. These raw materials are received in bulk
    quantities via pipeline or ocean going vessels.





In the U.S., we obtain a large portion of our propylene, benzene
    and ethylene raw materials needed for the production of PO and
    its co-products and derivatives internally from our crackers.
    Raw materials for thenon-U.S. productionof PO and its co-products and derivatives primarily are obtained
    from unrelated parties. We consume a significant portion of our
    internally-produced PO in the production of PO derivatives.



We consume large volumes of mixed butane for the production of
    PO and its co-products and derivatives. We have invested in
    facilities, or entered into processing agreements with unrelated
    parties, to convert the widely available commodity, normal
    butane, to isobutane. We also are a large consumer of oxygen for
    our PO/TBA plants.



The cost of raw materials generally is the largest component of
    total production cost for PO and its co-products and
    derivatives. Generally, the raw material requirements for these
    businesses are purchased at market-based prices from numerous
    suppliers in the U.S. and Europe with which we have
    established contractual relationships, as well as in the spot
    market. The raw materials for these businesses are, in general,
    commodity chemicals with ready availability at competitive
    prices. Historically, raw material availability has not been an
    issue. However, in order to enhance reliability and
    competitiveness of prices and rates for supplies of raw
    materials, industrial gas and other utilities, we have long-term
    agreements and other arrangements for a substantial portion of
    our production requirements.



The primary raw materials required for the production of acetic
    acid are carbon monoxide and methanol. We purchase the carbon
    monoxide from Linde pursuant to a long-term contract under which
    pricing is based primarily on cost of production. La Porte
    Methanol Company, our 85%-owned joint venture, supplies all of
    the methanol requirements for acetyls production. Natural gas is
    the primary raw material required for the production of methanol.



In addition to ethylene, acetic acid is a primary raw material
    for the production of VAM. For the production of VAM, we obtain
    our entire requirements for acetic acid and ethylene from our
    internal production. In 2010, we used a large percentage of our
    acetic acid production to produce VAM.



Industry
    Dynamics / Competition



With respect to PO, its co-products and derivatives, competition
    is based on a variety of factors, including product quality and
    price, reliability of supply, technical support, customer
    service and potential substitute materials. Profitability is
    affected by the worldwide level of demand along with price
    competition, which may intensify due to, among other things, new
    industry capacity. It is expected that from 2011 to 2012,
    approximately 9% of the 2010 worldwide PO capacity will be added
    in China and Thailand. During the same period, average world
    demand is expected to grow by approximately 6%. However, demand
    is a function of worldwide economic growth, which fluctuates.
    The PO demand growth rate also could be impacted by further
    development of alternative bio-based PO derivatives. It is not
    possible to predict accurately the changes in raw material
    costs, market conditions and other factors that will affect
    industry profitability in the future.



Based on published data regarding PO capacity, we believe that,
    including our share of Nihon Oxirane, Ningbo ZRCC and the
    European PO Joint Venture, we are the second largest producer of
    PO worldwide, with approximately 19% of the total worldwide
    capacity for PO. Our major worldwide competitors for sales of PO
    and its derivatives are Dow and Shell.



Based on published data regarding SM capacity, we believe that
    we are one of the largest producers of SM worldwide, with
    approximately 5% of the total worldwide capacity for SM as of
    December 31, 2010. We compete worldwide for sales of SM
    with many marketers and producers, among which are BASF, Dow,
    INEOS, Shell and Total.



We believe that we are the fourth and sixth largest producer of
    acetic acid and VAM, respectively, each with approximately 4%
    and 5% of the total worldwide capacity as of December 31,
    2010. Our primary competitors include Celanese and BP for acetic
    acid and Celanese, Dow and DuPont for VAM.





Refining &
    Oxyfuels Segment



Overview



Our Refining & Oxyfuels segment refines heavy,
    high-sulfur crude oil in the U.S. Gulf Coast, refines light
    and medium weight crude oil in southern France and produces
    gasoline blending components at several of our olefin and PO
    units. In 2010, our Refining & Oxyfuels segment
    generated operating revenues of $13.5 billion (excluding
    inter-segment revenue).



The Houston Refinery, which is located on the Houston Ship
    Channel in Houston, Texas, has a heavy, high-sulfur crude oil
    processing capacity of approximately 268,000 barrels per
    day on a calendar day basis (normal operating basis), or
    approximately 292,000 barrels per day on a stream day basis
    (maximum achievable over a 24 hour period). The Houston
    Refinery has a Nelson Complexity Index of 11.4. The Houston
    Refinery is a full conversion refinery designed to refine heavy,
    high-sulfur crude oil. This crude oil is more viscous and dense
    than traditional crude oil and contains higher concentrations of
    sulfur and heavy metals, making it more difficult to refine into
    gasoline and other high-value fuel products. However, this crude
    oil has historically been less costly to purchase than light,
    low-sulfur crude oil. Processing heavy, high-sulfur crude oil in
    significant quantities requires a refinery with extensive
    coking, catalytic cracking, hydrotreating and desulfurization
    capabilities, i.e., a “complex refinery.” The Houston
    Refinery’s refined fuel products include gasoline
    (including blendstocks for oxygenate blending), jet fuel and
    ultra low sulfur diesel. The Houston Refinery’s products
    also include heating oil, lube oils (industrial lubricants,
    white oils and process oils), carbon black oil, refinery-grade
    propylene, petrochemical raw materials, sulfur, residual fuel
    and petroleum coke.



The Berre Refinery is designed to run light to medium sulfur
    crude oil and has a current capacity of approximately
    105,000 barrels per day. It produces naphtha, vacuum gas
    oil, liquefied petroleum gas, gasoline, aviation fuel, diesel,
    bitumen and heating oil. The Berre Refinery provides raw
    material and site integration for our operations in France and
    supports our polyolefin business in Europe. The Berre Refinery
    also provides us with access to significant logistics assets,
    including pipeline access, storage terminals and harbor access
    to the Mediterranean Sea. The Berre Refinery has a Nelson
    Complexity Index of 6.7.



The Refining & Oxyfuels segment also includes gasoline
    blending components such as MTBE, ETBE and alkylate. MTBE and
    ETBE are produced as co-products of the PO and olefin production
    process at four sites located in the United States, France and
    The Netherlands. In 2009, we converted one of our MTBE units at
    Channelview, Texas to ETBE production. We currently have three
    sites that can produce either MTBE or ETBE with a combined
    capacity to produce 59,000 barrels per day of MTBE or ETBE;
    the Company’s total capacity for MTBE or ETBE production is
    75,000 barrels per day. Alkylate is produced at one
    facility located in Texas.



The following table outlines:



•the primary products of our Refining & Oxyfuels
    segment;•capacity as of December 31, 2010, unless otherwise
    noted; and•the primary uses for those products.



See “Description of Properties” for the locations
    where we produce the primary products of our
    Refining & Oxyfuels segment.







Key ProductsCapacity(1)Primary UsesHouston Refinery:Gasoline and components120,000 barrels per dayAutomotive fuelUltra Low Sulfur Diesel95,000 barrels per dayDiesel fuel for cars and trucksJet Fuel25,000 barrels per dayAviation fuelLube Oils4,000 barrels per dayIndustrial lube oils, railroad engine additives and white oils
    for food-grade applicationsBerre Refinery:Diesel42,000 barrels per dayDiesel fuel for cars and trucksCracker Feedstock27,000 barrels per dayRaw material for Olefin unitFuel Oil12,000 barrels per dayHeating fuelGasoline8,000 barrels per dayAutomotive fuelBitumen7,000 barrels per dayAsphaltGasoline Blending Components:MTBE/ ETBE75,000 barrels per day(2)MTBE is a high octane gasoline blending component; ETBE is an
    alternative gasoline blending component based on agriculturally
    produced ethanolAlkylate22,000 barrels per dayAlkylate is a high octane gasoline blending component









(1)Only certain key products for the Houston Refinery and the Berre
    Refinery are identified. Thus, the sum of the capacities in this
    table will not equal either facility’s total capacity.(2)Represents total combined MTBE and ETBE capacity.



Sales &
    Marketing / Customers



In 2010, no single Refining & Oxyfuels segment
    customer accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues.



In the U.S., we market and sell gasoline (including blendstocks
    for oxygenate blending), jet fuel, heating oil, ultra low sulfur
    diesel fuel, lube oils, coke and sulfur produced at the Houston
    Refinery. These products are sold in large commodity markets.
    The Houston Refinery evaluates and determines its optimal
    product output mix, based on market prices and conditions. As a
    result, we are subject to various risks associated with selling
    commodity products.



Gasoline sales accounted for 9% of our total revenues in 2010.
    The Houston Refinery’s products primarily are sold in bulk
    on the U.S. Gulf Coast to other refiners, marketers,
    distributors and wholesalers at market-related prices. Diesel
    fuel is produced to meet ultra low sulfur specifications for the
    on-road transportation market. Most of the Houston
    Refinery’s products are sold under contracts with a term of
    one year or less or are sold in the spot market. The Houston
    Refinery’s products generally are transported to customers
    via pipelines and terminals owned and operated by other parties.
    Products also are transported via rail car, barge, truck and
    ocean going vessel. In addition to sales of refined products
    produced by the Houston Refinery, we also sell refined products
    purchased or received on exchange from other parties. The
    exchange arrangements help optimize refinery supply operations
    and lower transportation costs. To meet market demands, we also
    from time to time purchase refined products manufactured by
    others for resale to our customers. However, purchased volumes
    have not historically had a significant impact on profitability.



In Europe, the Berre Refinery provides a significant portion of
    the raw materials requirements for our nearby steam cracker. The
    remaining products are sold into local markets under
    market-based sales agreements





or in the spot market. Key customers of the Berre Refinery
    include other refiners, marketers and distributors, and its
    products are primarily transported via pipelines and other
    infrastructure assets owned by us.



MTBE and ETBE are derivatives of TBA, which is a co-product of
    the PO produced by our I&D segment. As described,
    production levels of the TBA derivatives MTBE and ETBE depend
    primarily on the demand for PO and PO derivatives and
    secondarily on the relative market demand for MTBE and ETBE and
    the operational flexibility of our multiple production
    facilities in meeting this demand. Separately, MTBE and alkylate
    are also produced as derivatives of the ethylene co-products
    produced by our O&P — Americas segment. When
    necessary, we purchase MTBE for resale to satisfy customer
    demand for MTBE above our production levels. Volumes of MTBE
    purchased for resale can vary significantly from period to
    period. However, purchased volumes have not historically had a
    significant impact on profitability.



We sell our MTBE and ETBE production under market-based sales
    agreements and in the spot market. We blend our alkylate into
    gasoline and also sell alkylate under short-term contracts and
    in the spot market. Sales of MTBE and ETBE together, and
    alkylate each accounted for less than 10% of our total revenues
    in 2010.



Substantially all refiners and blenders have discontinued the
    use of MTBE in the U.S., partly as a result of governmental
    initiatives to increase use of bio-ethanol in gasoline and to
    reduce or effectively ban the use of MTBE. However, MTBE/ETBE
    demand for gasoline blending remains strong within most of the
    remaining worldwide market. Accordingly, we market MTBE and ETBE
    produced in the U.S. for use outside of the U.S. Our
    MTBE/ETBE plants generally have the flexibility to produce
    either MTBE or ETBE to accommodate market needs.



Japan has opted to use ETBE as a means of meeting its carbon
    dioxide reduction commitments under the Kyoto Protocol, and we
    source a significant portion of Japan’s bio-fuels needs.



Sales of our MTBE, ETBE and alkylate are made by our marketing
    and sales personnel, and through distributors and independent
    agents located in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Africa
    and the Asia Pacific region. We have centralized certain sales
    and order fulfillment functions in regional customer service
    centers located in Houston, Texas; Rotterdam, The Netherlands;
    and Hong Kong, China. We also have long-term contracts for
    distribution and logistics to supply to our customers. MTBE,
    ETBE and alkylate are transported by barge, ocean going vessel
    and tank truck.



Raw
    Materials



The largest source of the crude oil used as a raw material for
    the Houston Refinery in the past several years has been a crude
    supply agreement with PDVSA-Petroleo S.A., a corporation
    organized under the laws of the Bolivarian Republic of
    Venezuela, which terminates in July 2011. During 2010, less than
    half of our crude supply was purchased under the crude supply
    agreement with PdVSA.



Most of the crude oil used as a raw material for the Berre
    Refinery is sourced from North Africa, the Middle East, Russia
    and other areas generally available in the Mediterranean region.



We purchase our ethanol requirements for the production of ETBE
    from regional producers and importers in Europe at
    market-related prices. Additionally, we have entered into a
    supply contract with a Brazilian ethanol producer to supply a
    significant portion of the ethanol used for the manufacture of
    ETBE at our Channelview facility. For further discussion
    regarding the raw materials requirements for the production of
    MTBE, ETBE and alkylate, see “— Intermediates and
    Derivatives — Raw Materials.”



Industry
    Dynamics / Competition



The markets for fuel products tend to be volatile as well as
    cyclical as a result of changing global economic conditions and
    prices for crude oil and refined product prices. Crude oil
    prices are impacted by worldwide economic conditions and
    political events, the economics of exploration and production,
    refined products demand and currency fluctuations. Prices and
    demand for fuel products are influenced by seasonal and
    short-term factors such as weather and driving patterns, as well
    as by longer term issues such as the





economy, energy conservation and alternative fuels. Industry
    fuel products supply is dependent on short-term industry
    operating capabilities and on long-term refining capacity.



With a throughput capacity of approximately 268,000 barrels
    per day (on a calendar day basis), we believe that the Houston
    Refinery is among North America’s largest full conversion
    refineries capable of processing significant quantities of
    heavy, high-sulfur crude oil.



In North America, we compete for the purchase of heavy,
    high-sulfur crude oil based on price and quality. Our crude oil
    supply contract with PDVSA Oil terminates in July 2011, which
    will increase the need for us to purchase crude oil
    competitively on the open market. We began diversifying our
    portfolio in 2010 and expect to continue to purchase some of our
    crude oil from sources other than PDVSA on market-based terms.
    We compete in gasoline and distillate markets as a bulk supplier
    of fungible products satisfying industry and government
    specifications. Competition is based on price and location. Our
    refining competitors are major integrated oil companies,
    refineries owned or controlled by foreign governments and
    independent domestic refiners. Based on published data, as of
    January 2011, there were 148 operable crude oil refineries in
    the U.S., and total U.S. refinery capacity was
    approximately 17.6 million barrels per day.



During 2010, the Houston Refinery processed an average of
    approximately 241,000 barrels per day of crude oil,
    representing approximately 1% of all U.S. crude processing
    capacity.



A crack spread is a benchmark indication of refining margins
    based on the processing of a specific type of crude oil into an
    assumed selection of refined products. The Houston Refinery
    generally tracks the Maya 2-1-1 crack spread, which represents
    the difference between the first month futures price of two
    barrels of Maya crude oil as set by Pemex and one barrel each of
    U.S. Gulf Coast 87 Octane Conventional Gasoline and
    U.S. Gulf Coast No. 2 Heating Oil (high-sulfur
    diesel). The Berre Refinery refining spreads generally track the
    4-1-2-1 Ural reported benchmark spread. This spread is
    calculated by adding the price of one barrel of gasoline to the
    price of two barrels of diesel and one barrel of #6 fuel
    oil and subtracting the price of four barrels of Mediterranean
    crude oil. While these benchmark refining spreads are generally
    indicative of the level of profitability at both the Houston
    Refinery and the Berre Refinery, there are many other factors
    specific to each refinery that influence operating results.



We believe that we are the largest producer of MTBE/ETBE
    worldwide. We compete for sales of MTBE and ETBE with
    independent MTBE producers worldwide and independent ETBE
    producers mainly in Europe. The most significant MTBE competitor
    is Saudi Basic Industries Corp., and the most significant ETBE
    competitors are Repsol, Total, Neste and Braskem. MTBE and ETBE
    face competition from products such as ethanol and other octane
    components. We compete with other refiners and olefin
    manufacturers for sales of alkylate that we do not internally
    blend into gasoline.

Technology
    Segment



Overview



Our Technology segment develops and licenses polyolefin and
    other process technologies and provides associated engineering
    and other services. Our Technology segment further develops,
    manufactures and sells polyolefin catalysts. We market our
    process technologies and our polyolefin catalysts to external
    customers and also use them in our own manufacturing operations.
    In 2010, our Technology segment generated operating revenues of
    $395 million (excluding inter-segment revenue).



Our polyolefin process licenses are structured to provide a
    standard core technology, with individual customer needs met by
    adding customized modules that provide the required capabilities
    to produce the defined production grade slate and plant
    capacity. For licenses involving proven technologies, we
    typically receive the majority of our license fees in cash at or
    before the date of customer acceptance rather than ongoing
    royalties. For these licenses, we generally recognize revenue
    upon delivery of the process design package and the related
    license. Each license agreement includes long-term
    confidentiality provisions to protect the technology. In
    addition to the basic license agreement, a range of services can
    also be provided, including project assistance; training;start-upassistance of the plant; and supply of resins from our
    production for pre-marketing by the licensee. We may also offer
    marketing and sales services. In addition, licensees





generally continue to purchase polyolefin catalysts that are
    consumed in the production process, generally under long-term
    catalyst supply agreements with us.



Process
    Technology Licensing



We are a leading licensor of polyolefin process technologies.



Our PP licensing portfolio includes ourSpheripolandSpherizoneprocess technologies as well asMetocenetechnology.



Our PE process licensing portfolio comprises theLupotechT (high pressure tubular process for producing LDPE), theLupotechA (autoclave process mainly for producing
    ethylene vinyl acetate (EVA) copolymers),Hostalen(slurry process for producing multimodal HDPE), andSpherilene(gas phase process for producing full-density
    range of LLDPE to HDPE) processes.



In addition, we license a selective portfolio of chemical
    process technologies in the fields of olefin recovery, olefin
    conversion, aromatics extraction and acetyls.



Since 2000, we have sold licenses representing approximately
    25 million tons of polyolefin capacity, which represents
    about 40% of worldwide installed capacity. In 2010, we entered
    into licensing agreements representing about one million tons of
    polyolefin capacity. Process licenses accounted for less than
    10% of our total revenues in 2010.



Our Technology segment also provides technology services to our
    licensees. Such services include safety reviews, training andstart-upassistance, engineering services for process and product
    improvements and manufacturing troubleshooting.



PP
    Process Technology



We license several PP process technologies, includingSpheripol,SpherizoneandMetocene.



OurSpheripoltechnology produces homopolymers and random
    copolymers in a single stage and impact copolymers in a
    multi-stage process. We believe that theSpheripolprocess is the most widely used PP production process in the
    world.



TheSpherizoneprocess, our newest technology,
    commercialized in 2002 and introduced for licensing in 2004, is
    able to produce higher quality PP, novel PP-based polyolefinic
    resins, and a wider product grade range than existing processes
    at similar operating cost. TheSpherizoneprocess
    introduces a single reactor concept, in which bimodality is
    created within one single reactor operating at different
    conditions between the different zones inside the reactor. The
    final product is a result of an intimate mixing of the different
    property determining phases at a “macro molecular”
    level.



MetocenePP technology was introduced for licensing in
    2006. This add-on technology for the production of specialty PP
    products is based on using single-site catalyst systems.Metocenetechnology can be adapted to virtually any PP
    process, and its versatility expands the end use product range
    of conventional PP. In 2009, Polymirae became the first licensee
    to commence commercial production ofMetocene.



PE
    Processes Technology



The different families of PE (HDPE, LDPE and LLDPE) require
    specialized process technologies for production, which are
    available through our broad PE process licensing portfolio. The
    portfolio includesLupotech,SpherileneandHostalenprocess technologies.



LupotechT is a high pressure, tubular reactor process
    for the production of LDPE. This high pressure technology does
    not use a catalyst system typical for low pressure processes,
    but rather peroxide initiators to polymerize ethylene and
    optionally VAM for EVA-copolymers. By adjusting the temperature
    profile along the reactor and adding different peroxide
    mixtures, process conditions are modified to produce the desired
    products. The process produces the entire melt flow ratio and
    density range with competitive investment costs and low
    utilities and raw material demand.





LupotechA is a high pressure autoclave process using
    peroxide mixture for polymerization and is mainly utilized for
    specialty LDPE and for the production of EVA copolymers with
    high VAM content.



Spherileneis a flexible gas-phase process for the
    production of the entire density range of PE products from LLDPE
    and MDPE to HDPE. The flexibility of this technology, which is
    demonstrated by a broad portfolio of grades, enables licensees
    to effectively manage the continuously dynamic PE markets at low
    investments costs and very low operating costs.



Hostalenis a low-pressure slurry process technology for
    the production of high-performance multimodal HDPE grades. This
    is desirable because a different product structure can be
    produced in each stage of the polymerization process, yielding
    products that are tailored for demanding processing requirements
    and sophisticated end use applications such as film, blow
    molding and pipe applications.



Chemical
    Process Technologies



We also offer for licensing a selective number of chemical
    processes, including the group ofTrans4mprocesses,
    Aromatics extractions,GlacidoandVacidotechnology.



TheTrans4mportfolio of process technologies offers
    tailored solutions for C4 and higher olefin recovery and
    conversion. These processes include separation, purification and
    skeletal isomerization of the C4 and C5 olefin streams for the
    selective conversion of low-value, mixed olefin streams from
    crackers to isobutylene, isoamylenes, butadiene, isoprene,
    piperylene and Dicyclopentadiene (DCPD). This group of processes
    is complemented by Aromatics extractions technology, which
    enables LyondellBasell to offer a comprehensive portfolio of
    processes to upgrade all olefinic streams from steam crackers to
    higher value products.



Glacidois a process technology for manufacturing of
    acetic acid by carbonylation of methanol. It utilizes a
    Rhodium-based homogeneous catalyst system.Vacidois a
    fixed-bed tubular process for the production of high-quality
    VAM, from acetic acid and ethylene. It utilizes a proprietary
    heterogeneous catalyst system.



Superflextechnology produces propylene and ethylene, and
    is based on a fluidized catalytic reactor. The process
    technology is used for cracking less refined feedstock such as
    coker or fluid catalytic cracking unit light gasoline as well as
    mixed C4 to C9 streams.



Polyolefin
    Catalysts



Under theAvantbrand, we are a leading manufacturer and
    supplier of polyolefin catalysts. Polyolefin catalysts accounted
    for less than 10% of our total revenues in 2010. As a large
    polyolefin producer, approximately 30% of catalyst sales are
    inter-company. Polyolefin catalysts are packaged and shipped via
    road, sea or air to our customers.



We produce catalysts at two facilities in Germany, one facility
    in Italy and one facility in the U.S. Our polyolefin
    catalysts, which are consumed during the polyolefin production
    process and define the processing and mechanical properties of
    polyolefins, provide enhanced performance for our process
    technologies and are being developed to enhance performance when
    used in third-party process technologies. We also supply
    catalysts for producing sophisticated PEs.



Customers using polyolefin catalysts must make continual
    purchases, because they are consumed during the polyolefin
    production process. New licensees generally elect to enter into
    long-term catalyst supply agreements.



Sales &
    Marketing



In 2010, no single Technology segment customer accounted for 10%
    or more of our total revenues. We market our process
    technologies and catalysts to external customers and also use
    them for our own polyolefin manufacturing operations. We have a
    marketing and sales force dedicated to the Technology segment,
    including catalyst sales and customer technical support for
    licensees.





Industry
    Dynamics / Competition



We believe that competition in the polyolefin process licensing
    industry is based on the quality and efficiency of the process
    technology, product performance and product application,
    complemented by customer service and technical support. Since
    the formation of Basell in 2000 through December 31, 2010,
    we have sold licenses representing approximately 25 million
    tons of capacity based on its six process technologies to
    polyolefin manufacturers. We estimate that approximately 40% of
    PP and 31% of PE worldwide licensed capacity from 2003 through
    2010 use our technologies. As of December 31, 2010, we
    estimate that over 200 polyolefin production lines use our
    licensed process technologies. Our major competitors in PP
    technologies licensing are Dow Chemical, INEOS, Novolene
    Technology Holdings and Mitsui Chemicals. Our major competitors
    in PE technologies licensing are Chevronphillips, INEOS, Mitsui
    Chemicals and Univation Technologies.



We are one of the world’s largest manufacturers and
    suppliers of PP catalysts. We also supply catalysts for
    producing PEs. Our major competitors in the worldwide catalyst
    business are Dow Chemical, BASF, Mitsui Chemicals, Toho Catalyst
    and WR Grace.



Research
    and Development



Our research and development activities are designed to improve
    our existing products and discover and commercialize new
    materials, catalysts and processes. These activities focus on
    product and application development, process development,
    catalyst development and fundamental polyolefin focused research.



We have four research and development facilities, each with a
    specific focus. Our facility in Frankfurt, Germany focuses on PE
    and metallocene catalysts. Our facility in Ferrara, Italy
    focuses on PP,PB-1,PP
    compounds and Ziegler-Natta catalysts. Our facility in
    Cincinnati, Ohio focuses on polyolefin product and application
    development in North America. Our center in Newtown Square,
    Pennsylvania develops chemical catalysts and technologies.



Our financial performance and market position depend in
    substantial part on our ability to improve our existing products
    and discover and commercialize new materials, catalysts and
    processes. Our research and development is organized by core
    competence communities that manage and provide resources for
    projects, intellectual property and catalyst manufacturing.
    These include:



•Catalyst systems:catalyst research to enhance
    our polyolefin polymer properties, catalyst and process
    performance, including Ziegler Natta, chromium and metallocene
    catalyst.•Manufacturing platforms:research to advance
    process development and pilot plant integration to industrialize
    technology with improved polymer properties.•Product and application development:working
    directly with customers to provide new products with enhanced
    properties.•Processing testing and
    characterization:research to increase knowledge
    on polymers from production to processability.•Process design and support:research to reduce
    production and investment costs while improving processability.•Chemicals and fuels technologies:research to
    develop and improve catalysts for existing chemical processes
    and improve process unit operations.



•  We have core research and development projects that
    focus on initiatives in line with our strategic direction. These
    projects are closely aligned with our businesses and customers
    with a goal of commercialization of identified opportunities.
    Core projects currently include research and development in
    areas such as:



•PP product development with emphasis onSpherizoneprocess technology.•Next generation products from existing and in-development
    processes, using advanced catalyst technologies including
    metallocenes.







•Enhanced catalyst and process opportunities to extend gas phase
    PE technology.•Enhanced catalysts and process opportunities for selected
    chemical technologies.



As of December 31, 2010, approximately 915 of our employees
    are directly engaged in research and development activities.



In addition to our research and development activities, we
    provide technical support to our customers. Our technical
    support centers are located in Bayreuth, Germany; Geelong,
    Australia; Lansing, Michigan; and Tarragona, Spain.



In 2010, 2009 and 2008, our research and development
    expenditures were $154 million, $145 million and
    $194 million, respectively. A portion of these expenses are
    related to technical support and customer service and are
    allocated primarily to the segments.

GENERAL

Intellectual
    Property



We maintain an extensive patent portfolio and continue to file
    new patent applications in the U.S. and other countries. As
    of December 31, 2010, we owned approximately 6,500 patents
    and patent applications worldwide. Our patents and trade secrets
    cover our processes, products and catalysts and are significant
    to our competitive position, particularly with regard to
    propylene oxide, intermediate chemicals, petrochemicals,
    polymers and our process technologies such asSpheripol,Spherizone,Hostalen,Spherilene,Lupotech,Glacido,Vacido,IsomplusandAvantcatalysts. We own globally registered and
    unregistered trademarks including the
    “LyondellBasell,” “Lyondell,”
    “Equistar” and “Houston Refining” trade
    names. While we believe that our intellectual property provides
    competitive advantages, we do not regard our businesses as being
    materially dependent upon any single patent, trade secret or
    trademark. Some of our heritage production capacity operates
    under licenses from third parties.



We rely on patent, copyright and trade secret laws of the
    countries in which we operate to protect our investment in
    research and development, manufacturing and marketing. Our
    employees working on these technologies are required to enter
    into agreements, or are covered by other arrangements such as
    collective bargaining agreements, providing for confidentiality
    and the assignment of rights to inventions made by them while
    employed by us.

Environmental



Regulation



We are subject to extensive international, national, state,
    local and environmental laws, regulations, directives, rules and
    ordinances concerning, and are required to have permits and
    licenses regulating, emissions to the air, discharges onto land
    or waters and the generation, handling, storage, transportation,
    treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and
    waste materials.



Under the European Union (“EU”) Integrated Pollution
    Prevention and Control Directive (“IPPC”), EU Member
    State governments are to adopt rules and implement an
    environmental permitting program relating to air, water and
    waste for individual facilities. The EU countries are at varying
    stages in their respective implementation of the IPPC permit
    program. We do not know with certainty what future IPPC permits
    will require, or the future costs of compliance with the IPPC
    permit program. The EU also has passed legislation governing the
    registration, evaluation and authorization of chemicals, known
    as REACh, pursuant to which we are required to register
    chemicals and gain authorization for the use of certain
    substances. As an importer of chemicals and materials from
    outside the EU, we are subject to additional registration
    obligations.



We also are subject to environmental laws that may have a
    significant effect on the nature and scope of cleanup of
    contamination at current and former operating facilities and at
    other sites at which hazardous substances generated by our
    current or former subsidiaries were disposed, the costs of
    transportation and storage of raw materials and finished
    products and the costs of the storage and disposal of
    wastewater. In the





U.S., the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
    Liability Act of 1980, as amended and also known as Superfund
    (“CERCLA”), imposes joint and several liability for
    the costs of remedial investigations and cleanup actions, as
    well as damages to natural resources, on entities that generated
    hazardous substances, arranged for disposal of the hazardous
    substances, transported to or selected the disposal sites and
    the past and present owners and operators of such sites. All
    such responsible parties (or any one of them) can be required to
    bear all of such costs regardless of fault, the legality of the
    original disposal or ownership of the disposal site. We are
    subject to potential liability under CERCLA as an owner or
    operator of facilities at which hazardous substances have been
    disposed or as a generator or transporter of hazardous
    substances disposed at other locations.



Under the EU Environmental Liability Directive, EU Member States
    can require the remediation of soil and groundwater
    contamination in certain circumstances, under the “polluter
    pays principle.” The scope of events and circumstances that
    could trigger remediation requirements and the level of
    remediation required vary from Member State to Member State.



Under the U.S. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of
    1976 (“RCRA”), various U.S. state andnon-U.S. governmentregulations regulate the handling, transporting and disposal of
    hazardous and non-hazardous waste. Our manufacturing sites have,
    and may in the future, handleon-sitewaste disposal, subjecting us to these laws and regulations.



Capital
    Expenditures



In some cases, compliance with environmental, health and safety
    laws and regulations can only be achieved by capital
    expenditures. Regulatory-related capital expenditures at our
    facilities were $121 million, $250 million and
    $209 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and we
    estimate such expenditures to be approximately $243 million
    in 2011 and $221 million in 2012.



Our actual capital expenditures in 2010 primarily relate to
    projects designed to reduce and control emissions from our plant
    operations in both the U.S. and Europe.



Stricter environmental, safety and health laws, regulations and
    enforcement policies could result in increased environmental
    capital expenditures by us above current estimates.

Employee
    Relations



As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately
    14,000 full-time and part-time employees. Of these,
    approximately 5,900 were located in North America, approximately
    7,200 were located in Europe and approximately 1,000 were in
    other locations.



As of December 31, 2010, approximately 900 of our employees
    located in North America are represented by labor unions. The
    vast majority of our employees in Europe and South America are
    subject to staff council or works council coverage or collective
    bargaining agreements.



In addition to our own employees, we use the services of
    contractors in the routine conduct of our businesses.



We believe our relations with our employees are good.

Description
    of Properties



Our principal manufacturing facilities as of December 31,
    2010 are set forth below, and are identified by the principal
    segment or segments using the facility. The facilities are
    wholly owned, except as otherwise noted below.



LocationSegmentPrincipal ProductsAmericasBayport (Pasadena), Texas*I&DEthylene Oxide (EO), EG and other EO derivatives







LocationSegmentPrincipal Products



Bayport (Pasadena), Texas(1)*I&DPropylene Oxide (PO), Propylene Glycol (PG), Propylene Glycol
    Ethers (PGE), Tertiary-Butyl-Alcohol (TBA) and Isobutylene

Bayport (Pasadena), Texas*O&P — AmericasPP andCatalloyprocess resins

Channelview, Texas(2)*O&P — AmericasEthylene, Propylene, Butadiene, Benzene and Toluene

Refining & OxyfuelsAlkylate and MTBE

Channelview,
    Texas(1)(3)*I&DIPA, PO, BDO, SM and Isobutylene

Refining & OxyfuelsETBE

Chocolate Bayou, Texas*O&P — AmericasPE (HDPE)

Clinton, Iowa*O&P — AmericasEthylene and Propylene

PE (LDPE and HDPE)

Corpus Christi, Texas*O&P — AmericasEthylene, Propylene, Butadiene and Benzene

Edison, New JerseyTechnologyPolyolefin catalysts

Ensenada, ArgentinaO&P — AmericasPP

Ensenada, ArgentinaO&P — EAIPP compounds

Fairport Harbor, OhioO&P — AmericasPerformance polymers

Houston, Texas*Refining & OxyfuelsGasoline, Diesel, Jet Fuel and Lube Oils

Jackson, TennesseeO&P — EAIPP compounds

La Porte, Texas(4)*O&P — AmericasEthylene and Propylene

PE (LDPE and LLDPE)

La Porte,
    Texas(4)(5)*I&DVAM, acetic acid and methanol

Lake Charles, Louisiana*O&P — AmericasPP andCatalloyprocess resins

Mansfield, TexasO&P — EAIPP compounds

Matagorda, Texas*O&P — AmericasPE (HDPE)

Morris, Illinois*O&P — AmericasPE (LDPE and LLDPE)

Newark, New JerseyO&P — AmericasDenatured Alcohol

Pindamonhangaba, BrazilO&P — EAIPP compounds

Tampico, Mexico(6)O&P — AmericasPP

Tampico, Mexico(6)O&P — EAIPP compounds

Tuscola, Illinois*O&P — AmericasEthanol and PE (powders)

Victoria, Texas*†O&P — AmericasPE (HDPE)

Europe

Aubette, FranceO&P — EAIEthylene, Propylene and Butadiene

PP and PE (LDPE)

Bayreuth, GermanyO&P — EAIPP compounds

Berre l’Etang, FranceRefining & OxyfuelsNaphtha, vacuum gas oil (VGO), liquefied petroleum gas (LPG),
    gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, bitumen and heating oil

Botlek, Rotterdam, The Netherlands†I&D Refining & OxyfuelsPO, PG, PGE, TBA, Isobutylene and BDO MTBE and ETBE

Brindisi, ItalyO&P — EAIPP





LocationSegmentPrincipal ProductsCarrington, U.K.O&P — EAIPPFerrara, ItalyO&P — EAIPP andCatalloyprocess resinsTechnologyPolyolefin catalystsFos-sur-Mer, France†I&DPO, PG and TBARefining & OxyfuelsMTBE and ETBEFrankfurt, Germany†O&P — EAIPE (HDPE)TechnologyPolyolefin catalystsKnapsack, Germany†O&P — EAIPP and PP compoundsLudwigshafen, Germany†TechnologyPolyolefin catalystsMaasvlakte (near Rotterdam), The Netherlands(7)I&DPO and SMMilton Keynes, U.K.O&P — EAIPP compoundsMoerdijk, The Netherlands†O&P — EAICatalloyprocess resins and PB-1Münchsmünster, Germany†(8)O&P — EAIEthylene, PropylenePE (HDPE)Plock, Poland(9)O&P — EAIPP and PE (HDPE and LDPE)Tarragona, Spain(10)O&P — EAIPP and PP compoundsTerni, Italy(11)O&P — EAIPPWesseling, Germany(12)O&P — EAIEthylene, Propylene and ButadienePP and PE (HDPE and LDPE)Asia PacificChiba, Japan(13)I&DPO, PG and SMClyde, AustraliaO&P — EAIPPGeelong, AustraliaO&P — EAIPPGuangzhou, China(14)O&P — EAIPP compoundsKawasaki, Japan(15)O&P — EAIPPMap Ta Phut, Thailand(16)O&P — EAIPPNingbo, China(17)I&DPO and SMOita, Japan(15)O&P — EAIPP and PP compoundsPort Klang, Malaysia(18)O&P — EAIPP compoundsRayong, Thailand(19)O&P — EAIPP compoundsSuzhou, ChinaO&P — EAIPP compoundsVictoria, Australia(18)O&P — EAIPP compoundsYeochan, Korea(20)O&P — EAIPPMiddle EastJubail, Saudi Arabia(21)O&P — EAIPropylene and PPJubail, Saudi Arabia(22)O&P — EAIPropylene and PPJubail, Saudi Arabia(23)O&P — EAIEthylene and PE (LDPE and HDPE)









*The facility, or portions of the facility, as applicable, owned
    by us are mortgaged as collateral for indebtedness.†The facility is located on leased land.(1)The Bayport PO/TBA plants and the Channelview PO/SM I plant are
    held by the U.S. PO Joint Venture between Bayer and Lyondell
    Chemical. These plants are located on land leased by the U.S. PO
    Joint Venture.







(2)The Channelview facility has two ethylene processing units.
    Equistar Chemicals LP also operates a styrene maleic anhydride
    unit and a polybutadiene unit, which are owned by an unrelated
    party and are located within the Channelview facility on
    property leased from Equistar Chemicals, LP.(3)Unrelated equity investors hold a minority interest in the PO/SM
    II plant at the Channelview facility.(4)The La Porte facilities are on contiguous property.(5)The La Porte I&D facility is owned by La Porte
    Methanol Company, a partnership owned 15% by an unrelated party.(6)The Tampico PP facility is owned by Indelpro, a joint venture
    owned 51% by an unrelated party. The Tampico PP compounding
    plant is wholly owned by us.(7)The Maasvlakte plant is owned by the European PO Joint Venture
    and is located on land leased by the European PO Joint Venture.(8)The Münchsmünster facility was recently rebuilt
    following a fire in 2005.(9)The Plock facility is owned by our BOP joint venture and is
    located on land owned by PKN/Orlen.



(10)The Tarragona PP facility is located on leased land; the
    compounds facility is located on co-owned land.(11)We ceased production at the Terni, Italy site in July 2010.(12)There are two steam crackers at the Wesseling, Germany site.(13)The PO/SM plant and the PG plant are owned by our Nihon Oxirane
    joint venture.(14)The Guangzhou facility commenced production in 2008.(15)The Kawasaki and Oita plants are owned by our SunAllomer joint
    venture.(16)The Map Ta Phut plant is owned by our HMC joint venture.(17)The Ningbo facility is owned by our ZRCC joint venture.(18)The Port Klang and Victoria plants are owned by our PolyPacific
    Pty. joint venture.(19)The Rayong plant is owned by Basell Asia Pacific Thailand, which
    is owned 95% by us and 5% by our HMC joint venture.(20)The Yeochan plant is owned by our PolyMirae joint venture.(21)The Jubail PP and PDH manufacturing plant is owned by our SPC
    joint venture.(22)The JubailSpherizonePP and PDH manufacturing plant is
    owned by our Al-Waha joint venture.(23)The Jubail integrated PE manufacturing complex is owned by our
    SEPC joint venture.



Other
    Locations and Properties



Our corporate seat is located in Rotterdam, The Netherlands. We
    have administrative offices in Rotterdam, The Netherlands and
    Houston, Texas. We maintain research facilities in Newtown
    Square, Pennsylvania; Lansing, Michigan; Cincinnati, Ohio;
    Ferrara, Italy and Frankfurt, Germany. Our Asia Pacific
    headquarters are located in Hong Kong. We also have technical
    support centers in Bayreuth, Germany; Geelong, Australia;
    Lansing, Michigan and Tarragona, Spain. We have various sales
    facilities worldwide.



Depending on location and market needs, our production
    facilities can receive primary raw materials by pipeline, rail
    car, truck, barge or ocean going vessel and can deliver finished
    products by pipeline, rail car, truck, barge, isotank, ocean
    going vessel or in drums. We charter ocean going vessels, own
    and charter barges, and lease isotanks and own and lease rail
    cars for the dedicated movement of products between plants,
    products to customers or terminals, or raw materials to plants,
    as necessary. We also have barge docking facilities and related
    terminal equipment for loading and unloading raw materials and
    products.



We use extensive pipeline systems in the United States and in
    Europe, some of which we own and some of which we lease, that
    connect to our manufacturing and storage facilities. We lease
    liquid and bulk storage and warehouse facilities at terminals in
    the Americas, Europe and the Asia Pacific region. We own storage
    capacity for NGLs, ethylene, propylene and other hydrocarbons
    within a salt dome in Mont Belvieu, Texas,





and operate additional ethylene and propylene storage facilities
    with related brine facilities on leased property in Markham,
    Texas.

Web
    Site Access to SEC Reports



Our Internet Web site address ishttp://www.lyondellbasell.com.
    Information contained on our Internet Web site is not part of
    this report onForm 10-K.



Our Annual Reports onForm 10-K,Quarterly Reports onForm 10-Q,Current Reports onForm 8-Kand any amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant
    to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934 are available on our Web site, free of charge, as soon as
    reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with, or
    furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
    Alternatively, you may access these reports at the SEC’s
    Web site athttp://www.sec.gov.



