Items 1 and 2. Business and Properties

OVERVIEW

LyondellBasell Industries N.V. is a global, independent chemical company and was incorporated under Dutch law on October 15, 2009. Unless otherwise indicated, the “Company,” “we,”
“our,” “us” and “LyondellBasell” are used in this report to refer to the businesses of LyondellBasell Industries N.V. and its consolidated subsidiaries. We are one of the world’s top five independent chemical
companies based on revenues.

We participate globally across the petrochemical value chain and are an industry leader in many
of our product lines. Our chemicals businesses consist primarily of large processing plants that convert large volumes of liquid and gaseous hydrocarbon feedstocks into plastic resins and other chemicals. Our chemical products tend to be basic
building blocks for other chemicals and plastics, while our plastic products are typically used in large volume applications. Our customers use our plastics and chemicals to manufacture a wide range of products that people use in their everyday
lives including food packaging, home furnishings, automotive components, paints and coatings. Our refining business consists of our Houston refinery, which processes crude oil into products such as gasoline, diesel and jet fuel.

Our financial performance is influenced in general by the supply and demand for the products that we produce, the cost and availability
of feedstocks, global and regional competitor capacity, our operational efficiency and our ability to control costs. We have a strong operational focus and, as a producer of large volume commodities, continuously strive to differentiate ourselves
through safe, reliable and low-cost operations in all our businesses. During recent years the cost of natural gas-derived raw materials in the U.S. versus the global cost of crude oil-derived raw materials has had a significant positive influence on
the profitability of our North American operations. To a lesser extent, our differentiated assets and technology also positively influence our performance as compared to our peers and competitors. These include our propylene oxide and polypropylene
technologies; flexible feedstock olefins plants in the U.S.; joint venture olefins and polyolefins plants with access to low-cost feedstock, particularly in Saudi Arabia; and our Houston refinery, which is capable of processing heavy, high-sulfur
crude.

SEGMENTS

We manage our operations through five operating segments. Our reportable segments are:



•Olefins and Polyolefins—Americas(“O&P—Americas”). Our O&P—Americas segment produces and markets olefins,
including ethylene and ethylene co-products, and polyolefins.



•Olefins and Polyolefins—Europe, Asia, International(“O&P—EAI”). Our O&P—EAI segment produces and markets
olefins, including ethylene and ethylene co-products, polyolefins and specialty products, including polybutene-1 and polypropylene compounds.



•Intermediates and Derivatives(“I&D”). Our I&D segment produces and markets propylene oxide and its co-products and
derivatives, acetyls including methanol, ethylene oxide and its derivatives, ethanol and oxygenated fuels, or oxyfuels.



•Refining. Our Refining segment refines heavy, high-sulfur crude oil and other crude oils of varied types and sources available on the U.S. Gulf
Coast.



•Technology. Our Technology segment develops and licenses chemical and polyolefin process technologies and manufactures and sells polyolefin
catalysts.

We regularly review our segments and the approach used by management to evaluate performance and
resource allocation. At the beginning of 2014, management began using EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation and amortization) as the primary measure for reviewing our segments’ profitability. Our comparisons to the prior
periods presented were revised to reflect this change.






Financial information about our business segments and geographical areas can be found in
Note 22,Segment and Related Information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Information about the locations where we produce our primary products can be found under “Description of Properties.”

In 2014, 2013 and 2012, no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues.

Olefins and Polyolefins Segments Generally

We are one of the leading worldwide producers of olefins, including ethylene and propylene, and polyethylene (“PE”). We are the
world’s largest producer of polypropylene (“PP”) and PP compounds. We manage our olefin and polyolefin business in two reportable segments, O&P—Americas and O&P—EAI.

Olefins—Ethylene is the most significant petrochemical in terms of worldwide production volume and is the key building block
for PE and a large number of other chemicals, plastics and synthetics. The production of ethylene results in co-products such as aromatics and other olefins, including propylene and butadiene. Ethylene and its co-products are fundamental to many
parts of the economy, including the production of consumer products, packaging, housing and automotive components and other durable and nondurable goods.

Polyolefins

Catalloy

Catalloy

Catalloy

PE sales, including HDPE, LDPE and LLDPE, accounted for approximately 18%, 17% and 15% of our total revenues in
2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. In 2014, we completed an expansion project at our Matagorda plant in Texas, which added 220 million pounds of HDPE production. PP sales, includingCatalloy, accounted for approximately 16%, 16% and 15%
of our total revenues in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.






The following table outlines the primary products of our O&P segments, annual processing
capacity as of December 31, 2014, and the primary uses for those products. Capacities, which are presented in pounds unless otherwise indicated, include 100% of the capacity of our joint venture facilities. The joint ventures’ proportional
share of capacity is shown in the footnote to the table, below.





ProductAnnual Capacity(1)Primary Uses

AmericasEAITotal

Olefins:



Ethylene10.7 billion6.5 billion17.2 billionEthylene is used as a raw material to manufacture polyethylene, ethylene oxide, ethanol, ethylene dichloride, styrene, vinyl acetate monomer (“VAM”) and other
products.



Propylene5.5 billion6.0 billion11.5 billionPropylene is used to produce PP, acrylonitrile, propylene oxide (“PO”) and other products.



Butadiene1.1 billion700 million1.8 billionButadiene is used to manufacture styrene-butadiene rubber and polybutadiene rubber, which are used in the manufacture of tires, hoses, gaskets and other rubber products. Butadiene
is also used in the production of paints, adhesives, nylon clothing, carpets, paper coatings and engineered plastics.



Polyolefins:



HDPE3.6 billion4.2 billion7.8 billionHDPE is used to manufacture grocery, merchandise and trash bags; food containers for items from frozen desserts to margarine; plastic caps and closures; liners for boxes of cereal
and crackers; plastic drink cups and toys; dairy crates; bread trays; pails for items from paint to fresh fruits and vegetables; safety equipment, such as hard hats; house wrap for insulation; bottles for household and industrial chemicals and motor
oil; milk, water, and juice bottles; large tanks for storing liquids such as agricultural and lawn care chemicals; and pipe.



LDPE1.3 billion2.8 billion4.1 billionLDPE is used to manufacture food packaging films; plastic bottles for packaging food and personal care items; dry cleaning bags; ice bags; pallet shrink wrap; heavy-duty bags for
mulch and potting soil; boil-in-bags; coatings on flexible packaging products; and coatings on paper board such as milk cartons.








ProductAnnual Capacity(1)Primary Uses

AmericasEAITotal



LLDPE1.3 billion—1.3 billionLLDPE is used to manufacture garbage and lawn-leaf bags; industrial can liners; housewares; lids for coffee cans and margarine tubs; dishpans, home plastic storage containers, and
kitchen trash containers; large toys like outdoor gym sets; drip irrigation tubing; insulating resins and compounds used to insulate copper and fiber optic wiring; shrink wrap for multi-packaging canned food, bag-in-box bags, produce bags, and
pallet stretch wrap.



PP4.4 billion12.6 billion17.0 billionPP is primarily used to manufacture fibers for carpets, rugs and upholstery; housewares; medical products; automotive interior trim, fascia, running boards, battery cases, and
bumpers; toys and sporting goods; fishing tackle boxes; and bottle caps and closures.



Specialty Polyolefins:

PP compounds—2.6 billion2.6 billionPP compounds are used to manufacture automotive interior and exterior trims, dashboards, bumpers and under-hood applications; base material for products and parts used in
appliances; anti-corrosion coatings for steel piping, wire and cable.



Catalloyprocess resins600 million600 million1.2 billionCatalloyprocess resins are used primarily in modifying polymer properties in film applications and molded products; for specialty films, geomembrane liners, and roofing
materials; in bitumen modification for roofing and asphalt applications; and for automotive bumpers.



PB-1 resins—110 million110 millionPB-1 resins are used in flexible pipes, resins for seal-peel film, film modification, hot melt applications, consumer packaging and adhesives.

Aromatics:

Benzene (in gallons)195 million—195 millionBenzene is used to produce styrene, phenol and cyclohexane. These products are used in the production of nylon, plastics, synthetic rubber and polystyrene. Polystyrene is used in
insulation, packaging and drink cups.








(1)Represents total annual nameplate capacity, which includes approximately 1,650 million pounds of ethylene; approximately 2,500 million pounds of propylene;
approximately 1,010 million pounds of HDPE; approximately 780 million pounds of LDPE; approximately 670 million pounds (Americas) and 4,960 million pounds (EAI) of PP; and approximately 200 million pounds of PP compounds of
nameplate capacity owned by third parties either through joint venture arrangements or other contractual relationships. In some situations, the Company and the third parties may have access to the other’s capacity through certain arrangements.

Olefins and Polyolefins—Americas Segment

Overview

Our O&P—Americas segment produces and markets olefins, polyolefins, aromatics, specialty products and ethylene co-products. In
addition, we produce specialty products includingCatalloyandPlexarresins.

Sales & Marketing /
Customers

Our ethylene production is consumed internally as a raw material in the production of polymers and other
derivatives, with the balance sold to third party customers under multi-year contracts or on a spot basis. In 2014, we completed an 800 million pound per year ethylene expansion project at our La Porte, Texas facility. We have also announced
two ethylene expansion projects for our Channelview, Texas facility and one for our Corpus Christi, Texas facility which are projected for completion in 2015 (Channelview), 2016 (Corpus Christi) and 2017 (Channelview). In total, we expect that these
three projects will add additional ethylene capacity of approximately 1.6 billion pounds per year.

We are a net purchaser of
propylene, a raw material used in the production of PO, PP and other derivatives. Our butadiene production is sold to the external market under multi-year contracts. All of our benzene production is used as a raw material in the production of
styrene by our I&D segment.

In addition to purchases of propylene, at times we purchase ethylene and butadiene for
resale, when necessary, to satisfy customer demand above our own production levels. Volumes of any of these products purchased for resale can vary significantly from period to period. However, purchased volumes have not historically had a
significant impact on profits.

In the U.S., most of the ethylene and propylene production of our Channelview, Corpus Christi
and La Porte, Texas facilities is shipped via a pipeline system, which has connections to numerous U.S. Gulf Coast consumers. This pipeline system, some of which is owned and some of which is leased, extends from Corpus Christi to Mont Belvieu to
Port Arthur, Texas, as well as into the Lake Charles, Louisiana area. In addition, exchange agreements with other ethylene and co-products producers allow access to customers who are not directly connected to this pipeline system. Some ethylene is
shipped by rail car from Clinton, Iowa to Morris, Illinois and some is shipped directly to customers. A pipeline owned and operated by an unrelated party is used to transport ethylene from Morris, Illinois to Tuscola, Illinois and is used as a raw
material in the production of ethanol. Some propylene is shipped by ocean going vessel. Butadiene, benzene, toluene and other products are distributed by pipeline, rail car, truck, barge or ocean going vessel.

Our PP and PE production is typically sold through our sales organization to an extensive base of established customers and distributors
servicing both the domestic and export markets either under annual contracts or on a spot basis. We have regional sales offices in various locations in North America and our polyolefins primarily are transported in North America by railcar or truck.
Export sales are generally to customers in Central and South America. We also sell PP to our PP compounds business, which is managed worldwide by our O&P—EAI segment.






Joint Venture Relationships

We participate in a joint venture arrangement in Mexico, which provides us with capacity for approximately 640 million pounds of PP
production. The capacity is based on our percentage ownership of the joint ventures’ total capacity. We do not hold a majority interest in or have operational control of this joint venture.

Raw Materials

Raw material cost is the largest component of the total cost for the production of ethylene and its co-products. The primary raw materials that can be used in our Americas olefin facilities are heavy
liquids and natural gas liquids (“NGLs”). Heavy liquids include crude oil-based naphtha and gas oil, as well as domestically sourced condensate, a very light crude oil resulting from natural gas production (collectively referred to as
“heavy liquids”). NGLs include ethane, propane and butane. The use of heavy liquid raw materials results in the production of a significant amount of co-products such as propylene, butadiene and benzene, as well as gasoline blending
components, while the use of NGLs results in the production of a smaller amount of co-products.

Our ability to pass through
raw material price increases to our customers is dependent upon market-driven demand for olefins and polyolefins. Sales prices for products sold in the spot market are determined by market forces. Our contract prices are influenced by spot prices,
indices published in industry publications and cost recovery formulas in the contracts.

Historically, facilities using heavy
liquids as feedstock generated higher margins than those using NGLs. However, in recent years NGLs have had a significant cost advantage over heavy liquids due to technological advances for extracting shale gas which have led to an increased supply
of NGLs. A plant’s flexibility to consume a wide range of raw materials generally will provide an advantage over plants that are restricted in their processing capabilities. Our Americas facilities can process significant quantities of either
heavy liquids or NGLs. We estimate that in the U.S. we can produce up to approximately 90% of our total ethylene output using NGLs. Changes in the raw material feedstock utilized in the production process will result in variances in production
capacities among products. We believe our raw material flexibility in the U.S. is a key advantage in our production of ethylene and its co-products.

In North America, we also purchase large amounts of natural gas to be used primarily as an energy source in our business and as the primary feedstock for methanol production by our I&D segment via
market-based contractual arrangements from multiple suppliers.

Industry Dynamics / Competition

With respect to olefins and polyolefins, competition is based on price, product quality, product delivery, reliability of supply, product
performance and customer service. Industry consolidation in North America has led to fewer, although larger, competitors. Profitability is affected not only by supply and demand for olefins and polyolefins, but also by raw material costs and price
competition among producers, which may intensify due to, among other things, the addition of new capacity. In general, demand is a function of worldwide economic growth, which fluctuates.

We compete in North America with other large marketers and producers, including global chemical companies, chemical divisions of large
oil companies and regional marketers and producers.

Based on published data, we believe we were, as of December 31,
2014:



•the second largest producer of ethylene in North America, with ethylene rated capacity of 10.7 billion pounds per year, or approximately 14% of total
North American ethylene production capacity;



•the third largest producer of PE in North America with 6.2 billion pounds per year of capacity, or approximately 14% of North American capacity; and






•the largest producer of PP in North America, including our share of our Indelpro joint venture capacity, with 3.3 billion pounds, or approximately 18%
of the North American capacity.

Olefins and Polyolefins—Europe, Asia,
International Segment

Overview

Our O&P—EAI segment produces and markets olefins, including ethylene and ethylene co-products, and polyolefins. In addition, we produce significant quantities of specialty products such asCatalloyprocess resins and PB-1. Our O&P—EAI segment manages our worldwide PP compound business (including our PP compounds facilities in North and South America), our worldwide PB-1 business, and ourCatalloyprocess resins
produced in Europe.

Sales & Marketing / Customers

Our ethylene production is primarily consumed internally as a raw material in the production of polymers and we purchase additional
ethylene to meet our production needs. Our propylene production is used as a raw material in the production of PO and PP, and we purchase propylene when our internal needs exceed our internal production. European ethylene production is generally
fully integrated with our downstream facilities in Europe.

We produce and sell butadiene to external customers under
multi-year contracts and on a spot basis.

With respect to PP and PE, our production is typically sold through our sales
organization to an extensive base of established customers under annual contracts or on a spot basis and is also sold through distributors. Our polyolefins are transported in Europe primarily by railcar or truck. We believe that, over a business
cycle, average sales prices and profit margins for specialty polymers tend to be higher than average sales prices and profit margins for higher-volume commodity polyolefins or polymers.

Our regional sales offices are in various locations, including The Netherlands, Hong Kong, China, India, Australia and the United Arab
Emirates. We also operate through a worldwide network of local sales and representative offices in Europe, Asia and Africa. Our joint ventures typically manage their domestic sales and marketing efforts independently, and we typically operate as
their agent/distributor for all or a portion of their exports.

Joint Venture Relationships

We participate in several manufacturing joint ventures in Saudi Arabia, Thailand, Poland, Australia, Japan and South Korea. We do not hold
majority interests in any of these joint ventures, nor do we have operational control. These ventures provide us with additional production capacity of approximately 2,630 million pounds of PP, approximately 810 million pounds of
propylene, approximately 550 million pounds of ethylene, approximately 570 million pounds of HDPE, approximately 340 million pounds of LDPE and approximately 160 million pounds of PP compounds. These capacities are based on our
percentage ownership interest in the joint ventures’ total capacities. We realize profits or losses from these ventures as income from equity investments.

We generally license our polyolefin process technologies and supply catalysts to our joint ventures through our Technology segment. Some of our joint ventures source cost advantaged raw materials from
their local shareholders.

Raw Materials

Raw material cost is the largest component of the total cost for the production of ethylene and its co-products. The primary raw materials used in our European olefin facilities are heavy liquids;
however, in recent years we have sourced increased amounts of advantaged NGLs when the opportunity arises. For our Saudi joint






venture facilities, locally sourced and cost advantaged NGLs, including ethane, propane and butane are used. The principal raw materials used by our polyolefin andCatalloyprocess resin
businesses are propylene and ethylene. In Europe, we have the capacity to produce approximately 50% of the propylene requirements of our European PP business and all of the ethylene requirements of our European PE business. Propylene and ethylene
requirements that are not produced internally are generally acquired via spot purchases or pursuant to long-term contracts with third party suppliers.

Our PP compounds facilities generally receive their PP and other polymer raw materials from one of our wholly owned or joint venture facilities. PB-1 raw materials are sourced solely from external supply.
Some of our joint ventures receive propylene and ethylene from their local shareholders under long-term contracts.

Our
ability to pass through the increased cost of raw materials to customers is dependent on market demand for olefins and polyolefins. In general, the pricing for purchases and sales of most products is determined by market forces, including the
impacts of foreign exchange on the pricing of the underlying heavy liquid raw materials, most of which are priced in U.S. dollars. There can be a lag between observed naphtha raw material price changes in a given month and contract product price
changes that were settled prior to the beginning of that month. In such cases, volatility in our product margins may occur.

Industry Dynamics / Competition

With respect to olefins and polyolefins, competition is based on price, product quality, product delivery, reliability of supply, product performance and customer service. We compete with regional and
multinational chemical companies and divisions of large oil companies. The petrochemical market in the European Union (“EU”) has been affected by the price volatility of naphtha, the primary feedstock for olefins in the region, as well as
fluctuating demand as a result of uncertain economic conditions.

Based on published data and including our proportionate
share of our joint ventures, we believe we were, as of December 31, 2014:



•the fifth largest producer of ethylene in Europe with an ethylene rated capacity in Europe of 4.3 billion pounds per year, or approximately 8% of total
European ethylene capacity;



•the largest producer of PP in Europe with 5.2 billion pounds per year of capacity, or approximately 22% of European PP capacity;



•the largest producer of PE in Europe with 4.8 billion pounds per year of capacity, or approximately 21% of HDPE and 13% of LDPE European capacity; and



•the largest PP compounds producer in the world with 2.4 billion pounds per year of capacity, with approximately 54% of that capacity in Europe,
20% in North America, and 26% in the rest of the world.

Intermediates and
Derivatives Segment

Overview

Our I&D segment produces and markets PO and its co-products and derivatives, acetyls including methanol, ethylene oxide (“EO”) and its derivatives, ethanol, and oxyfuels (methyl tertiary
butyl ether (“MTBE”) and ethyl tertiary butyl ether (“ETBE”)). PO co-products include styrene monomer (“SM”) and C4 chemicals (tertiary butyl alcohol (“TBA”), most of which is used to make oxyfuels,
isobutylene and tertiary butyl hydro peroxide (“TBHP”)). PO derivatives include propylene glycol (“PG”), propylene glycol ethers (“PGE”) and butanediol (“BDO”). We believe that our proprietary PO and acetyls
production process technologies provide us with a cost advantaged position for these products and their derivatives.






We produce PO through two distinct technologies, one of which yields TBA as the co-product
and the other of which yields SM as the co-product. The two technologies are mutually exclusive, meaning that a manufacturing facility must be dedicated to either PO/TBA or to PO/SM.

The following table outlines the primary products, annual capacities, and primary uses for the I&D segment’s products.
Capacities, which are presented in pounds unless otherwise indicated, include 100% of the capacity of joint venture facilities. The joint ventures’ proportional share of capacity is shown in the footnote to the table, below.





ProductAnnual Capacity(1)Primary Uses



Propylene Oxide5.1 billionPO is a key component of polyols, PG, PGE and BDO.



PO Co-Products:



Styrene Monomer5.9 billionSM is used to produce plastics, such as expandable polystyrene for packaging, foam cups and containers, insulation products and durables and engineering resins.



Tertiary Butyl Alcohol5.8 billionTBA is a precursor to isobutylene, MTBE and ETBE. Isobutylene is used in the manufacture of synthetic rubber and lubricant additives as well as a gasoline blending component. MTBE
is a high octane gasoline blending component; ETBE is an alternative gasoline blending component based on agriculturally produced ethanol.



PO Derivatives:



Propylene Glycol1.0 billionPG is used to produce unsaturated polyester resins for bathroom fixtures and boat hulls; antifreeze, coolants and aircraft deicers; and cosmetics and cleaners.



Propylene Glycol Ethers540 millionPGE are used as solvents for paints, coatings, cleaners and a variety of electronics applications.



Butanediol465 millionBDO is used in the manufacture of engineering resins, films, personal care products, pharmaceuticals, coatings, solvents and adhesives.



Acetyls:



Methanol (in gallons)440 millionMethanol is a raw material used to produce acetic acid, MTBE, formaldehyde and several other products, including adhesives, foams, plywood subfloors, solvents and windshield washer
fluid.



Acetic Acid1.2 billionAcetic acid is a raw material used to produce VAM, terephthalic acid (used to produce polyester for textiles and plastic bottles), industrial solvents and a variety of other
chemicals.



Vinyl Acetate Monomer700 millionVAM is used to produce a variety of polymers, products used in adhesives, water-based paint, textile coatings and paper
coatings.






ProductAnnual Capacity(1)Primary UsesEthylene Derivatives:Ethylene Oxide850 million EO equivalents; 400 million as pure EOEO is used to produce surfactants, industrial cleaners, cosmetics, emulsifiers, paint, heat transfer fluids and ethylene glycol.Ethylene Glycol (“EG”)650 millionEG is used to produce polyester fibers and film, polyethylene terephthalate resin, heat transfer fluids and automobile antifreeze.Ethylene Glycol Ethers220 millionEthylene glycol ethers are used to produce paint and coatings, polishes, solvents and chemical intermediates.Ethanol (in gallons)50 millionEthanol is used as a fuel and a fuel additive and in the production of solvents as well as household, medicinal and personal care products.



(1)The annual capacities include approximately 2,300 million pounds of PO; approximately 2,750 million pounds of SM; approximately 110 million pounds of
PGE; and approximately 30 million gallons of methanol production owned by third parties through joint venture or other contractual relationships.

Sales & Marketing / Customers

We sell our PO and its co-products
and derivatives through multi-year sales agreements and spot sales and have a number of multi-year processing agreements. Some of our contract sales agreements have cost plus pricing terms. We sell most of our SM production into the North American
and European merchant markets and to Asian and South American export markets through long-term sales contracts and processing agreements. We purchase SM for resale when necessary to satisfy customer demand that exceeds our production levels. Volumes
of SM purchases made for resale can vary significantly from period to period. However, purchased volumes have not historically had a significant impact on profits. PO and SM are transported by barge, ocean going vessel, pipeline, railcar and tank
truck.

Our I&D segment converts most of its TBA, which is produced as a co-product of the PO process, to isobutylene.
Over half of the isobutylene is reacted with methanol or ethanol to produce either MTBE or ETBE. The remaining isobutylene is sold into the external market as high-purity grade isobutylene.

In August of 2014, we announced our intention to build a world scale PO/TBA plant on the U.S. Gulf Coast with an annual capacity of 1
billion pounds of PO and 2 billion pounds of TBA and its derivatives. The preliminary timetable is to have the plant operational in 2019.

We sell our MTBE and ETBE production under market and cost-based sales agreements and in the spot market. MTBE and ETBE are transported by barge, ocean going vessel and tank truck. Substantially all
refiners and blenders have discontinued the use of MTBE in the U.S., partly as a result of governmental initiatives to increase use of bio-ethanol in gasoline and to reduce or effectively ban the use of MTBE. However, MTBE/ETBE demand for gasoline
blending remains strong in most of the remaining worldwide market. Accordingly, we market MTBE and ETBE produced in the U.S. for use outside of the U.S. Japan has opted to use ETBE as a means of meeting its carbon dioxide reduction commitments under
the Kyoto Protocol, and we source a significant portion of Japan’s bio-fuels needs. Some of our plants have the flexibility to produce either MTBE or ETBE to accommodate market needs.






Sales of MTBE, ETBE, acetyls, PO and PO co-products and derivatives are made by our
marketing and sales personnel, and also through distributors and independent agents in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Africa and the Asia Pacific region.

Acetyls, including acetic acid and VAM, are consumed internally and sold worldwide under multi-year contracts and on a spot basis. Acetic acid and VAM are shipped by barge, ocean going vessel, pipeline,
railcar and tank truck. Sales are made through a direct sales force, agents and distributors. Our acetyls business uses methanol, which we produce internally, as a raw material for our production of acetic acid, solvents and MTBE, and we also sell
methanol under annual contracts and on a spot basis to large U.S. customers. Methanol is shipped by barge, railcar and pipeline.

EO and EG typically are sold under multi-year contracts and on a spot basis, with market and cost-based pricing. Glycol ethers are sold primarily into the solvent and distributor markets at market prices.
The vast majority of the ethylene derivative products are sold in North America, Europe and Asia, primarily through our sales organizations. EO is shipped by railcar and its derivatives are shipped by railcar, truck, isotank and ocean going vessel.

Joint Venture Relationships

We have two PO joint ventures with Bayer Corporation, one in the U.S. and one in Europe. We operate four of our U.S. operating units for the U.S. PO joint venture. Bayer’s interest represents
ownership of an in-kind portion of the PO production of 1.5 billion pounds per year. We take, in-kind, the remaining PO production and all co-product (SM and TBA) production. We do not share marketing or product sales with Bayer under the U.S. PO
joint venture. The parties’ rights in the joint venture are based on off take volumes as opposed to ownership percentages. Bayer also has the right to 50% of the PO and SM production of our European PO joint venture. Our proportional additional
production capacity provided through this venture is approximately 340 million pounds of PO and approximately 750 million pounds of SM.

We also have joint venture manufacturing relationships in China. These ventures provide us with additional production capacity of approximately 115 million pounds of PO. This capacity is based on our
operational share of the joint ventures’ total capacities.

In December 2013, we sold our 40% ownership interest in Nihon
Oxirane Company, a joint venture in Japan that produces PO, PG and SM. For more information, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Raw Materials

The cost of raw materials generally is the largest component
of total production cost for PO and its co-products and derivatives. Propylene, isobutane, mixed butane, ethylene and benzene are the primary raw materials used in the production of PO and its co-products and derivatives. The market prices of these
raw materials historically have been related to the price of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas, as well as supply and demand for the raw materials.

In the U.S. we obtain a large portion of our propylene, benzene and ethylene raw materials needed for the production of PO and its co-products and derivatives from our O&P—Americas segment. Raw
materials for the non-U.S. production of PO and its co-products and derivatives are obtained from our O&P—EAI segment and from third parties. We consume a significant portion of our internally-produced PO in the production of PO
derivatives.

The raw material requirements not sourced internally are purchased at market-based prices from numerous
suppliers in the U.S. and Europe with which we have established contractual relationships, as well as in the spot market.






We purchase our ethanol requirements for the production of ETBE from third parties; the
methanol for our MTBE production comes from internal production and third parties. Carbon monoxide and methanol are the primary raw materials required for the production of acetic acid. We purchase carbon monoxide pursuant to a long-term contract
with pricing primarily based on the cost of production. All methanol required for our production of acetyls is internally sourced. Natural gas is the primary raw material required for the production of methanol.

In addition to ethylene, acetic acid is a primary raw material for the production of VAM. For the production of VAM, we obtain our entire
requirements for acetic acid and ethylene from our internal production. Historically we have used a large percentage of our acetic acid production to produce VAM.

Industry Dynamics / Competition

With respect to PO, its co-products and
derivatives, competition is based on a variety of factors, including product quality and price, reliability of supply, technical support, customer service and potential substitute materials. Profitability is affected by the worldwide level of demand
along with price competition, which may intensify due to, among other things, new industry capacity. PO demand growth could be impacted by further development of alternative bio-based PO derivatives. It is not possible to predict accurately the
changes in raw material costs, market conditions and other factors that will affect industry profitability in the future. Our major worldwide competitors for sales of PO, its co-products and derivatives include other multinational chemical companies
as well as some regional marketers and producers.

Based on published data, excluding our partners’ shares of joint
venture capacity, we believe as of December 31, 2014 we were:



•the second largest producer of PO worldwide, with approximately 14% of total worldwide capacity;



•the largest producer of MTBE/ETBE worldwide, with approximately 10% of total worldwide production capacity for these combined oxyfuels;



•the fifth largest producer of SM worldwide, with approximately 4% of total worldwide capacity; and



•the ninth and eighth largest producer of acetic acid and VAM, respectively, each with approximately 3% and 4% of total worldwide capacity.

Refining Segment

Overview

Our Houston refinery, which is located on the Houston Ship Channel in Houston, Texas, has a heavy, high-sulfur crude oil processing
capacity of approximately 268,000 barrels per day on a calendar day basis (normal operating basis), or approximately 292,000 barrels per day on a stream day basis (maximum achievable over a 24 hour period). The Houston refinery has a Nelson
Complexity Index of 12.5. The Houston refinery is a full conversion refinery designed to refine heavy, high-sulfur crude oil. This crude oil is more viscous and dense than traditional crude oil and contains higher concentrations of sulfur and heavy
metals, making it more difficult to refine into gasoline and other high-value fuel products. However, this crude oil has historically been less costly to purchase than light, low-sulfur crude oil such as Brent. In the recent past, certain crudes
such as West Texas Intermediate (WTI) and West Texas Sour (WTS) have been priced lower than normal trends due to transportation constraints; however, in 2014 these price differentials have narrowed.

On January 4, 2012, we ceased refinery operations at our Berre refinery in France. The cessation of operations was in
accordance with an agreement executed in the fourth quarter of 2011 by certain of our French subsidiaries and union representatives. Additional information about the cessation of operations can be found in “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 3,Discontinued Operations, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.






The following table outlines the primary products of our Refining segment, annual processing
capacities as of as of December 31, 2014, and the primary uses for those products. Capacities are presented in barrels per day.



ProductCapacity(1)Primary UsesGasoline and components120,000Automotive fuelUltra Low Sulfur Diesel95,000Diesel fuel for cars and trucksJet Fuel25,000Aviation fuelLube Oils4,000Industrial lube oils, railroad engine additives and white oils for food-grade applicationsAromatics7,000Intermediate chemicals



(1)Only key products for the Houston refinery are identified and, therefore, the sum of capacities shown does not equal the facility’s total capacity.

Sales & Marketing / Customers

Gasoline sales accounted for 9% of our total revenues in each of the years 2014 and 2013 and 10% in 2012. The Houston refinery’s
products primarily are sold in bulk to other refiners, marketers, distributors and wholesalers at market-related prices. Most of the Houston refinery’s products are sold under contracts with a term of one year or less or are sold in the spot
market. The Houston refinery’s products generally are transported to customers via pipelines and terminals owned and operated by other parties.

Raw Materials

We purchase the crude oil used as a raw material for the
Houston refinery on the open market on a spot basis and under a number of supply agreements with regional producers, generally with terms varying from one to three years.

Industry Dynamics / Competition

Our refining competitors are major
integrated oil companies, refineries owned or controlled by foreign governments and independent domestic refiners. Based on published data, as of January 2014, there were 142 operable crude oil refineries in the U.S., and total U.S. refinery
capacity was approximately 17.9 million barrels per day. During 2014, the Houston refinery processed an average of approximately 259,000 barrels per day of crude oil, representing approximately 1.4% of all U.S. crude processing capacity.

Our refining operations compete for the purchases of crude oil based on price and quality. Supply disruptions could impact
the availability and pricing. We compete in gasoline and distillate markets as a bulk supplier of fungible products satisfying industry and government specifications. Competition is based on price and location.

The markets for fuel products tend to be volatile as well as cyclical as a result of the changing global economy and changing crude oil
and refined product prices. Crude oil prices are impacted by worldwide political events, the economics of exploration and production and refined products demand. Prices and demand for fuel products are influenced by seasonal and short-term factors
such as weather and driving patterns, as well as by longer term issues such as the economy, energy conservation and alternative fuels. Industry fuel products supply is dependent on short-term industry operating capabilities and on long-term refining
capacity.

A crack spread is a benchmark indication of refining margins based on the processing of a specific type of crude
oil into an assumed selection of refined products. The Houston refinery generally tracks the Maya 2-1-1 crack spread, which represents the difference between the first month futures price of two barrels of Maya crude oil as set by Pemex and one
barrel each of U.S. Gulf Coast 87 Octane Conventional Gasoline and of U.S. Gulf






Coast Ultralow-sulfur Diesel (“ULSD”). While these benchmark refining spreads are generally indicative of the level of profitability at the Houston refinery and similarly configured
refineries, there are many other factors specific to each refinery and the industry in general, such as the cost of Renewable Identification Numbers (“RINs”) and the value of by-products, which influence operating results.

Technology Segment

Overview

Our Technology segment develops and licenses chemical, polyolefin
and other process technologies and provides associated engineering and other services. Our Technology segment also develops, manufactures and sells polyolefin catalysts. We market our process technologies and our polyolefin catalysts to external
customers and also use them in our own manufacturing operations.

Our polyolefin process licenses are structured to provide a
standard core technology, with individual customer needs met by adding customized modules that provide the required capabilities to produce the defined production grade slate and plant capacity. In addition to the basic license agreement, a range of
services can also be provided, including project assistance; training; assistance in starting up the plant; and ongoing technical support after start-up. We may also offer marketing and sales services. In addition, licensees may continue to purchase
polyolefin catalysts that are consumed in the production process, generally under long-term catalyst supply agreements with us.

Process Technology Licensing

We are a leading licensor of polyolefin process technologies. We also license a selective portfolio of chemical process technologies in the fields of olefin recovery, olefin conversion, aromatics
extraction and acetyls.

Polyolefin Catalysts

We are a leading manufacturer and supplier of polyolefin catalysts. Approximately 25% of our catalyst sales are intercompany as we are a large polyolefin producer.

Research and Development

Our research and development (“R&D”) activities are designed to improve our existing products and processes, and discover and commercialize new materials, catalysts and processes. These
activities focus on product and application development, process development, catalyst development and fundamental polyolefin focused research.

In 2014, 2013 and 2012, our research and development expenditures were $127 million, $150 million and $172 million, respectively. A portion of these expenses are related to technical
support and customer service and are allocated to the other business segments. In 2014, approximately 35% of all R&D costs were allocated to other business segments while in each of 2013 and 2012, the allocations approximated 30%.

GENERAL

Intellectual Property

We maintain an
extensive patent portfolio and continue to file new patent applications in the U.S. and other countries. As of December 31, 2014, we owned approximately 5,000 patents and patent applications worldwide. Our patents and trade secrets cover our
processes, products and catalysts and are significant to our competitive position, particularly with regard to PO, intermediate chemicals, petrochemicals, polymers and our process






technologies. We own globally registered and unregistered trademarks including the “LyondellBasell,” “Lyondell” and “Equistar” trade names. While we believe that our
intellectual property provides competitive advantages, we do not regard our businesses as being materially dependent upon any single patent, trade secret or trademark. Some of our heritage production capacity operates under licenses from third
parties.

Environmental

Most of our operations are affected by national, state, regional and local environmental laws. Matters pertaining to the environment are
discussed in Part I, Item 1A.Risk Factors; Part I, Item 3.Legal Proceedings; Part II, Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; and Notes 2 and 19 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

We have made, and intend to continue to make, the expenditures necessary for compliance
with applicable laws and regulations relating to environmental, health and safety matters. We incurred capital expenditures of $114 million in 2014 for health, safety and environmental compliance purposes and improvement programs, and estimate
such expenditures to be approximately $190 million in each of 2015 and 2016.

While capital expenditures or operating costs
for environmental compliance, including compliance with potential legislation and potential regulation related to climate change, cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not believe they will have a material effect on our competitive position.

While there can be no assurance that physical risks to our facilities and supply chain due to climate change will not occur
in the future, we have reviewed the potential for these risks and have concluded that, because of our facility locations and our existing distribution networks, we do not believe these risks are material in the near term.

Employee Relations

As of December 31, 2014, we employed approximately 13,100 full-time and part-time employees around the world. Of these, approximately 6,000 were in each of North America and Europe, with the
remainder in other locations.

As of December 31, 2014, approximately 820 of our employees in North America were
represented by labor unions. The vast majority of our employees in Europe and South America are subject to staff council or works council coverage or collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 55% of our unionized North American employees,
working at the Company’s Houston refinery, were covered by a collective bargaining agreement (CBA) between the Company and the United Steelworkers Union (USW), which became effective February 1, 2012 and expired February 1, 2015 at
12:01AM. Leading up to the expiration of the CBA we negotiated diligently and in good faith with the USW, but were notified immediately before the CBA expiration date that the international USW had called our employees to strike. We remain
committed to negotiating in good faith for a fair and responsible contract.

In addition to our own employees, we use the
services of contractors in the routine conduct of our businesses.






EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Our executive officers as of February 15, 2015 were as follows:





Name and AgeSignificant Experience

Bhavesh V. (“Bob”) Patel, 48Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Management Board since January 2015.Executive Vice President, Olefins and Polyolefins—EAI and Technology from
October 2013 and member of the Management Board from April 2014 to January 2015.Senior Vice President, Olefins and Polyolefins—EAI and Technology from November 2010 to October 2013.Senior Vice President, Olefins and Polyolefins—Americas from March 2010 to June 2011.General Manager, Olefins and NGLs of Chevron Phillips Chemical Company from 2009 to
2010.



Karyn F. Ovelmen, 51Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since October 2011 and member of the Management Board since April 2014.Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Petroplus Holdings AG from
2006 to 2010. (1)



Craig B. Glidden, 57Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer since August 2009 and member of the Management Board since April 2014.Senior Vice President, Legal and Public Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate
Secretary of Chevron Phillips Chemical Company from April 2004 to August 2009.



Timothy D. Roberts, 53Executive Vice President, Olefins and Polyolefins—Global since January 2015 and member of the Management Board since April
2014.Executive Vice President, Olefins and Polyolefins—Americas
from October 2013 to January 2015.Senior Vice President, Olefins and Polyolefins—Americas from June 2011 to October 2013.Vice President of Planning and Development for Chevron Phillips Chemical from
February 2011 to May 2011.President and CEO of Americas Styrenics LLC, a
joint venture between the Dow Chemical Company and Chevron Phillips Chemical, from May 2008 to January 2011.



(1)In January 2012, Petroplus Holdings AG filed an insolvency petition in Switzerland.








Name and AgeSignificant Experience

Kevin W. Brown, 57Executive Vice President, Manufacturing and Refining since January 2015.Senior Vice President, Refining from October 2009 to January 2015.Director of Sinclair Oil from January 2006 to September 2009.Executive Vice President, Operations of Sinclair Oil from June 2004 to September
2009.



Massimo Covezzi, 57Senior Vice President, Research and Development since January 2008.



Patrick D. Quarles, 47Executive Vice President, Intermediates & Derivatives, Supply Chain & Procurement since January 2015 and member of the
Management Board since April 2014.Senior Vice President, Intermediates
& Derivatives from September 2009 to January 2015.Senior Vice
President, Propylene Oxide & Derivatives from January 2009 to September 2009.



Michael VanDerSnick, 50Senior Vice President, Manufacturing—EAI since July 2012.Site manager of the Company’s Channelview, Matagorda, Chocolate Bayou and
Bayport, Texas plants from 2004 to 2012.



Sergey Vasnetsov, 51Senior Vice President, Strategic Planning & Transactions since August 2010.Managing Director of Equity Research at Barclays Capital from 1999 to
2010.



Jacquelyn H. Wolf, 53Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since September 2012.Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer for Celanese, Inc. from
December 2009 to July 2012.Executive Vice President and Chief Human
Resources Officer for Comerica Bank from January 2006 to December 2009.



William B. Allen, Jr., 50Vice President, Finance since February 2013 and Principle Accounting Officer since April 2013.Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Albemarle
Corporation from 2009 to 2013.Chief Financial Officer of Albemarle
Corporation’s Catalysts Business Segment from 2007 to 2009 and Fine Chemistry Solutions Business Segment from 2006 to 2007.


