Items 1 and 2. Business and Properties

OVERVIEW

LyondellBasell Industries N.V. is a global, independent chemical company and was incorporated under Dutch law on October 15, 2009. Unless otherwise indicated, the “Company,” “we,”
“our,” “us” and “LyondellBasell” are used in this report to refer to the businesses of LyondellBasell Industries N.V. and its consolidated subsidiaries. We are one of the world’s top five independent chemical
companies based on revenues.

We participate globally across the petrochemical value chain and are an industry leader in many
of our product lines. Our chemicals businesses consist primarily of large processing plants that convert large volumes of liquid and gaseous hydrocarbon feedstocks into plastic resins and other chemicals. Our chemical products tend to be basic
building blocks for other chemicals and plastics, while our plastic products are typically used in large volume applications. Our customers use our plastics and chemicals to manufacture a wide range of products that people use in their everyday
lives including food packaging, home furnishings, automotive components, paints and coatings. Our refining business consists of our Houston refinery, which processes crude oil into refined products such as gasoline, diesel and jet fuel.

Our financial performance is influenced by the supply and demand for our products, the cost and availability of feedstocks, global and
regional competitor capacity, our operational efficiency and our ability to control costs. We have a strong operational focus and, as a producer of large volume commodities, continuously strive to differentiate ourselves through safe, reliable andlow-costoperations in all our businesses. We purchase large quantities of natural gas, electricity and steam which we use as energy to fuel our facilities. We also purchase large quantities of natural gas and crude
oil derivatives which we use as feedstocks. During recent years the cost of naturalgas-derivedraw materials in the U.S. versus the global cost of crudeoil-derivedraw
materials has had a significant positive influence on the profitability of our North American operations. While the North American feedstock advantage has declined more recently with lower oil prices and resulting lower olefin prices, improved
product supply and demand fundamentals in several businesses, notably global polyolefins products, have partially offset the decline.

SEGMENTS

We manage our operations through five operating segments. Our reportable segments are:



•Olefins and Polyolefins—Americas(“O&P—Americas”). Our O&P—Americas segment produces and markets olefins andco-products,polyethylene and polypropylene.



•Olefins and Polyolefins—Europe, Asia, International(“O&P—EAI”). Our O&P—EAI segment produces and markets
olefins andco-products,polyethylene, and polypropylene, including polypropylene compounds.



•Intermediates and Derivatives(“I&D”). Our I&D segment produces and markets propylene oxide and its derivatives, oxyfuels and
related products and intermediate chemicals, such as styrene monomer, acetyls, ethylene oxide and ethylene glycol.



•Refining.Our Refining segment refines heavy, high-sulfur crude oil and other crude oils of varied types and sources available on the
U.S. Gulf Coast into refined products including gasoline and distillates.



•Technology.Our Technology segment develops and licenses chemical and polyolefin process technologies and manufactures and sells
polyolefin catalysts.

Financial information about our business segments and geographical areas can be found
in Note 22,Segment and Related Information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Information about the locations where we produce our primary products can be found under “Description of Properties.”







In 2016, 2015 and 2014, no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues.

Olefins and Polyolefins Segments Generally

We are one of the leading worldwide producers of olefins and polyethylene (“PE”) and we are the world’s second largest
producer of polypropylene (“PP”). We manage our olefin and polyolefin business in two reportable segments, O&P—Americas and O&P—EAI.

Olefins&Co-products—Ethylene is the most significant petrochemical in terms of worldwide production volume and is the key
building block for PE and a large number of other chemicals, plastics and synthetics. Ethylene is produced by steam cracking hydro-carbons such as ethane and propane as well as naphtha. This production results inco-productssuch as aromatics and other olefins, including propylene and butadiene. Ethylene and itsco-productsare fundamental to many parts of the economy, including
the production of consumer products, packaging, housing and automotive components and other durable and nondurable goods.

Polyolefins—The term polyolefins includes PE and PP and they are derived from ethylene and propylene. Polyolefins are the
most used thermoplastics in the world and are used in wide-ranging applications and products and enhance everyday quality of life. Our products are used in consumer automotive and industrial applications ranging from food and beverage packaging to
housewares and construction materials.

Polyethylene—We produce high density polyethylene (“HDPE”), low
density polyethylene (“LDPE”) and linear low density polyethylene (“LLDPE”). PE sales accounted for approximately 24%, 21% and 18% of our total revenues in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.

Polypropylene—We produce PP homopolymers, PP impact copolymers and PP random copolymers. PP compounds are produced from blends
of polyolefins and additives and are sold mainly to the automotive and home appliances industries. PP sales accounted for approximately17% of our total revenues in 2016 and 2015, and 16% in 2014.

Olefins and Polyolefins—Americas Segment

Overview

Our O&P—Americas segment produces and markets olefins andco-products,polyethylene and
polypropylene.

Sales & Marketing / Customers

The majority of the ethylene we produce is consumed internally as a raw material in the production of PE and other derivatives, with the
balance sold to third party customers under multi-year contracts or on a spot basis. In the last two years, we have added 1.11 billion pounds of ethylene capacity at our Gulf Coast facilities.

We use all of the propylene that we produce in the production of PP, propylene oxide and other derivatives. As a result we also purchase
propylene from third parties. In addition to purchases of propylene, at times we purchase ethylene for resale, when necessary, to satisfy customer demand above our own production levels. Volumes of any of these products purchased for resale can vary
significantly from period to period, and are typically most significant during extended outages of our own production, such as during planned turnarounds. However, purchased volumes have not historically had a significant impact on profits, except
to the extent that they replace lower-cost production.

Most of the ethylene and propylene production of our Channelview,
Corpus Christi and La Porte, Texas facilities is shipped via a pipeline system, which has connections to numerous U.S. Gulf Coast consumers. This pipeline extends from Corpus Christi to Mont Belvieu, Texas. In addition, exchange agreements with
other







ethylene andco-productsproducers allow access to customers who are not directly connected to this pipeline system. Some ethylene is shipped by rail car
from our Clinton, Iowa facility to our Morris, Illinois facility and some is shipped directly to customers. Some propylene is shipped by ocean going vessel, barge, railcar and truck.

Our PP and PE production is typically sold through our sales organization to an extensive base of established customers and distributors
servicing both the domestic and export markets either under annual contracts or on a spot basis. We have sales offices in various locations in North America and our polyolefins primarily are transported in North America by railcar or truck. Export
sales are primarily to customers in Central and South America, with sales to Asia expected to increase in the coming years as global supply and demand balances shift. We also consume PP in our PP compounds business, which is managed worldwide by our
O&P—EAI segment.

Joint Venture Relationships

We participate in a joint venture in Mexico, which provides us with capacity for approximately 640 million pounds of PP production.
The capacity is based on our percentage ownership of the joint ventures’ total capacity. We do not hold a majority interest in or have operational control of this joint venture.

Raw Materials

Raw material cost is the largest component of the total cost for the production of ethylene and itsco-products.The primary raw materials used in our Americas
olefin facilities are heavy liquids and natural gas liquids (“NGLs”). Heavy liquids include crudeoil-basednaphtha and other refined products, as well as condensate, a very light crude oil resulting
from natural gas production. NGLs include ethane, propane and butane. The use of heavy liquid raw materials results in the production of a significant amount ofco-productssuch as propylene, butadiene and
benzene, as well as gasoline blending components, while the use of NGLs results in the production of a smaller amount ofco-products.

Our ability to pass on raw material price increases to our customers is dependent upon market-driven demand for olefins and polyolefins. Sales prices for products sold in the spot market are determined by
market forces. Our contract prices are influenced by product supply and demand conditions, spot prices, indices published in industry publications and, in some instances, cost recovery formulas.

Prior to 2010, olefins facilities using heavy liquids as feedstock generated higher margins than those using NGLs. However, technological
advances for extracting shale-based oil and gas have led to an increased supply of NGLs giving them a cost advantage over heavy liquids, particularly in the U.S. With reductions in oil prices since 2014, the cost advantage has declined, but is still
significant. A plant’s flexibility to consume a wide range of raw materials generally will provide an advantage over plants that are restricted in their processing capabilities. Our Americas’ facilities can process significant quantities
of either heavy liquids or NGLs. We estimate that in the U.S. we can produce up to approximately 90% of our total ethylene output using NGLs. Changes in the raw material feedstock utilized in the production process will result in variances in
production capacities among products. We believe our raw material flexibility in the U.S. is a key advantage in our production of ethylene and itsco-products.

Industry Dynamics / Competition

With respect to olefins and polyolefins, competition is based on price and, to a lesser extent, on product quality, product delivery, reliability of supply, product performance and customer service.
Industry consolidation in North America has led to fewer, although larger, competitors. Profitability is affected not only by supply and demand for olefins and polyolefins, but also by raw material costs and price competition among producers, which
may intensify due to, among other things, the addition of new capacity. In general, demand is a function of worldwide economic growth, including the regional dynamics that underlie global growth trends.







We compete in North America with other large marketers and producers, including global
chemical companies, chemical divisions of large oil companies and regional marketers and producers.

Based on published data,
we believe we were, as of December 31, 2016:



•the second largest producer of ethylene in North America, with ethylene capacity of 11.7 billion pounds per year,



•the third largest producer of PE in North America with 6.4 billion pounds per year of capacity; and



•the largest producer of PP in North America, with 3.9 billion pounds, including our share of our Indelpro joint venture capacity.

Olefins and Polyolefins—Europe, Asia, International Segment

Overview

Our O&P—EAI segment produces and markets olefins andco-products,polyethylene and polypropylene, including PP compounds.

Sales & Marketing / Customers

Our ethylene production is primarily consumed internally as a raw material in the production of polyolefins, and we purchase additional ethylene as needed to meet our production needs. Our propylene
production is used as a raw material in the production of PP and propylene oxide, and we regularly purchase propylene from third parties because our internal needs exceed our internal production.

With respect to PP and PE, our production is typically sold through our sales organization to an extensive base of established customers
under annual contracts or on a spot basis and is also sold through distributors. Our polyolefins are transported in Europe primarily by railcar or truck.

Our regional sales offices are in various locations, including The Netherlands, Hong Kong, China, India, Australia and the United Arab Emirates. We also operate through a worldwide network of local sales
and representative offices in Europe, Asia and Africa. Our joint ventures described below typically manage their domestic sales and marketing efforts independently, and we typically operate as their agent/distributor for all or a portion of their
exports.

Joint Venture Relationships

We participate in several manufacturing joint ventures in Saudi Arabia, Thailand, Poland, Australia and South Korea. We do not hold majority interests in any of these joint ventures, nor do we have
operational control. These ventures provide us with additional production capacity of approximately 2.9 billion pounds of PP, approximately 1.4 billion pounds of olefins, approximately 0.9 billion pounds of PE and approximately
100 million pounds of PP compounds. These capacities are based on our percentage ownership interest in the joint ventures’ total capacities. We realize profits or losses from these ventures as income (or loss) on the equity basis of
accounting.

We generally license our polyolefin process technologies and supply catalysts to our joint ventures through our
Technology segment. Some of our joint ventures are able to source cost advantaged raw materials from their local shareholders.

Raw Materials

Raw material cost is the largest component of the total cost for the production of olefins andco-products.The primary raw material used in our European olefin
facilities is naphtha; however, in recent years we have







sourced increased amounts of advantaged NGLs when the opportunity arises. For our Saudi joint venture facilities, locally sourced and cost advantaged NGLs, including ethane, propane and butane
are used. The principal raw materials used in the production of polyolefins are propylene and ethylene. In Europe, we have the capacity to produce approximately 50% of the propylene requirements for our European PP production and all of the ethylene
requirements for our European PE production. Propylene and ethylene requirements that are not produced internally are generally acquired pursuant to long-term contracts with third party suppliers or via spot purchases.

Our PP compounds facilities receive the majority of their PP raw materials from one of our wholly owned or joint venture facilities. Some
of our joint ventures receive propylene and ethylene from their local shareholders under long-term contracts.

Our ability to
pass through the increased cost of raw materials to customers is dependent on global market demand for olefins and polyolefins. In general, the pricing for purchases and sales of most products is determined by global market forces, including the
impacts of foreign exchange on the pricing of the underlying naphtha raw materials, most of which are priced in U.S. dollars. There can be a lag between naphtha raw material price changes and contract product price changes that will cause volatility
in our product margins.

Industry Dynamics / Competition

With respect to olefins and polyolefins, competition is based on price, product quality, product delivery, reliability of supply, product
performance and customer service. We compete with regional and multinational chemical companies and divisions of large oil companies. The petrochemical market in the European Union (“EU”) has been affected by the price volatility of
naphtha, the primary feedstock for olefins in the region, as well as fluctuating demand as a result of changing European and global economic conditions.

Based on published data and including our proportionate share of our joint ventures, we believe we were, as of December 31, 2016:



•the fifth largest producer of ethylene in Europe with an ethylene capacity in Europe of 4.3 billion pounds per year;



•the largest producer of PP in Europe with 5.7 billion pounds per year of capacity, including our share of the Poland joint venture; and



•the largest producer of PE in Europe with 4.8 billion pounds per year of capacity, including our share of the Poland joint venture.

Intermediates and Derivatives Segment

Overview

Our I&D segment produces and markets propylene oxide (“PO”) and its derivatives, oxyfuels and related products, and
intermediate chemicals such as styrene monomer (“SM”), acetyls and ethylene oxides and derivatives.

PO and
Derivatives—We produce PO through two distinct technologies, one of which yields tertiary butyl alcohol (“TBA”) as theco-productand the other of which yields SM as theco-product.The two technologies are mutually exclusive with dedicated assets for manufacturing either PO/TBA or PO/SM. PO is an intermediate commodity chemical and is a precursor of polyols, propylene glycol,
propylene glycol ethers and butanediol. PO and derivatives are used in a variety of durable and consumables items with key applications such as urethane foams used for insulation, automotive/furniture cushioning, coatings, surfactants, synthetic
resins and several other household usages.







Oxyfuels and Related Products—We produce two distinct ether-based oxyfuels,
methyl tertiary butyl ether (“MTBE”) and ethyl tertiary butyl ether (“ETBE”). These oxyfuels are produced by converting the TBAco-productof PO into isobutylene and reacting with methanol
or ethanol to produce either MTBE or ETBE. Both are used as high-octane gasoline components that help gasoline burn cleaner and reduce automobile emissions. Other TBA derivatives which we refer to as “C4 chemicals,” are largely used
to make synthetic rubber and other gasoline additives.

Intermediate Chemicals—We produce other commodity
chemicals that utilize ethylene as a key component feedstock, including SM, acetyls and ethylene oxide derivatives. SM is utilized in various applications such as plastics, expandable polystyrene for packaging, foam cups and containers, insulation
products and durables and engineering resins. Acetyls comprise methanol, glacial acetic acid (“GAA”) and vinyl acetate monomer (“VAM”). Natural gas (methane) is the feedstock for methanol, some of which is converted to GAA, and a
portion of the GAA is reacted with ethylene to create VAM. VAM is an intermediate chemical used in fabric or wood treatments, pigments, coatings, films and adhesives. Ethylene oxide is an intermediate chemical that is used to produce ethylene
glycol, glycol ethers and other derivatives. Ethylene oxide and its derivatives are used in the production of polyester, antifreeze fluids, solvents and other chemical products.

Sales & Marketing / Customers

We sell our PO and itsco-productsand derivatives through multi-year sales and processing agreements as well as spot sales. Some of our contract sales agreements
have cost plus pricing terms. PO and derivatives are transported by barge, ocean going vessel, pipeline, railcar, and tank truck.

We sell our oxyfuels and related products under market and cost-based sales agreements and in the spot market. Oxyfuels are transported by barge, ocean going vessel and tank truck and are used as octane
blending components worldwide outside of the United States due to their blending characteristics and emission benefits. C4 chemicals, such as high-purity isobutylene, are sold to producers of synthetic rubber and other chemical products primarily in
the United States and Europe, and are transported by rail, truck, pipeline and marine shipments.

Intermediate chemicals are
shipped by barge, marine vessel, pipeline, railcar and tank truck. SM is sold globally into regions such as North America, Europe, Asia, and South America export markets through spot sales and commercial contracts. Within acetyls, methanol is
consumed internally to make GAA, used as a feedstock for oxyfuels and related products, and also sold directly into the merchant commercial market. As the final conversion stage, GAA is converted with ethylene to produce VAM which is sold worldwide
under multi-year commercial contracts and on a spot basis.

Sales of our PO and derivatives, oxyfuels and related products,
and intermediate chemicals are made by our marketing and sales personnel, and also through distributors and independent agents in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Africa and the Asia Pacific region.

Joint Venture Relationships

We have two PO joint ventures with Covestro AG, one in the U.S. and one in Europe. We operate four of the U.S. PO production facilities for the U.S. PO joint venture. Covestro’s interest represents
ownership of anin-kindportion of the PO production of 1.5 billion pounds per year. We take,in-kind,the remaining PO production and allco-productproduction. The parties’ rights in the joint venture are based onoff-takevolumes related to actual production of PO as opposed to ownership percentages.
Covestro also has the right to 50% of the PO and SM production of our European PO joint venture. Our proportional production capacity provided through this venture is approximately 340 million pounds of PO and approximately 750 million
pounds of SM. We do not share marketing or product sales with Covestro under either of these PO joint ventures.







We also have joint venture manufacturing relationships in China. These ventures provide us
with additional production capacity of approximately 115 million pounds of PO. This capacity is based on our operational share of the joint ventures’ total capacities.

Raw Materials

The cost of raw materials is the largest component of total production cost for PO, itsco-productsand its derivatives. Propylene, isobutane or mixed butane,
ethylene, and benzene are the primary raw materials used in the production of PO and itsco-products.The market prices of these raw materials historically have been related to the price of crude oil, NGLs and
natural gas, as well as supply and demand for the raw materials.

In the U.S., we obtain a large portion of our propylene,
benzene and ethylene raw materials needed for the production of PO and itsco-productsfrom our O&P—Americas segment and to a lesser extent from third parties. Raw materials for thenon-U.S.production of PO and itsco-productsare obtained from our O&P—EAI segment and from third parties. We consume a significant portion of our
internally-produced PO in the production of PO derivatives.

The raw material requirements not sourced internally are
purchased at market-based prices from numerous suppliers in the U.S. and Europe with which we have established contractual relationships, as well as in the spot market.

For the production of oxyfuels, we purchase our ethanol feedstock requirements from third parties and our methanol from both internal production and external sources. Carbon monoxide and methanol are the
primary raw materials required for the production of GAA. We purchase carbon monoxide pursuant to a long-term contract with pricing primarily based on the cost of production. The methanol required for our downstream production of acetyls is
internally sourced from a partnership and from our methanol plant at Channelview, Texas. Natural gas is the primary raw material required for the production of methanol.

In addition to ethylene, acetic acid is a primary raw material for the production of VAM. We obtain our entire requirements for acetic acid and ethylene from our internal production. Historically, we have
used a large percentage of our acetic acid production to produce VAM.

Industry Dynamics / Competition

With respect to product competition, the market is influenced and based on a variety of factors, including product quality, price,
reliability of supply, technical support, customer service and potential substitute materials. Profitability is affected by the worldwide level of demand along with price competition, which may intensify due to, among other things, new industry
capacity and industry outages. Demand growth could be impacted by further development of alternativebio-basedmethodologies. Our major worldwide competitors include other multinational chemical and refining
companies as well as some regional marketers and producers.

Based on published data, excluding our partners’ shares of
joint venture capacity, we believe as of December 31, 2016 we were:



•the second largest producer of PO worldwide; and



•the largest producer of oxyfuels worldwide.

Refining Segment

Overview

The primary product of our Refining segment is refined products made from heavy, high-sulfur crude oil and other crude
oils of varied types and sources available on the U.S. Gulf Coast. These refined products include gasoline and other distillates.







Sales & Marketing / Customers

The Houston refinery’s products primarily are sold in bulk to other refiners, marketers, distributors and wholesalers at
market-related prices. Most of the Houston refinery’s products are sold under contracts with a term of one year or less or are sold in the spot market. The Houston refinery’s products generally are transported to customers via pipelines
and terminals owned and operated by other parties.

Raw Materials

Our Houston refinery, which is located on the Houston Ship Channel in Houston, Texas, has a heavy, high-sulfur crude oil processing
capacity of approximately 268,000 barrels per day on a calendar day basis (normal operating basis), or approximately 292,000 barrels per day on a stream day basis (maximum achievable over a 24 hour period). The Houston refinery is a full conversion
refinery designed to refine heavy, high-sulfur crude oil. This crude oil is more viscous and dense than traditional crude oil and contains higher concentrations of sulfur and heavy metals, making it more difficult to refine into gasoline and other
high-value fuel products. However, this crude oil has historically been less costly to purchase than light,low-sulfurcrude oil such as Brent.

We purchase the crude oil used as a raw material for the Houston refinery on the open market on a spot basis and under a number of supply
agreements with regional producers, generally with terms varying from one to two years.

Industry Dynamics / Competition

Our refining competitors are major integrated oil companies, refineries owned or controlled by foreign governments and
independent domestic refiners. Based on published data, as of January 2016, there were 141 operable crude oil refineries in the U.S., and total U.S. refinery capacity was approximately 18.3 million barrels per day. During 2016, the Houston
refinery processed an average of approximately 205,000 barrels per day of crude oil.

Our refining operations compete for the
purchases of crude oil based on price and quality. Supply disruptions could impact the availability and pricing. We compete in gasoline and distillate markets as a bulk supplier of fungible products satisfying industry and government specifications.
Competition is based on price and location.

The markets for fuel products tend to be volatile as well as cyclical as a result
of the changing global economy and changing crude oil and refined product prices. Crude oil prices are impacted by worldwide political events, the economics of exploration and production and refined products demand. Prices and demand for fuel
products are influenced by seasonal and short-term factors such as weather and driving patterns, as well as by longer term issues such as the economy, energy conservation and alternative fuels. Industry fuel products supply is dependent on
short-term industry operating capabilities and on long-term refining capacity.

A crack spread is a benchmark indication of
refining margins based on the processing of a specific type of crude oil into an assumed selection of major refined products. The Houston refinery generally tracks the Maya2-1-1crack spread, which represents the difference between the current month Gulf Coast price of two barrels of Maya crude oil as set by Petróleos Mexicanos
(“Pemex”) and one barrel each of U.S. Gulf Coast Reformulated Gasoline Blendstock for Oxygen Blending (“RBOB”) Gasoline and of U.S. Gulf Coast Ultralow-sulfur Diesel (“ULSD”). While these benchmark refining spreads are
generally indicative of the level of profitability at the Houston refinery and similarly configured refineries, there are many other factors specific to each refinery and the industry in general, which influence operating results such as the value
of refineryby-products.Refineryby-productsare products other than gasoline and distillates that represent aboutone-thirdof
the total product volume, and include coke, sulfur, and lighter materials such as NGLs and crude olefins streams. The cost of Renewable Identification Numbers (“RINs”), which are EPA mandated renewable fuel credits, can also affect
profitability.







Technology Segment

Overview

Our Technology segment develops and licenses chemical and polyolefin process technologies and manufactures and sells polyolefin catalysts.
We market our process technologies and our polyolefin catalysts to external customers and also use them in our own manufacturing operations. Approximately 25% of our catalyst sales are intercompany.

Our polyolefin process licenses are structured to provide a standard core technology, with individual customer needs met by adding
customized modules that provide the required capabilities to produce the defined production grade slate and plant capacity. In addition to the basic license agreement, a range of services can also be provided, including project assistance, training,
assistance in starting up the plant, and ongoing technical support afterstart-up.We may also offer marketing and sales services. In addition, licensees may continue to purchase polyolefin catalysts that are
consumed in the production process, generally under long-term catalyst supply agreements with us.

Research and Development

Our research and development (“R&D”) activities are designed to improve our existing products and processes,
and discover and commercialize new materials, catalysts and processes. These activities focus on product and application development, process development, catalyst development and fundamental polyolefin focused research.

In 2016, 2015 and 2014, our R&D expenditures were $99 million, $102 million and $127 million, respectively. A portion
of these expenses are related to technical support and customer service and are allocated to the other business segments. In 2016 and 2015, approximately 45% of all R&D costs were allocated to business segments other than Technology, while in
2014, the allocation approximated 35%.

GENERAL

Intellectual Property

We maintain an extensive patent portfolio and continue to file new patent applications in the U.S. and other countries. As of December 31, 2016, we owned approximately 5,300 patents and patent
applications worldwide. Our patents and trade secrets cover our processes, products and catalysts and are significant to our competitive position, particularly with regard to PO, intermediate chemicals, petrochemicals, polymers and our process
technologies. We own globally registered and unregistered trademarks including marks for “LyondellBasell,” “Lyondell” and “Equistar.” While we believe that our intellectual property provides competitive advantages, we
do not regard our businesses as being materially dependent upon any single patent, trade secret or trademark. Some of our heritage production capacity operates under licenses from third parties.

Environmental

Most of our operations are affected by national, state, regional and local environmental laws. Matters pertaining to the environment are discussed in Part I, Item 1A.Risk Factors; Part I, Item 3.Legal Proceedings; Part II, Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; and Notes 2 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

We have made, and intend to continue to make, the expenditures necessary for compliance with applicable laws and regulations relating to
environmental, health and safety matters. We incurred capital expenditures of $192 million in 2016 for health, safety and environmental compliance purposes and improvement programs, and estimate such expenditures to be approximately
$200 million in 2017 and $180 million in 2018.







While capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance, including
compliance with potential legislation and potential regulation related to climate change, cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not believe they will have a material effect on our competitive position.

While there can be no assurance that physical risks to our facilities and supply chain due to climate change will not occur in the
future, we do not believe these risks are material in the near term.

Employee Relations

As of December 31, 2016, we employed approximately 13,000 full-time and part-time employees around the world. Of
this total, 6,300 were located in North America and another 5,800 were located in Europe. The remainder of our employees is in other global locations.

As of December 31, 2016, approximately 830 of our employees in North America were represented by labor unions. The vast majority of our employees in Europe and South America are subject to staff
council or works council coverage or collective bargaining agreements.

In addition to our own employees, we use the services
of contractors in the routine conduct of our businesses.







EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Our executive officers as of February 1, 2017 were as follows:





Name and AgeSignificant Experience

Bhavesh V. (“Bob”) Patel, 50Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Management Board since January 2015.Executive Vice President, Olefins and Polyolefins—EAI and Technology from
October 2013 and member of the Management Board from April 2014 to January 2015.Senior Vice President, Olefins and Polyolefins—EAI and Technology from November 2010 to October 2013.Senior Vice President, Olefins and Polyolefins—Americas from March 2010 to June 2011.General Manager, Olefins and NGLs of Chevron Phillips Chemical Company from 2009 to
2010.



Thomas Aebischer, 55Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since January 2016.Chief Financial Officer of LaFargeHolcim from July 2015 to December 2015.Chief Financial Officer of Holcim Ltd. from January 2011 to June
2015.



Kevin W. Brown, 59Executive Vice President, Manufacturing and Refining since January 2015 and member of the Management Board since May 2015.Senior Vice President, Refining from October 2009 to January 2015.Director of Sinclair Oil from January 2006 to September 2009.Executive Vice President, Operations of Sinclair Oil from June 2004 to September
2009.



Dan M. Coombs, 60Executive Vice President, Global Olefins and Polyolefins, and Technology since January 2016.Executive Vice President, Intermediates and Derivatives from May 2015 to January
2016.Senior Vice President of Manufacturing for Chevron Phillips
Chemical from December 2013 to May 2015.Senior Vice President for
Specialties, Aromatics and Styrenics for Chevron Phillips Chemical from December 2011 to November 2013.Vice President of Corporate Planning and Development for Chevron Phillips Chemical from September 2011 to November 2011.







Name and AgeSignificant ExperienceDeputy General Manager for Qatar Chemical Company
Limited Development and Vice President Qatar for Chevron Phillips Chemical from April 2010 to September 2011.Massimo Covezzi, 59Senior Vice President, Research and Development since January 2008.James Guilfoyle, 46Senior Vice President, Global Intermediates and Derivatives since June 2015.Vice President of Global Propylene Oxide andCo-Productsfrom March 2015 to May 2015.Director of Polymer Sales Americas from January 2012 to February 2015.Director of High Density Polyethylene from November 2006 to December 2011.Jeffrey A. Kaplan, 48Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer since March 2015 and member of the Management Board since May 2015.Deputy General Counsel from December 2009 to March 2015.Michael VanDerSnick, 52Senior Vice President, Health, Safety, Security and Environment since June 2015.Senior Vice President, Manufacturing—EAI from July 2012 to June
2015.Site manager of the Company’s Channelview, Matagorda,
Chocolate Bayou and Bayport, Texas plants from 2004 to 2012.Jacquelyn H. Wolf, 55Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since September 2012.Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer for Celanese, Inc. from
December 2009 to July 2012.Executive Vice President and Chief Human
Resources Officer for Comerica Bank from January 2006 to December 2009.


