Item 1.Business

Overview

The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, the “Company,” the
“Registrant,” “we,” “us” or “our”) is a leading global information services provider serving the
financial, education and business information markets with the information they need to succeed in
the “Knowledge Economy”. The business information markets include energy, automotive, construction,
aerospace and defense, broadcasting and marketing/research information services. We serve our
global customers through a broad range of products and distribution channels, including digital
data and information, integrated digital platforms, printed books, magazines and newsletters,
online via Internet Websites and through wireless and traditional on-air broadcasting, as well as
through a variety of conferences and trade shows.

In November of 2010 we realigned our previously reported Financial Services segment into two
separate segments, Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”) and McGraw-Hill Financial (“MH Financial”) to drive
global growth and innovation. Specifically, the establishment of MH Financial allows us to organize
our global financial information, data and analytics on a common sales and marketing platform. S&P
will be able to focus on creating enhanced credit risk benchmarks and research for the expanding
global markets in the new and evolving regulatory environment. As a result of the reorganization,
our operations now consist of four business segments: S&P, MH Financial, McGraw-Hill Education
(“MHE”) and McGraw-Hill Information & Media (“I&M”).

Our Businesses

S&P

S&P is the world’s foremost provider of credit ratings. With offices in over 20 countries around
the world, S&P is an important part of the world’s financial infrastructure and has played a
leading role for 150 years in providing investors with information and independent benchmarks for
their investment and financial decisions and access to the financial markets. The key constituents
S&P serves are investors; corporations, governments, and municipalities; commercial and investment
banks; insurance companies; asset managers; and other debt issuers.

S&P differentiates its revenue between transaction and non-transaction, where transaction revenue
includes new issuance of corporate, public finance, and structured finance debt instruments, bank
loans, and corporate credit estimates; and non-transaction revenue includes annual fees for
customer relationship-based pricing programs, surveillance fees and ratings fees earned relating to
cancelled transactions (“breakage fees”).

Global markets have begun to recover and some are expanding rapidly, particularly those in emerging
economies such as China and India, and raising capital is key for growth. Though, some
uncertainties do remain, individuals, countries, and corporations will continue to require access
to world capital markets, and investors will demand the diversification they offer. The primary
risk point in the financial markets has moved to Europe. There was record investment-grade bond
issuance in 2010, and we have seen the re-emergence of the speculative-grade market. New financial
legislation around the world will help improve investor confidence and market stability.

MH Financial

MH Financial is a leading global provider of digital and traditional research and analytical tools
for investment advisors, wealth managers and institutional investors. It deploys the latest
innovative technology strategies to deliver to customers an integrated portfolio of cross-asset
analytics, desktop services, valuation and index benchmarks and investment recommendations in the
rapidly growing financial information, data and analytics market. The key constituents MH Financial
serves are asset managers; investment banks; investors; brokers; financial advisors; investment
sponsors; and companies’ back-office functions, including compliance, operations, risk, clearance,
and settlement.

MH Financial differentiates its revenue between subscription and non-subscription, where
subscription revenue includes credit ratings-related information products, the Capital IQ platform,
investment research products and other data subscriptions; and non-subscription revenue includes
fees based on assets underlying exchange-traded funds as well as certain advisory, pricing and
analytical services.

The increasing interconnections among the world economies and financial markets underpin the need
for financial information. The retirement of the baby boomers in developed countries as well as the
emergence of a vast new middle class in developing countries will also increase the need for
financial services.





MHE

MHE is one of the premier global educational publishers and consists of two operating groups: the
School Education Group (“SEG”), serving the elementary and high school (“el-hi”) markets, and the
Higher Education, Professional and International Group (“HPI”), serving the college and university,
professional, international and adult education markets. As world economies become increasingly
centered on the service sector and technology and global population continues to rise, education is
more than ever the key to growth.

The el-hi market is changing with digital capabilities becoming increasingly critical. SEG sells
textbooks (print and digital versions), digital and hybrid supplemental materials and provides
online and traditional assessment and reporting services. The key markets are pre-kindergarten,
elementary, secondary, testing, supplemental, vocational, and post-secondary fields in the United
States. The market for textbooks consists of adoption states, which are states that provide
educational funding to school districts for specific programs based on adoption calendars, and open
territory states, which are states that do not follow adoption calendars. This market is influenced
strongly by the size and timing of state adoption opportunities and the availability of funds in
adoption states and in the open territory. Federal support has eased some of the pressure on state
and local finances, which has helped to mitigate the cutbacks in K-12 education.

In the college and university market, and the international market, we sell integrated digital
eLearning platforms, textbooks and other resources to higher education institutions. Key markets
are international college, university, post-graduate fields/markets, and English as a Second
Language (ESL) for higher education; worldwide medicine, healthcare, engineering, science, computer
technology, business, and general reference publishing for professional; and education, business,
and professional for international.

The college and university market is affected by enrollments, higher education funding and the
number of courses available to students. Enrollments in degree-granting higher education
institutions are projected to rise 13% to 20.6 million by 2018, according to the National Center
for Educational Statistics. Online enrollments have continued to grow at rates in excess of the
total higher education school population. Internationally, postsecondary enrollments are also
increasing in many regions, notably in India and China and other emerging economies. College
enrollments are rising more rapidly, as the need for bridging skill gaps with college-educated
workers grows. Continuing education is becoming more common, as workers may need to change careers
several times over the course of a working lifetime.

I&M

I&M consists of two operating groups: the Business-to-Business Group (“B2B”), including such brands
as Platts, J.D. Power and Associates, McGraw-Hill Construction andAviation Week; and the
Broadcasting Group, which operates nine television stations, four ABC affiliated stations located
in Denver (KMGH-TV), Indianapolis (WRTV), San Diego (KGTV), and Bakersfield, California (KERO-TV);
and five Azteca America affiliated stations in Denver (KZCO-TV), Fort Collins (KZFC-TV), Colorado
Springs (KZCS-TV), San Diego (KZSD-TV) and Bakersfield, California (KZKC-TV).

Key markets served by B2B include professionals and corporate executives in automotive, aerospace
and defense, construction, and energy; and global business and financial professionals, traders,
investors, marketers, advertisers, and consumers worldwide.

The segment’s business is driven by the need for information and transparency in a variety of
industries, and to a lesser extent, by advertising revenue. I&M delivers critical information,
largely though digital channels, for the construction, aerospace and defense, automotive, and
general business markets. The recent recession has adversely affected the construction and
automobile industries. These sectors are beginning to stabilize, but recovery will be slow.
Information is the main currency of the new industrial age. Global information coverage and the
interconnections in global trade and finance demand faster and more accurate information flows.

Our Strategy

In 2011, we plan to continue our focus on the following strategies to increase our growth and
relevance and to maintain our position as a leading “Knowledge Economy” company:

•Leveraging existing capabilities to grow organically, particularly through developing a
broad range of digital products and services•Growing globally by leveraging our position in developed markets and by pursuing
opportunities in key developing countries•Continuing to consider selective acquisitions that complement our existing business
capabilities•Expanding and refining the use of technology in all segments to improve performance,
market penetration and productivity•Continuing to contain costs

Leveraging existing capabilities to grow organically, particularly through developing a broad
range of digital products and services

We employ technology to innovate, create new revenue streams, and lower operating costs. Connecting
content and managing digital assets globally is an essential part of this effort. We are building
size and scale globally in essential markets by expanding our digital capabilities to serve the
enduring needs for knowledge, capital formation, and business analysis. With the positive shift in
the global





economy, we are well-positioned for new opportunities in areas such as financial
services, digital education solutions and sustainability-related products and services.

Since 2002, our year-over-year revenue growth from abroad has outpaced domestic performance. In
2010, foreign sources accounted for approximately 29% of our total revenue. The rapid rise of
developing economies in Asia, including India, is creating significant opportunities for us.

•S&P — CRISIL launched a new service, Independent Equity Research (“IER”), providing
investors with high-quality research on listed Indian companies. CRISIL is India’s leading
provider of ratings, research, and risk and policy advisory services. S&P launched the
ASEAN Regional Rating Scale to facilitate increased regional and global market
participation in Southeast Asia.



•MH Financial — has forged relationships with leading stock exchanges around the world,
including the Australian Securities Exchange, the National Stock Exchange of India, the
Toronto Stock Exchange, and the RTS Exchange in Moscow, to calculate and manage local stock
indices.



•MHE — is capitalizing on the global demand for knowledge, particularly in vocational
and English language training and online instruction. In India, Tata McGraw-Hill, a joint
venture between Tata Group and MHE, launched a professional development program for India’s
growing retail industry. In China, MHE has partnered with Ambow Education, a market leader
in vocational training services, to develop new English-language training programs for
Chinese engineers. In the United Arab Emirates, MHE has developed custom assessments for
English-language proficiency training.



•I&M — Platts is expanding by bringing information transparency critical to growing
markets for national resources around the world. J.D. Power and Associates continues to
deepen its offering and expand its services internationally, including in China, where the
automotive market is growing rapidly.AviationWeekcontinues to expand in the defense
sector as well as in emerging markets, including India, the Middle East, and Asia-Pacific.

Growing globally by leveraging our position in developed markets and by pursuing opportunities
in key developing countries

We will increase our global footprint and revenues by scaling up and localizing key global
platforms, building and acquiring new capabilities and products, and accelerating cross-border
distribution of existing products. We will accomplish this by successfully operating on global,
regional and local levels.

Continuing to consider selective acquisitions that complement our existing business
capabilities

We are focused on growth opportunities in core markets — financial services, education and
business information. Our four operating segments help meet the need for knowledge and education,
provide access to the world’s capital markets, and increase information transparency for better
decision making.

Expanding and refining the use of technology in all segments to improve performance, market
penetration and productivity

Connecting content and managing digital assets globally across all of our companies is essential to
growing revenue, improving workflow and productivity, and reducing costs. Ongoing investments in
technology support our ability to provide our customers with products and services that deliver
solutions and that represent the shift to today’s more interactive and digital business model.
Technology represents a tremendous opportunity for us to enhance our offerings, embed our solutions
into customers’ workflows and infrastructure, and build stronger, broader relationships.

•S&P — continues to facilitate worldwide access to capital by providing a common and
transparent benchmark for evaluating and comparing creditworthiness across multiple sectors
and geographies.



•MH Financial — Capital IQ’s platform of powerful, easy-to-use tools is attracting more
clients and helping them reduce risk, work more efficiently, and make better decisions. S&P
Indices, the world’s leading index provider, is continuing to expand in global markets.



•MHE — is embracing digital to create new and expanded revenue opportunities.
McGraw-Hill Connect™, MHE’s innovative higher education platform, and other digital
study/homework management products now have more than 1.8 million registered users. A new
partnership with Blackboard Inc. will significantly expand access to McGraw-Hill Connect by
making McGraw-Hill’s content and digital tools available to institutions already using
Blackboard Learn™. MHE’s digital tools and content are available on a variety of devices
developed by Apple, Amazon and Sony to broaden its digital distribution. A new partnership
with Wipro Technologies to develop “mConnect”, an open-standard mobile learning platform,
will help to bridge the skills gap in emerging markets with the intention to extend this
program to other countries in Asia and in Africa.



•I&M — our leading business information brands are taking the creation, analysis, and
delivery of business information to new levels. J.D. Power and Associates is providing
real-time data and volume metrics to the automotive, hospitality, and retail industries.
Platts is expanding as the demand for natural resources grows globally and the need for
information about these volatile markets increases.







There can be no assurance that we will achieve success in implementing any one or more of these
strategies. The following factors could unfavorably impact operating results in 2011:

•Lower educational funding as a result of state budget concerns•Prolonged difficulties in the credit markets•A change in the regulatory environment affecting our businesses•A change in educational spending

Segment and Geographic Data

The relative contribution of our operating segments to operating revenue, operating profit,
long-lived assets and geographic information for the three years ended December 31, 2010 is
included in Note 12 —Segment and Geographic Informationof our 2010 Annual Report to
Shareholders, and incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit (13).

Our Personnel

As of December 31, 2010, we have approximately 21,000 employees located worldwide, of which
approximately 11,000 were employed in the United States.

Available Information

We have an investor kit available online and in print that includes the current (and prior years)
Annual Report, Proxy Statement, Form 10-Qs, Form 10-K, all filings through EDGAR with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, and the current earnings release. For online access go towww.mcgraw-hill.com/investor_relationsand click on Digital Investor Kit. Requests for printed
copies, free of charge, can be e-mailed toinvestor_relations@mcgraw-hill.comor mailed to Investor
Relations, The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., 1221 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10020-1095.
You can call Investor Relations toll free at 866-436-8502 (domestic callers) or 212-512-2192
(international callers).

You may also read and copy materials that we have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”) at the SEC’s public reference room located at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Room 1024,
Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the
public reference room. In addition, our filings with the Commission are available to the public on
the Commission’s Web site atwww.sec.gov.Several years of SEC filings are also available on our
Investor Relations Web site. Go towww.mcgraw-hill.com/investor_relationsand click on the SEC
Filings link.



