Item 1.Business

Overview

The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, the
“Company,” the “Registrant,” “we,” “us” or “our”) is a leading global information services provider serving the financial, education, commercial and commodities markets with the information they need
to succeed in the “Knowledge Economy”. We serve our global customers through a broad range of products, services and distribution channels, including digital data and information, integrated digital platforms, online via Internet Websites
as well as with printed books, magazines and newsletters, and conferences and trade shows.

On September 12, 2011, we announced that our
Board of Directors unanimously approved a comprehensive Growth and Value Plan as the culmination of a portfolio review begun in late 2010. One of the primary features of this plan is the separation of the enterprise into two public companies:
McGraw-Hill Financial, focused on content and analytics for financial markets, and McGraw-Hill Education, focused on education services and digital learning. On December 7, 2011, management provided an update on our Growth and Value Plan,
discussing new actions that will facilitate the separation into two independent companies. Highlighted actions included:



•Reporting results for 2012 in five lines of business for the new McGraw-Hill Financial (S&P Ratings, S&P Capital IQ, S&P Indices,
Commodities Markets, and Commercial Markets).



•Reducing the McGraw-Hill Education workforce by 10% to create a flatter and more agile organization.



•Freezing our U.S. defined-benefit pension plan as of April 1, 2012 and focusing our retirement program on market-competitive offerings.



•Repurchasing additional shares through a $500 million accelerated share repurchase transaction.

Further information regarding these actions can be found in our Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,Consolidated
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, in this report.

We expect to complete the separation by the end of 2012 through a tax-free
spin-off of the education business to the Company’s shareholders, subject to various conditions and regulatory approvals including final Board approval and a tax ruling from the Internal Revenue Service.

Furthermore, on October 3, 2011, we entered into a definitive agreement with The E.W. Scripps Company to sell the Broadcasting Group. The sale was
completed on December 30, 2011, when we received net proceeds of approximately $216 million. The divestiture of our Broadcasting Group, previously included in our Commodities & Commercial segment (previously named the McGraw-Hill
Information & Media segment), was carried out pursuant to our Growth and Value Plan discussed in further detail below. As a result of the sale, the results of operations for all periods presented have been reclassified to reflect the
Broadcasting Group as a discontinued operation and the assets and liabilities of the business have been removed from the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2011 and reclassified as held for sale as of December 31, 2010.

Our Businesses

We have four
operating segments which have historically been named: Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”), McGraw-Hill Financial, McGraw-Hill Information & Media and McGraw-Hill Education (“MHE”). As part of our Growth and
Value Plan we have changed the names of our four operating segments to align with how we plan on referring to the businesses going forward. S&P has changed to S&P Ratings, McGraw-Hill Financial has been changed to S&P Capital IQ /
S&P Indices, McGraw-Hill Information & Media has changed to Commodities & Commercial (“C&C”) and MHE has remained the same. Going forward, the new McGraw-Hill Financial will include S&P Ratings, S&P
Capital IQ / S&P Indices and C&C.

S&P Ratings

S&P Ratings is the world's foremost provider of credit ratings. Credit ratings are one of several tools that investors can use when making decisions about purchasing bonds and other fixed income
investments. They are opinions about credit risk and our ratings express our opinion about the ability and willingness of an issuer, such as a corporation or state or city government, to meet its financial obligations in full and on time. Our credit
ratings can also speak to the credit quality of an individual debt issue, such as a corporate or municipal bond, and the relative likelihood that the issue may default.

With offices in over 20 countries around the world, S&P Ratings is an important part of the world's financial infrastructure and has played a leading role for over 150 years in providing investors
with information and independent benchmarks for their investment and financial decisions and access to the financial markets. The key constituents S&P Ratings serves are investors; corporations; governments; municipalities; commercial and
investment banks; insurance companies; asset managers; and other debt issuers.







S&P Ratings differentiates its revenue between transactional and non-transactional. Transaction revenue
primarily includes fees associated with:



•ratings related to new issuance of corporate and government debt instruments, and structured finance debt instruments;



•bank loan ratings; and



•corporate credit estimates, which are intended, based on an abbreviated analysis, to provide an indication of our opinion regarding creditworthiness of
a company which does not currently have an S&P Ratings credit rating.

Non-transaction revenue primarily includes fees
for surveillance of a credit rating, annual fees for customer relationship-based pricing programs and fees for entity credit ratings.

Global
markets have begun to recover and some are expanding rapidly, particularly those in emerging economies such as China and India, and raising capital is essential for growth. Though some uncertainties do remain, individuals, countries, and
corporations will continue to require access to world capital markets, and investors will demand the diversification they offer. The primary risk point in the financial markets has moved to Europe. New financial legislation around the world will
help improve investor confidence and market stability.

S&P Capital IQ / S&P Indices

S&P Capital IQ / S&P Indices is a leading global provider of digital and traditional research and analytical tools for investment advisors, wealth
managers and institutional investors. It deploys the latest innovative technology driven strategies to deliver to customers an integrated portfolio of cross-asset analytics, desktop services, valuation and index benchmarks and investment
recommendations in the rapidly growing financial information, data and analytics market. The key constituents S&P Capital IQ / S&P Indices serves are asset managers; investment banks; investors; brokers; financial advisors; investment
sponsors; and companies’ back-office functions, including compliance, operations, risk, clearance, and settlement.

S&P Capital IQ /
S&P Indices differentiates its revenue between subscription and non-subscription. Subscription revenue primarily includes:



•products in our Integrated Desktop Solutions Group, which include the following content: Capital IQ – a product suite that provides data and
analytics for global financial professionals, Global Credit Portal – a web-based solution that provides real-time credit research, market information and risk analytics, and TheMarkets.com – a real-time research offering featuring content
from the world’s leading brokers and independent research providers;



•products in our Enterprise Solutions group, such as Global Data Solutions, which combines high-quality, multi-asset class and market data to help
investors meet the new analytical, risk management, regulatory and front-to-back office operations requirements;



•investment research products in our Research & Analytics group;



•and other data subscriptions.

Non-subscription revenue is generated primarily from products in our S&P Indices group, specifically through fees based on assets underlying exchange-traded funds; as well as certain advisory, pricing
and analytical services in our Integrated Desktop Solutions group.

The increasing interconnections among the world economies and financial
markets underpin the need for financial information. The retirement of the baby boomers in developed countries as well as the emergence of a vast new middle class in developing countries will also increase the need for financial services.

Commodities & Commercial

C&C consists of business-to-business companies specializing in the commercial and commodities markets, each an expert in its industry, that deliver their customers access to actionable pricing
benchmarks, data and analytics. C&C includes such brands as Platts, J.D. Power and Associates, McGraw-Hill Construction andAviation Week. The Broadcasting Group has historically been part of the C&C segment and was sold on
December 30, 2011. In accordance with the presentation of the Broadcasting Group as discontinued operations, the results of operations for all periods presented have been reclassified to reflect this change.

Key markets served by C&C include professionals and corporate executives in automotive, aerospace and defense, construction, and energy; and global
business and financial professionals, traders, investors, marketers, advertisers, and consumers worldwide.

The global business is driven by
the need for information and transparency in a variety of industries, and to a lesser extent, by advertising revenue. C&C delivers critical information, largely through digital channels, for the energy, construction, aerospace and defense,
automotive, and general business markets. The recent recession has adversely affected the construction and automobile industries. These sectors are beginning to stabilize, but the rate of recovery is still unknown. Information is the main currency
of the new industrial age. Global information coverage and the interconnections in global trade and finance demand faster and more accurate information flows.







McGraw-Hill Education

MHE is one of the premier global educational publishers and consists of two operating groups: the School Education Group (“SEG”), serving the elementary and high school (“el-hi”)
markets, and the Higher Education, Professional and International Group (“HPI”), serving the college and university, professional, international and adult education markets. As world economies become increasingly centered on the service
sector and technology and as the global population continues to rise, education is more than ever the key to growth.

The el-hi market is
changing with digital capabilities becoming increasingly critical. SEG sells textbooks and supplemental materials (in print, digital, and hybrid versions) and provides online and traditional assessment and reporting services. The key markets are
pre-kindergarten, elementary, secondary, testing, supplemental, vocational, and post-secondary fields in the United States. The market for textbooks consists of adoption states, which are states that provide educational funding to school districts
for specific programs based on adoption calendars, and open territory states, which are states that do not follow adoption calendars. This market is influenced strongly by the size and timing of state adoption opportunities and the availability of
funds in adoption states and in the open territory. Federal support has eased some of the pressure on state and local finances, which has helped to mitigate the cutbacks in K-12 education.

In the college and university market, and the international market, we sell integrated digital e-learning platforms, textbooks and other instructional resources for the broad range of higher education
disciplines. Key markets for higher education products are domestic and international colleges, universities, post-graduate institutions and English as a Second Language (ESL) programs. For the professional market, both in the United States and
internationally, we offer digital and print products in medicine, healthcare, engineering, science, computer technology, business, education and general reference.

The college and university market is affected by enrollments, higher education funding and the number of courses available to students. Enrollments in degree-granting higher education institutions are
projected to rise by 13% to 20.6 million by 2018, according to the National Center for Educational Statistics. College enrollments are rising as more high school graduates perceive the need to bridge skills gaps with college-educated workers.
Continuing education is becoming more common, as workers may need to change careers several times over the course of a working lifetime. Reflecting these trends, online enrollments have continued to grow more rapidly than the total higher education
population. Internationally, postsecondary enrollments are also increasing in many regions, notably in India, China and other emerging economies.

Our Strategy

As discussed above, on September 12, 2011 we announced our Growth and
Value Plan which includes the creation of two independent companies: McGraw-Hill Financial, a world leader in content and analytics for financial and commodities markets, and McGraw-Hill Education, a global leader in education services and digital
learning. This transaction is expected to be completed by the end of 2012.

Four key trends are increasing the need for content and analytics
in the financial, commercial and commodities markets:



•The globalization of the capital markets: the global demand for capital and commodities markets trading and liquidity is expanding rapidly in both
developed and emerging markets



•The need for data-driven decision making tools: developments in technology, communications and data processing have increased the demand for
time-critical, multi-asset class data and solutions



•Systemic regulatory change: new global legislation (e.g. Dodd-Frank, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Basel III) is creating new and
complex operating and capital models for banks and market participants



•Increased volatility and risk: there is amplified uncertainty and market volatility around short-term events are driving the need for new methodologies
to measure risk, return and profitability

McGraw-Hill Financial

In 2012, we plan to focus on the following strategies for our financial information businesses to capitalize on the above four trends:



•Integrated Solutions: providing integrated solutions within and across market segments that fill evolving customer needs



•Distribution: capturing additional revenue by leveraging and expanding our strong channel relationships



•Geographic Penetration: using our vast global footprint to capitalize on opportunities in mature and growth markets



•Scalable Capabilities: creating and leveraging efficiency and effectiveness through common platforms, processes and standards



•Continuing to pursue targeted acquisitions and alliances



•Continuing cost-reduction initiatives







Integrated Solutions: providing integrated solutions within and across market segments that fill
evolving customer needs

We will build economies of scale that allow us to leverage and maximize the value of content and analytics
across all of our different businesses. This will result in the creation of innovative new solutions that help investors face the evolving challenges of today’s volatile and changing market landscape. The growing need for investors to be able
to track price movements across all asset classes creates an existing and fast growing opportunity for us to deliver integrated solutions on commodities, fixed income, equity, credit, and funds that inform strategy and trade ideas on cash,
derivatives and volatility indices.

Distribution: capturing additional revenue by leveraging and expanding our strong channel
relationships

We will capture additional revenue by leveraging and expanding on our multi-channel distribution capabilities. We have
varied distribution channels which enable us to reach many different customers in many different ways with essential, high-value content. Our strategy is to own and commercialize high-quality brands and content and then distribute it to clients in
any fashion they wish.

Geographic Penetration: using our vast global footprint to capitalize on opportunities in mature and growth
markets

We will increase our global footprint and revenues by expanding upon and fully exploiting the many operational and strategic
synergies that exist among our brands, including overlapping customer bases, shared technology platforms, optimized access to global capital markets, and an international employee base active in growth markets. Our scale and leadership positions
will also enable us to capitalize on growth trends and extend our position in fast-developing emerging markets.

Scalable Capabilities:
creating and leveraging efficiency and effectiveness through common platforms, processes and standards

We will maximize the
capabilities of our entire portfolio of assets through an operating model that allows us to leverage infrastructure, and more quickly and effectively combine assets to create new solutions. This will allow us to create solutions that offer
high-value, differentiated offerings.

Continuing to pursue targeted acquisitions and alliances

We will continue to pursue acquisitions and alliances that will expand our business and accelerate growth.



•In November 2011, we announced an agreement with CME Group to establish a new joint venture in the rapidly growing index business. Under this
agreement, we will contribute our S&P Indices business and the CME Group/Dow Jones joint venture will contribute the Dow Jones Indices business to create S&P/Dow Jones Indices, a global leader in index services. S&P/Dow Jones Indices is
expected to close by the end of the second quarter of 2012, subject to regulatory approval and customary closing conditions.



•In July 2011, we acquired the issued and outstanding shares of Steel Business Briefing Group (the “SBB Group”), a privately held U.K. company
and leading provider of news, pricing and analytics to the global steel market. The SBB Group provides subscription-based, electronic products to the steel industry and its participants through two principal businesses, Steel Business Briefing and
The Steel Index. The SBB Group is included within Platts, part of our C&C segment.



•In January 2011, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding membership interest units of Bentek Energy LLC (“Bentek”), which is included
as part of our C&C segment. Bentek offers its customers a comprehensive portfolio of data, information and analytics products in the natural gas and liquids sector. The primary purpose of the acquisition was to acquire Bentek’s knowledge,
skill and expertise in gathering high-quality detailed data and their ability to identify key relationships within the data critical to industry participants.

Continuing cost-reduction initiatives

We have made significant progress in 2011
towards our cost reduction goals to ensure that we will have appropriate cost structures to drive margin expansion and invest selectively in attractive growth opportunities. We reduced C&C’s workforce by approximately 100 positions and
Standard & Poor’s workforce by approximately 30 positions in 2011. We will continue to look to extend outsourcing efforts to enhance cost synergies and realign administrative support for a leaner overall cost structure.

McGraw-Hill Education

In 2012,
we plan to focus on the following strategies for our education business:



•Continuing to accelerate growth by aligning McGraw-Hill Education’s key strengths with market forces



•Continue to optimize resource allocation for long-term value







Continuing to accelerate growth by aligning McGraw-Hill Education’s key strengths with market
forces

We will continue to accelerate growth by capitalizing on digital transformation, maintaining and growing
our leadership position in individualized learning; expanding international presence to meet the rising demand for education in global growth markets; enhancing capabilities to drive expansion in education services, digital delivery and global
growth; and supporting growth through acquisitions or partnerships. We will continue to reinvest resources into the creation of education services and digital products and solutions to better capitalize on growth opportunities in the education
market. In November 2011, we announced an agreement with New Oriental Education & Technology Group to form a joint venture company which will provide critical 21stcentury skills to students across China. The planned formation highlights McGraw-Hill Education’s global
expansion in the English-language skills development and college and career readiness services market, as well as its highly advanced digital capabilities.

Optimize resource allocation for long-term value

We will continue to optimize
resource allocation to create long-term value. This means deploying capital as appropriate to support our growth strategy, developing an integrated and focused organizational structure, and rationalizing the cost structure to enhance efficiency. We
reduced McGraw-Hill Education’s workforce by approximately 540 positions in 2011 to create a flatter more agile organization. We will continue to reduce costs and streamline McGraw-Hill Education’s operational structure which will enable
it to aggressively pursue a strategy that focuses on high-growth opportunities in digital learning and education services.

Uncertainties

There can be no
assurance that we will achieve success in implementing any one or more of these strategies. The following factors could unfavorably impact operating results in 2012:



•Prolonged difficulties in the credit markets



•A change in the regulatory environment affecting our businesses



•Lower educational funding as a result of state budget concerns



•A change in educational spending



•Unanticipated problems in executing our Growth and Value Plan

Segment and Geographic Data

The relative contribution of our operating segments to
operating revenue, operating profit, long-lived assets and geographic area for the three years ended December 31, 2011 is included in Note 12 –Segment and Geographic Informationto the Consolidated Financial Statements under
Item 8,Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, in this Form 10-K.

Our Personnel

As of December 31, 2011, we have approximately 22,700 employees located worldwide, of which approximately 11,600 were employed in the United States.

Available Information

We
have an investor kit available online and in print that includes the current (and prior years’) Annual Report, Proxy Statement, Form 10-Qs, Form 10-K, all filings through EDGAR with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the current
earnings release. For online access go towww.mcgraw-hill.com/investor_relationsand click on Digital Investor Kit. Requests for printed copies, free of charge, can be e-mailed toinvestor_relations@mcgraw-hill.comor mailed to
Investor Relations, The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., 1221 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10020-1095. You can call Investor Relations toll free at 866-436-8502 (domestic callers) or 212-512-2192 (international callers).

You may also read and copy materials that we have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) at the SEC’s public reference
room located at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Room 1024, Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room. In addition, our filings with the Commission are available to the public on
the Commission’s Web site atwww.sec.gov.Several years of SEC filings are also available on our Investor Relations Web site. Go towww.mcgraw-hill.com/investor_relationsand click on the SEC Filings link.







