Item 1. Business.



Overview

Our mission is to reimagine commerce in ways that build a more fulfilling and lasting world. We are building a human and community-centric global and local marketplace. We are committed to using the power of business to create a better world through our platform.

We operate a marketplace where people around the world connect, both online and offline, to make, sell and buy unique goods. As ofDecember 31, 2015, through our innovative, technology-based platform, we connected a community of1.6 millionactive Etsy sellers and24.0 millionactive Etsy buyers, in nearly every country in the world.

Our community is the heart and soul of Etsy and is made up of creative entrepreneurs who sell on our platform, thoughtful consumers looking to buy unique goods in our marketplace and the Etsy employees who maintain our platform and nurture our ecosystem. Our community also includes the retailers who participate in our Wholesale offering and the manufacturers who form responsible partnerships with Etsy sellers. We are focused on bringing new participants into our community and expanding the impact of our platform and what we call the "Etsy Economy." The Etsy Economy values and honors the people who design and make goods, is transparent about the way they are made and connects the people who make, sell and buy them. It is an economy in which creative entrepreneurs find meaningful work and both global and local markets for their goods.

Our business model is based on shared success: we make money when Etsy sellers make money. In2015, Etsy sellers generated Gross Merchandise Sales ("GMS") of$2.4 billion, of which approximately43%came from purchases made on mobile devices. We are a global company and29.8%of our2015GMS came from an Etsy seller or an Etsy buyer outside of the United States.



Our revenue is diversified, generated from a mix of marketplace activities and the services we provide to Etsy sellers to help them create and grow their businesses. Marketplace revenue is made up of two components: the $0.20 listing fee that an Etsy seller pays for each item she lists and the 3.5% transaction fee she pays for each completed transaction. Seller Services revenue includes the fees our sellers pay Etsy for services, which include Promoted Listings, our ad service for prominent placement in on-site search results, Direct Checkout, our payment processing service, and Shipping Labels, which allows sellers to purchase shipping labels through our platform. Other revenue includes the fees we receive from a third-party payment processor.



We operate at the center of several converging macroeconomic trends in online and mobile commerce, employment, consumption and manufacturing. We believe that in combination these trends will benefit Etsy sellers engaging in their creative passion, working for themselves and defining success on their own terms; Etsy buyers accessing a diverse, global marketplace of goods that have historically been found in highly fragmented markets; and, increasingly, values-aligned manufacturers using modern tools to craft goods in responsible partnership with Etsy sellers.

We are focused on four key strategies that we believe will allow us to sustain and grow the Etsy community:

•Make Etsy an Everyday Experience

•Build Local Marketplaces, Globally

•Build High-Impact Seller Services

•Expand the Etsy Economy

Etsy was founded in June 2005 in Brooklyn, New York. On April 21, 2015, we completed our initial public offering (the "IPO") and our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol "ETSY."











Our Values

Our values are integral to everything we do.

We are a mindful, transparent and humane business.We believe that business interests and social and environmental responsibility are interwoven and aligned and that the power of business should be used to strengthen communities and empower people. To demonstrate our commitment, we monitor our efforts to minimize the harm and maximize the benefit that we have on people and the planet and then publish an annual Progress Report to publicly report our results. B Lab, an independent nonprofit organization, has certified us as a B Corporation for our adherence to certain social and environmental standards. In addition, Fortune has recognized us as a great place to work in 2013, 2014 and 2015.

We plan and build for the long term.We want to build a company that lasts, and we plan to measure our success in years and decades. Etsy sellers in particular depend on us and on our platform to grow their businesses, so we will strive to make decisions that are best for the long-term health of our ecosystem. Our ecosystem consists of Etsy and the people and communities around the world who benefit from our platform.

We value craftsmanship in all we make.Craftsmanship is the marriage of skill and passion. We believe every job at our company should demonstrate our commitment to craft. We are an engineering-driven company, and we think of our code as craft: we are makers of the products and services that members of our community use, and we approach the work we do with the same care and inspiration as do Etsy sellers.

We believe fun should be part of everything we do.Our mission includes fostering a world in which personal fulfillment is a key element of success. We believe that this way of working is connected and joyful. We strive to do excellent work and bring a sense of humor and playfulness to it.

We keep it real, always.We have the courage and the will to do business in ways that are unconventional and impactful. We strive to stay genuine, maintaining integrity, humility and sincerity in everything we do. When we feel that we are not being true to our values or our mission, we are not afraid to stop and change course.



Our Community

Our community includes Etsy sellers, Etsy buyers, wholesale partners, manufacturers and Etsy employees.

Etsy Sellers: Creative Entrepreneurs

Etsy sellers join our community to be part of a vibrant global-local marketplace that allows them to express their creativity and turn their passion into a business while connecting to thoughtful consumers locally and around the world. As ofDecember 31, 2015, there were1.6 millionactive sellers on our platform and more than 13% of active sellers as of that date had been selling on Etsy for more than four years.



Etsy Sellers











We support a diverse group of artists, makers, designers and collectors from around the world—from the solo artisan to the full-time jewelry maker with staff; from the antique furniture collector to the textile graphic designer partnering with a small-batch manufacturer.

Etsy sellers range from hobbyists to professional merchants, and have a broad range of personal and professional goals. We survey our sellers every two years and in November 2014, we conducted a survey of U.S. Etsy sellers who made a sale in the preceding 12 months. The 2014 Seller Survey, which included responses from 4,000 sellers, reveals a unique population of Internet-enabled creative entrepreneurs who are building businesses on their own terms—prioritizing flexibility, independence and creativity. Some Etsy sellers are looking for extra pocket money, while others depend on their shops to support themselves and their families. According to our 2014 Seller Survey, among U.S. Etsy sellers:



•86% are women;



•95% run their shops from their homes;



•90% aspire to grow their sales in the future;



•79% started their Etsy shop as an outlet for creativity;



•65% started their Etsy shop as a way to supplement income; and



•76% consider their Etsy shop to be a business.

Etsy Buyers: Thoughtful Consumers

Etsy buyers visit our marketplace to discover a broad selection of unique goods in dozens of retail categories that are hard to find elsewhere, ranging from a $5 ornament to a $50 hand-knit sweater to a $2,000 custom-made coffee table. In a 2015 survey of Etsy buyers, 92% agreed that Etsy offers products they cannot find elsewhere. We believe many Etsy buyers are motivated by more than simply price and convenience; we believe they also value craftsmanship, artistry, uniqueness, authenticity and sustainability. We find that Etsy buyers want to know how items were made, where they were made and who made them. In our marketplace, Etsy buyers can enjoy a personalized shopping experience and build relationships through direct interactions with Etsy sellers. Etsy buyers can also purchase customized items or other bespoke goods from Etsy sellers. By buying in our marketplace, Etsy buyers are supporting creative entrepreneurs in their local communities and around the world. As ofDecember 31, 2015, there were24.0 millionactive buyers on our platform.



Marketplace Activity

Wholesale Partners

Retailers who have joined our Wholesale offering, which we launched in August 2014, are also part of our community. From local boutiques to national chains such as Land of Nod, Lou & Grey, Macy's and Whole Foods, retailers use our platform to connect directly with Etsy sellers and to add unique and distinctive items to their store offerings. In 2015, we introduced our Wholesale Retailer Commitments, which are a set of guidelines that our large retail partners have agreed to follow when









working with Etsy sellers. The Commitments, which include terms such as quick and fair payment, are intended to foster relationships that lead to mutual success.

Manufacturing Partners

Etsy's mission to reimagine commerce includes our efforts to reimagine manufacturing. We are committed to helping Etsy sellers who share our values of authorship, responsibility and transparency and who want to grow their businesses by forming responsible partnerships with manufacturers. For example, an Etsy seller might work with a cut-and-sew shop to make clothes she has designed, a casting house that casts wax models for her jewelry designs or a digital printing house that prints her photographs on household items.

In addition to finding manufacturers on their own, Etsy sellers can find manufacturers through our new Etsy Manufacturing marketplace that we launched in September 2015. We launched Etsy Manufacturing to help Etsy sellers connect directly with manufacturers who commit to certain practices and value transparent connections. We hope to foster responsible and creative partnerships between the designers and manufacturers of goods, to prioritize transparency and to help our community learn about the unique stories and people behind each item. Manufacturers who apply to join Etsy Manufacturing must commit to certain ethical expectations and to operating a safe and just workplace, with transparency and reliable customer service. As of the end of2015, only manufacturers in the United States or Canada may participate in Etsy Manufacturing and there is no fee for participation.



An Etsy seller who would like to work with a manufacturer, whether found through the Etsy Manufacturing marketplace or on her own, must apply. Our Responsible Seller Growth team reviews every application. We do not review or approve the manufacturer; instead, we look to the Etsy seller to provide evidence of authorship, responsibility and transparency. We also ask Etsy sellers to work with manufacturers who adhere to our ethical expectations: humane working conditions, non-discrimination policies, sustainability practices and no child, youth or involuntary labor. To encourage transparency, Etsy sellers are required to disclose their use of manufacturers in their Etsy shop.

Etsy Employees

We too are members of our community. Whether crafting our policies, talking with Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers in our online forums or building the tools and services underlying our marketplace, our employees create genuine and lasting connections in our community. Etsy employees emphasize building personal relationships with Etsy sellers, visiting their shops, inviting them to our offices for lunch or celebrating with them at in-person events. In addition, each of our employees, including management, is expected to perform support rotations to help foster connections with Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers and to help us better understand their needs.

We pride ourselves on our values-based work culture. We emphasize respect, direct communication and fun. We focus on maximizing our employees’ professional and personal well-being. We evaluate performance on traditional business metrics and on adherence to our mission and values.

We believe employee happiness comes from engaging and fulfilling work and from ample personal and professional growth opportunities. We invest heavily in employee development by offering coaching, skills workshops and training. We actively encourage personal education through arts and crafts workshops and employee-taught classes called “Etsy School,” covering subjects ranging from screen printing to Python programming.

Etsy engineering is widely known for its thought-leading approaches to software development as well as its unique engineering culture. Our engineering team coined the phrase “Code as Craft” to describe our love for building software and our melding of engineering discipline and individual craftsmanship. We believe our engineers have the skills, practices and experience needed to embrace the change the future inevitably brings.

As ofDecember 31, 2015, we had819employees worldwide, with 496 in our offices in Brooklyn, New York. Of those employees, we had 257 in engineering, 84 in product, 221 in member operations, 196 in corporate and 61 in marketing.

We proactively work and recruit to improve the gender balance at all levels of our company. As ofDecember 31, 2015, 54% of employees identified as female. As of December 31, 2015, 50% of managers and 32% of product, engineering and technical operations employees identified as female.











Etsy.org

In January 2015, we formed Etsy.org, a Delaware non-profit organization, to build innovative business education programs that emphasize personal growth  and offer the skills and connections that entrepreneurs need to build and run businesses that regenerate communities and the planet. In January 2015, we issued188,235shares of our common stock to Etsy.org, and we used$300,000of the proceeds of our initial public offering to partially fund Etsy.org.



Our Platform

Our platform is a vehicle for person-to-person commerce, both globally and locally. Our platform includes our marketplace, our Seller Services, our technology and our community, both online and offline. The core of our platform is our marketplace, which connects people around the world to make, sell and buy unique goods.



The Etsy Seller Experience

Our platform makes it easy for an Etsy seller to open an Etsy shop and operate her business. We help the Etsy seller in the following ways:



•Seller Services.We offer a variety of services to help Etsy sellers build their personal brands, engage potential customers and complete transactions. We currently have three seller services:



•Promoted Listings.Our Promoted Listings offering enables an Etsy seller to pay a cost-per-click based fee to feature and promote her goods in search results generated by Etsy buyers on our platform. This service allows an Etsy seller to target Etsy buyers who are specifically searching for goods similar to those she offers for sale.



•Direct Checkout.Our Direct Checkout offering allows Etsy sellers to accept various forms of payment such as credit cards, debit cards, PayPal and Etsy gift cards. As ofDecember 31, 2015, Direct Checkout was available in 22 countries and 10 currencies. In January 2016, Direct Checkout was expanded and is currently available in 34 countries in total. Once an Etsy buyer makes payment, the Etsy seller receives the funds in her own bank account and in her local currency.



•Shipping Labels.Etsy sellers can purchase United States Postal Service and Canada Post shipping labels through our platform with the appropriate amount of postage. The ability to print shipping labels at home reduces the cost and time it takes Etsy sellers to ship goods to Etsy buyers globally.





Use of Seller Services in 2015



•Mobile.We developed our “Sell on Etsy” mobile app to help Etsy sellers operate their shops and manage orders. Etsy sellers can also access communication, shop management tools and help resources through the Sell on Etsy mobile app. During2015, 43.2% of our2015active sellers used our Sell on Etsy app.



•Seller Dashboard.Etsy sellers can analyze visits to their shop and listings, estimate the effectiveness of their spending on Promoted Listings, monitor orders and track sales using our online seller dashboard. Etsy sellers can access analytics on the dashboard on our website or on our Sell on Etsy mobile app.











•Education.We provide extensive educational resources to teach Etsy sellers how to build and grow their businesses on our platform, including blog posts, video tutorials, the Etsy Seller Handbook (available on our website), access to our online forums and insights from our support teams. In addition to our own educational resources, Etsy sellers connect through Etsy Teams to build personal relationships, collaborate and educate and support each other.

The Etsy Buyer Experience

To help Etsy buyers discover and purchase items that they love, we provide a number of tools, including:



•Communication.We believe human connection is central to Etsy buyers’ engagement. Etsy buyers and Etsy sellers use the Conversations tool on our platform to communicate, person to person, about their orders, to request custom goods or personalization of goods or simply to have a conversation about the product or the process. In2015, Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers sent 234 million messages on our platform. In addition to our Conversations tool, we encourage engagement between Etsy buyers and Etsy sellers in a variety of ways. For example, in2015, we introduced a mobile app feature that enables Etsy buyers to share a photo when they post a five-star review of an item and to more easily share reviews on social media. We also launched Etsy Local on our mobile apps so that Etsy buyers can more easily find Etsy sellers and their goods offline at nearby events such as craft fairs, flea markets or local shops.



•Search and discovery.Our platform is engineered to provide a personalized experience to each Etsy buyer, adjusting in real time based on her interactions with our marketplace. An Etsy buyer may search for an item using our search tool bar and filter the results by color, price, location or other characteristics. She may browse through items, creating an activity feed by “favoriting” items that catch her eye and by following shops and tastemakers. In2015, Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers tagged 1.1 billion favorites on our platform. We glean insights from Etsy buyers’ purchases and other interactions on our marketplace through our machine-learning algorithms and through traditional information retrieval techniques, such as cookies. We use these insights to personalize the activity feed an Etsy buyer sees when she comes to Etsy, with suggestions of shops or tastemakers to follow and items to buy or favorite. We use the data we collect and the insights we gain to match Etsy sellers’ goods with Etsy buyers’ tastes and interests. In2015, we updated the search function in our marketplace to better showcase the breadth of the items available and to help Etsy buyers more easily browse, filter and buy goods, even when they may not have something specific in mind. Our large and engaged community accessed more than 5 billion search page views in 2015, including searches using our mobile apps.



•Mobile.We strive to keep Etsy buyers engaged wherever they are, by providing the functionality of our website in iOS and Android mobile apps, specifically crafted for Etsy buyers. Our mobile apps for Etsy buyers include search and discovery, curation, personalization and social shopping features similar to those that Etsy buyers enjoy on our desktop site. In order to provide an enjoyable shopping experience for Etsy buyers through our mobile apps, we use deep linking to automatically transition Etsy buyers from a mobile web experience to the mobile app when they encounter a link to an Etsy shop or item. In addition, we want to make it even easier for Etsy buyers to sign up, sign in and check out when using their mobile devices. In 2015, we added social sign-up and sign-in through Facebook and Google and expanded mobile payment and digital wallet options for Apple Pay, Google Wallet and others. Our mobile apps have been downloaded 31.8 million times as ofDecember 31, 2015.

Our Policies

Members of our community rely on us to be a trusted marketplace. Our policies are designed to encourage transparency and clearly outline the rights and responsibilities of Etsy sellers, Etsy buyers, wholesale partners and manufacturing partners participating on our platform.

Most fundamentally, we require that goods listed in our marketplace be handmade, vintage or craft supplies. Handmade items begin with the imagination and creativity of the Etsy seller. To conform to our vision of handmade, we ask that the Etsy seller follow these three principles:



•Authorship:  The Etsy seller should have a meaningful design and creative role in the items she is selling.



•Responsibility:  The Etsy seller should know how her goods are made and by whom.



•Transparency:  The Etsy seller should be open and honest about how her goods are made and by whom.



We strive to give the Etsy buyer comfort that she is purchasing unique goods from a shop that adheres to certain principles. Etsy buyers have a high degree of insight into Etsy sellers’ business practices. Our policies ask Etsy sellers to be transparent









about themselves, their businesses and the goods they sell. We also have dedicated teams and sophisticated tools to help enforce our policies. For example, our Integrity team uses a combination of machine learning, automated systems and community-generated flags to review items and shops that may violate our policies. Our Trust and Safety team helps to prevent and detect fraud through human review and automated tools and algorithms.

We also recognize that sometimes transactions don’t always go as planned. When that happens, our online Case System provides a way for Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers to communicate with each other to resolve disputes.



Our Opportunities and Strengths



Our Opportunities

We operate at the center of several converging macroeconomic trends in online and mobile commerce, employment, consumption and manufacturing. We believe that in combination these trends will benefit Etsy sellers engaging in their creative passion, working for themselves and defining success on their own terms; Etsy buyers accessing a diverse, global marketplace of goods that have historically been found in highly fragmented markets; and, increasingly, values-aligned manufacturers using modern tools to craft goods in responsible partnership with Etsy sellers. We also believe that these trends create a strong, long-term market opportunity for Etsy that will allow us to continue to expand our marketplace globally, attract buyers who want something different than a conventional, mass-produced retail shopping experience, deepen the connections within our community and introduce new Seller Services and tools.

Most large retailers today follow a different formula from Etsy, emphasizing efficiency and scale and pressuring their suppliers to reduce their costs in order to serve mass-produced goods at the lowest-possible prices. We believe, however, that many consumers want to purchase goods that are unique and that reflect their personality and style, not simply mass-produced, generic goods. Finding these goods can be difficult, as markets for such goods have historically been highly fragmented across boutiques, consignment stores and other venues and marketplaces.

Etsy sellers offer goods in dozens of online retail categories, including jewelry, stationery, clothing, home goods, craft supplies and vintage items. Euromonitor, a consumer market research company, estimated that the global online retail market was $991 billion in 2015, up from $483 billion in 2011, representing a compound annual growth rate, or CAGR, of 19.7%. This growth is expected to continue, with the global online retail market becoming a significantly larger portion of the total retail market, reaching $1.8 trillion by 2019, implying a 15.5% CAGR from 2015.(Source: Euromonitor - 2016 Passport Retailing.)



Our Strengths

We believe we can benefit from these positive trends by continuing to leverage and expand our platform.  Our platform is one of the largest online marketplaces in the world and we have achieved our scale because of the following key strengths:

Our Trusted Marketplace.We have built a trusted marketplace that embodies our values-based culture, emphasizing respect, direct communication and fun. Our reputation depends upon our Etsy sellers, their unique offerings and their adherence to our policies. We establish trust in our marketplace in a variety of ways. For example, our policies are designed to encourage transparency and clearly outline the rights and responsibilities of Etsy sellers, Etsy buyers, wholesale partners and manufacturing partners participating on our platform.



Transparency is one of our core values and Etsy's transparency with our community helps to support the trustworthiness of our marketplace. For example, we publish an annual Progress Report that details our progress toward our ideals and shares our hopes for the years to come. In 2015, we also released a Transparency Report, which, among other things, describes the steps we take when items that do not meet our guidelines are listed on our platform, or when listed items are alleged to infringe third party rights.

We also establish trust by emphasizing the person behind every transaction. We deepen connections between Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers through our direct communication tools, seller stories on our website and apps and in-person events, highlighting personal relationships as a key part of the Etsy experience. For example, Etsy sellers are encouraged to share their stories and use new tools, such as shop videos, to reach Etsy buyers on our platform and on social media. The trustworthiness of our marketplace and the connections among people in our community are the cornerstones of our business.









Our Passionate, Engaged and Loyal Etsy Sellers and Etsy Buyers.Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers are passionate, engaged and loyal—not only to us, but to each other—building a strong community.



•Our active sellers and active buyers remain so for multiple years. For example, 32.3% of active sellers and 44.7% of active buyers as of December 31, 2011 continued to be active sellers and active buyers through their fourth year on the platform, and 32.3% of active sellers and 42.5% of active buyers as of December 31, 2012 continued to be active sellers and active buyers through their fourth year on the platform. In addition, as ofDecember 31, 2015, 13% of active sellers have been selling on Etsy for more than four years. Likewise, as ofDecember 31, 2015, 15% of active buyers have been Etsy buyers for more than four years.



•Repeat purchases demonstrate the loyalty of Etsy buyers. In 2015, 81% of our GMS came from repeat purchases. This was up from 78% in 2014. Also in 2015, approximately 47% of our active buyers made 2 or more purchases in the previous 12 months, up slightly from 2014.



•Unlike many other online commerce companies, the vast majority of visits come to Etsy from organic or direct sources. In2015, 91% of visits came to Etsy.com from direct, organic or email sources. A visit represents activity from a unique browser or mobile app. A visit ends after 30 minutes of inactivity.



•Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers also spend time with each other. For example, they sent 234 million messages on our platform in2015using our Conversations tool. As ofDecember 31, 2015, approximately 21% of active sellers belong to a self-organized Etsy Team, developing supportive personal relationships with other Etsy sellers as they build their independent creative businesses. Currently, over 12,000 Etsy Teams have formed around the world.



The passion and loyalty demonstrated by Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers underlies the growth and scale of our platform. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Key Factors Affecting Our Performance—Growth and Retention of Active Sellers and Active Buyers” for more information.





GMS Contribution by Purchase Type













Visits Contribution by Source Type



Our Innovative Technology.Our widely-respected engineering team has built a sophisticated platform that enables millions of Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers to smoothly transact across borders, languages and devices. Our team is at the forefront of the software engineering practice of continuous deployment. We update our code as often as every 20 minutes, and as many as 70 times per day, with more than 12,000 deploys during the year endedDecember 31, 2015. To enhance the performance of our platform, we collect and analyze a large volume of data. For example, we currently collect more than two million discrete metrics, which we expect will increase as we grow. Further, in the field of search relevance and purchase recommendations, we currently collect and analyze more than 1,200 terabytes of data to calculate search and personalization relevance signals in real time to recommend goods to each prospective Etsy buyer from a broad inventory of unique goods.



Mobile commerce is increasingly important in online retail. For example, comScore has estimated that since the first quarter of 2013, consumers visiting online commerce sites spent more than half of their browsing time on mobile devices. However, spending via mobile devices represented only 16% of total online commerce dollars in the third quarter of 2015. We are a mobile-first company and have focused on expanding our mobile capabilities in recent years. We developed our “Sell on Etsy” mobile app to help the Etsy seller operate her shop and manage orders. Our mobile website and our “Buy on Etsy” mobile app for Etsy buyers, which we developed to keep Etsy buyers engaged wherever they are, includes search, discovery, curation, personalization and social shopping features, optimized for the mobile experience. During 2015, we continued to enhance our mobile app for Etsy buyers in many ways including adding new deep linking functionality, integrating social sign-up and sign-in, expanding our mobile payment and digital wallet options with Apple Pay, Google Wallet and others.



For the year endedDecember 31, 2015, approximately60%of our visits and approximately43%of our GMS were generated on a mobile device. This is a strong improvement compared with2014, during which54%of our visits and37%of our GMS were generated on a mobile device. In addition, we are focused on continuing to narrow the gap between mobile visits and mobile GMS and we saw this metric improve in2015.

Our Scaled, Global-Local Marketplace.Our marketplace is global-local, meaning that we focus on building local Etsy communities around the world. Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers in these local communities, in turn, have global reach and access through our platform. In particular, we seek to develop local markets in key countries outside the United States where we see both local buyer and seller activity. Currently, Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers are based in nearly every country in the world and our marketplace is available in 10 languages. In2015,29.8%of our GMS involved an Etsy seller or Etsy buyer outside of the United States. We believe our global-local marketplace creates strong competitive advantages outside the United States because our success is not dependent on scale in any given country; instead, the diverse location of Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers creates the scale, and a concentration of Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers in any given region can give rise to a vibrant local Etsy marketplace. During 2015, we launched several new features to support our global-local marketplace, including curated “Editor’s Picks” shopping pages and direct Etsy emails to buyers that are locally relevant to a specific region. To help Etsy









buyers who prefer to buy locally in Australia and the United Kingdom, we made it easier to find items from their home countries on our marketplace. We’re also focused on providing additional local payment options.

Our Seller-Aligned Business Model.Etsy sellers are drawn to our platform because we empower them to succeed, and as Etsy sellers succeed, so do we. Our seller-aligned business model creates network effects. The more we invest in our platform, the more we enable Etsy sellers to pursue their craft and grow their businesses and the easier we make it for Etsy buyers to find unique goods. We call this Etsy’s Empowerment Loop. Some 76% of Etsy sellers consider their Etsy shops to be businesses and 90% want to grow their businesses, as indicated by our 2014 Seller Survey. We focus on offering Seller Services that help an Etsy seller spend more of her time on her creative passion and less of her time on the administrative aspects of running a business. During the year endedDecember 31, 2015, 48.1% of Etsy sellers used at least one of our Seller Services. Similarly, our manufacturing and Wholesale programs enable an Etsy seller to grow her business on our platform.



Etsy Empowerment Loop



Our Strategy: The Path Ahead

We have four key strategic priorities:

Make Etsy an Everyday Experience.The power of human connection is central to the Etsy experience. We emphasize relationships, connecting creative entrepreneurs to thoughtful consumers around the world and we continually strive to make those connections a daily habit for Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers.

The everyday experience starts with mobile. In2015, approximately60%of our visits and approximately43%of our GMS were generated on a mobile device.



•We strive to help the Etsy seller manage her shop, connect with Etsy buyers and sell her goods on our platform, all on her mobile device. We plan to bring the Etsy experience to local communities, using mobile technology to highlight Etsy sellers’ goods in nearby brick-and-mortar stores and crafts fairs.



•We strive to make it easy and fun for Etsy buyers to connect with Etsy sellers and to discover and purchase Etsy sellers’ unique goods, particularly though mobile devices. We plan to continue to improve Etsy buyers’ engagement with our community through enhanced content, search and discovery. We believe that improvements like these will be an important foundation for our future mobile development and enable us to continue to drive mobile app usage and narrow the gap between mobile visits and mobile GMS.



Build Local Marketplaces, Globally.Our vision is global and local. In2015, 31.3% of Etsy sellers were located outside the United States, and29.8%of our GMS involved an Etsy seller or Etsy buyer outside of the United States. Although we promote cross-border transactions, our strategy is to build and deepen local Etsy communities around the world, each with its own ecosystem of Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers. For example, although GMS generated between a non-U.S. buyer and a non-U.S. seller both in the same country is a small percentage of our total GMS, excluding our French marketplace ALM, this GMS grew approximately50%in 2015 compared with 2014. We plan to continue to invest in local marketing and content and other









locally-relevant tools and enhancements around the world to encourage these connections. We believe our locally-focused work will broaden the reach of our global platform.



Offer High-Impact Seller Services.Seller Services, such as Promoted Listings, Direct Checkout and Shipping Labels, help an Etsy seller spend more time on the pleasures of her craft and less time on the administrative aspects of her business. We launched our first seller service in late 2011 and in2015Seller Services represented$136.6 million,49.9%of our revenue, a65.6%increase over2014, and$82.5 million, or42.2%of total revenue in2014, a92.7%increase over2013. According to our 2014 Seller Survey, for every hour that an Etsy seller spends making her products, she spends another hour doing business-related tasks, including inventory management, shipping, customer service, marketing and accounting. We intend to enhance existing Seller Services, extend their geographic reach and introduce new ones to increase the amount of time an Etsy seller can devote to her craft.





How an Etsy Seller Spends Her Time





Expand the Etsy Economy.We intend to fulfill our mission to reimagine commerce by expanding the impact of our platform. By further developing our manufacturing program, we believe we are helping Etsy sellers who want to grow their businesses connect with skilled partners, while helping to revitalize manufacturing in local communities. We will also continue to focus on our Wholesale offering, which we launched in August 2014, so that Etsy sellers can sell their products to select retail partners such as Land of Nod, Lou & Grey, Macy's and Whole Foods.



We plan to focus on strategic partnerships, technological advances and public-private endeavors such as our Craft Entrepreneurship program, which we believe will bring the benefit of the Etsy Economy to more people and more communities. Craft Entrepreneurship is an educational program intended to empower creative people in underserved communities with the resources to start and run an online business with Etsy and/or elsewhere. As ofDecember 31, 2015, we’ve partnered with local organizations in 23 cities in Australia, Canada, the United States and the United Kingdom to provide Craft Entrepreneurship classes. We've committed to expand Craft Entrepreneurship to a total of 30 cities by June 2016.



Competition

We compete with retailers for the Etsy seller. An Etsy seller can list her goods for sale with online retailers or sell her goods through local consignment and vintage stores and other venues and marketplaces. She may also sell wholesale directly to traditional retailers, including large national retailers, who discover her goods in our marketplace or otherwise. We also compete with companies that sell software and services to small businesses, enabling an Etsy seller to sell from her own website or otherwise run her business independently of our platform. We are able to compete for Etsy sellers based on our brand awareness, the global scale of our marketplace and the breadth of our online presence, the number and engagement of Etsy buyers, our Seller Services, our seller education resources and tools, our policies and fees, our mobile apps, the strength of our community and our values.

We also compete with retailers for the attention of the Etsy buyer. An Etsy buyer has the choice of shopping with any online or offline retailer, whether large marketplaces or national retail chains or local consignment and vintage stores or other venues or marketplaces. We are able to compete for Etsy buyers based on the unique goods that Etsy sellers list in our marketplace, our brand awareness, the person-to-person commerce experience, our reputation as a trusted marketplace, our mobile apps, ease of payment and the availability and reliability of our platform.













Intellectual Property

Protection of our technology and intellectual property is an important component of our success. We rely on intellectual property laws, primarily including trade secret, copyright and trademark laws in the United States and abroad, and we use confidentiality procedures, non-disclosure agreements, invention assignment agreements and other contractual rights to protect our intellectual property.

While we have obtained or applied for patent protection for some of our intellectual property, we generally do not rely on patents as a principal means of protecting intellectual property. We register domain names, trademarks and service marks in the United States and abroad. We also rely upon common law protection for certain trademarks.



Circumstances beyond our control could pose a threat to our intellectual property rights. Effective intellectual property protection may not be available in the United States or other countries in which we operate. In addition, the efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient or effective. Any impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business, our ability to compete and our operating results.



Government Regulation

As with any company operating on the Internet, we grapple with a growing number of local, national and international laws and regulations. These laws are often complex, sometimes contradict other laws, and are frequently still evolving. Laws may be interpreted and enforced in different ways in various locations around the world, posing a significant challenge to our global business. For example, U.S. federal and state laws, EU directives, and other national laws govern the processing of payments, consumer protection and the privacy of consumer information; other laws define and regulate unfair and deceptive trade practices. Still other laws dictate when and how sales or other taxes must be collected. Laws of defamation apply online and vary by country. The growing regulation of e-commerce worldwide could impose additional compliance burdens and costs on us or on Etsy sellers, and could subject us to significant liability for any failure to comply. Additionally, because we operate internationally, we need to comply with various laws associated with doing business outside of the United States, including anti-money laundering, anti-corruption and export control laws.





Emerging Growth Company Status



We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the “JOBS Act.” We will remain an emerging growth company until the earlier of (1) the last day of the fiscal year (a) in 2020, which will follow the fifth anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering, (b) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.0 billion or (c) in which we become a large accelerated filer, which means that we have been public for at least 12 months, have filed at least one annual report and the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last day of our then most recently completed second fiscal quarter, and (2) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during the prior three-year period.



The JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption and, therefore, we are subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies.













Available Information



We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and file or furnish reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the “SEC”. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports are available free of charge on our website at investors.etsy.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we have filed or furnished them to the SEC. The information on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and investors should not rely on such information in deciding whether to invest in our common stock. Copies of our SEC reports and other documents are also available, without charge, by sending a letter to Investor Relations, Etsy, Inc., 55 Washington Street, Suite 512, Brooklyn, NY 11201, by sending an email to ir@etsy.com or by calling (347) 382-7582.



Additionally, our SEC reports may be read and copied at the SEC Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling (800) SEC-0330. Our SEC reports are also available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we have filed or furnished them to the SEC.



For a summary of our financial information by geographic location, see  "Note 13—Segment and Geographic Information" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  For information regarding our product development expenditures in the last three fiscal years, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations.”











