Item 1. Business.



Overview



Etsy operates two-sided online marketplaces that connect millions of passionate and creative buyers and sellers. Our mission is to “Keep Commerce Human,” and we’re committed to using the power of business and technology to strengthen communities and empower people around the world. Etsy was founded in 2005.

Our primary marketplace, Etsy.com, is the global destination for unique and creative goods. The Etsy marketplace connects creative entrepreneurs with thoughtful consumers looking for items that are intended to be special, reflect their sense of style, or represent a meaningful occasion. Our sellers are the heart and soul of Etsy, and our technology platform allows our sellers to turn their creative passions into economic opportunity. We have a seller-aligned business model: we make money when our sellers make money. We offer Etsy sellers a marketplace with millions of buyers along with a range of seller tools and services that are specifically designed to help our creative entrepreneurs generate more sales and scale their businesses.

Buyers come to the Etsy marketplace to be inspired and delighted by items that are crafted and curated by our creative entrepreneurs. We are focused on attracting potential buyers to Etsy for those “special” purchase occasions that happen throughout the year, and everyday items that have meaning. We are deepening engagement with our existing buyers by inspiring purchases across our many retail categories and shopping occasions. These special purchase occasions can occur many times throughout the year and include items that reflect an individual's unique style; gifting that demonstrates thought and care; and celebrations that express creativity and fun. Buyers tell us that they come to Etsy because Etsy sellers offer items that they can’t find anywhere else. In fact, in a2019survey of Etsy buyers,88%of buyers agreed that Etsy has items that you can’t find anywhere else.





Special purchase occasions can happen many times throughout the year when a buyer is decorating a home, selecting an outfit for a special event, planning a celebration for a special moment, or buying a gift for someone special.











In August 2019, we acquired Reverb. The Reverb marketplace is a leading global online marketplace dedicated to buying and selling new, used, and vintage musical instruments, with a vibrant community of buyers and sellers all over the world. Reverb, now a wholly-owned subsidiary of Etsy, Inc., is included in all financial and other metrics from August 15, 2019 (the date of acquisition), unless otherwise noted.

As ofDecember 31, 2019, the Etsy and Reverb marketplaces connected2.7 millionactive sellers to46.4 millionactive buyers. Our buyers and sellers are located all over the world and our six core geographic markets are the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Germany, Australia, and France. We will continue to invest in these markets, as this is where we have our strongest concentration of both buyers and sellers, and continue to evaluate geographies in which to make strategic investments. There are currently nearly66 millionitems for sale across many retail categories in our marketplaces. In2019, our sellers generated$5.0 billionof Gross Merchandise Sales (“GMS”), approximately58%of which came from purchases made on mobile devices. In 2019, our top six retail categories on the Etsy marketplace were homewares and home furnishings, jewelry and personal accessories, apparel, craft supplies, paper and party supplies, and beauty and personal care, and with the addition of Reverb, we now have significant exposure to the market for used musical instruments. We are a global company, and36%of our2019GMS was generated when a seller or buyer, or both, were located outside of the United States.



Our revenue is diversified, generated from a mix of marketplace activities and other optional services we provide to sellers to help them generate more sales and scale their businesses.

Marketplace revenue is comprised of the fees a seller pays us for marketplace activities. Marketplace activities include listing an item for sale, completing transactions between a buyer and a seller, and using our payments platforms to process payments, including foreign currency payments. Etsy fees include the

5%

transaction fee that an Etsy seller pays for each completed transaction, inclusive of shipping fees charged, the

$0.20

listing fee for each item listed (for up to four months), and fees for Etsy Payments, our payment processing product. Etsy Payments processing fees vary between

3.0%

to

4.5%

of an item’s total sale price, including shipping, plus a flat fee per order, depending on the country in which a seller’s bank account is located. When a foreign currency payment is processed, Etsy earns additional fees. As of December 31, 2019, Etsy Payments was available in 36 countries and 12 currencies and nearly all sellers in countries where Etsy Payments is available are required to use the service. In fact,

89%

of total GMS from the Etsy marketplace (“Etsy.com GMS”) was processed through Etsy Payments in 2019,

up

from

86%

in 2018. Our ability to expand Etsy Payments into additional countries is dependent upon the third-party providers we use to support this service. Reverb  fees include the

3.5%

transaction fee that a Reverb seller pays for each completed transaction, inclusive of shipping fees charged, and fees for payment processing. There are no listing fees for the Reverb marketplace. Marketplace revenue also includes revenue generated through our commercial partnerships, which was recorded in its own Other revenue line prior to the fourth quarter of 2019.

Services revenue is comprised of the fees a seller pays us for our optional services (“Services”). For the Etsy marketplace, primary optional services include advertising services, which allow Etsy sellers to pay for prominent placement of their listings in search results, and Etsy Shipping Labels, which allows Etsy sellers in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, and Australia to purchase discounted shipping labels. For the Reverb marketplace, optional services include Bump, an on-site advertising product that enables Reverb sellers to determine their own ad rates as a percentage of their item’s final sale price; and Reverb Shipping Labels, which gives Reverb sellers access to discounted shipping rates.











Our Opportunity



We believe that the nature of commerce is continuing to evolve: more people are choosing to purchase goods online and many consumers are looking for unique items as an alternative to mass produced goods. We estimate that the online market size across all relevant retail categories for the Etsy marketplace within our six core geographic markets, United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Germany, Australia and France, represents a $249 billion market opportunity, and a $1.7 trillion market opportunity when offline is included. By 2023, we estimate that the online market opportunity will expand to $437 billion and $2 trillion when offline is included.



Our Platform



We leverage technology to connect people around the world through commerce. Our platform includes the Etsy and Reverb online marketplaces, our seller tools and services, our passionate and engaged sellers and buyers, and our technology. Our commitment to transparency and integrity underpins our platform and establishes trust within our marketplaces and our community.



Key Components of Our Platform



Our Marketplaces



The Etsy Marketplace



Our primary marketplace, Etsy.com, is where thoughtful buyers come to discover a broad selection of unique goods that are hard to find elsewhere. In a world of increasing automation and commoditization, Etsy celebrates creativity and human interaction. We believe this marketplace is characterized by several unique qualities, including:



•Unique Products:Etsy boasts a large assortment of handmade, customized, personalized, vintage, and craft supply products from all over the world. There are currently approximately65 millionitems listed on the Etsy marketplace. We intend to continue to improve the customer experience by investing in our search and discovery capabilities to help buyers efficiently find the special items they are looking for and deliver a brand promise around shipping to align with our buyers’ expectations of when they can expect to receive our unique items.

•Global Reach:Etsy’s six core geographic markets are the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Germany, Australia and France, in addition to sellers and buyers in nearly every other country around the world. Our platform makes it easy for Etsy buyers and Etsy sellers to interact across borders even if they do not speak the same language and wish to transact in different currencies. We use innovative machine translation technology to translate listings, reviews, Promoted Listings, and conversations between Etsy buyers and Etsy sellers. Our payments platform allows Etsy sellers to offer Etsy buyers a wide range of payment options. In2019,40%of Etsy sellers were located outside the United States, and37%of our GMS was generated between an Etsy seller, Etsy buyer, or both, located outside of the United States.

•Organic Traffic Base:We’ve built a loyal, global base of Etsy buyers on the platform without significant investment in acquisition marketing until 2013, eight years after being founded. The vast majority of visits to the Etsy marketplace came through organic channels, including a large portion from buyers visiting Etsy directly as well as from non-paid channels such as search, social, email, and push notifications.

•Connection Between Etsy Buyers and Sellers:We believe that human connection is central to buyer engagement. We emphasize that the items listed for sale on the Etsy marketplace are brought to life by real people. Additionally, buyers are









able to connect directly with sellers in order to ask questions and personalize or customize items to their specifications. We believe that meaningful interactions with Etsy sellers differentiate us from other e-commerce platforms, drive buyer engagement, and keep our buyers coming back. When buyers and sellers interact on the platform their conversion rate and average order value is significantly higher.

•Connected Experience Across all Devices:We want to engage Etsy buyers wherever they are and to provide an enjoyable and accessible shopping experience no matter how they come to the Etsy marketplace. Our mobile website and our “Buy on Etsy” mobile app for Etsy buyers include search and discovery, curation, personalization and social shopping features. We offer a connected experience through each channel, desktop, mobile web, and mobile app, to help ensure that no matter what device Etsy buyers use they will have the best possible experience. Additionally, our “Sell on Etsy” mobile app helps Etsy sellers operate their shops and manage orders. For the year endedDecember 31, 2019approximately59%of Etsy.com GMS was generated on a mobile device, up from55%in 2018. We are focused on increasing conversion rates in general; however, we are particularly focused on our mobile app. Our mobile app conversion rate is the channel with the highest conversion rate, followed by desktop and mobile web, however, mobile web contributes the largest share of traffic followed by desktop and our mobile app. Therefore, if mobile app visits continue to grow as a percentage of overall visits, we believe it could be a tailwind to future conversion rate gains.



•

Buyer Intent; People Come to the Etsy marketplace to Browse and be Inspired:

Our platform is designed to provide a personalized search experience to Etsy buyers, adjusting in real time based on transaction data and previous browsing history. A large portion of our buyers come to Etsy not in search of a specific item, but to browse and be inspired. We are continuing to build more sophisticated algorithms that allow us to deliver more personalized results to our buyers, utilizing browse and transaction data to surface items they didn’t know they wanted. In


, we launched a number of initiatives to enhance search, including improving recommendations, making the home page more personalized and dynamic allowing buyers to more easily pick up where they left off, and incorporating more attributes to our search algorithm to improve search ranking. We also incorporated additional advanced machine learning techniques such as improved model engines and continuous feature expansion in order to drive further search improvements. All of this helps bring fun to the discovery and shopping experience. We believe we have significant opportunities to further enhance our search and discovery capabilities and plan to leverage our machine learning technology, including increased model complexity and further contextual cues to deliver an even more personalized shopping experience. Lastly, our full migration to Google Cloud, which we completed in the beginning of 2020, is expected to further improve our search and discovery effectiveness.

The Reverb Marketplace



Reverb, our wholly-owned subsidiary, operates as a standalone marketplace and was founded on the principle that buying musical instruments should be easy and affordable. This unique two-sided marketplace connects buyers and sellers of new, used, and vintage musical gear from all over the world. The foundation of Reverb is our community of musicians from all walks of life that utilize the platform for income to support their families, inspiration to fuel their passions, and instruments to create new music.



We believe the unique characteristics of this marketplace include:



•A strong brand in a large, fragmented market, with healthy growth dynamics.

•On-site product promotion and a strong content-driven marketing strategy, which is in the early stages of fueling incremental growth for the platform.

•Reverb's seller base spans many countries, including key international markets such as Canada, United Kingdom, France, Germany and Australia. However, the U.S. is Reverb’s largest market by GMS volume.



Our Seller Tools and Services



Etsy Seller Tools and Services



Seller tools and services help Etsy sellers generate more sales and scale their businesses. In addition to driving incremental revenue streams, these offerings play a key role in supporting our sellers’ businesses and driving sales. We believe we can grow our optional paid services in three ways: expand the utility of existing services, expand the geographic reach of existing services, and launch new services offerings. Our paid services include:

•Advertising: Etsy’s advertising platform allows sellers to pay for prominent placement of their listings in search results. During2019,16.6%of active Etsy sellers used our advertising platform,upfrom15.1%in2018. In2019, we enhanced our dynamic cost-per-click onsite advertising, which we call Promoted Listings, by expanding inventory across all devices and applying our improved search algorithms to drive ad relevance and higher click-through rates, leading to accelerated









year-over-year revenue growth for this service. In the third quarter of 2019 we combined Promoted Listings and Google Shopping, an off-site Etsy seller marketing tool, into one unified ad platform, called Etsy Ads. In the second quarter of 2020, Etsy is planning to launch a new advertising service for Etsy sellers, called Offsite Ads. Etsy will pay the upfront costs to promote Etsy sellers’ listings on multiple internet platforms without any upfront costs for sellers. When a shopper clicks on an online offsite ad featuring a seller’s listing and purchases from their shop, the seller will pay Etsy an advertising fee on that order - only when they make a sale. The Etsy Ads service will be a dedicated on-site advertising program for Etsy sellers to promote their listings to shoppers on Etsy.

•Etsy Shipping Labels:This service allows Etsy sellers in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, and Australia to purchase discounted United States Postal Service, FedEx, Canada Post, Royal Mail, and DAI Post shipping labels through our platform. The ability to print the shipping labels at home reduces the cost and time it takes Etsy sellers to ship items to Etsy buyers, reduces the chance for administrative error through features such as auto population of shipping addresses, and automatically provides tracking information when available and shipping notifications to buyers. During2019,22.9%of active Etsy sellers in regions where Etsy Shipping Labels was offered used this product,downfrom24.7%in2018. The reduction in percentage of active sellers using Etsy Shipping Labels was driven by the expansion of the service in the United Kingdom and Australia in late 2018 where we continue to expand the scope of these services. In addition, throughout the year we’ve added Pitney Bowes, ChitChats, and UShip; logistics solutions that help Etsy sellers save time and money.

In addition to our paid services, we provide a wide range of tools and educational resources to give Etsy sellers the support they need to manage the administrative side of their businesses. According to our bi-annual seller survey, most recently conducted in2020, for every hour that an Etsy seller spends making her products, she spends almost another hour doing business-related tasks, including inventory management, marketing, shipping, customer service, and accounting. Our tools and educational resources help manage these administrative burdens.

•Seller Tools:We offer a variety of free tools to Etsy sellers, including our Shop Manager dashboard, which we launched in 2017, and which serves as a centralized hub for Etsy sellers to track orders, manage inventory, view metrics and statistics, and have conversations with their customers across all of their Etsy shops. We also made significant improvements to Etsy seller analytics pages in 2019 to provide additional insights regarding traffic acquisition for their shops. In 2018, we added a single, easy-to-use interface that streamlines sellers’ bills and payments accounts. Other marketing tools include Targeted Offers, our sales and promotions tool, and our social media tool, which help Etsy sellers with their marketing needs and allows them to stand out on and off the Etsy platform. Also, through a partnership with Intuit, Etsy sellers in the United States and the United Kingdom can simplify their accounting and bookkeeping.

•Education:We provide extensive educational resources to teach Etsy sellers how to start, manage, and scale their businesses on our platform, including blog posts, video tutorials, the Etsy Seller Handbook (available on Etsy.com), Etsy.com online forums, and insights from Etsy.com support teams. In addition to our resources, Etsy sellers connect through self-organized Etsy Teams to build personal relationships with other Etsy sellers, collaborate, educate, and support each other as they build their independent creative businesses.









Our focus on supporting our sellers in starting, managing, and scaling their businesses strengthens our marketplace and positions it for continued growth. When our sellers succeed, Etsy succeeds.



How an Etsy Seller Spends Her Time2020 seller surveyReverb Services



Reverb has several services that drive velocity in the marketplace and relieve friction in the purchase funnel.

Bump:This is an on-site advertising platform, which enables Reverb sellers to gain prominent placement in search in exchange for a higher percentage of their items’ final sale price.

Reverb Shipping Labels:Reverb provides sellers access to shipping labels at wholesale discounts, which reduces the cost and time it takes Reverb sellers to ship musical gear, and provides transparency through tracking information of when a buyer can expect to receive their item.

Our Passionate and Engaged Etsy Sellers and Buyers

Etsy Sellers



Our sellers are the backbone of Etsy’s business and what matters most to them is our community of approximately46 millionbuyers. In order to continue to support our sellers’ growth, we are focused on making Etsy the best place to start and run a creative business. We serve those creative entrepreneurs around the world who choose to pursue their passions, offering them a global base of millions of buyers and a cohesive suite of tools and services to help them run their business and drive sales. Etsy sellers range from hobbyists to professional merchants, and have a broad range of personal and professional goals. Our2020seller survey found that61%of Etsy sellers are multi-channel sellers and on average Etsy is their primary source of sales.

According to the2020seller survey:

•83%identify as women;



•66%consider their Etsy shop to be a business;



•95%run their shops from their homes;



•82%aspire to grow their sales in the future; and



•64%started their Etsy shop as a way to supplement income.











Our2020seller survey found that29%of Etsy sellers were pursuing their creative business as their sole occupation.

Etsy Sellers

Etsy Buyers

The Etsy marketplace supports a community of approximately46 millionbuyers, who value self-expression, unique items, and buying directly from creative entrepreneurs. In a 2019 survey of Etsy buyers,88%of buyers agreed that Etsy has items that you can’t find anywhere else. Etsy buyers can enjoy a personalized shopping experience and build relationships through direct interactions with Etsy sellers. Etsy buyers can also purchase customized items and craft supplies from Etsy sellers. By shopping on the Etsy marketplace, Etsy buyers are supporting creative entrepreneurs in their local communities and around the world. The vast majority of visits come to the Etsy marketplace from organic channels, including a large portion from buyers visiting Etsy directly as well as from non-paid channels such as search, social, email, and push notifications.

We are focused on driving more new buyers to the platform and encouraging existing buyers to purchase more often. New buyers are considered unique buyers that have never made a purchase on the Etsy marketplace. During 2019, we had19 millionnew Etsy buyers. GMS from new buyers wasup11%year-over-year and represented approximately 16% of overall Etsy.com GMS GMS from existing Etsy buyersgrew24%year-over-year in 2019 and represented approximately84%of overall Etsy.com GMS,an increasecompared to last year.

Repeat Etsy buyers represent shoppers who made purchases on two or more days in the previous 12 months. We believe repeat purchases demonstrate the loyalty of Etsy buyers. In2019, on the Etsy marketplace, approximately41.4%of our active buyers were repeat buyers, a slight increase compared to last year. Within that category, we are particularly focused on increasing our number of habitual buyers, or Etsy buyers who have spent $200 or more and made purchases on six or more days in the previous 12 months. As ofDecember 31, 2019habitual buyers grew to2.5 million, an increase of22.9%compared to2018. The growth in habitual buyers has accelerated for five consecutive quarters and is faster than overall active buyer growth, indicating our efforts to convert buyers into more loyal shoppers on the Etsy marketplace are seeing signs of success.











Active Buyers by Purchase Type











Etsy Seller & Buyer Retention

On the Etsy marketplace, our active sellers and active buyers typically remain so for multiple years. For example,36.2%of active sellers and37.9%of active buyers as ofDecember 31, 2016continued to be active sellers and active buyers through their fourth year on the platform and33.1%of active sellers and37.5%of active buyers as of December 31, 2015 continued to be active sellers and active buyers through their fourth year on the platform. In addition, as ofDecember 31, 2019,20.3%of active sellers have been selling on Etsy for more than four years. Likewise, as ofDecember 31, 2019,27.4%of active buyers have been Etsy buyers for more than four years.





Year 1Year 2Year 3Year 4Year 1Year 2Year 3Year 4AVG GMS2012$1,079$2,598$3,935$4,557AVG GMS2012$96$163$173$181PER SELLER2013$1,260$3,110$4,190$4,620PER BUYER2013$96$161$168$1742014$1,465$3,325$4,228$4,6152014$99$157$164$1692015$1,558$3,296$4,062$4,9392015$101$158$163$1802016$1,660$3,198$4,278$5,0042016$101$157$174$187

Cohorts of 2016, 2015, 2014, 2013, and 2012 Active Sellers and Active Buyers

See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Key Factors Affecting Our Performance—Growth and Retention of Active Buyers and Active Sellers” for more information.









Our Technology



Our engineering team has built a sophisticated platform that enables millions of sellers and buyers to smoothly transact across borders, languages, and devices. We collect and analyze large volumes of data to enhance the performance of our platform and capture many user-generated events every day to produce personalized recommendations, improve our search experience and test features on our website.



Our use of machine learning algorithms on the Etsy marketplace creates an engaging shopping experience and also helps Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers connect across our platform. We apply proprietary machine learning to the search and discovery processes, enabling shoppers to more easily browse, filter, and buy that perfect item, even when they may not have something specific in mind. Machine translation and machine learning also play an important role in making it easy for Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers to connect even if they don’t speak the same language. We translate listings within our Etsy marketplace, which we believe significantly increases the inventory available to non-English speaking Etsy buyers and gives Etsy sellers access to a truly global audience.



In addition, our technology infrastructure allows us to scale our efforts across the platform. In late 2017, we announced our migration to Google Cloud, which we believe will enable us to focus on growing the Etsy marketplace, prioritize the buyer and seller experience, improve our search and discovery effectiveness, and increase the pace of launching new features. We achieved a significant milestone in 2019 by successfully migrating our search infrastructure to Google Cloud, and in February 2020 we completed the migration. We believe our cloud infrastructure will result in increased engineering efficiency shifting the focus from maintaining on-premise systems to product engineering work that is more strategic. We also believe it will enhance our overall infrastructure by providing faster processing speed, improved page load time, and more nimble fulfillment to capacity on an as needed basis.



Commitment to Integrity and Transparency



Members of our community rely on us to maintain trusted marketplaces. The trustworthiness of our platform and the connections among people in our community are cornerstones of our business. Our policies are designed to encourage transparency and clearly outline the rights and responsibilities of sellers and buyers participating on our platform. Transparency within our community helps to support our trustworthiness. For example, we have an impact strategy on which we provide our progress in this Annual Report.



We are focused on enhancing customer service for our sellers and buyers, which we believe bolsters the trustworthiness of our platform. For example, in 2019, we continued to evolve our offerings with Zendesk to improve our customer experience. We expanded live chat support to our sellers, and phone support is now available for both buyers and sellers.



On the Etsy marketplace, we strive to give the Etsy buyer comfort that she is purchasing goods from a shop that adheres to certain principles. Fundamentally, we require that goods listed on Etsy be handmade or unique and assembled with production partners, vintage, or craft supplies. Etsy buyers have a high degree of insight into Etsy sellers’ business practices. Our policies ask Etsy sellers to be transparent about themselves, their businesses and the goods they sell. We also annually report statistics regarding Etsy shops that do not meet our guidelines or which list items that infringe third party rights.



We have dedicated teams and sophisticated tools to help enforce our policies. For example, our Integrity team uses a combination of machine learning, automated systems, and community-generated flags to review items listed on the Etsy marketplace and Etsy shops that may violate our policies. Our Trust and Safety team helps to prevent and detect fraud through human review and automated tools and algorithms. We also recognize that sometimes transactions don’t go as planned. When that happens, our online Case System provides a way for Etsy sellers and buyers to communicate with each other to resolve disputes. We also establish trust by emphasizing the person behind every transaction. We deepen connections between Etsy sellers and buyers through our direct communication tools, seller stories on our website and apps, and in-person events, highlighting personal relationships as a key part of the Etsy experience.











Our Strategy



Since mid-2017, we have focused our strategy on growing the Etsy marketplace in our six core geographies and executing upon four key initiatives to make Etsy a better place to shop and sell. These initiatives involved making investments and improvements in search and discovery, trust and reliability, marketing capabilities, and seller tools and services. Successfully delivering on these initiatives has resulted in significant improvements to and growth of our marketplace.



In order to deliver sustainable long-term growth, we are building upon this strategy to incorporate additional elements that we believe, over time, will make Etsy a best-in-class marketplace. Our investments in product, marketing, and talent will be focused on capitalizing on what we believe are our core competitive advantages; or what we think of as our “Right to Win.”



The foundation of Etsy’s competitive advantage is our collection of our seller’s unique items, which we believe, when combined with best-in-class search and discovery, human connections, and a trusted brand, will enable us to continue to stand out among other e-commerce platforms and marketplaces. We lean into the humanity and vibrancy of our market, increasing the connection between Etsy buyers and sellers, establishing strong trust signals for product quality and customer experience, removing barriers to purchase, and giving Etsy sellers more ways to generate sales and scale their businesses.



Ultimately, the goal of our long-term strategy is to drive more new buyers to the website, give existing buyers reasons to come back more often, encourage buyers to spend more per order, and fuel success for our sellers, which we believe will drive growth. The Etsy marketplace has a significant number of habitual buyers (Etsy buyers who have purchased $200 or more on Etsy and have made purchases on six or more purchase days in the last 12 months) and we believe we have the ability to attract many more buyers like them to the Etsy marketplace and convert them into habitual buyers. For example, we believe we can deepen engagement with our existing buyers by inspiring purchases in additional categories and on additional occasions. We also plan to continue supporting our sellers by focusing on enhancing the seller tools and services that will drive buyer demand. We see a number of similarities between the levers of growth for the Etsy and Reverb marketplaces, including improving search and discovery, making selling and buying easier, and building a global brand and user community. We believe that we are just getting started improving the virtuous cycle of growth for our marketplaces.





Further expanding on these two primary components of our long-term strategy we will:



1. Focus on the Etsy marketplace in our six core geographies:



The first component and foundation of our growth strategy remains to focus on the Etsy marketplace in our six core geographies (United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Germany, Australia and France). These six locations are where we have our largest concentrations of Etsy buyers and sellers and, consequently, where we believe we have the most significant opportunities for growth. We are building local marketplaces globally, deepening local Etsy communities around the world, each with its own ecosystem of Etsy sellers and buyers. A barometer of our local market vibrancy is the performance of our international domestic trade route, by which we mean GMS generated between a non-U.S. buyer and a non-U.S. seller both in the same country. Etsy.com GMS from this trade route grew approximately37%in2019compared to2018, making it the fastest growing category of international GMS. We see significant opportunity to deliver a more localized shopping experience to non-U.S. buyers in the future, including investments in the elevation of local products and sellers in search, improving non-English search, and more local specific marketing and campaigns.











While we focus on our six core markets, we will also continue to evaluate additional geographies in which to make strategic investments. For example, our initial investments in India, particularly in regard to seller acquisition, have led to the region becoming a focus area outside of our core geographies.



Our growth strategy also includes inorganic investments. Our 2018 strategic referral agreement with DaWanda in Germany and the 2019 acquisition of Reverb are examples of these types of investments. We may continue to acquire additional complementary marketplaces that are a strategic fit for the business and brand.



2. Build a sustainable competitive advantage:



As described above, the second component of our strategy is predicated around building a sustainable competitive advantage centered on these four key elements:



Our Collection of our Sellers' Unique Items:The foundation of Etsy’s competitive advantage is our collection of our sellers’ unique items. Etsy sellers’ unique items are a privilege we earn by being the best place for them to start and grow a creative business. The unique nature of the inventory we sell requires investment in a distinctive set of capabilities that helps high-quality items get made, listed, found, sold and delivered through our marketplace. The Etsy marketplace features approximately65 millionitems listed across multiple retail categories, and boasts a large assortment of unique, handmade, vintage, and craft supply products from all over the world. This unique inventory is the result of having created a community that attracts, supports, and retains some of the world’s most talented makers. In a2019survey of Etsy buyers,88%agreed that Etsy has items that you can’t find anywhere else - that something “special in a sea of sameness.” We believe the Etsy marketplace is the only place where you can find the depth and breadth of one-of-a-kind items, including millions that can be customized and personalized. The breadth and depth of the special items listed in the Etsy marketplace is the linchpin of our long-term strategy. However, the unique nature of these items requires that we invest in the other three elements of our long-term strategy: search and discovery, human connections, and our trusted brand in order deliver a best-in-class marketplace experience.



Best-in-class search and discovery:We are focused on continuing to develop a search and discovery experience that unlocks the value of the unique items in the Etsy marketplace. With millions of items listed on Etsy that don’t map to a catalog or a stock keeping unit (“SKU”), our challenge is delivering world-class search and discovery technology that surfaces the right product to the right buyer at the right time in order to drive sales and buyer satisfaction. We are utilizing artificial intelligence and machine learning to help personalize the search experience and enable Etsy buyers to more easily browse, filter and find the item they desire.



In2019, we significantly enhanced the search and discovery experience on the Etsy marketplace. As a result of migrating our search efforts to Google Cloud, we made foundational upgrades to our search ranking algorithms, which will continue to enable us to provide more relevant search results to buyers on the Etsy.com platform. We’ve transitioned from linear to nonlinear models, which now leverage a deeper understanding of the relationship between items, attributes and users. As we continue to iterate on our search initiatives, our algorithms will learn and deliver a more personalized shopping experience, deepening buyer engagement and driving greater visit and purchase frequency.



The power of human connections:Our mission to “Keep Commerce Human” is a vital part of our strategy. We will continue to emphasize the role that humans play in every aspect of our business. What makes the Etsy marketplace special isn’t just the items in our marketplace; it’s also the stories of how those items were brought to life by the hands of real people. Our Etsy buyer experience highlights the story behind each item, and also allows Etsy buyers to create their own stories by working with an Etsy seller to personalize or customize items to their exact specifications. In fact, data shows that when an Etsy buyer reaches out to an Etsy seller with a question they are significantly more likely to purchase a listing from that seller, and conversion rate goes up as response time gets shorter.



In2019, we rebranded our conversation tool on the Etsy marketplace and transformed the look and feel of the interface from an e-mail-like platform to a chat-like experience, enabling faster interactions that are more focused on shopping. We believe that fostering and elevating the quality of these interactions will enable us to drive buyer engagement, loyalty, and purchase frequency, and continue to differentiate Etsy from other e-commerce platforms. Shifting over time from our current item-first framework to one that highlights Etsy shops and sellers is a way to elevate the role of our makers and their creative processes. Our goal is to bring human connections to life through improvements in member support, seller forums management, our brand and marketing campaigns, and other ways that we promote the Etsy marketplace. Lastly, we plan to deepen loyalty by creating opportunities for Etsy buyers to experience Etsy across categories and occasions.











A brand you can trust:We will continue to focus on being a brand that inspires trust in our customers across the buyer journey -- when they search, purchase, anticipate and receive their special items, and all the steps in between. Since Etsy sellers have relatively unknown brands and unbranded items, we aim to ensure that the Etsy brand is recognized and valued for providing an excellent end-to-end experience. There are two key elements to being a trusted brand: standing for something that customers understand and rely on, and delivering a purchasing experience that feels safe and supportive. Our goal is to bolster trust in the Etsy brand, Etsy sellers, the items available on Etsy, and in the overall Etsy experience. In2019, we implemented free shipping on the Etsy marketplace by providing sellers with tools and support that enable them to offer free shipping on orders of $35 or more to U.S. buyers. In September, we launched a campaign to notify Etsy buyers of the new program, highlighting shops that are offering free shipping on their orders. As of December 31, 2019,65%of items on the Etsy marketplace offered free shipping to U.S. buyers,74%of U.S. listing views were eligible to ship for free, and 48% of orders were delivered with free shipping.



We plan to continue to optimize the Etsy buyer shopping experience - to make it less fragmented and to remove friction. This will involve making sure that Etsy buyers can find what they want, can easily keep exploring for inspiration, and have the right information to make a purchase decision at every step along the way. We see significant room for additional improvements to our landing pages, our ability to surface recommendations, and continued improvements to friction in the purchase funnel. By focusing on free shipping, transparent delivery and returns, we can help buyers better understand what to expect across the Etsy marketplace.



In addition, we plan to evolve our marketing strategy and investments to reinforce our core brand promise in the minds of Etsy buyers. We believe that we can continue to broaden our channel mix in the marketing funnel from predominately investing in performance marketing, which we expect to continue to drive buyer growth through channels such as product listings ads on Google or search engine marketing. We also expect to continue spend on upper funnel strategies like TV, expand new marketing channels such as social, optimize our spend in these channels and work with sellers to help them better understand the impact of marketing on their business (for example, with improved seller analytics tools), and to promote their shops to Etsy buyers.



In addition to growth of the Etsy marketplace, our growth strategy includes continuing to evaluate opportunities for inorganic growth through investment, including geographic expansions (such as our 2018 agreement with DaWanda), adjacent marketplaces (such as our 2019 purchase of Reverb), vertical marketplace extensions, and technology additions, to name some examples.











Our Mission, Guiding Principles, and Team



Mission

Our mission to “Keep Commerce Human” is rooted in our belief that, although automation and commoditization are parts of modern life, human creativity cannot be automated and human connection cannot be commoditized. This is what makes us distinct from mass retailers. Our mission guides our daily decisions, sets the path for our long-term success and reinforces our commitment to make a positive social, economic, and environmental impact.

Guiding Principles

Our guiding principles define who we strive to be, inform our business decisions, and enable us to achieve our mission. Our guiding principles are:

We commit to our craft.Our work has the power to change lives. That’s why we strive to continuously learn and excel at what we do.

We minimize waste.Time, resources, and energy are precious, so we focus only on what will have the greatest impact.

We embrace differences.Diverse teams are stronger, and inclusive cultures are more resilient. When we seek out different perspectives, we make better decisions and build better products.

We dig deeper.The best solutions to meaningful challenges are rarely easy or obvious. We stay curious, balance our intuition with insights, and decide with confidence.

We lead with optimism.We believe in our mission, and we believe in each other. We see the world as it is, set ambitious goals, and inspire one another with generosity of spirit. Together, we reimagine what’s possible.

Our Team

We pride ourselves on our action-oriented, values-based, and purpose-driven work culture. Our employees work hard to bring innovative ideas and energy every day to strengthen the experience for our sellers and buyers. As ofDecember 31, 2019, we had1,240employees worldwide,184of which were Reverb employees.











Our Impact Strategy and Progress



We believe that consumers are demanding more of the businesses they support and that the companies best positioned to succeed will build win-win solutions that are good for people, the planet, and profit. We are committed to growing sustainably by aligning our mission, guiding principles, and business strategy.

We have developed an impact strategy that reflects the positive economic, social, and environmental impact we want to have on the world while advancing and complementing our business strategy. Since announcing our impact strategy in 2017, we have matured and updated some of our goals to be more specific, measurable, and time bound. We expect to continue to evolve our impact strategy in the future as we grow and our impact work matures. We apply the same focus, discipline and accountability to our impact metrics, as we do our financial metrics; and together, they make us stronger and more resilient. We are pleased to share our progress as we execute on this strategy, and we will continue to report our results transparently as it relates to our impact goals. Where applicable, we have included Reverb in our 2019 Progress highlights.



In 2019, we made significant progress across all three of our focus areas, including, most notably:



•Etsy sellers contributed $6.16 billion to the U.S. economy, up 14.7% from our 2018 baseline;

•We continued to attract and retain world-class talent, strengthened through diversity, leading the industry in gender balance, and exceeding our goal to double hiring of under-represented minorities at Etsy in 2019; and

•The Etsy marketplace became the first major online shopping destination to offset 100% of emissions from shipping, completing our journey to become a carbon neutral company.















Economic Impact:Make creative entrepreneurship a path to economic security and personal empowerment



2019 GOALS2019 PROGRESS2020 GOALS

Double U.S. Etsy sellers’ economic output by 2023Expanding our Economic ImpactCommissioned Etsy’s second economic impact study with ECONorthwest, an independent economic consulting firm, to explore the ways Etsy sellers in the United States contribute to the national economic landscape. We found that in 2019, Etsy sellers:- Contributed $6.16 billion to the U.S. economy, a 14.7% increase from our baseline of $5.73 billion in 2018;- Created 1.7 million jobs in the independent worker economy, enough jobs to employ the entire city of Phoenix, AZ;- Generated more than $2 billion in income; and,- Produced $3.45 billion in additional economic value by harnessing their creativity and bringing unique products to market.Create and grow economic opportunities for creative entrepreneurs.Target:Double U.S. Etsy sellers’ economic output by 2023.

Invest in social programs that foster economic security and personal empowerment for our stakeholdersPhilanthropyInvested over $580 thousand in programs and initiatives that enable creative entrepreneurship, including our Maker Cities, Craft Entrepreneurship, and Etsy Disaster Relief programs that support Etsy sellers on their paths to economic security and personal empowerment, and through Reverb Gives, which supports musical education initiatives globally.—Community EngagementCollectively, Etsy employees donated over 3,400 hours of volunteer time in their communities through Etsy’s Volunteer Time Off program.Foster economic and personal empowerment among our stakeholders.Target:Invest in social programs that:- Promote economic opportunities for creative entrepreneurs.- Provide musical education to people in need.

Advance public policies that increase economic security and reduce administrative burdens for creative entrepreneursAdvocating for Creative EntrepreneursContinued advocating for public policies that enable creative entrepreneurs to start and grow their businesses, including net neutrality protections, portable benefits, tax simplification, sensible platform regulation, and reduction of barriers to cross-border trade.—Activating the Power of Etsy SellersEtsy sellers advocated on the above issues in Washington, D.C., Brussels, and Paris, testified before the U.S. Senate Finance Committee, and generated over 12,000 messages to lawmakers on behalf of our community.Advocate for public policies that advance our commitments to economic empowerment, equity, and ecological sustainability.Target:Advance public policies that increase economic security and reduce administrative burdens for creative entrepreneurs.

















Social Impact:Enable equitable access to the opportunities that we create



2019 GOALS2019 PROGRESS2020 GOALS

Approximately double the percentage of Black and Latinx employees in Etsy’s workforce by 2023

Expanding our Diversity & Inclusion InfrastructureEstablished a robust Diversity & Inclusion infrastructure, with dedicated staffing, resources and support, inclusive of focused learning and development programs, internal and external events and marketing support, and dedicated recruiting support.—Attracting Diverse TalentBy focusing on targeted recruitment of underrepresented minorities (URM), and renewed employer brand awareness efforts, we exceeded our 2019 URM hiring goal and made meaningful progress toward our 2023 goal. In 2019, Black and Latinx employees made up 15% of U.S. Etsy hires. As a result, Black and Latinx people make up 10.4% of our workforce, up from 8.5% in 2018.—Employee Engagement and RetentionLaunched targeted, URM-focused retention and leadership development initiatives. Initiatives included relaunching the Etsy Employee Resource Group initiative, newly equipped with a rewards and recognition program, and the launch of a Mentorship Program. We also laid the foundation for an engineering-specific sponsorship program, which we plan to roll out in 2020.—Pay EquityContinued to ensure fair pay practices throughout the business as we prepare to conduct our second pay equity study in 2020.

Build diverse and inclusive workforces that are broadly representative of their communities.Targets:- Approximately double the percentage of Black and Latinx employees at Etsy by 2023.- Set a baseline and goals for Reverb’s performance and pay practices, hiring rubric, and diversity & inclusion strategy.

Build a diverse, equitable, and sustainable supply chain to support our operations and bring value to both Etsy and our vendors

Supply Chain ResponsibilityThrough our supplier vetting program, collected impact data from 45% of Etsy’s suppliers, representing 84% of Etsy’s supplier spend in 2019, and developed a comprehensive baseline of our supply chain impact across key indicators. Of suppliers assessed in 2019, we found that:- 59% of Etsy’s spend went to companies that have set a greenhouse gas emissions reduction goal; and,- 46% of Etsy’s small and medium-sized suppliers (sole proprietors up to 250 employees) are owned by women, minorities or veterans.—Supplier DiversityIn line with Etsy’s commitment to enable equitable access to economic opportunities, we are taking meaningful steps to ensure we have diverse representation across our supply chain. We are setting a short-term goal to ensure that by 2022, at least 50% of Etsy’s small- and medium-sized enterprise suppliers are owned by women, minorities, or veterans. At the same time, we’ll continue our foundational work to establish targets that address the ecological and economic impacts of our supply chain.—Responsible Labor PracticesIntroduced a more in-depth assessment of employment practices for Etsy suppliers providing contracted workforce.

Build a diverse, equitable, and sustainable supply chain to support our operations and bring value to our company and our vendors.Target:Ensure at least 50% of Etsy’s small- and medium-sized enterprise suppliers are owned by women, minorities, or veterans by 2022.

Make Etsy a more inclusive and welcoming marketplace for people from underrepresented backgroundsEmbedding Diversity in Product DesignContinued investing in this stream of work, embedding our insights into our product, expanding to focus on both our buyers and our sellers, and building an inviting and inclusive user experience.—Inclusive MarketingMeaningfully increased the number of Black and Latinx models and diverse product imagery within marketing materials for the Etsy marketplace during the peak holiday season.Ensure our marketplaces are diverse, welcoming, and inclusive places to sell and shop.Target:By 2021, define a key performance indicator and establish a baseline for marketplace diversity and inclusivity.













Ecological Impact:Build long-term resilience by eliminating our carbon impacts and fostering responsible resource use



2019 GOALS2019 PROGRESS2020 GOALS

Utilize and source energy responsibly so that we can power our operations with 100% renewable electricity by 2020 and reduce the intensity of our energy use by 25% by 2025

Renewable ElectricityProcured 76% of our electricity from renewable sources, up from 58% in 2018. This includes electricity used to power Etsy and Reverb’s global offices, and Etsy.com’s computing load in colocated data centers and Google Cloud Platform (GCP).—Energy UseIn 2019, our total energy footprint was 9,857 MWh, with colocated data centers accounting for 4,081 MWh. To address data availability challenges associated with allocating energy consumption from the cloud, Etsy has developed an estimation methodology to account for our GCP computing footprint, which has been reviewed by industry experts. Based on this methodology, we estimate our energy consumption from GCP in 2019 to be 2,295 MWh. Quantification of our cloud energy consumption will allow us to meaningfully explore and activate levers of change to drive further cost and energy efficiencies in our computing footprint. We plan to share our estimation methodology publicly later this year. By making this methodology public, we hope to make it easier for peers to use and build on this approach, and to drive transparency, accountability and progress in efficient computing.—Energy EfficiencyOur 2019 office energy footprint was 3,481 MWh. In offices where Etsy maintains operational control, we achieved a 33% reduction in energy intensity (kWh per square foot) across our global operations based on a 2016 baseline.

Achieve best-in-class sustainable operations by sourcing 100% renewable electricity, reducing the intensity of our energy use, and running zero waste operations.Targets:- Source 100% of Etsy’s electricity from renewable sources by 2020.- Achieve a 25% reduction in the intensity of Etsy’s energy use by 2025.- Maintain a 90% waste diversion rate across global operations.

Mitigate the ecological impact of our marketplace by offering carbon neutral shipping on 100% of transactions by 2020Carbon Offset ShippingIn February 2019, we announced immediate action to balance our footprint by offsetting 100% of our emissions generated from Etsy.com shipping through investment in verified emissions reductions (VERs). Carbon-offset shipping is good for the planet, and also resonates with our buyers, as we saw conversion rates increase on our checkout page when we included messaging about our carbon neutrality initiatives. This effort builds on our legacy of offsetting our other carbon emissions, which we have done since 2015. Since February 2019, Etsy.com has been running a carbon neutral business. We’ve balanced all of our measured emissions by investing in over 190,000 VERs, protecting forests, sponsoring wind and solar farms, and developing greener methods for producing auto parts.—Advocating for Climate-Friendly e-commerceWe continue to take action in support of solutions that will help to drive carbon reduction in the long term, including advocating at the federal and state level for comprehensive climate and carbon reduction policies, and collaborating with peers on industry-wide efforts to drive efficiency and resilience in the shipping and logistics sector.Run a carbon neutral business.Target:Offset 100% of measured Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions.

Run zero waste operations by 2020Diversion from LandfillIn 2019, Etsy diverted 93% of waste generated from office and data center operations from landfill, and diverted 84% of waste generated across all global operations, including construction waste from capital projects.—Certified Zero Waste FacilitiesCompleted certification of all of Etsy’s core offices as TRUE Zero Waste Facilities through the U.S. Green Building Council’s certification program.Establish our marketplaces as destinations for sustainably-minded shoppers and conscious living.Target:By 2021, define a key performance indicator and establish a baseline for marketplace sustainability.













Our mission to “Keep Commerce Human” means that we celebrate the uniqueness, authenticity, and richness of the human experience. Our diversity & inclusion efforts are integral to who we are as a company; namely, one that is in the business of servicing and celebrating the vibrant spectrum of unique and special qualities people possess.

We are committed to reporting transparently on workforce diversity. All metrics below are as of December 31 of the stated year. Overall metrics include all employees globally. Leadership is defined as Director level and above. Engineering employees are defined as those employees who work within the Engineering Job Family Group. Tech employees are defined as those employees who work on Product, Engineering, Analytics and HR Information and Financial Systems Administration teams. Other business roles are defined as those employees who work in roles outside of the Tech definition, and is inclusive of non-tech Leadership positions. Gender and age metrics represent our global employee base, while race and ethnicity metrics represent U.S. employees only. 2019 metrics include both Etsy and Reverb employees, while metrics from previous years do not include Reverb employees.





BoardOverallLeadershipTechEngineeringOther Business Roles



†Etsy commissioned an external third party to perform attest procedures with respect to our diversity metrics as of December 31, 2019. Full details and data methodology are available at investors.etsy.com.‡Metrics for which historical data has also been subject to previous attest procedures.19






RACE & ETHNICITY METRICS - U.S. ONLYOverallLeadershipTechEngineeringOther Business Roles20172018‡2019†20172018‡2019†20172018‡2019†20172018‡2019†20172018‡2019†American Indian or Alaska Native0.2%0.1%0.1%—%—%—%—%—%—%—%—%—%0.3%0.3%0.2%Asian13.9%16.5%15.3%16.9%19.3%15.5%20.9%22.6%21.1%20.4%21.9%20.0%7.0%8.5%7.7%Black/African American4.4%3.7%5.2%3.4%3.4%2.7%3.3%2.6%4.6%4.2%3.2%5.1%5.4%5.5%5.9%Hispanic4.1%4.8%5.2%1.7%—%1.8%4.5%4.7%4.7%4.2%5.1%5.5%3.8%5.2%5.7%Two or More Races2.7%2.8%3.1%5.1%2.3%2.7%2.1%3%3.6%2%3.2%4.1%3.5%2.7%2.4%White71.8%67.0%64.6%72.9%75%72.7%65.6%60.8%58.8%65%60.8%58.4%78.1%74.8%72.1%Not Declared2.9%5.1%6.5%—%—%4.6%3.6%6.3%7.2%4.2%5.8%6.9%1.9%3%6.0%





AGE METRICS - GLOBAL20172018‡2019†24 years and younger4.2%5.3%4.3%25-29 years28.4%27.9%27.6%30-34 years34.1%32.2%34.9%35-39 years21.2%20.8%19.5%40-49 years9.4%11.1%11.0%50+ years2.7%2.7%2.7%





†Etsy commissioned an external third party to perform attest procedures with respect to our diversity metrics as of December 31, 2019. Full details and data methodology are available at investors.etsy.com.‡Metrics for which historical data has also been subject to previous attest procedures.20








SASB Disclosure



The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board’s (SASB) mission is to develop sustainability metrics for public corporations to disclose material, decision-useful information to investors. Etsy supports work that contributes directly to generating comparable and consistent data. We have considered SASB’s Consumer Goods Sector – E-Commerce industry standard and have provided key details below.





SASB Metrics

SASB CodeMetric201720182019

CG-EC-000.AEntity-defined measure of user activityActive buyers (thousands)33,36439,44746,351

Active sellers (thousands)1,9332,1152,699

CG-EC-000.BData processing capacityIn December 2017, Etsy announced our Google Cloud Partnership, an initiative to transition Etsy.com infrastructure to Google Cloud Platform (GCP). In February 2020, we completed our full migration to GCP. We believe this transition will result in increased engineering efficiency, and enhance our overall infrastructure by providing faster processing speed, improved page load time, and more nimble fulfillment to capacity on an as needed basis.

Percentage outsourced100%100%100%

Hardware Infrastructure Energy & Water Management

CG-EC-130a.1Total energy consumed, MWh (Etsy only)7,1117,3306,376

Percentage renewable energy (Etsy only)32%65%89%

Percentage grid electricity (Etsy only)100%100%100%

CG-EC-130.a

Discussion of the integration of environmental considerations into strategic planning for data center needs.Etsy’s goals include powering our operations with 100% renewable electricity by 2020, and reducing the intensity of our energy use by 25% by 2025. These goals are included as key considerations as we plan for our computing needs, and have been a focus of our sustainability efforts. When transitioning to a cloud computing infrastructure, we selected GCP, a partner that shares our commitment to 100% renewable electricity. Their highly efficient data centers are expected to help us save significant energy. Moreover, moving to flexible cloud-based infrastructure should enable us to reduce major idle time and associated energy consumption.



We actively monitor and manage energy consumption from our computing infrastructure. In 2019, our colocated data centers consumed 4,081 MWh and we estimate that our energy consumption in GCP was 2,295 MWh, based on a methodology developed by Etsy and reviewed by industry experts. Quantification of our cloud energy consumption will allow us to meaningfully explore and activate levers of change to drive further cost and energy efficiencies in our computing footprint. Our 2019 hardware infrastructure footprint does not include Reverb, but we plan to include Reverb’s computing footprint in our 2020 analysis.



In 2018, Etsy entered into a virtual power purchase agreement for solar energy in Virginia. Once operational, this project is expected to provide us with renewable attributes to apply to our operations and computing infrastructure, furthering our goals of creating a cleaner internet and reducing our impact on the planet.

Data Privacy and Advertising Standards

CG-EC-220a.2Description of the policies and practices relating to behavioral advertising and user privacy. We care deeply about privacy and we’re committed to being upfront about our privacy practices, including how we treat personal information. Etsy’s Privacy Policy provides a detailed explanation of our privacy practices. Among other things, our Privacy Policy covers the user information that Etsy collects or receives, the choices and control that a user has in relation to this data including based on type and sensitivity, the purpose for which Etsy uses such information (including first and third party advertising purposes), our policies relating to our usage and sharing within Etsy and its affiliates, and user controls for sharing and controlling such information with third parties.

Data Security

CG-EC-230a.1Description of approach to identifying and addressing data security risks.Data security is overseen by our Chief Information Security Officer who reports to our Chief Technology Officer. We strive to protect sensitive information through various means, such as technical safeguards, procedural requirements and policies, an intensive program of monitoring on both our web platform and within our corporate network, continuous testing of aspects of our security posture internally and with outside vendors, a robust incident response program, and regular training for employees.

Employee Recruitment, Inclusion and Performance

CG-EC-330a.1Employee engagement as a percentage (Etsy only)60%70%76%

Employee engagement as a percentage and discussion of methodology.In May 2019, Etsy conducted an engagement survey of all global employees. Of employees surveyed, 93% submitted a response. Seventy-six percent of respondents reported favorable employee engagement. The survey was conducted through the Culture Amp platform and consisted of 51 questions - 48 rating questions on which employees were asked to indicate their level of agreement with a statement based on a five-point scale from Strongly Agree to Strongly Disagree, and three free-text questions to which employees were asked to write out a response. The responses were analyzed against the results from a similar survey conducted in 2018, as well as Culture Amp's 2019 New Tech - 500+ Benchmark, which consists of survey results from companies that are primarily internet-based or focused on creating new technologies, and that have between 500 and 5,000 employees.

CG-EC-330a.3Gender and racial/ethnic group representation for leadership, technical staff and other business functionsSee Impact Strategy section for detailed metrics.

Discussion of diversity and inclusion strategy and performanceSee Impact Strategy - Social Impact for details.









SASB MetricsSASB CodeMetric201720182019CG-EC-330a.4Percentage of technical employees who are H-1B visa holders2.5%3.5%Product Packaging and DistributionCG-EC-410a.1Total greenhouse gas (GHG) footprint of product shipments in metric tons CO2e (Etsy only)118,153‡135,459‡154,078†CG-EC-410a.2Discussion of strategies to reduce the environmental impact of product delivery.The delivery of products sold on our marketplace represents the majority of Etsy’s carbon footprint. As a peer-to-peer marketplace, Etsy does not directly control seller shipping or the associated logistics networks, however, we are committed to addressing carbon emissions from shipping. In February 2019, we announced immediate action to balance our footprint by offsetting 100% of our emissions generated from Etsy.com shipping through investment in verified emissions reductions. In addition, we continue to take action in support of solutions that will help to drive carbon reduction in the long term, including advocating at the federal and state level for comprehensive climate and carbon reduction policies, and collaborating with peers on industry-wide efforts to drive efficiency and resilience in the shipping and logistics sector. Our 2019 shipping footprint does not include Reverb.com shipments, but we plan to include Reverb’s shipping emissions in our 2020 footprint.



Greenhouse Gas (“GHG”) Emissions Summary(tCO2e)201720182019GHG Emissions by ScopeScope 1467‡372‡371†Scope 2 - Market2,209‡1,213‡652†Scope 2 - Location3,152‡2,923‡1,859†Scope 3119,444137,042155,967Scope 3 GHG Emissions by Activity SourceShipping (Etsy only)118,153‡135,459‡154,078†Air Travel550‡943‡1,217†Commuting663544510Remote Workers6487114Cloud Computing - Market (Etsy only)29†Waste7613Water436Electricity, Transmission and Distribution Losses3<1<1Our 2019 greenhouse gas emissions include both Etsy and Reverb, unless otherwise stated, while previous years include only Etsy. Reverb’s footprint has been accounted for from the date of acquisition forward. Etsy has included emissions generated from our colocated data centers as Scope 2 emissions, consistent with prior years. Emissions generated from cloud computing are classified as Scope 3 emissions.



†Etsy commissioned an external third party to perform attest procedures with respect to our carbon and energy metrics for the period from January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019. Full details and data methodology are available at investors.etsy.com.

‡Metrics for which historical data has also been subject to previous attest procedures.











Competition

Sellers can list their goods for sale with online retailers or sell their goods through local consignment and vintage stores and other venues and marketplaces, including through commerce channels on social networks like Facebook and Instagram. They may also sell wholesale directly to traditional retailers, including large national retailers, who discover their goods in our marketplaces or otherwise. We also compete with companies that sell software and services to small businesses, enabling sellers to sell from their own website or otherwise run their business independently of our platform. We are able to compete for sellers based on our brand awareness, the global scale of our marketplaces and the breadth of our online presence, the number and engagement of buyers, our seller tools and services, our seller education resources, our policies and fees, our mobile apps, the strength of our community, and our values.

We also compete with retailers for the attention of the buyer. A buyer has the choice of shopping with any online or offline retailer, whether large marketplaces or national retail chains or local consignment and vintage stores or other venues or marketplaces. We are able to compete for buyers based on the unique goods that sellers list in our marketplaces, our brand awareness, the person-to-person commerce experience, customer service, our reputation for trustworthiness, our mobile apps, the availability of fair and free shipping offered by sellers, ease of payment, and the availability and reliability of our platform.



Intellectual Property

Protection of our technology and intellectual property is an important component of our success. We rely on intellectual property laws, including patent, trade secret, copyright, and trademark laws, in the United States and abroad. We also use confidentiality procedures, defensive licensing and acquisitions, non-disclosure agreements, invention assignment agreements, and other contractual rights to protect us and our intellectual property.

We file patents and register domain names, trademarks, copyrights, and service marks in the United States and abroad. We rely upon unregistered copyrights and common law protection for certain trademarks. We also use internal and external brand protection mechanisms that are intended to protect our brands from misuse by third parties.



Government Regulation

As with any company operating on the internet, we are subject to a growing number of local, national, and international laws and regulations. These laws are often complex, sometimes contradict other laws, and are frequently changing. Laws may be interpreted and enforced in different ways in various locations around the world, posing a significant challenge to our global business. For example, U.S. federal and state laws, E.U. directives, and other national laws govern the processing of payments, consumer protection, and the privacy of consumer information; other laws define and regulate unfair and deceptive trade practices. Still other laws dictate when and how sales or other taxes must be collected. Laws of defamation apply online and vary by country. The growing regulation of e-commerce worldwide could impose additional compliance burdens and costs on us or on sellers and could subject us to significant liability for any failure to comply. Additionally, because we operate internationally, we need to comply with various laws associated with doing business outside of the United States, including anti-money laundering, sanctions, anti-corruption, and export control laws.











Available Information



We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (“the Exchange Act”), and file or furnish reports, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission, (the “SEC”). These reports are available free of charge on our website at investors.etsy.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we have filed or furnished them to the SEC. The information on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report and investors should not rely on such information in deciding whether to invest in our common stock. Copies of our SEC reports and other documents are also available, without charge, by sending a letter to Investor Relations, Etsy, Inc., 117 Adams Street, Brooklyn, NY 11201, by sending an email to ir@etsy.com or by calling (347) 382-7582.



Our SEC reports are also available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we have filed or furnished them to the SEC.











