Item 1. Business.



Overview

Etsy is the global two-sided marketplace for unique and creative goods. Our mission is to “Keep Commerce Human,” and we’re committed to using the power of business and technology to strengthen communities and empower people around the world. We connect creative entrepreneurs with thoughtful consumers looking for items that are intended to be special, reflect their sense of style, or represent a meaningful occasion. Etsy was founded in June 2005 in Brooklyn, New York.

Our sellers are the heart and soul of Etsy, and our technology platform allows our sellers to turn their creative passions into economic opportunity. We have a seller-aligned business model: we make money when our sellers make money. We offer our sellers a marketplace with millions of buyers along with a range of seller tools and services that are specifically designed to help our creative entrepreneurs generate more sales and scale their businesses.

We are focused on attracting potential buyers to the Etsy marketplace for “special” purchase occasions throughout the year and deepening engagement with our existing buyers by inspiring purchases across multiple categories and special occasions. These special purchase occasions can occur many times throughout the year and include shopping that reflects an individual's unique style; gifting that demonstrates thought and care; and celebrations that express creativity and fun. Buyers tell us that they come to Etsy because Etsy sellers offer items that they can’t find anywhere else. In fact, in a2018survey of Etsy buyers,78%of buyers agreed that Etsy has items that you can’t find anywhere else.





Special purchase occasions happen throughout the year when a buyer is decorating a home, dressing for an event, celebrating a special moment, or buying a gift for someone special.











As ofDecember 31, 2018, our marketplace connected2.1 millionactive Etsy sellers to39.4 millionactive Etsy buyers. Etsy buyers and sellers are located all over the world, and our six core geographic markets are the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, Germany, and France. We will continue to invest in these markets, as this is where we have our strongest concentration of both buyers and sellers, and continue to evaluate geographies in which to make strategic investments. There are currently more than60 millionitems for sale acrossdozensof retail categories on Etsy.com. In2018, our marketplace generated$3.9 billionof Gross Merchandise Sales, (“GMS”), of which approximately55%came from purchases made on mobile devices. In2018, our top six retail categories were: homewares and home furnishings, jewelry and personal accessories, apparel, craft supplies, paper and party supplies, and beauty and personal care. We are a global company and35%of our2018GMS was generated when the Etsy seller or Etsy buyer, or both, were located outside of the United States.



Our revenue is diversified, generated from a mix of marketplace activities and other optional services we provide to Etsy sellers to help them generate more sales and scale their businesses.

Marketplace revenue is comprised of the fees an Etsy seller pays us for marketplace activities. Marketplace activities include listing an item for sale, completing transactions between a buyer and a seller, and using Etsy Payments to process payments, including foreign currency payments. Fees include the5%transaction fee that an Etsy seller pays for each completed transaction, inclusive of shipping fees charged, the$0.20listing fee she pays for each item she lists (for up to four months) on Etsy.com, and fees for Etsy Payments, our payment processing product. OnJuly 16, 2018, we increased our seller transaction fee from3.5%to5%, and now apply it to the cost of shipping in addition to the cost of the item. The revised fee structure is intended to support increased investments in the growth and health of the marketplace. Revenue from Etsy Payments, included in Services revenue prior to 2018, is now included in Marketplace revenue because Etsy Payments is required to be used by Etsy sellers in the countries where it is available.

Services revenue, formerly called Seller Services revenue, is comprised of the fees an Etsy seller pays us for our optional services (“Services”). Services include Promoted Listings, our on-site advertising service that allows sellers to pay for prominent placement of their listings in search results; Etsy Shipping Labels, which allows sellers in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, and Australia to purchase discounted shipping labels; Pattern, a service that allows sellers to build custom websites; and Etsy Plus, a subscription offering that provides sellers with enhanced tools and credits for use on our platform.

We also generate additional revenue through our commercial partnerships, which is classified as other revenue.











Our Opportunity



We believe that the nature of commerce is continuing to evolve: more people are choosing to purchase goods online and many consumers are looking for unique items as an alternative to mass produced goods. According to estimates by Euromonitor, a market research company, worldwide retail ecommerce will generate double-digit growth each year through 2022, and worldwide retail ecommerce sales will reach $3 trillion by the end of 2022. (Source: Euromonitor — Worldwide Internet Retailing.) We estimate that, in 2018, the online market size across all relevant retail categories within our six core geographic markets; United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, Germany, and France, represents a $249 billion market opportunity, and a $1.7 trillion market opportunity when offline is included.



Our Platform



Etsy leverages technology to connect people around the world through commerce. Our platform includes our marketplace, our seller tools and services, our passionate and engaged sellers and buyers, and our technology. Our commitment to transparency and integrity underpins our platform and establishes trust within our marketplace and our community.



Key Components of Our Platform



Our Marketplace



Our marketplace, Etsy.com, is where thoughtful buyers come to discover a broad selection of unique goods that are hard to find elsewhere. In a world of increasing automation and commoditization, Etsy celebrates creativity and human interaction.

We believe our marketplace is characterized by several unique qualities, including:

•Unique Products:Our marketplace boasts a large assortment of handmade, customized, personalized, vintage, and craft supply products from all of the world. There are currently more than60 millionitems listed on our marketplace. We intend to continue to improve the customer experience by investing in our search and discovery capabilities to help buyers efficiently find the special items they are looking for and deliver a brand promise around shipping to align with our buyers’ expectations of when they can expect to receive our unique items.

•Global Reach:Etsy’s six core geographic markets are the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, Germany, and France, and there are people using our platform to buy and sell in nearly every country around the world. Our platform makes it easy for Etsy buyers and Etsy sellers to interact across borders even if they do not speak the same language and wish to transact in different currencies. We use innovative machine translation technology to translate listings, reviews, Promoted Listings, and conversations between Etsy buyers and Etsy sellers. Our payments platform allows Etsy sellers to offer Etsy buyers a wide range of payment options. In2018,37%of Etsy sellers were located outside the United States, and35%of our GMS was generated between an Etsy seller, Etsy buyer, or both, located outside of the United States.

•Organic Traffic Base:We’ve built a loyal, global base of buyers on the platform without significant investment in acquisition marketing until 2013, eight years after being founded. Unlike many other ecommerce companies, the vast majority of visits to Etsy.com came through organic channels. In fact, approximately,85%of visits in2018were from organic sources, including a large portion from buyers visiting Etsy.com directly as well as from non-paid channels such as search, social, email, and push notifications.

•Connection Between Buyers and Sellers:We believe that human connection is central to buyer engagement. On Etsy, we emphasize that the items listed for sale are brought to life by real people. Additionally, buyers are able to connect directly with sellers in order to ask questions and personalize or customize items to their specifications. We also encourage buyers









and sellers to connect in a variety of other ways, such as through sharing reviews on social media or connecting off-line through the Etsy Local feature on our mobile app. We believe that meaningful interactions with Etsy sellers differentiates us from other e-commerce platforms, drives buyer engagement, and keeps our buyers coming back.

•Connected Experience Across all Devices:We want to engage Etsy buyers wherever they are and to provide an enjoyable and accessible shopping experience no matter how they come to Etsy. Our mobile website and our “Buy on Etsy” mobile app for Etsy buyers include search and discovery, curation, personalization and social shopping features. Our Etsy.com iOS and Android mobile apps have been downloaded approximately56 milliontimes as ofDecember 31, 2018. We offer a connected experience through each channel, desktop, mobile web, and mobile app, to help ensure that no matter what device our buyers use they will have the best possible experience. For the year endedDecember 31, 2018approximately55%of our GMS was generated on a mobile device. This is anincreasecompared with 2017, during which51%of our GMS was generated on a mobile device. We are focused on increasing conversion rates in general; however, we are particularly focused on mobile web, which continued to be the largest driver of both overall visits growth and mobile GMS growth. Mobile web conversion rate is abouthalfthe conversion rate on desktop and the conversion rate on our mobile Buy on Etsy app is about1.2x the desktop conversion rate. Therefore, if mobile web visits continue to grow as a percentage of overall visits, it could be a headwind to future conversion rate gains.

•Buyer Intent; People Come to Etsy to Browse and be Inspired:Our platform is designed to provide a personalized search experience to Etsy buyers, adjusting in real time based on transaction data and previous browsing history. A large portion of our buyers come to Etsy not in search of a specific item, but to browse and be inspired. We are continuing to build more sophisticated algorithms that allow us to deliver more personalized results to our buyers, utilizing browse and transaction data to surface items they didn’t know they wanted. In2018, we launched a number of products to enhance search, including adding recommendations to item landing pages and incorporating more attributes to our search algorithm to improve search ranking. All of this helps bring fun to the discovery and shopping experience. We believe we have significant opportunities to further enhance our search and discovery capabilities and plan to leverage our machine learning technology to deliver an even more personalized shopping experience. In addition, our full migration to Google Cloud by the beginning of 2020 is expected to further improve our search and discovery effectiveness.

Etsy sellers are required to pay a fixed listing fee of$0.20for each item listed on Etsy.com for a period of four months or, if earlier, until a sale occurs. Once a sale is consummated, sellers pay variable transaction fees and Etsy Payments fees. OnJuly 16, 2018, we increased our seller transaction fee from3.5%to5%, and now apply it to the cost of shipping in addition to the cost of the item. Etsy Payments processing fees vary between3% to4.5%of an item’s total sale price, including shipping, plus a flat fee per order, depending on the country in which a seller’s bank account is located. When a foreign currency payment is processed, an additional2.5% to5%fee is applied. As ofDecember 31, 2018, Etsy Payments was available in36countries and12currencies and nearly all sellers in countries where Etsy Payments is available are required to use the service. In fact,86%of total GMS was processed through Etsy Payments in 2018,upfrom85%in 2017. Our ability to expand Etsy Payments into additional countries is dependent upon the third-party providers we use to support this service.



Our Seller Tools and Services



Seller tools and services help Etsy sellers generate more sales and scale their businesses. In addition to driving incremental revenue streams to Etsy, these offerings play a key role in supporting sellers’ businesses and driving sales. Our optional paid services are (in order of 2018 revenue contribution): Promoted Listings, Etsy Shipping Labels, Pattern, and subscription packages. Services revenuegrew42.1%, and represented26.3%of our total revenue,upfrom25.4%in2017.



•Promoted Listings:Promoted Listings enable Etsy sellers to pay a cost-per-click based fee to feature and promote their goods in our marketplace in search results generated by Etsy buyers. This service allows Etsy sellers to target Etsy buyers who are specifically searching for goods similar to those she offers for sale. During2018,15.1%of active sellers used Promoted Listingsupfrom15.0%in2017. In2018, we enhanced Promoted Listings by expanding inventory across all devices and adding context specific search ranking to improve ad relevance and higher click-through rates, which both led to accelerated year-over-year revenue growth for this service. We optimized our sellers’ budgets and generated a positive return on their spend in 2018. We aim for sellers to be ROI positive and often utilize less than their allocated budget.

•Etsy Shipping Labels:This service allows sellers in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, and Australia to purchase discounted United States Postal Service, FedEx, Canada Post, Royal Mail, and DAI Post shipping labels through our platform. The ability to print the shipping labels at home reduces the cost and time it takes Etsy sellers to ship items to Etsy buyers, reduces the chance for administrative error through features such as auto population of shipping addresses, and automatically provides tracking information when available and shipping notifications to buyers. During2018,24.7%of active sellers in regions where Etsy Shipping Labels is offered used this product,downfrom28.1%in2017. The reduction in percentage of active sellers using Etsy Shipping Labels was driven by the expansion of the service in the United









Kingdom and Australia in late 2018 where adoption could take some time to develop. Despite this, year-over-year revenue growth for this service accelerated compared to 2017 driven by GMS growth.

•Pattern:With Pattern, Etsy sellers can create their own custom websites with unique domain names within minutes. Pattern imports listings and content from Etsy shops, syncs inventory and orders, and utilizes our Etsy Payments and Etsy Shipping Label services. In2018, we began allowing sellers to sell items or services on their Pattern website that don’t follow the handmade and vintage guidelines within our Etsy.com marketplace. Sellers may use Pattern for free for the first 30 days, then they are charged$15per month, plus payment processing fees and Etsy Shipping Label fees, if they choose to use this service.

•Subscription Packages:Our subscription packages were launched in July 2018 as a way for us to bundle and simplify our offerings for sellers. The Etsy Plus subscription package, which allows sellers to pay for enhanced tools and credits to use on the Etsy.com platform, is$10per month and features enhanced tools such as advanced shop customization options, targeted restock notifications, discounts on branded packaging and promotional materials, and free or discounted custom web addresses. Additionally, Etsy Plus includes$5of Promoted Listing credits and15free listing credits per month.

We believe we can grow our optional paid services in three ways: expand the utility of existing services, expand the geographic reach of existing services, and launch new services offerings. In addition to our paid services, we provide a wide range of tools and educational resources to give Etsy sellers the support they need to manage the administrative side of their businesses. According to our bi-annual seller survey, most recently conducted in2018, for every hour that an Etsy seller spends making her products, she spends almost another hour doing business-related tasks, including inventory management, marketing, shipping, customer service, and accounting. Our tools and educational resources help manage these administrative burdens.

•Seller Tools:We offer a variety of free tools to Etsy sellers, including marketing tools such as our Google Shopping tool. Google Shopping gives our sellers a complementary way to target buyers outside of the Etsy marketplace at key moments when they are searching for items on Google. Sellers set a daily budget and a target country or a number of geographies through their Shop Manager dashboard and we optimize their budget and target a return on their spend. Our Shop Manager dashboard, which we launched in 2017, serves as a centralized hub for Etsy sellers to track orders, manage inventory, view metrics and statistics, and have conversations with their customers across all of their Etsy shops. In 2018, we added a single, easy-to-use interface that streamlines sellers’ bills and payments accounts. Other marketing tools include Targeted Offers, our sales and promotions tool, and our social media tool, which help sellers with their marketing needs and allows them to stand out on and off the Etsy platform. Also, through a partnership with Intuit, sellers in the United States and the United Kingdom can simplify their accounting and bookkeeping.

•Education:We provide extensive educational resources to teach Etsy sellers how to start, manage, and scale their businesses on our platform, including blog posts, video tutorials, the Etsy Seller Handbook (available on Etsy.com), Etsy.com online forums, and insights from Etsy.com support teams. In addition to our resources, Etsy sellers connect through self-organized Etsy Teams to build personal relationships with other Etsy sellers, collaborate, educate, and support each other as they build their independent creative businesses. Currently, over16,000Etsy Teams have formed around the world.









Etsy’s focus on supporting our sellers in starting, managing, and scaling their businesses strengthens our marketplace and positions it for continued growth. When our sellers succeed, Etsy succeeds.





How an Etsy Seller Spends Her Time2018 seller survey



Key 2018 Investments



Marketing:In July 2018, we revised our fee structure which enabled us to invest more in marketing while maintaining our return on investment. We increased digital marketing spend by58.5%in 2018 to$112.2 million, and continued to optimize our marketing attribution model. We experimented with offline marketing and television advertising tests in the second half of 2018, and conducted pre- and post-brand awareness research to supplement our quantitative data.



Google Cloud:We made progress and are on track with our migration to Google Cloud, which we expect to complete by the beginning of 2020. Among other anticipated benefits discussed below, we believe the migration will enhance our overall infrastructure by providing faster processing speed, improved page load time and more nimble server capacity on an as needed basis.



Search: We continued investing in our machine learning capabilities in order to help buyers find the right selection of products, from the over60 millionitems available in our marketplace. In 2018, we improved search relevance and began localizing search results by using context specific ranking.



Customer Support:Our partnership with Zendesk supported improvements to our customer experience and lower costs. We introduced live chat for our sellers, and dedicated 24x7 phone support for both buyers and sellers.



Shipping:We made progress evolving our search algorithms in order to more prominently promote items that have competitively priced shipping, introduced shipping price notifications for sellers, and launched the ability for sellers to display an expected delivery date. Also, in 2018, we expanded our Etsy Shipping Labels offering to sellers in the United Kingdom and Australia.











Our Passionate and Engaged Sellers and Buyers

Etsy Sellers



Our sellers are the backbone of Etsy’s business and what matters most to them is our community of over39 millionbuyers. In order to continue to support our sellers’ growth, we are focused on making Etsy the best place to start and run a creative business. We serve those creative entrepreneurs around the world who choose to pursue their passions, offering them a global base of millions of buyers and a cohesive suite of tools and services to help them run their business and drive sales. Etsy sellers range from hobbyists to professional merchants, and have a broad range of personal and professional goals. Our2018seller survey found that60%of Etsy sellers are multi-channel sellers and on average Etsy is their primary source of sales.

According to the2018seller survey:

•87%identify as women;



•75%consider their Etsy shop to be a business;



•97%run their shops from their homes;



•82%aspire to grow their sales in the future; and



•64%started their Etsy shop as a way to supplement income.



Our2018seller survey found that32%of Etsy sellers were pursuing their creative business as their sole occupation. In addition to our2018seller survey, we conducted a separate survey of our top decile sellers in 2017. Key findings included that95%of our top decile sellers intended to remain with Etsy for the next 12 months.



Etsy Sellers

Etsy Buyers

Etsy supports a community of over39 millionbuyers, who value self expression, unique items, and buying directly from creative entrepreneurs. In a 2018 survey of Etsy.com buyers,78%of buyers agreed that Etsy offers products they cannot find anywhere else. Etsy buyers can enjoy a personalized shopping experience and build relationships through direct interactions with Etsy sellers. Etsy buyers can also purchase customized items and craft supplies from Etsy sellers. By shopping on Etsy.com, Etsy buyers are supporting creative entrepreneurs in their local communities and around the world.

We are focused on driving more new buyers to the platform and encouraging existing buyers to purchase more often. New buyers are considered unique buyers that have never made a purchase on Etsy. During 2018, we had17.5 millionnew buyers, which represented approximately18%of overall GMS. GMS from new buyers wasup16%year-over-year. GMS from existing buyersgrew23%year-over-year in 2018 and represented approximately82%of overall GMS, anincreasecompared to last year.









Repeat buyers represent shoppers who have ever bought on Etsy, regardless of when their first purchase day occurred. We believe repeat purchases demonstrate the loyalty of Etsy buyers. In2018, approximately40.1%of our active buyers made purchases on two or more days in the previous 12 months, a slight increase compared to last year. Within that category, we are particularly focused on increasing our number of habitual buyers, or buyers who have spent $200 or more and made purchases on six or more days in the previous 12 months. As of December 31, 2018, habitual buyers grew to2.0 million, an increase of21.7%compared to 2017. This is faster than overall active buyer growth, indicating our efforts to convert buyers into more loyal shoppers on the platform are seeing signs of success.



Active Buyers by Purchase Type









Unlike many other ecommerce companies, the vast majority of visits come to Etsy from organic channels. In2018,85%of visits came to Etsy.com from an organic source, including a large portion from buyers visiting Etsy.com directly as well as from non-paid channels such as search, social, email, and push notifications. Paid visits are attributed to visits generated from our marketing efforts. Over the last five years, paid visits have increased as a percentage of total visits as a result of our increased investment in marketing. A visit represents activity from a unique browser or mobile app. A visit ends after 30 minutes of inactivity.

Visits Contribution by Source Type









Etsy Seller & Buyer Retention

Our active sellers and active buyers typically remain so for multiple years. For example,33.1%of active sellers and37.5%of active buyers as of December 31, 2015 continued to be active sellers and active buyers through their fourth year on the platform and31.8%of active sellers and38.7%of active buyers as of December 31, 2014 continued to be active sellers and active buyers through their fourth year on the platform. In addition, as ofDecember 31, 2018,19.6%of active sellers have been selling on Etsy for more than four years. Likewise, as ofDecember 31, 2018,24.5%of active buyers have been Etsy buyers for more than four years.





AVG GMS2011$817$2,241$3,314$4,299AVG GMS2011$103$177$186$195PER SELLER2012$1,079$2,598$3,935$4,557PER BUYER2012$96$163$173$1812013$1,260$3,110$4,190$4,6202013$96$161$168$1742014$1,465$3,325$4,228$4,6152014$99$157$164$1692015$1,558$3,296$4,062$4,9392015$101$158$163$180

Cohorts of 2015, 2014, 2013, 2012, and 2011 Active Sellers and Active Buyers

See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Key Factors Affecting Our Performance—Growth and Retention of Active Buyers and Active Sellers” for more information.









Our Technology



Our widely respected engineering team has built a sophisticated platform that enables millions of Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers to smoothly transact across borders, languages, and devices. We collect and analyze large volumes of data to enhance the performance of our platform. For example, on average, we capture roughlyone billionuser-generated events every day to produce personalized recommendations, improve our search experience and test features on our website.



Our use of machine learning algorithms creates an engaging shopping experience and also helps Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers connect across our platform. We apply proprietary machine learning to the search and discovery processes, enabling shoppers to more easily browse, filter, and buy that perfect item, even when they may not have something specific in mind.



Machine translation and machine learning also play an important role in making it easy for Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers to connect even if they don’t speak the same language. We translate listings within our Etsy.com market into10languages which we believe significantly increases the inventory available to non-English speaking Etsy buyers and gives Etsy sellers access to a truly global audience.



Our technology infrastructure allows us to scale our efforts across the platform. In late 2017, we announced our migration to Google Cloud, which we believe will enable us to focus on growing our core Etsy.com marketplace, prioritize the buyer and seller experience, improve our search and discovery effectiveness, and increase the pace of launching new features. We expect the migration will result in increased engineering efficiency shifting the focus from maintaining on-premise systems to product engineering work that is more strategic. We also believe the migration will enhance our overall infrastructure by providing faster processing speed, improved page load time, and more nimble fulfillment to capacity on an as needed basis. In the third quarter of 2018, we achieved a significant milestone by successfully migrating our website and mobile apps to Google Cloud. We expect to complete the migration by the beginning of 2020.



Commitment to Integrity and Transparency



Members of our community rely on us to maintain a trusted marketplace. Our policies are designed to encourage transparency and clearly outline the rights and responsibilities of Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers participating on our platform. Most fundamentally, we require that goods listed in our marketplace be handmade or unique and assembled with production partners, vintage, or craft supplies.



Transparency within our community helps to support our trustworthiness. For example, we publish an annual report that details progress toward our ideals and shares our hopes for the years to come. We also annually report statistics regarding shops that do not meet our guidelines or which list items that are alleged to infringe third party rights. In 2018, we closed3,609Etsy.com shops that were subject to repeat notices of intellectual property infringement and closed109,473Etsy.com accounts for non-IP policy violations.



Additionally, we are focused on enhancing customer service for Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers, which we believe bolsters the trustworthiness of our marketplace. In 2018, we migrated our legacy support platform to a new third-party customer service platform, Zendesk, to improve our customer experience. This migration enabled us to introduce live chat for our sellers, and dedicated 24x7 phone support for both buyers and sellers.



We strive to give the Etsy buyer comfort that she is purchasing goods from a shop that adheres to certain principles. Etsy buyers have a high degree of insight into Etsy sellers’ business practices. Our policies ask Etsy sellers to be transparent about themselves, their businesses and the goods they sell. We also have dedicated teams and sophisticated tools to help enforce our policies. For example, our Integrity team uses a combination of machine learning, automated systems, and community-generated flags to review items and shops that may violate our policies. Our Trust and Safety team helps to prevent and detect fraud through human review and automated tools and algorithms. We also recognize that sometimes transactions don’t go as planned. When that happens, our online Case System provides a way for Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers to communicate with each other to resolve disputes. In 2018,0.3%of orders resulted in a case. We also establish trust by emphasizing the person behind every transaction. We deepen connections between Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers through our direct communication tools, seller stories on our website and apps, and in-person events, highlighting personal relationships as a key part of the Etsy experience. For example, Etsy sellers are encouraged to share their stories to reach Etsy buyers on our platform and on social media. The trustworthiness of our marketplace and the connections among people in our community are cornerstones of our business.











Our Strategy



Since mid-2017, we have focused our strategy on growing the Etsy.com marketplace in our six core geographies and executing upon four key initiatives to make Etsy a better place to shop and sell. These initiatives involved making investments and improvements in search and discovery, trust and reliability, marketing capabilities, and seller tools and services. Successfully delivering on these initiatives has resulted in significant improvements to and growth of our marketplace.



In order to deliver sustainable long-term growth, we are building upon this strategy to incorporate additional elements that we believe, over time, will make Etsy a best-in-class marketplace. Our investments in product, marketing, and talent will be focused on capitalizing on what we believe are our core competitive advantages; or what we think of as our “Right to Win.”



The foundation of Etsy’s competitive advantage is our collection of unique items, which, we believe, when combined with best-in-class search and discovery, human connections, and a trusted brand, will enable us to continue to stand out among other ecommerce platforms and marketplaces. We will lean into the humanity and vibrancy of our market, increasing the connection between buyers and sellers, establishing strong trust signals for product quality and customer experience, removing barriers to purchase, and giving sellers more ways to generate sales and scale their businesses.



Ultimately, the goal of our long-term strategy is to drive more new buyers to the website, give existing buyers reasons to come back more often, encourage buyers to spend more per order, and fuel success for our sellers, which we believe will drive growth. Etsy has a significant number of habitual buyers (Etsy buyers that have purchased $200 or more on Etsy.com and have made purchases on six or more purchase days in the last 12 months) and we believe we have the ability to attract many more buyers like them to Etsy and convert them into habitual buyers. For example, we believe we can deepen engagement with our existing buyers by inspiring purchases in additional categories and on additional occasions. We also plan to continue supporting our sellers by focusing on enhancing the seller tools and services that will drive buyer demand. We believe that we are just getting started improving this virtuous cycle of growth.





Further expanding on these two primary components of our long-term strategy we will:



1. Focus on the Etsy marketplace in our six core geographies:



The first component and foundation of our growth strategy remains to focus on the Etsy marketplace in our six core geographies (the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, Germany, and France). These six locations are where we have our largest concentrations of buyers and sellers and, consequently, where we believe we have the most significant opportunities for growth. We are building local marketplaces globally, deepening local Etsy communities around the world, each with its own ecosystem of Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers. A barometer of our local market vibrancy is the performance of our international domestic trade route, by which we mean GMS generated between a non-U.S. buyer and a non-U.S. seller both in the same country. GMS from this trade route grew approximately36%in2018compared with2017, making it the fastest growing category of international GMS.



In2018, we announced a referral agreement with DaWanda, a privately held marketplace for gifts and handmade goods based in Germany, encouraging its community of buyers and sellers to migrate to the Etsy platform. This agreement brought meaningful new breadth and depth of inventory to Etsy, helping to make Germany our second largest international market (after the United Kingdom) by domestic activity. While we focus on our six core markets, we will also continue to evaluate additional geographies in which to make strategic investments. For example, we have made initial investments to explore growth opportunities in India.











We see significant opportunity to deliver a more localized shopping experience to non-U.S. buyers in the future, including investments in the elevation of local products and sellers in search, improving non-English search, and more local specific marketing and campaigns.



2. Build a sustainable competitive advantage:



As described above, the second component of our go-forward strategy is predicated around building a sustainable competitive advantage centered on these four key elements;



Our Collection of Unique Items:The foundation of Etsy’s competitive advantage is our collection of unique items. Our marketplace features over60 millionitems listed acrossdozensof retail categories, and boasts a large assortment of unique, handmade, vintage, and craft supply products from all over the world. This unique inventory is the result of having created a community that attracts, supports, and retains some of the world’s most talented makers. In a2018survey of Etsy buyers,78%agreed that Etsy has items that you can’t find anywhere else - that something “special in a sea of sameness.” We believe our marketplace is the only place where you can find the depth and breadth of one-of-a-kind items, including millions that can be customized and personalized. The breadth and depth of the special items listed in our marketplace is the linchpin of our long-term strategy. However, the unique nature of these items requires that we invest in the other three parts of our long-term strategy: search and discovery, human connections, and our trusted brand in order deliver a best-in-class marketplace experience.



Best-in-class search and discovery:We are focused on continuing to develop a search and discovery experience that unlocks the value of the unique items in our marketplace. With millions of items listed on Etsy.com that don’t map to a catalog or a stock keeping unit (“SKU”), our challenge is delivering world-class search and discovery technology that surfaces the right product to the right buyer at the right time in order to drive sales and buyer satisfaction. We are utilizing artificial intelligence and machine learning to help personalize the search experience and enable buyers to more easily browse, filter and find the item they desire.



In2018, we significantly enhanced the search and discovery experience in our marketplace. We leveraged Context Specific Search Ranking (“CSR”) by adding even more attributes such as location and shipping prices into our ranking algorithm to deliver more relevant results. We also began to leverage user generated content, introduced a new discovery feed and discovery badges to inspire buyers to explore more products and expand their search beyond their original intent and optimized landing pages by adding more recommendations and notifications, including alerts on listing cards when scarce items appear in other people’s carts.



We will also work to ensure that buyers have more help discovering the perfect item for them. Since our marketplace is built on over two million individual but largely unknown brands, we see significant opportunity to improve how we signal high quality items and deliver a great customer experience to buyers. We believe that by personalizing the Etsy search and discovery experience we can deepen buyer engagement and drive greater visit and purchase frequency. We expect that our transition to cloud-based technology and additional future investments in machine learning and artificial intelligence, among other factors, will enable us to deliver a best-in-class search experience.



The power of human connections:Our mission to “Keep Commerce Human” is a vital part of our strategy.We will continue to emphasize the role that humans play in every aspect of our marketplace. What makes Etsy special isn’t just the items in our marketplace; it’s also the stories of how those items were brought to life by the hands of real people. Our buyer experience highlights the story behind each item, and also allows buyers to create their own stories by working with a seller to personalize or customize items to their exact specifications. In fact, data shows that when a buyer reaches out to a seller with a question they are significantly more likely to purchase a listing from that seller, and conversion rate goes up as response time gets shorter.



In2018, we began to streamline the purchase flow for orders that are personalized or customized and made it easier for buyers to connect with sellers to design high quality items on the platform. We plan to invest more to make sure that buyers and sellers know that Etsy is the destination for personalized items, and it is our goal to make buying and selling such items intuitive and easy.



We believe that fostering and elevating the quality of these interactions will also enable us to drive buyer engagement, loyalty, and purchase frequency, and continue to differentiate Etsy from other ecommerce platforms. Shifting over time from our current item-first framework to one that highlights shops and sellers is a way to elevate the role of our makers and their creative processes. Our goal is to bring human connections to life through improvements in member support, seller forums









management, our brand and marketing campaigns, and other ways that we promote our marketplace. Lastly, we plan to deepen loyalty by creating opportunities for buyers to experience Etsy across categories and occasions.



A brand you can trust:We will continue to focus on being a brand that inspires trust in our customers across the buyer journey -- when they search, purchase, anticipate and receive their special items, and all the steps in between. Since our sellers have relatively unknown brands and unbranded items, we aim to ensure that the Etsy brand is recognized and valued for providing an excellent end-to-end experience. There are two key elements to being a trusted brand: standing for something that customers understand and rely on, and delivering a purchasing experience that feels safe and supportive. Our goal is to bolster trust in the Etsy brand, Etsy sellers, the items available in our marketplace, and in the overall Etsy experience. In2018, we improved buyer confidence with the launch of several new products, including a new iteration of guest checkout on mobile web, an alternative payment option common to German buyers, and an improved purchase path for items that are personalized or customized. We also made significant progress in customer support by partnering with Zendesk, a customer service software company. Our Zendesk partnership has enabled us to launch live chat and dedicated 24x7 phone support, which has improved the support experience for our buyers and sellers.



We plan to continue to optimize the core buyer shopping experience - to make it less fragmented and to remove friction. This will involve making sure that buyers can find what they want, can easily keep exploring for inspiration, and have the right information to make a purchase decision at every step along the way. We see significant room for additional improvements to our landing pages, our ability to surface recommendations so buyers do not hit dead ends, and to make sure we are surfacing relevant purchase information. By focusing on shipping enhancements and transparent delivery and returns we can help buyers better understand what to expect across Etsy.



In addition, we plan to evolve our marketing strategy and investments to reinforce our core brand promise in the hearts and minds of buyers. We believe that we can continue to grow our acquisition marketing efforts. We expect to add new marketing channels, optimize our spend in these channels and work with sellers to help them better understand the impact of marketing on their business (for example, with improved seller analytics tools), and to promote their shops to Etsy buyers.



Our Mission, Guiding Principles, and Team



Mission

Etsy’s mission to “Keep Commerce Human” is rooted in our belief that, although automation and commoditization are parts of modern life, human creativity cannot be automated and human connection cannot be commoditized. This is what makes Etsy and our marketplace distinct from mass retailers. Our mission guides our daily decisions, sets the path for our long-term success and reinforces our commitment to make a positive social, economic, and environmental impact.

Guiding Principles

Our guiding principles define who we strive to be, inform our business decisions, and enable us to achieve our mission. Our guiding principles are:

We commit to our craft.Our work has the power to change lives. That’s why we strive to continuously learn and excel at what we do.

We minimize waste.Time, resources, and energy are precious, so we focus only on what will have the greatest impact.

We embrace differences.Diverse teams are stronger, and inclusive cultures are more resilient. When we seek out different perspectives, we make better decisions and build better products.

We dig deeper.The best solutions to meaningful challenges are rarely easy or obvious. We stay curious, balance our intuition with insights, and decide with confidence.

We lead with optimism.We believe in our mission, and we believe in each other. We see the world as it is, set ambitious goals, and inspire one another with generosity of spirit. Together, we reimagine what’s possible.









Our Team

We pride ourselves on our action-oriented, values-based, and purpose-driven work culture. Etsy’s employees work hard to bring innovative ideas and energy every day to strengthen the experience for sellers and buyers on Etsy.com. As ofDecember 31, 2018, we had874employees worldwide, with545employees located in our headquarters in Brooklyn, New York. Of those employees, we had318in engineering,121in product,162in member operations,112in marketing, and161in facilities, IT, and other corporate teams.

We focus on maximizing our employees’ engagement, and their professional and personal well-being.In July 2018, Etsy conducted an engagement survey of all global employees and seventy percent of respondents reported favorable employee engagement.We believe employee engagement comes from fulfilling work focused on serving the needs of our sellers and buyers and from ample personal and professional growth opportunities. We use the results of our engagement survey guide the development of more dynamic programs that build knowledge and skills and build connectedness between employees.

We also offer our employees paid time off to volunteer so that they can support the causes and organizations they are passionate about. In 2016, we introduced a 26-week gender-blind parental leave policy that is available to all Etsy employees globally. Through this policy we aim to support and enable parents to play equal roles in building successful companies and nurturing their families.











Our Impact Strategy and Progress



We believe that consumers are demanding more of the businesses they support and that the companies best positioned to succeed will build win-win solutions that are good for people, the planet, and profit. We are committed to growing sustainably by aligning our mission, guiding principles, and business strategy.

We have developed an impact strategy that reflects the positive economic, social, and environmental impact we want to have on the world while advancing and complementing our business strategy. Since announcing our impact strategy in 2017, we have updated some of our goals to be more specific, measurable, and time bound. We expect to continue to evolve our impact strategy in the future as our impact work matures. We are pleased to share our progress as we execute on this strategy, and we will continue to report our results transparently as it relates to our impact goals.







Economic Impact:Make creative entrepreneurship a path to economic security and personal empowerment



2018 GOALS2018 PROGRESS2019 GOALS

Ensure the economic opportunities Etsy creates meaningfully benefit a broad swath of our seller communityCommissioned Etsy’s first economic impact study with ECONorthwest, an independent economic consulting firm, to explore the ways Etsy sellers in the United States contribute to the national economic landscape. We found that in 2018, Etsy sellers:- Contributed $5.37 billion to the U.S. economy, more than double their direct business sales;- Created 1.52 million jobs in the independent worker economy, enough jobs to employ the entire city of San Antonio;- Generated more than $1.76 billion in income; and,- Produced $3 billion in additional economic value by harnessing their creativity and bringing unique products to market.Double U.S. Etsy sellers’ economic output by 2023

Foster economic security and personal empowerment for creative entrepreneurs through charitable and in-kind contributionsInvested $280K in programs and initiatives that enable creative entrepreneurship, and support Etsy sellers on their paths to economic security and personal empowerment.—Collectively, Etsy employees donated over 2,700 hours of volunteer time in their communities through Etsy’s Volunteer Time Off program.Invest in social programs that foster economic security and personal empowerment for our stakeholders

Advance public policies that increase economic security and reduce administrative burdens for creative entrepreneursContinued to prioritize seller issues, including tax burdens, financial security and championing micro-business more broadly in our key markets.—Focused on policy solutions that help to grow the creative economy, advocating for net neutrality and internet sales tax policy. Etsy sellers generated over 140,000 messages to policymakers on these issues.Advance public policies that increase economic security and reduce administrative burdens for creative entrepreneurs

















Social Impact:Enable equitable access to the opportunities that we create



2018 GOALS2018 PROGRESS2019 GOALS

Meaningfully increase representation of underrepresented groups and ensure equity in Etsy’s workforceIncreased our targeted recruiting efforts, created hiring guidelines to ensure that all candidates are evaluated fairly and with objective criteria, and implemented a more formal company-wide performance management process to support consistent and fair evaluations. As a result, female engineers now make up 33.2% of our engineering workforce at Etsy, up 4% from the prior year.—Commissioned a pay equity study using a third party consulting firm which revealed no influence of age, race, or gender in Etsy’s pay practices.—Ramped up our targeted recruitment efforts by focusing on growing our employer brand awareness and maximizing our presence at industry conferences and events.—Focused on growing our strategic and data-driven recruiting efforts, launching employee mentorship and sponsorship programs, tracking our diversity & inclusion efforts through recruiting, hiring, survey, and exit interview data.Approximately double the percentage of Black and Latinx employees in Etsy’s workforce by 2023

Build a diverse, equitable, and sustainable supply chain to support our operations and bring value to both Etsy and our vendorsUpdated Etsy’s supplier code of conduct to highlight the importance of progressive social, environmental, and economic business practices.—Incorporated priority questions into our vendor compliance screening tool in order to develop a comprehensive baseline of our supply chain impact.Build a diverse, equitable, and sustainable supply chain to support our operations and bring value to both Etsy and our vendors

Increase the presence of underrepresented populations within the Etsy seller communityUndertook research to understand and address barriers and activate opportunities for underrepresented populations within the Etsy seller community.—In 2019, we plan to continue investing in this stream of work, embedding our insights into our product, expanding to focus on both our buyers and our sellers, and building an inviting and inclusive user experience.Make Etsy a more inclusive and welcoming marketplace for people from underrepresented backgrounds













Ecological Impact:Build long-term resilience by eliminating our carbon impacts and fostering responsible resource use



2018 GOALS2018 PROGRESS2019 GOALS

Utilize and source energy responsibly so that we can power our operations with 100% renewable electricity by 2020 and reduce the intensity of our energy use by 25% by 2025Procured 58% of our electricity from renewable sources, up from 30% in 2017.—Entered into a virtual power purchase agreement for solar energy to help us meet our goal of powering our operations with 100% renewable electricity by 2020.—Began transition to cloud computing to help reduce our energy consumption and selected Google Cloud Platform, a partner that shares our commitment to 100% renewable electricity.—In 2018, our colocated data centers accounted for 68% of total energy consumed, or 7,330 MWh. Due to data availability challenges, our current energy footprint is not inclusive of cloud computing, but does include our colocated data centers. In 2019, we will continue to explore how to accurately quantify our cloud energy footprint, and how to activate levers of change to drive further efficiencies in computing.—Achieved a 25% reduction in energy intensity (kWh per square foot) across our office operations based on a 2016 baseline, and an associated 15% reduction in carbon intensity across office operations (tCO2e per square foot).Utilize and source energy responsibly so that we can power our operations with 100% renewable electricity by 2020 and reduce the intensity of our energy use by 25% by 2025

In 2018, develop a plan and set a goal to mitigate the carbon impacts of our marketplace that aligns with business growthDeveloped a strategy to mitigate the carbon impacts of our marketplace which includes taking immediate action to balance our footprint:- In February 2019, we announced that we will offset 100% of our emissions from shipping through investment in verified emissions reductions, and,- We plan to activate levers of change that will help to drive carbon reduction in the long term, including policy advocacy, vendor negotiation and peer collaboration.Mitigate the ecological impact of our marketplace by offering carbon neutral shipping on 100% of transactions by 2020

Run zero waste operations by 2020Diverted 95% of waste from global operations from landfill or incineration, up from 87% in 2017.Run zero waste operations by 2020













Etsy’s mission to “Keep Commerce Human” means that we celebrate the uniqueness, authenticity, and richness of the human experience. Our diversity & inclusion efforts are integral to who we are as a company; namely, one that is in the business of servicing and celebrating the vibrant spectrum of unique and special qualities people possess.

We are committed to reporting transparently on workforce diversity at Etsy. All metrics below are as of December 31 of the stated year. Leadership is defined as Director level and above. Tech employees are defined as those employees who work on Product, Engineering, Analytics and HR Information and Financial Systems Administration teams. Other business roles are defined as those employees who work in roles outside of the Tech definition, and is inclusive of non-tech Leadership positions. Gender and age metrics represent Etsy’s global employee base, while race and ethnicity metrics represent U.S. employees only.





BoardOverallLeadershipTechEngineeringOther Business Roles



†Etsy commissioned an external third party to perform attest procedures with respect to our diversity metrics for the period from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018.19






RACE & ETHNICITY METRICS - U.S. ONLYOverallLeadershipTechEngineeringOther Business Roles201620172018†201620172018†201620172018†201620172018†201620172018†American Indian or Alaska Native—%0.2%0.1%—%—%—%—%—%—%—%—%—%—%0.3%0.3%Asian13.2%13.9%16.5%11.4%16.9%19.3%18.0%20.9%22.6%17.7%20.4%21.9%9.0%7.0%8.5%Black/African American3.9%4.4%3.7%2.5%3.4%3.4%3.2%3.3%2.6%3.3%4.2%3.2%4.5%5.4%5.5%Hispanic4.1%4.1%4.8%1.3%1.7%—%4.4%4.5%4.7%3.9%4.2%5.1%3.6%3.8%5.2%Two or More Races3.5%2.7%2.8%5.1%5.1%2.3%4.2%2.1%3.0%4.6%2.0%3.2%2.9%3.5%2.7%White73.9%71.8%67.0%78.5%72.9%75.0%68.4%65.6%60.8%68.9%65.0%60.8%78.6%78.1%74.8%Not Declared1.4%2.9%5.1%1.2%—%—%1.8%3.6%6.3%1.6%4.2%5.8%1.4%1.9%3.0%





AGE METRICS - GLOBAL201620172018†24 years and younger5.7%4.2%5.3%25-29 years29.2%28.4%27.9%30-34 years35.8%34.1%32.2%35-39 years19.0%21.2%20.8%40-49 years8.3%9.4%11.1%50+ years1.9%2.7%2.7%





†Etsy commissioned an external third party to perform attest procedures with respect to our diversity metrics for the period from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018.20








SASB Disclosure



The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board’s (SASB) mission is to develop sustainability metrics for public corporations to disclose material, decision-useful information to investors. Etsy supports work that contributes directly to generating comparable and consistent data. We have considered SASB’s Consumer Goods Sector – E-Commerce industry standard and have provided key details below.





SASB Metrics

SASB CodeMetric201620172018

CG-EC-000.AEntity-defined measure of user activityActive buyers (thousands)28,56633,36439,447

Active sellers (thousands)1,7481,9332,115

CG-EC-000.BData processing capacityIn December 2017, we announced our Google Cloud Partnership, an initiative that will transition our infrastructure to the Google Cloud Platform. We are currently in the process of migrating our colocated data centers to Google Cloud. In 2018, we successfully migrated our website and mobile apps to the platform, and we expect to complete the migration by the beginning of 2020.

Percentage outsourced100%100%100%

Hardware Infrastructure Energy & Water Management

CG-EC-130a.1Total energy consumed, MWh6,1557,1117,330

Percentage renewable energy—%32%65%

Percentage grid electricity100%100%100%

CG-EC-130.aDiscussion of the integration of environmental considerations into strategic planning for data center needs.Etsy’s goals include powering our operations with 100% renewable electricity by 2020, and reducing the intensity of our energy use by 25% by 2025. These goals are included as key considerations as we plan for our computing needs, and have been a focus of our sustainability efforts. When transitioning to a cloud computing infrastructure, we selected Google Cloud Platform, a partner that shares our commitment to 100% renewable electricity. Their highly efficient data centers are expected to help us save significant energy. Moreover, moving to flexible cloud-based infrastructure should enable us to reduce major idle time and associated energy consumption.In 2018, Etsy entered into a virtual power purchase agreement for solar energy in Virginia. Once operational, this project is expected to provide us with renewable attributes to apply to our operations and computing infrastructure, furthering our goals of creating a cleaner internet and reducing our impact on the planet. We actively monitor and manage energy consumption from our computing infrastructure. In 2018, our colocated data centers accounted for 68% of total energy consumed, or 7330 MWh.

Data Privacy and Advertising Standards

CG-EC-220a.2Description of the policies and practices relating to behavioral advertising and user privacy. We care deeply about privacy and we’re committed to being upfront about our privacy practices, including how we treat personal information. Etsy’s Privacy Policy provides a detailed explanation of our privacy practices. Among other things, our Privacy Policy covers the user information that Etsy collects or receives, the choices and control that a user has in relation to this data including based on type and sensitivity, the purpose for which Etsy uses such information (including first and third party advertising purposes), our policies relating to our usage and sharing within Etsy and its affiliates, and user controls for sharing and controlling such information with third parties.

Data Security

CG-EC-230a.1Description of approach to identifying and addressing data security risks.Data security is overseen by our Chief Information Security Officer who reports to our Chief Technical Officer. We strive to protect sensitive information through various means, such as technical safeguards, procedural requirements and policies, an intensive program of monitoring on both our web platform and within our corporate network, continuous testing of aspects of our security posture internally and with outside vendors, a robust incident response program, and regular training for employees.

Employee Recruitment, Inclusion and Performance

CG-EC-330a.1Employee engagement as a percentage80%60%70%

Employee engagement as a percentage and discussion of methodology.In July 2018, Etsy conducted an engagement survey of all global employees. Of employees surveyed, 82% submitted a response. The survey was conducted through the Culture Amp platform and consisted of 48 questions - 45 rating questions on which employees were asked to indicate their level of agreement with a statement based on a five-point scale from Strongly Agree to Strongly Disagree, and three free-text questions to which employees were asked to write out a response. The responses were analyzed against the results from a similar survey conducted in 2017, as well as Culture Amp's 2018 New Tech - 500+ Benchmark, which consists of survey results from companies that are primarily internet-based or focused on creating new technologies, and that have between 500 and 5,000 employees.

CG-EC-330a.3Gender and racial/ethnic group representation for leadership, technical staff and other business functionsSee Impact Strategy section for detailed metrics.

Discussion of diversity and inclusion strategy and performanceSee Impact Strategy - Social Impact for details.

CG-EC-330a.4Percentage of technical employees who are H-1B visa holders2.5%









SASB MetricsSASB CodeMetric201620172018Product Packaging and DistributionCG-EC-410a.1Total greenhouse gas (GHG) footprint of product shipments in metric tons CO2e103,646‡118,153‡135,459†CG-EC-410a.2Discussion of strategies to reduce the environmental impact of product delivery.The delivery of products sold on our marketplace represents the majority of Etsy’s carbon footprint. As a peer-to-peer marketplace, Etsy does not directly control seller shipping or the associated logistics networks, however, we are committed to addressing carbon emissions from shipping. We have identified a number of levers that we expect to help to drive carbon reduction in the long term, including policy advocacy, vendor negotiation, and peer collaboration. In the near term, Etsy recognizes the need to act on climate change and we are taking immediate action to help balance our footprint. In 2019, we are committing to offset 100% of our emissions from shipping through investments in verified emissions reductions.



Greenhouse Gas (“GHG”) Emissions Summary(tCO2e)201620172018GHG Emissions by ScopeScope 1410‡467‡372†Scope 2 - Market2,946‡2,209‡1,213†Scope 2 - Location3,076‡3,152‡2,923†Scope 3105,295119,444137,042Scope 3 GHG Emissions by Activity SourceShipping103,646‡118,153‡135,459†Air Travel967‡550‡943†Commuting597663544Remote Workers496487Waste1876Water943Electricity, Transmission and Distribution Losses93<1



†Etsy commissioned an external third party to perform attest procedures with respect to our carbon and energy metrics for the period from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018. Full details and data methodology are available at investors.etsy.com.

‡Metrics for which historical data has also been subject to previous attest procedures.











Competition

We compete for Etsy sellers with both retailers and companies that sell software to small businesses. An Etsy seller can list her goods for sale with online retailers or sell her goods through local consignment and vintage stores and other venues and marketplaces, including through commerce channels on social networks like Facebook and Instagram. She may also sell wholesale directly to traditional retailers, including large national retailers, who discover her goods in our marketplace or otherwise. We also compete with companies that sell software and services to small businesses, enabling an Etsy seller to sell from her own website or otherwise run her business independently of our platform. We are able to compete for Etsy sellers based on our brand awareness, the global scale of our marketplace and the breadth of our online presence, the number and engagement of Etsy buyers, our seller tools and services, our seller education resources, our policies and fees, our mobile apps, the strength of our community, and our values.

We also compete with retailers for the attention of the Etsy buyer. An Etsy buyer has the choice of shopping with any online or offline retailer, whether large marketplaces or national retail chains or local consignment and vintage stores or other venues or marketplaces. We are able to compete for Etsy buyers based on the unique goods that Etsy sellers list in our marketplace, our brand awareness, the person-to-person commerce experience, customer service, our reputation as a trusted marketplace, our mobile apps, the availability of fair and free shipping offered by Etsy sellers, ease of payment, and the availability and reliability of our platform.



Intellectual Property

Protection of our technology and intellectual property is an important component of our success. We rely on intellectual property laws, including patent, trade secret, copyright, and trademark laws, in the United States and abroad. We also use confidentiality procedures, defensive licensing and acquisitions, non-disclosure agreements, invention assignment agreements, and other contractual rights to protect Etsy and our intellectual property.

We file patents and register domain names, trademarks, copyrights, and service marks in the United States and abroad. We rely upon unregistered copyrights and common law protection for certain trademarks. We also use internal and external brand protection mechanisms that are intended to protect Etsy’s brand from misuse by third parties.



Government Regulation

As with any company operating on the internet, we are subject to a growing number of local, national, and international laws and regulations. These laws are often complex, sometimes contradict other laws, and are frequently changing. Laws may be interpreted and enforced in different ways in various locations around the world, posing a significant challenge to our global business. For example, U.S. federal and state laws, E.U. directives, and other national laws govern the processing of payments, consumer protection, and the privacy of consumer information; other laws define and regulate unfair and deceptive trade practices. Still other laws dictate when and how sales or other taxes must be collected. Laws of defamation apply online and vary by country. The growing regulation of e-commerce worldwide could impose additional compliance burdens and costs on us or on Etsy sellers and could subject us to significant liability for any failure to comply. Additionally, because we operate internationally, we need to comply with various laws associated with doing business outside of the United States, including anti-money laundering, sanctions, anti-corruption, and export control laws.











Available Information



We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (“the Exchange Act”), and file or furnish reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission, (the “SEC”). Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports are available free of charge on our website at investors.etsy.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we have filed or furnished them to the SEC. The information on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report and investors should not rely on such information in deciding whether to invest in our common stock. Copies of our SEC reports and other documents are also available, without charge, by sending a letter to Investor Relations, Etsy, Inc., 117 Adams Street, Brooklyn, NY 11201, by sending an email to ir@etsy.com or by calling (347) 382-7582.



Our SEC reports are also available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we have filed or furnished them to the SEC. For information regarding classes of products or services that accounted for 10% or more of consolidated revenue in the last three fiscal years, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations.”











