Item 1. Business



Automatic Data Processing, Inc.,
incorporated in Delaware in 1961 (together with its subsidiaries, “ADP” or the
“Company”), is one of the world’s largest providers of business outsourcing
solutions. Leveraging 60 years of experience, ADP®offers a wide range of
human resource (HR), payroll, tax and benefits administration solutions from a
single source. ADP is also a leading provider of integrated computing solutions
to automotive, truck, motorcycle, marine, recreational vehicle and heavy
machinery dealers throughout the world. For financial information by segment and
by geographic area, see Note 18 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements” contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.The Company’s Annual Reports on Form
10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, all
amendments to those reports, and the Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of
Stockholders are made available, free of charge, on its website at www.adp.com
as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports have been filed with or
furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.The following summary describes
ADP’s activities.



Employer
Services



Employer Services offers a
comprehensive range of HR information, payroll processing, tax and benefits
administration solutions and services, including traditional and Web-based
outsourcing solutions, that assist employers in the United States, Canada,
Europe, South America (primarily Brazil), Australia and Asia to staff, manage,
pay and retain their employees. As of June 30, 2010, Employer Services assisted
approximately 520,000 employers with approximately 614,000 payrolls. Employer
Services markets these solutions and services through its direct marketing
salesforce and, on a limited basis, through indirect sales channels, such as
marketing relationships with banks and accountants, among others. In fiscal
2010, 80% of Employer Services’ revenues were from the United States, 13% were
from Europe, 5% were from Canada and 2% were from South America (primarily
Brazil), Australia and Asia.



United States



Employer Services’ approach to the
market is to match clients’ needs to the solutions and services that will best
meet their expectations. To facilitate this approach, in the United States,
Employer Services is comprised of the following market-facing groups: Small
Business Services (SBS) (serving primarily organizations with fewer than 50
employees); Major Account Services (serving primarily organizations with between
50 and 999 employees); and National Account Services (serving primarily
organizations with 1,000 or more employees). In addition, Employer Services’
Added Value Services division provides services to clients across all three of
these groups.



ADP provides payroll services that
include the preparation of client employee paychecks, electronic direct deposits
and stored value payroll cards, along with employee pay statements, supporting
journals, summaries and management reports. ADP also supplies the quarterly and
annual social security, medicare and federal, state and local income tax
withholding reports required to be filed by employers. ADP enables its largest
clients to interface their major enterprise resource planning (ERP) applications
with ADP’s outsourced payroll services. For those companies that choose to
process payroll in-house, ADP delivers stand-alone services such as payroll tax
filing, check printing and distribution, year-end tax statements (i.e., Form W-2), wage garnishment
services, health and welfare administration and flexible spending account (FSA)
administration.



In order to address the growing
business process outsourcing (BPO) market for clients seeking human resource
information systems and benefit outsourcing solutions, ADP offers its integrated
comprehensive outsourcing services (COS) solution that allows larger clients to
outsource to ADP HR, payroll, payroll administration, employee service center,
benefits administration, and time and labor management functions. For mid-sized
clients, ADP Workforce Now™ Comprehensive Services provides integrated tools and
technology to support payroll, a full-featured benefits administration solution,
HR guidance and HR administration needs from recruitment to retirement. ADP also
offers ADP Resource®, an integrated,
flexible HR and payroll service offering for smaller clients that provides a
menu of optional services, such as 401(k), FSA and a comprehensive
Pay-by-Pay®workers’ compensation payment program.












ADP’s Added Value Services division
includes the following businesses: Tax and Financial Services, Insurance
Services and Tax Credit Services. These businesses primarily support SBS, Major
Account Services and/or National Account Services, and their services are sold
through those businesses, as well as by dedicated sales teams and via marketing
arrangements with alliance partners.

Tax and Financial
  Services processes and collects federal, state and local payroll taxes on
  behalf of, and from, ADP clients and remits these taxes to the appropriate
  taxing authorities. This business provides an electronic interface between ADP
  clients and over 7,600 federal, state and local tax agencies in the United
  States, from the Internal Revenue Service to local governments. In fiscal
  2010, Tax and Financial Services in the United States processed and delivered
  approximately 47 million employee year-end tax statements and over 38 million
  employer payroll tax returns and deposits, and moved $1.1 trillion in client
  funds to taxing authorities and its clients’ employees via electronic
  transfer, direct deposit and ADPCheck™. Tax and Financial Services is also
  responsible for the efficient movement of information and funds from clients
  to third parties through service offerings such as new hire reporting,
  TotalPay®payroll check (ADPCheck™), full service direct deposit (FSDD), stored value
  payroll card (TotalPay®Card), wage
  verification services, unemployment claims processing, wage garnishment
  processing, sales and use tax services and its new ADP Procure-to-Pay
  SolutionsSM,
  which automates the P2P supply chain and streamlines order, receipt, invoice
  and payment processes.

Insurance Services
  provides a comprehensive Pay-by-Pay workers’ compensation payment program and,
  through Automatic Data Processing Insurance Agency, Inc., offers workers
  compensation and group health insurance to small and mid-sized
  clients.

Tax Credit Services
  provides job tax credit services that assist employers in the identification
  of, and filing for, federal, state and local tax credits and other incentives
  based on geography, demographics and other criteria, and includes negotiation
  of incentive packages with applicable governmental agencies.

Employer Services also provides the
following solutions and services:

Retirement Services
  provides recordkeeping and/or related administrative services with respect to
  various types of retirement (primarily 401(k) and SIMPLE IRA) plans, deferred
  compensation plans and “premium only” cafeteria plans.Pre-Employment Services
  includes Screening and Selection Services and Applicant Management Services.
  Screening and Selection Services provides background checks, reference
  verifications and an HR help desk. Applicant Management Services provides
  employers with a web-based solution to manage their talent throughout their
  lifecycle.ADP’s Benefit Services
  provides benefits administration across all market segments, including
  management of open enrollment and ongoing enrollment of benefits, and leave of
  absence, COBRA and FSA administration.ADP’s Time and Labor
  Management Services provides solutions for employers to capture, calculate and
  report employee time and attendance.ADP’s Talent Management
  solutions include Performance Management, Compensation Management and Learning
  Management.










In fiscal 2010, ADP made several
acquisitions to help expand its client base and reach into adjacent markets,
including: DO2 Technologies Inc., a leading provider of electronic-invoicing
solutions; OneClick HR plc, a UK provider of human resources solutions offering
HR software, training services and outsourced HR solutions; and HRinterax, Inc.,
an HR content and support services company focused on the small business market.
In August 2010, ADP acquired Workscape, Inc., a leading provider of integrated
benefits and compensation solutions and services.



International



Employer Services has a growing
presence outside of the United States, where it offers solutions on the basis of
both geographic and specific client business needs. ADP offers in-country “best
of breed” payroll and human resource outsourcing solutions to both small and
large clients in over a dozen foreign countries. In each of Canada and Europe,
ADP is the leading provider of payroll processing (including full departmental
outsourcing) and human resource administration services. Within Europe, Employer
Services has business operations supporting its in-country solutions in eight
countries: France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Spain, Switzerland
and the United Kingdom. It also offers services in Ireland (from the United
Kingdom) and in Portugal (from Spain). In South America (primarily Brazil),
Australia and Asia (primarily China), ADP provides traditional service bureau
payroll and also offers full departmental outsourcing of payroll services. ADP
also offers wage and tax collection and remittance services in Canada, the
United Kingdom and the Netherlands.



In fiscal 2010, ADP continued to
expand its GlobalView®offering, making it
available in 41 countries. GlobalView is built on the SAP®ERP Human Capital
Management and the SAP NetWeaver®platform and offers
multinational and global companies an end-to-end outsourcing solution enabling
standardized payroll processing and human resource administration. As of the end
of fiscal 2010, 96 clients had contracted for GlobalView services, with
approximately 714,000 employees being processed. Upon completing the
implementation for all these clients, ADP expects to be providing GlobalView
services to nearly 1.3 million employees in 41 countries. Further, through its
ADP Streamline®offering, ADP also provides a single point of contact for payroll processing and
human resource administration services for multinational companies with small
and mid-sized operations in 63 countries. At the end of fiscal 2010, ADP
Streamline was used by 330multinational companies with
approximately 52,000employees being processed.



Professional Employer Organization
Services



In the United States, ADP’s
TotalSource®, the
Company’s professional employer organization (PEO) business, provides
approximately 5,600clients with comprehensive
employment administration outsourcing solutions through a co-employment
relationship, including payroll, payroll tax filing, HR guidance, 401(k) plan
administration, benefits administration, compliance services, health and
workers’ compensation coverage and other supplemental benefits for employees.
ADP’s TotalSource is the largest PEO in the United States based on the number of
paid worksite employees. ADP’s TotalSource has 47 offices located in 22 states
and serves approximately 211,000 worksite employees in all 50
states.












Dealer Services



Dealer Services provides integrated
dealer management systems (such a system is also known in the industry as a
“DMS”) and other business management solutions to automotive, truck, motorcycle,
marine, recreational vehicle (RV) and heavy machinery retailers in North
America, Europe, Africa and the Asia Pacific region. Approximately 25,000
automotive, truck, motorcycle, marine, RV and heavy machinery retailers in over
90 countries use ADP’s DMS products, other software applications, networking
solutions, data integration, consulting and/or digital marketing services.



Clients use ADP’s DMS solutions to
manage core business activities such as accounting, inventory management,
factory communications, appointment scheduling, vehicle financing and insurance,
sales and service. In addition to its DMS solutions, Dealer Services offers its
clients a full suite of additional integrated applications to address each
department and functional area of the dealership, including Customer
Relationship Management (CRM) applications, front-end sales and
marketing/advertising solutions, and an IP Telephony phone system
fully-integrated into the DMS to help dealerships drive sales processes and
business development initiatives. Dealer Services also provides its dealership
clients computer hardware, hardware maintenance services, software support,
system design and network consulting services.



Dealer Services also designs,
establishes and maintains communications networks for its dealership clients
that allow interactive communications among multiple site locations as well as
links between franchised dealers and their vehicle manufacturer franchisors.
These networks are used for activities such as new vehicle ordering and status
inquiry, warranty submission and validation, parts and vehicle locating,
dealership customer credit application submission and decision-making, vehicle
repair estimation and acquisition of vehicle registration and lien holder
information.



All of Dealer Services’ solutions
are supported by comprehensive training offerings and business process
consulting services. ADP’s DMS and other software solutions are available as
“on-site” applications installed at the dealership or as application service
provider (ASP) managed services solutions (in which clients outsource their
information technology management activities to Dealer Services).



In August 2010, ADP acquired Cobalt,
a leading provider of digital marketing solutions for the automotive industry,
for approximately $400 million.



Markets and Marketing Methods



Employer Services offers services in
the United States, Canada, Europe, South America (primarily Brazil), Australia
and Asia. PEO Services are offered exclusively in the United States. Dealer
Services has offerings in North America, Europe, Africa and the Asia Pacific
region. In select emerging markets, Dealer Services uses distributors to sell,
implement and support ADP’s solutions.



None of ADP’s major business groups
has a single homogenous client base or market. Employer Services and PEO
Services have clients from a large variety of industries and markets. Within
this client base are concentrations of clients in specific industries. Dealer
Services primarily serves automobile dealers, which in turn may be dependent on
a relatively small number of automobile manufacturers, but also serves truck,
powersports (i.e., motorcycle, marine and
recreational) and heavy machinery dealers, auto repair shops, used car lots,
state departments of motor vehicles and manufacturers of automobiles and trucks.
Employer Services also sells to automobile dealers. While concentrations of
clients exist, no one client or industry group is material to ADP’s overall
revenues.












Historically ADP’s businesses have
not been overly sensitive to price changes, although in the current economic
conditions we have observed, among some clients and groups of clients, an impact
on sensitivity to pricing and demand for ADP’s services. Employer Services’
revenues were flat in fiscal 2010. In the United States, revenues from our
traditional payroll and payroll tax filing business declined 4% for the full
year and beyond payroll revenues grew 6% for the full year. Dealer Services’
revenues decreased 3% in fiscal 2010 due to dealership consolidations and
closings, lower transactional revenue and dealerships reducing services in order
to cut their discretionary expenses. PEO Services’ revenues grew 11% in fiscal
2010 due to a 5% increase in the average number of worksite employees, as well
as an increase in benefits costs and state uninsurance rates.



ADP enjoys a leadership position in
each of its major service offerings and does not believe any major service or
business unit in ADP is subject to unique market risk.



Competition



The industries in which ADP operates
are highly competitive. ADP knows of no reliable statistics by which it can
determine the number of its competitors, but it believes that it is one of the
largest providers of business outsourcing solutions in the world. Employer
Services and PEO Services compete with other independent business outsourcing
companies, companies providing enterprise resource planning services, software
companies and financial institutions. Captive in-house functions, whereby a
company installs and operates its own business processing systems, are another
competitive factor in the industries in which Employer Services and PEO Services
operate. Dealer Services’ competitors include full service DMS providers such as
The Reynolds & Reynolds Company, Dealer Services’ largest DMS competitor in
the United States and Canada, and companies providing applications and services
that compete with Dealer Services’ non-DMS applications and services.



Competition in ADP’s industries is
primarily based on service responsiveness, product quality and price. ADP
believes that it is very competitive in each of these areas and that there are
no material negative factors impacting ADP’s competitive position.



Clients and Client
Contracts



ADP provides its services to about
550,000 clients. In fiscal 2010, no single client or group of affiliated clients
accounted for revenues in excess of 2% of annual consolidated revenues.



Our business is typically
characterized by long-term client relationships that result in recurring
revenue. ADP is continuously in the process of performing implementation
services for new clients. Depending on the service agreement and/or the size of
the client, the installation or conversion period for new clients could vary
from a short period of time (as little as 24 hours) for an SBS client to a
longer period (generally six to twelve months) for a National Account Services
or Dealer Services client with multiple deliverables, and in some cases may
exceed two years for a large GlobalView client or other large, complicated
implementation. Although we monitor sales that have not yet been billed or
installed, we do not view this metric as material in light of the recurring
nature of our business. This is not a reported number, but it is used by
management as a planning tool relating to resources needed to install services,
and a means of assessing our performance against the installation timing
expectations of our clients.



ADP’s average client retention is
estimated at just under 10 years in Employer Services, approximately 5 years in
PEO Services and 10 or more years in Dealer Services, and has not varied
significantly from period to period.












ADP’s services are provided under
written price quotations or service agreements having varying terms and
conditions. No one price quotation or service agreement is material to ADP.



Systems Development and Programming



During the fiscal years ended June
30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, ADP invested $614 million, $588 million and $611
million, respectively, from continuing operations, in systems development and
programming, migration to new computing technologies and the development of new
products and maintenance of our existing technologies, including purchases of
new software and software licenses.



Product Development



ADP continually upgrades, enhances
and expands its existing solutions and services. Generally, no new solution or
service has a significant effect on ADP’s revenues or negatively impacts its
existing solutions and services, and ADP’s solutions and services have
significant remaining life cycles.



Licenses



ADP is the licensee under a number
of agreements for computer programs and databases. ADP’s business is not
dependent upon a single license or group of licenses. Third-party licenses,
patents, trademarks and franchises are not material to ADP’s business as a
whole.



Number of Employees



ADP employed approximately
47,000persons as of June 30, 2010.



