Item 1. Business

General

Incorporated in
Delaware in 1961, Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (together with its
subsidiaries, “ADP” or the “Company”) is one of the world’s largest providers of
business outsourcing solutions. Leveraging over 60 years of experience,
ADP®offers a wide range of human resource (HR), payroll, tax and
benefits administration solutions from a single source. ADP is also a leading
provider of integrated computing solutions to auto, truck, motorcycle, marine,
recreational vehicle, and heavy equipment retailers and manufacturers throughout
the world. ADP’s mission is to power organizations with insightful solutions
that drive business success.

The Company’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form
10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, all amendments to those reports, and the
Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders are made available, free
of charge, on its website atwww.adp.comas soon as reasonably
practicable after such reports have been filed with or furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and are also available at the SEC’s
internet site at www.sec.gov.

Segments of Business

The Company’s reportable segments are: Employer Services, Professional
Employer Organization (PEO) Services, and Dealer Services. For financial
information by segment and by geographic area, see Note 17 to the “Consolidated
Financial Statements” contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A brief
description of each reportable segment’s operations is provided
below.

Employer Services

Employer Services offers a comprehensive range of HR information, payroll
processing, time and labor management, and tax and benefits administration
solutions and services, including traditional and Web-based outsourcing
solutions, that assist employers in the United States, Canada, Europe, South
America (primarily Brazil), Australia and Asia to recruit, staff, manage, pay
and retain their employees. As of June 30, 2012, Employer Services assisted
approximately 564,000 employers with approximately 652,000 payrolls. Employer
Services markets these solutions and services through its direct marketing
salesforce and, on a limited basis, through indirect sales channels, such as
marketing relationships with banks and accountants, among others. In fiscal
2012, 78% of Employer Services’ revenues were from the United States, 14% were
from Europe, 5% were from Canada, and 3% were from South America (primarily
Brazil), Australia, and Asia.

United States

Employer Services’ approach to the market is to match clients’ needs to
the solutions and services that will best meet their expectations. To facilitate
this approach, in the United States, Employer Services is comprised of the
following market-facing groups: Small Business Services (SBS) (serving primarily
organizations with fewer than 50 employees); Major Account Services (serving
primarily organizations with between 50 and 999 employees); and National Account
Services (serving primarily organizations with 1,000 or more
employees).








ADP provides
payroll services that include the preparation of client employee paychecks,
electronic directdeposits,and stored value payroll cards, along with employee
pay statements, supporting journals,summaries,and management reports. ADP also
supplies the quarterly and annual social security,Medicare,and federal, state
and local income tax withholding reports required to be filed by employers. ADP
enables its largest clients to interface their major enterprise resource
planning (ERP) applications with ADP’s outsourced payroll services. For those
companies that choose to process payroll in-house, ADP delivers stand-alone
services such as payroll tax filing, check printing and distribution, year-end
tax statements (i.e., Form W-2), and wage garnishment services. Other stand-alone
services delivered by ADP include Retirement Services, Talent Solutions, Benefit
Services, and Time and Labor Management Services. In addition, our ADP Mobile
Solutions application gives our clients’ employees access to their vital HR,
payroll, time, and benefits information via multiple smartphone
platforms.

In order to address the growing business process outsourcing (BPO) market
for clients seeking human resource information systems and benefit outsourcing
solutions, ADP offers its integrated comprehensive outsourcing services (COS)
solution that allows larger clients to outsource to ADP their HR, payroll,
payroll administration, employee service center, benefits administration, and
time and labor management functions. In fiscal 2012, ADP broadened its BPO
offerings with the addition of recruitment process outsourcing services for
large clients. For mid-sized clients, ADP Workforce Now®Comprehensive Services provides integrated tools and technology to support
payroll, a full-featured benefits administration solution, HR services and
administration needs from recruitment to retirement. ADP also offers ADP
Resource®, an integrated, flexible HR and payroll service offering
for smaller clients that provides a menu of optional services, such as 401(k),FSA,and a comprehensive Pay-by-Pay®workers’ compensation payment
program.

ADP’s Added Value Services division includes the following businesses:
Compliance and Payment Solutions (CAPS) (formerly known as Tax and Financial
Services), Insurance Services, and Tax Credit Services. These businesses
primarily support SBS, Major Account Services and/or National Account Services,
and their services are sold through those businesses, as well as by dedicated
sales teams and via marketing arrangements with alliance partners.

CAPS offers a host of full outsourcing services,
  including payroll tax, garnishment processing,payment processing, unemployment compensationmanagement,and sales and
  use tax filing. CAPS also offers wage
  verification services through a resale arrangement with a third party.
  Inaddition, CAPS offers software-as-a-service
  solutions including sales,use,and value-added taxcalculationprocessing andautomated accounts payable processing. As
  part of CAPS’ payrolltax services, CAPS
  collects and processes federal,state,and local payroll taxes on behalf of,
  andfrom, ADP clients and remits these taxes to
  the appropriate taxing authorities. This businessprovides an electronic interface between ADP clients and over 7,000
  federal,state,and local taxagencies in the
  United States, from the Internal Revenue Service to local governments. In
  fiscal2012, CAPS in the United States
  processed and delivered approximately 48 million employeeyear-end tax statements and over 40 million employer payroll
  tax returns and deposits, andmoved $1.3
  trillion in client funds to taxing authorities and its clients’ employees via
  electronictransfer, direct deposit, and
  ADPCheckTM. CAPS is also responsible for the efficient
  movementof information and funds from clients
  to third parties through service offerings such as new hirereporting, payroll check (ADPCheck), full service direct
  deposit (FSDD), and stored valuepayroll card
  (ALINE Card by ADPSM).

Insurance Services provides a comprehensive
  Pay-by-Pay workers’ compensation paymentprogram and, through Automatic Data Processing Insurance Agency, Inc.,
  offers workers compensation and group health insurance to small and mid-sized
  clients through a variety of insurance carriers.








Tax Credit Services provides job tax credit
  services that assist employers in the identification of,and filing for, federal,state,and local tax credits and
  other incentives based on geography,demographics,and othercriteria andincludes negotiation of incentive
  packages with applicablegovernmental
  agencies.

Employer Services
also provides the following solutions and services:

Retirement Services provides recordkeeping and/or
  related administrative services to primarilysmall and mid-sized clients with respect to various types of retirement
  (primarily 401(k) andSIMPLE IRA) plans,
  deferred compensationplans,and “premium only” cafeteria
  plans.Talent Solutions includes Screening and Selection
  Services, Applicant Management Services, I-9Services, and Talent Management solutions. Screening and Selection
  Services providesbackground checks, reference
  verifications and an HR help desk. Applicant ManagementServices provides employers with a Web-based solution to
  manage their talent throughout thehiring
  process. I-9 Services provides electronic processing, storing and tracking of
  employmenteligibility verification forms
  (i.e.,Form I-9). Talent Management solutions, which ADP providesboth through its own services and through resale
  arrangements with third parties, includeCompensation Management, Performance Management, Learning Management,
  and SuccessionPlanning.Benefit Services provides benefits administration
  across all market segments, includingmanagement of open enrollment and ongoing enrollment of benefits, and
  leave of absence,COBRA, Dependent Care,
  Commuter, Health Reimbursement Arrangements, Health SavingsAccounts, and FSA administration.Time and Labor Management Services provides
  solutions for employers to capture,calculate,and report employee time and attendance.

ADP also provides cloud-based medical practice management services
through AdvancedMD®. These services include practice management
software, electronic health records solutions, and comprehensive outsourced
medical billing services.

ADP made several acquisitions in fiscal 2012, including RightThing, LLC,
a provider of recruitment process outsourcing and recruitment training, W. Ray
Wallace & Associates, Inc., a provider of tax credit services, Asparity
Decisions Solutions, Inc., a supplier of employee benefits decision support
tools, SHPS Human Resource Solutions, Inc., a provider of benefits outsourcing
solutions, including eligibility and enrollment, health spending accounts, COBRA
administration, absence management, benefits advocacy and print and fulfillment,
and PhyLogic Healthcare, a provider of comprehensive outsourced medical billing
services.

International

Employer Services has a growing presence outside of the United States,
where it offers solutions on the basis of both geographic and specific client
business needs. ADP’s GlobalView®offering is available in 41
countries. GlobalView is built on the SAP®ERP Human Capital
Management and the SAP NetWeaver®platform and offers multinational
and global companies an end-to-end outsourcing solution enabling standardized
payroll processing and human resource administration. As of the end of fiscal
2012, 121 clients had contracted for GlobalView services, with approximately 1.1
million employees being processed. Upon completing the implementation for all
these clients, ADP expects to be providing GlobalView services to over 2 million
employees.








ADP also offers
in-country “best of breed” payroll and human resource outsourcing solutions to
both small and large clients in over a dozen foreign countries. In each of
Canada and Europe, ADP is the leading provider of payroll processing (including
full departmental outsourcing) and human resource administration services.
Within Europe, Employer Services has business operations supporting its
in-country solutions in eight countries: France, Germany, Italy, the
Netherlands, Poland, Spain,Switzerland,and the United Kingdom. It also offers
services in Ireland (from the United Kingdom) and in Portugal (from Spain). In
South America (primarily Brazil),Australia,and Asia (primarily China), ADP
provides traditional service bureau payroll services, and also offers full
departmental outsourcing of payroll services. ADP also offers wage and tax
collection and remittance services in Canada, the United Kingdom, theNetherlands,and France.

Through its ADP Streamline®offering, which is available in 73
countries (40 of which are countries in which ADP also offers its GlobalView
services), ADP also offers a single point of contact for global payroll
processing and human resource administration services for multinational
companies with small and mid-sized operations. At the end of fiscal 2012, ADP
Streamline was used by 495multinational companies with approximately
211,000employees being processed.

In fiscal 2012, ADP continued to expand its “best of breed” offering
through the acquisition of Ma Foi Consulting SolutionsLimited,a provider of
managed payroll services and social benefits administration services in
India.

Professional Employer Organization
(PEO) Services

In the United States, ADP TotalSource®, the Company’s PEO
business, provides approximately 6,500clients with comprehensive employment
administration outsourcing solutions through a co-employment relationship
pursuant to which the employees who work at a client’s location (“worksite
employees”) are co-employed by us and the client. These comprehensive solutions
include payroll, payroll tax filing, HR guidance, 401(k) plan administration,
benefits administration, compliance services, health and workers’ compensationcoverage,and other supplemental benefits for employees. ADP TotalSource is the
largest PEO in the United States based on the number of worksite employees. ADP
TotalSource has 49 offices located in 23 states and serves approximately 268,000
worksite employees in all 50 states.

Dealer Services

Dealer Services provides integrated dealer management systems (such a
system is also known in the industry as a “DMS”), digital marketing solutions
(including website, sales leads, email, search,display,and social media
marketingservices),and other business management solutions to auto, truck,
motorcycle, marine, recreational vehicle(RV),and heavy equipment retailers and
manufacturers in North America, Europe, South Africa, the MiddleEast,and the
Asia Pacific region. Over 26,000 auto, truck, motorcycle, marine,RV,and heavy
equipment retailers and manufacturers in nearly 100 countries use ADP’s DMS
products, digital marketing solutions, other software applications, networking
solutions, data integration, and/or consulting services.

Clients use ADP’s DMS solutions to manage core business activities such
as accounting, inventory management, factory communications, appointment
scheduling, vehicle financing and insurance,sales,and service. In addition to
its DMS solutions, Dealer Services offers its clients a full suite of additional
integrated applications to address each department and functional area of the
dealership, including customer relationship management (CRM) applications,
front-end sales and marketing/advertising solutions, and an IP Telephony phone
system fully-integrated into the DMS to help dealerships drive sales processes
and business development initiatives. Dealer Services also provides its
dealership clients computer hardware, hardware maintenance services, software
support, systemdesign,and network consulting services.








Dealer Services also designs, establishes, and maintains communications
networks for its dealership clients that allow interactive communications among
multiple site locations as well as links between franchised dealers and their
vehicle manufacturer franchisors. These networks are used for activities such as
new vehicle ordering and status inquiry, warranty submission and validation,
parts and vehicle location, dealership customer credit application submission
and decision-making, vehicle repairestimation,and acquisition of vehicle
registration and lien holder information.

Dealer Services also provides digital marketing solutions via The Cobalt
Group (Cobalt), which ADP acquired in 2010. Cobalt’s digital marketing solutions
and services include websites, sales leads, email, search,display,and social
media marketing and management services. These solutions are sold both as retail
network marketing platforms in conjunction with the manufacturers of ten leading
automotive brands, as well as directly to auto dealerships and regional dealer
associations. Cobalt®provides marketing solutions and services to
nearly half of the auto dealerships in the United States, as well as to auto
dealers in Canada and Mexico.

Dealer Services offers comprehensive training and business process
consulting services for many of its business solutions. ADP’s DMS and other
software solutions are available as “on-site” applications installed at the
dealership or as application service provider (ASP) managed services solutions
(in which clients outsource their information technology management activities
to Dealer Services).

Markets and Marketing
Methods

Employer Services offers services in the United States, Canada, Europe,
South America (primarily Brazil),Australia,and Asia. PEO Servicesoffers servicesexclusively in the United States. Dealer Services has offerings in North
America, Europe, South Africa, the Middle East and the Asia Pacific region. In
select emerging markets, Dealer Services uses distributors to sell, implement
and support ADP’s solutions.

None of ADP’s major business groups has a single homogenous client base
or market. Employer Services and PEO Services have clients from a large variety
of industries and markets. Within this client base are concentrations of clients
in specific industries. Dealer Services primarily serves automobile dealers,
which in turn may be dependent on a relatively small number of auto
manufacturers, but also serves truck, powersports (i.e., motorcycle, marine and
recreational) and heavy equipment dealers, auto repair shops, used car lots,
state departments of motorvehicles,and manufacturers of automobiles and trucks.
Employer Services alsooffers servicesto auto dealers. While concentrations of clients
exist, no one client or industry group is material to ADP’s overall revenues.

Historically,ADP’s businesses have not been overly sensitive to price
changes, although in the current economic conditions we have observed, among
some clients and groups of clients, an impact on sensitivity to pricing and
demand for ADP’s services. ADP enjoys a leadership position in each of its major
service offerings and does not believe any major service or major business unitofADP is subject to unique market risk.

Competition

The industries in which ADP operates are highly competitive. ADP knows of
no reliable statistics by which it can determine the number of its competitors,
but it believes that it is one of the largest providers of business outsourcing
solutions in the world. Employer Services and PEO Services compete with other
independent business outsourcing companies, companies providing enterprise
resource planning services, software companies and financial institutions.
Captive in-house functions, whereby a company installs and operates its own
business processing systems, are another competitive factor in the industries in
which Employer Services and PEO Services operate. Dealer Services’ competitors
include full service DMS providers such as The Reynolds & Reynolds Company
(Dealer Services’ largest DMS competitor in the United States and Canada),
DealerTrack, Inc., and companies providing applications and services that
compete with Dealer Services’ non-DMS applications and services, such as Auto
Trader Group, Inc. and Dealer.com, Inc.








Competition in ADP’s industries is primarily based on service
responsiveness, productquality,and price. ADP believes that it is very
competitive in each of these areas and that there are no material negative
factors impacting ADP’s competitive position.

Clients and Client Contracts

ADP provides its services to approximately 600,000 clients. In fiscal
2012, no single client or group of affiliated clients accounted for revenues in
excess of 2% of annual consolidated revenues.

Our business is typically characterized by long-term client relationships
that result in recurring revenue. ADP is continuously in the process of
performing implementation services for new clients. Depending on the service
agreement and/or the size of the client, the installation or conversion period
for new clients could vary from a short period of time for an SBS client (as
little as 24 hours) to a longer period for a National Account Services or Dealer
Services client with multiple deliverables (generally six to twelve months), and
in some cases may exceed two years for a large GlobalView client or other large,
complicated implementation. Although we monitor sales that have not yet been
billed or installed, we do not view this metric as material in light of the
recurring nature of our business. This is not a reported number, but it is used
by management as a planning tool relating to resources needed to install
services, and a means of assessing our performance against the installation
timing expectations of our clients.

ADP’s average client retention is estimated at approximately 11 years in
Employer Services, approximately 6 years in PEOServices,and 10 or more years in
Dealer Services, and has not varied significantly from period to
period.

ADP’s services are provided under written price quotations or service
agreements having varying terms and conditions. No one price quotation or
service agreement is material to ADP.

Systems Development and
Programming

During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012,2011,and 2010, ADP invested
$706 million, $674 million, and $614 million, respectively, from continuing
operations, in systems development and programming, migration to new computing
technologies and the development of new products and maintenance of our existing
technologies, including purchases of new software and software
licenses.

Product Development

ADP continually upgrades,enhances,and expands its existing solutions and
services. Generally, no new solution or service has a significant effect on
ADP’s revenues or negatively impacts its existing solutions and services, and
ADP’s solutions and services have significant remaining life cycles.

Licenses

ADP is the licensee under a number of agreements for computer programs
and databases. ADP’s business is not dependent upon a single license or group of
licenses. Third-party licenses, patents,trademarks,and franchises are not
material to ADP’s business as a whole.








Number of Employees

ADP employed
approximately 57,000persons as of June 30, 2012.

