Item 1. Business



General



Incorporated in Delaware in 1961, Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, “ADP” or the “Company”) is one of the world’s largest providers of business outsourcing solutions. Leveraging over 60 years of experience, ADP®offers a wide range of human resource (HR), payroll, tax and benefits administration solutions from a single source. ADP is also a leading provider of integrated computing solutions to auto, truck, motorcycle, marine, recreational vehicle, and heavy equipment dealers throughout the world. ADP’s mission is to power organizations with insightful solutions that drive business success.



The Company’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, all amendments to those reports, and the Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders are made available, free of charge, on its website atwww.adp.comas soon as reasonably practicable after such reports have been filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.



Segments of Business



The Company’s reportable segments are: Employer Services, Professional Employer Organization (PEO) Services, and Dealer Services. For financial information by segment and by geographic area, see Note 18 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A brief description of each reportable segment’s operations is provided below.



Employer Services



Employer Services offers a comprehensive range of HR information, payroll processing, time and labor management, and tax and benefits administration solutions and services, including traditional and Web-based outsourcing solutions, that assist employers in the United States, Canada, Europe, South America (primarily Brazil), Australia and Asia to staff, manage, pay and retain their employees. As of June 30, 2011, Employer Services assisted approximately 537,000 employers with approximately 628,000payrolls. Employer Services markets these solutions and services through its direct marketing salesforce and, on a limited basis, through indirect sales channels, such as marketing relationships with banks and accountants, among others. In fiscal 2011, 80% of Employer Services’ revenues were from the United States, 13% were from Europe, 5% were from Canada and 2% were from South America (primarily Brazil), Australia and Asia.



United States



Employer Services’ approach to the market is to match clients’ needs to the solutions and services that will best meet their expectations. To facilitate this approach, in the United States, Employer Services is comprised of the following market-facing groups: Small Business Services (SBS) (serving primarily organizations with fewer than 50 employees); Major Account Services (serving primarily organizations with between 50 and 999 employees); and National Account Services (serving primarily organizations with 1,000 or more employees). In addition, the Added Value Services division of Employer Services provides services to clients across all three of these groups.



ADP provides payroll services that include the preparation of client employee paychecks, electronic direct deposits and stored value payroll cards, along with employee pay statements, supporting journals, summaries and management reports. ADP also supplies the quarterly and annual social security, medicare and federal, state and local income tax withholding reports required to be filed by employers. ADP enables its largest clients to interface their major enterprise resource planning (ERP) applications with ADP’s outsourced payroll services. For those companies that choose to process payroll in-house, ADP delivers stand-alone services such as payroll tax filing, check printing and distribution, year-end tax statements (i.e., Form W-2), wage garnishment services, RetirementServices, Talent Solutions, Benefit Services, and Time and Labor Management Services. In fiscal 2011, ADP also launched its ADP Mobile Solutions application, which gives our clients’ employees access to their vital HR, payroll, and benefits information via multiple smartphone platforms.












In order to address the growing business process outsourcing (BPO) market for clients seeking human resource information systems and benefit outsourcing solutions, ADP offers its integrated comprehensive outsourcing services (COS) solution that allows larger clients to outsource to ADP their HR, payroll, payroll administration, employee service center, benefits administration, and time and labor management functions. For mid-sized clients, ADP Workforce Now®Comprehensive Services provides integrated tools and technology to support payroll, a full-featured benefits administration solution, HR guidance and HR administration needs from recruitment to retirement. ADP also offers ADP Resource®, an integrated, flexible HR and payroll service offering for smaller clients that provides a menu of optional services, such as 401(k), FSA and a comprehensive Pay-by-Pay®workers’ compensation payment program.



ADP’s Added Value Services division includes the following businesses: Compliance and Payment Solutions (CAPS) (formerly known as Tax and Financial Services), Insurance Services, and Tax Credit Services. These businesses primarily support SBS, Major Account Services and/or National Account Services, and their services are sold through those businesses, as well as by dedicated sales teams and via marketing arrangements with alliance partners.

CAPS offers a host of full outsourcing services, including payroll tax, garnishment processing, payment processing and unemployment compensation management. CAPS also offers wage verification services through a resale arrangement with a third party. In addition, CAPS offers software-as-a-service solutions including sales and use tax processing and filing, and automated accounts payable processing. As part ofCAPS’ payroll tax services, CAPS collects and processes federal, state and local payroll taxes on behalf of, and from, ADP clients and remits these taxes to the appropriate taxing authorities. This business provides an electronic interface between ADP clients and over 8,100 federal, state and local tax agencies in the United States, from the Internal Revenue Service to local governments. In fiscal 2011, CAPS in the United States processed and delivered approximately 47 million employee year-end tax statements and over 39 million employer payroll tax returns and deposits, and moved $1.2 trillion in client funds to taxing authorities and its clients’ employees via electronic transfer, direct deposit, and ADPCheck™. CAPS is also responsible for the efficient movement of information and funds from clients to third parties through service offerings such as new hire reporting, TotalPay®payroll check (ADPCheck), full service direct deposit (FSDD), and stored value payroll card (TotalPay®Card).

Insurance Services provides a comprehensive Pay-by-Pay workers’ compensation payment program and, through Automatic Data Processing Insurance Agency, Inc., offers workers compensation and group health insurance to small and mid-sized clients.

Tax Credit Services provides job tax credit services that assist employers in the identification of, and filing for, federal, state and local tax credits and other incentives based on geography, demographics and other criteria, and includes negotiation of incentive packages with applicable governmental agencies.

Employer Services also provides the following solutions and services:

Retirement Services provides recordkeeping and/or related administrative services to primarily small and mid-sized clients with respect to various types of retirement (primarily 401(k) and SIMPLE IRA) plans, deferred compensation plans and “premium only” cafeteria plans.Talent Solutions includes Screening and Selection Services, Applicant Management Services, I-9 Services, and Talent Management solutions. Screening and Selection Services provides background checks, reference verifications and an HR help desk. Applicant Management Services provides employers with aWeb-based solution to manage their talent throughout their lifecycle. I-9 Services provides electronic processing, storing and tracking of employment eligibility verification forms (i.e.,Form I-9). TalentManagement solutions, which ADP provides both through its own services and through resale arrangements with third parties, include Compensation Management, Performance Management, Learning Management, and Succession Planning.










Benefit Services provides benefits administration across all market segments, including management of open enrollment and ongoing enrollment of benefits, and leave of absence, COBRA and FSA administration.Time and Labor Management Services provides solutions for employers to capture, calculate and report employee time and attendance.

ADP made several acquisitions in fiscal 2011, including MasterTax, a leading provider of do-it-yourself payroll tax filing software, and AdvancedMD®, a leading provider of cloud-based medical practice management and electronic health records solutions.



International



Employer Services has a growing presence outside of the United States, where it offers solutions on the basis of both geographic and specific client business needs. In fiscal 2011, ADP continued to expand its GlobalView®offering, making it available in 41 countries. GlobalView is built on the SAP®ERP Human Capital Management and the SAP NetWeaver®platform and offers multinational and global companies an end-to-end outsourcing solution enabling standardized payroll processing and human resource administration. As of the end of fiscal 2011, 105 clients had contracted for GlobalView services, with approximately 934,000 employees being processed. Upon completing the implementation for all these clients, ADP expects to be providing GlobalView services to over 1.6 million employees.



ADP also offers in-country “best of breed” payroll and human resource outsourcing solutions to both small and large clients in over a dozen foreign countries. In each of Canada and Europe, ADP is the leading provider of payroll processing (including full departmental outsourcing) and human resource administration services. Within Europe, Employer Services has business operations supporting its in-country solutions in eight countries: France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. It also offers services in Ireland (from the United Kingdom) and in Portugal (from Spain). In South America (primarily Brazil), Australia and Asia (primarily China), ADP provides traditional service bureau payroll services, and also offers full departmental outsourcing of payroll services. ADP also offers wage and tax collection and remittance services in Canada, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands.



Through its ADP Streamline®offering, which is available in 70 countries (40 of which are countries in which ADP also offers its GlobalView services), ADP also offers a single point of contact for payroll processing and human resource administration services for multinational companies with small and mid-sized operations. At the end of fiscal 2011, ADP Streamline was used by 384multinational companies with approximately 107,000employees being processed.



In fiscal 2011, ADP strengthened its position in Italy by acquiring Byte Software House S.p.A., an Italian-based provider of payroll, personnel administration, time management and human resources products.



Professional Employer Organization Services



In the United States, ADP’s TotalSourceSM, the Company’s PEO business, provides approximately 6,100clients with comprehensive employment administration outsourcing solutions through a co-employment relationship whereby we and our respective clients co-employ the employees who work at the client’s location (“worksite employees”). These comprehensive solutions include payroll, payroll tax filing, HR guidance, 401(k) plan administration, benefits administration, compliance services, health and workers’ compensation coverage and other supplemental benefits for employees. ADP’s TotalSource is the largest PEO in the United States based on the number of paid worksite employees. ADP’s TotalSource has 54 offices located in 23 states and serves approximately 241,000 worksite employees in all 50 states.












Dealer Services



Dealer Services provides integrated dealer management systems (such a system is also known in the industry as a “DMS”), digital marketing solutions, and other business management solutions to auto, truck, motorcycle, marine, recreational vehicle (RV) and heavy equipment retailers in North America, Europe, Africa, the Middle East and the Asia Pacific region. Approximately 25,000 auto, truck, motorcycle, marine, RV and heavy equipment retailers in nearly 100 countries use ADP’s DMS products, other software applications, networking solutions, data integration, consulting and/or digital marketing services.



Clients use ADP’s DMS solutions to manage core business activities such as accounting, inventory management, factory communications, appointment scheduling, vehicle financing and insurance, sales and service. In addition to its DMS solutions, Dealer Services offers its clients a full suite of additional integrated applications to address each department and functional area of the dealership, including customer relationship management (CRM) applications, front-end sales and marketing/advertising solutions, and an IP Telephony phone system fully-integrated into the DMS to help dealerships drive sales processes and business development initiatives. Dealer Services also provides its dealership clients computer hardware, hardware maintenance services, software support, system design and network consulting services.



Dealer Services also designs, establishes, and maintains communications networks for its dealership clients that allow interactive communications among multiple site locations as well as links between franchised dealers and their vehicle manufacturer franchisors. These networks are used for activities such as new vehicle ordering and status inquiry, warranty submission and validation, parts and vehicle location, dealership customer credit application submission and decision-making, vehicle repair estimation and acquisition of vehicle registration and lien holder information.



In August 2010, ADP acquired The Cobalt Group (Cobalt), a leading provider of digital marketing solutions and services to the automotive industry, including websites, sales leads, email, search, display and social media marketing and management services. These solutions are sold both as retail network marketing platforms in conjunction with the manufacturers of ten leading automotive brands, as well as directly to auto dealerships and regional dealer associations. Cobalt®provides marketing solutions and services to nearly half of the auto dealerships in the United States, as well as to auto dealers in Canada and Mexico. In November 2010, ADP also acquired Kuwaiti-based PACC, a long-time distributor of ADP’s international dealer management system, Autoline®, in the Middle East region.



Dealer Services offers comprehensive training and business process consulting services for many of its business solutions. ADP’s DMS and other software solutions are available as “on-site” applications installed at the dealership or as application service provider (ASP) managed services solutions (in which clients outsource their information technology management activities to Dealer Services).



Markets and Marketing Methods



Employer Services offers services in the United States, Canada, Europe, South America (primarily Brazil), Australia and Asia. PEO Services are offered exclusively in the United States. Dealer Services has offerings in North America, Europe, Africa, the Middle East and the Asia Pacific region. In select emerging markets, Dealer Services uses distributors to sell, implement and support ADP’s solutions.



None of ADP’s major business groups has a single homogenous client base or market. Employer Services and PEO Services have clients from a large variety of industries and markets. Within this client base are concentrations of clients in specific industries. Dealer Services primarily serves automobile dealers, which in turn may be dependent on a relatively small number of auto manufacturers, but also serves truck, powersports (i.e., motorcycle, marine and recreational) and heavy equipment dealers, auto repair shops, used car lots, state departments of motorvehicles and manufacturers of automobiles and trucks. Employer Services also sells to auto dealers. While concentrations of clients exist, no one client or industry group is material to ADP’s overall revenues.












Historically ADP’s businesses have not been overly sensitive to price changes, although in the current economic conditions we have observed, among some clients and groups of clients, an impact on sensitivity to pricing and demand for ADP’s services. ADP enjoys a leadership position in each of its major service offerings and does not believe any major service or business unit in ADP is subject to unique market risk.



Competition



The industries in which ADP operates are highly competitive. ADP knows of no reliable statistics by which it can determine the number of its competitors, but it believes that it is one of the largest providers of business outsourcing solutions in the world. Employer Services and PEO Services compete with other independent business outsourcing companies, companies providing enterprise resource planning services, software companies and financial institutions. Captive in-house functions, whereby a company installs and operates its own business processing systems, are another competitive factor in the industries in which Employer Services and PEO Services operate. Dealer Services’ competitors include full service DMS providers such as The Reynolds & Reynolds Company (Dealer Services’ largest DMS competitor in the United States and Canada), DealerTrack, Inc., and companies providing applications and services that compete with Dealer Services’ non-DMS applications and services.



Competition in ADP’s industries is primarily based on service responsiveness, product quality and price. ADP believes that it is very competitive in each of these areas and that there are no material negative factors impacting ADP’s competitive position.



Clients and Client Contracts



ADP provides its services to about 570,000 clients. In fiscal 2011, no single client or group of affiliated clients accounted for revenues in excess of 2% of annual consolidated revenues.



Our business is typically characterized by long-term client relationships that result in recurring revenue. ADP is continuously in the process of performing implementation services for new clients. Depending on the service agreement and/or the size of the client, the installation or conversion period for new clients could vary from a short period of time (as little as 24 hours) for an SBS client to a longer period (generally six to twelve months) for a National Account Services or Dealer Services client with multiple deliverables, and in some cases may exceed two years for a large GlobalView client or other large, complicated implementation. Although we monitor sales that have not yet been billed or installed, we do not view this metric as material in light of the recurring nature of our business. This is not a reported number, but it is used by management as a planning tool relating to resources needed to install services, and a means of assessing our performance against the installation timing expectations of our clients.



ADP’s average client retention is estimated at approximately 11 years in Employer Services, approximately 6 years in PEO Services and 16 or more years in Dealer Services, and has not varied significantly from period to period.



ADP’s services are provided under written price quotations or service agreements having varying terms and conditions. No one price quotation or service agreement is material to ADP.



Systems Development and Programming



During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009, ADP invested $674 million, $614 million and $588 million, respectively, from continuing operations, in systems development and programming, migration to newcomputing technologies and the development of new products and maintenance of our existing technologies, including purchases of new software and software licenses.












Product Development



ADP continually upgrades, enhances and expands its existing solutions and services. Generally, no new solution or service has a significant effect on ADP’s revenues or negatively impacts its existing solutions and services, and ADP’s solutions and services have significant remaining life cycles.



Licenses



ADP is the licensee under a number of agreements for computer programs and databases. ADP’s business is not dependent upon a single license or group of licenses. Third-party licenses, patents, trademarks and franchises are not material to ADP’s business as a whole.



Number of Employees



ADP employed approximately 51,000persons as of June 30, 2011.



