
10-K


                                               
      ___________________________________________________
             SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                   WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                          Form 10-K

[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
     THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

            For the fiscal year ended December 30,1995
            Commission File Number 1-5480

                        Textron Inc.

      (Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)

Delaware                             05-0315468
(State or other jurisdiction of     (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)      Identification No.)

        40 Westminster Street, Providence, R.I. 02903
                       (401) 421-2800
     (Address and telephone number of principal executive
                          offices)
                       ______________

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

 Title of Class                         Name of Each Exchange on
                                            Which Registered

Common Stock - par value $0.125;
(85,978,117 shares outstanding at      New York Stock Exchange
March 1, 1996)                         Pacific Stock Exchange
Preferred Stock Purchase Rights        Chicago Stock Exchange

$2.08 Cumulative Convertible           New York Stock Exchange
Preferred Stock, Series A-
no par value

$1.40  Convertible Preferred
Dividend Stock, Series B
(preferred only as to dividends) -
no par value                           New York Stock Exchange 

9.25% Debentures due March 15, 2016   New York Stock Exchange    
8.75% Debentures due July 1, 2022

7.92% Trust Preferred Securities of    New York Stock Exchange
Subsidiary Trust (and Textron Guaranty
with respect thereto)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the  Act:
None

           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1)
has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13  or
15(d)  of  the  Securities Exchange Act of 1934  during  the
preceding  12  months (or for such shorter period  that  the
registrant  was required to file such reports) and  (2)  has
been  subject to such filing  requirements for the  past  90
days.     Yes X .     No     .
          Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent
filers  pursuant  to  Item  405 of  Regulation  S-K  is  not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best  of
registrant's  knowledge, in definitive proxy or  information
statements  incorporated by reference in Part  III  of  this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  [  ]
          The aggregate market value of voting stock held by
non-affiliates  of  the registrant is $6,886,686,124  as  of
March 1, 1996.
            Portions   of  Textron's   Annual   Report    to
Shareholders   for   the fiscal  year  ended   December  30,
1995  are  incorporated by  reference in Parts I and  II  of
this  Report.   Portions of Textron's  Proxy Statement   for
its  Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April  24,
1996  are  incorporated by reference in  Part  III  of  this
Report.
     __________________________________________________


                               
































                              PART I


ITEM 1. BUSINESS OF TEXTRON*

            Textron  is  a  global  multi-industry  company   with
operations  in  six  business  segments  -  Aircraft,  Automotive,
Industrial, Systems and Components,  Finance and Paul  Revere.   A
listing of the Divisions within each business segment, including a
description of the product lines of each Division, is incorporated
herein  by  reference  to pages 53 through 55  of  Textron's  1995
Annual  Report to Shareholders.  Financial information by business
segment and geographic area is incorporated herein by reference to
pages  22  and 49 of Textron's 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders.
Additional information regarding each business segment and Textron
in general is set forth below.

Business Segments
      Aircraft.   The Aircraft segment consists of Bell Helicopter
and  The  Cessna  Aircraft Company.   Based on  unit  sales,  Bell
Helicopter is the largest supplier of helicopters, spare parts and
helicopter-related services in the world.  Since it was founded in
1946,  Bell  has  delivered over 33,000 aircraft to  military  and
civilian  customers in over 120 countries.  Bell has four military
and  seven  civilian helicopter models in current production.  Its
aircraft  are  turbine powered, and range in size  from  the  five
place  Bell  Model  206 series to the  Bell Model  412P  aircraft,
which carries up to fifteen people.

      Bell's  military business includes both U.S. Government  and
non-U.S. Government customers. There are more helicopters in field
service  in  the inventory of the U.S. Government manufactured  by
Bell  than  by any other helicopter company.  Currently,  Bell  is
supplying  advanced military helicopters, spare parts and  product
support  to  the  U.S.  and  Canadian  Governments  and   to   the
governments  of several countries in the Pacific Rim, Middle  East
and  Europe.   Military sales to non-U.S. customers are made  only
with the concurrence of the U.S. Government.

      Bell  is  also  a leading supplier of commercially-certified
helicopters, with a market share of approximately 50%  of  current
deliveries to charter, offshore, utility, police, fire, rescue and
emergency   medical   helicopter   operators.    Bell's   non-U.S.
Government   business  (including  non-U.S.  military   customers)
typically  represents 40% to 60% of its annual  sales.   In  1995,
such sales accounted for  48% of Bell's business.
____________________
*  Reference  herein  to  "Textron"  includes  Textron  Inc.,  its
divisions and subsidiaries.   A Textron "Division" is an operating
unit  which  may  be  comprised of an unincorporated  division  of
Textron, a subsidiary of Textron, or an unincorporated division of
a subsidiary.

      Bell  is  teamed with the Helicopter Division of the  Boeing
Company  in the development of the V-22 Osprey tiltrotor  aircraft
for  the  U.S.  Department  of Defense.   Tiltrotor  aircraft  are
designed  to utilize the benefits of both helicopters  and  fixed-
wing  aircraft.  Production of V-22 aircraft is expected to  begin
in  late  1996 or early 1997.  In addition, Bell is developing  an
unmanned tiltrotor under contract with the Department of Defense.

      Bell  will introduce two new civilian helicopter  models  in
1996:  the single-engine Bell Model 407 (a light helicopter),  and
the   twin-engine  intermediate  size  Bell  Model   430.    Other
commercial  products  and  product  improvements  continue  to  be
developed.

      In  the  light and medium helicopter market, Bell Helicopter
has  two major U.S. competitors and one major European competitor.
Certain  of  its  competitors are substantially  larger  and  more
diversified  aircraft manufacturers.  Bell Helicopter markets  its
products worldwide through its own sales force as well as  through
independent  representatives.  Price,  financing  terms,  aircraft
performance,  reliability  and  product  support  are  significant
factors  in  the  sale  of helicopters.  Bell  has  developed  the
world's   largest   distribution  system  to  sell   and   support
helicopters, serving customers in over 120 countries.  Revenues of
Bell  Helicopter accounted for approximately 16%, 14% and  13%  of
Textron's total revenues in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

      The  Cessna  Aircraft Company is, based on unit  sales,  the
world's  largest manufacturer of light and mid-size business  jets
and  single-engine  utility turboprop aircraft.   Cessna  designs,
manufactures   and  sells  general  aviation  aircraft,   aircraft
propellers  and  related  accessories worldwide.  Based  on  units
shipped   by   manufacturers,   Cessna's   1995   share   of   all
manufacturers' worldwide sales of light and midsize jets was 52%.

      Cessna  currently  has  two major  product  lines,  Citation
business  jets and single-engine turboprop Caravans. In  addition,
Cessna has commenced construction of a manufacturing facility  for
single-engine piston aircraft production in Independence,  Kansas.
The Independence facility is scheduled to begin production in late
1996  and  will  produce Cessna Model 172, 182 and  206  aircraft,
orders for which are currently being taken.

      The  Cessna  Caravan  is the world's  best  selling  utility
turboprop.  The delivery of the 750th Caravan will occur in  1996.
Caravan  deliveries have averaged over 60 aircraft per year  since
the  Caravan's  introduction in 1982.  Caravans are  used  in  the
United   States  primarily  to  carry  overnight  express  package
shipments.   International  uses  of  Caravans  include   commuter
airlines, relief flights, tourism and freight.

      Cessna currently produces a family of Citation business jets
ranging  from the Citation Jet to the Citation X.  The Citation  X
is the world's fastest business jet with a maximum operating speed
of  Mach .92.  Full certification of the Citation X is expected in
April  1996,  with deliveries expected to commence in  June  1996.
In  addition,  deliveries of the new Citation Bravo  and  Citation
Excel business jets will commence in 1997 and 1998, respectively.

      Cessna markets its products worldwide primarily through  its
own  sales  force  as  well  as through a  network  of  authorized
independent   sales  representatives.   Cessna  has   five   major
competitors  for  its business jet products, two  U.S.  and  three
foreign.  Cessna's aircraft compete with other aircraft that  vary
in  size,  speed,  range, capacity, handling  characteristics  and
price.  Reliability and product support are significant factors in
the  sale  of  these aircraft.  Cessna provides its  business  jet
operators with factory-direct customer support offering 24 hour  a
day  service  and  maintenance.  More than 40%  of  the  worldwide
Citation  fleet of 2,300 aircraft receive service through  Cessna-
owned  service centers.  Cessna Caravan customers receive  product
support  through independently owned service stations and 24  hour
spare parts support through Cessna.

      Automotive.   The  Automotive segment,  organized  under  an
umbrella  organization called Textron Automotive Company  ("TAC"),
consists  of the Textron Automotive Trim Operations, CWC Castings,
McCord  Winn,  Micromatic  and  Randall.   These  operations  sell
primarily to automotive original equipment manufacturers and their
suppliers  ("OEMs") operating in North America and,  to  a  lesser
extent, in Europe.

      Through  its Textron Automotive Trim Operations,  TAC  is  a
leading  worldwide  supplier of automotive interior  and  exterior
plastic  components. Products include totally integrated  interior
systems,  including  instrument panels, door  and  sidewall  trim,
airbag  doors, console assemblies, trim components, package trays,
armrests and headliner systems. In addition, TAC's trim facilities
manufacture  painted  fascias, body side moldings  and  claddings,
fender liners, lighting assemblies and structural composite bumper
beams.    Revenues  of  the  Textron  Automotive  Trim  Operations
accounted  for  13%, 13% and 10% of Textron's  total  revenues  in
1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

      TAC's  other operations manufacture and sell a broad variety
of   functional components.  CWC Castings designs and manufactures
engine  camshafts, balance shafts and vibration damper components.
McCord  Winn  manufactures  seating  comfort  systems,  windshield
washer  systems  and precision DC motors. Micromatic  manufactures
machine  tools used in the production of automobile  engines   for
precision  bore and surface finishing, spline and gear production.
Randall  produces fuel filler systems, tubular seat frames,  metal
wheel covers and hub caps.

      TAC  is  headquartered in Troy, Michigan  and  has  over  30
facilities  located in the United States, Canada, Mexico  and  the
United  Kingdom.    TAC's newly opened plant in Saltillo,  Mexico,
provides components for the Dodge Ram pick-up truck.  TAC also has
a  50%  interest  in  a joint venture in the Netherlands  for  the
manufacture of instrument panels.

      In  1995,  TAC  supplied on average  approximately  $116  in
components  for every car and light truck built in North  America.

More  than  70 models currently carry parts made by TAC, including
Chrysler's  Jeep Grand Cherokee and Voyager and Caravan mini-vans,
Ford's  Lincoln Town Car and Windstar and Aerostar mini-vans,  and
GM's  Cadillac  Seville,  Cutlass Supreme  and  Pontiac  Transport
minivan.  TAC supplies almost $800 of components in every Chrysler
LH series car.

       TAC's manufacturing operations are supported by a staff  of
research  and  design  specialists at TAC's Automotive  Technology
Center.  These  specialists  have  developed  new  processes   and
products, many of which are patented, that allow TAC to offer  its
customers  technology  driven  products  and  processes.   In  the
plastics  and  coatings  area, TAC  is  a   recognized  leader  in
alternative  skin  materials (including non-PVC materials),  spray
urethane  and cloth integration, energy management foam (including
impact  and  knee bolsters), the development of modular integrated
assemblies   and  vertical  body  panels,  and  High   Crystalline
Polypropylene   material   for  complete  mold-in-color   interior
components. CWC Castings is a leader in the design and manufacture
of  automotive castings. It has developed a selective austempering
heat  treatment process for ductile camshafts as well as a  vacuum
casting  system for hollow steel camshafts. McCord Winn is working
with OEMs worldwide to develop advanced technologies in areas such
as  "intelligent"  comfort seating systems, brushless  motors  and
carbon  commutation  for  flexible fuel  applications.  Micromatic
machine  tools  are  recognized throughout  the  world  for  their
cylindrical form generation and surface finishing capabilities.

      In  the automotive business, there is often a long lead time
from the time a supplier is selected to supply components on a new
car  model  to  the  time the supplier can  first  begin  shipping
production  parts.    During  this  period,  the  supplier  incurs
engineering  and  development  costs.  Until  recently,  the  OEMs
reimbursed  the supplier for these costs as incurred.  Within  the
last few years, the OEMs have begun to require that these costs be
recovered  in  the  piece prices charged by the suppliers  as  the
goods  are  shipped.  In addition, automotive OEMs  often  require
"just-in-time"  delivery, so the manufacturer  has  to  both  plan
shipments in advance and hold inventory.

      Automotive  OEMs  and  their  suppliers  are  the  principal
customers  of  TAC.  The only customers, the loss of  which  would
have  a  material  adverse  effect on  TAC,  are  the  U.S.  based
automotive OEMs and their first-tier suppliers.  However,  because
of  the  broad  range of products sold to such  customers,  it  is
unlikely that such customers would cease all purchases from TAC.

      Each of TAC's businesses faces competition from a number  of
other manufacturers, based primarily on price, quality, reputation
and  delivery.   Although TAC is one of the largest  manufacturers
offering  its  range  of products and services,  it  faces  strong
competition  in  all  of  its market  segments.   Because  of  the
diversity of products and services offered, no single company is a
competitor in all market segments.  In certain markets,  TAC  also
competes for business with the OEMs' own operations.


      Industrial.  The Industrial segment consists of three  major
product  groups:  Fastening Systems, Golf and Turf Care Equipment,
and Diversified Products.

      The  Fastening Systems Group consists of the Avdel,  Camcar,
Cherry  and  Elco Divisions, which manufacture and sell fasteners,
fastening   systems  and  installation  tools  to  the  aerospace,
appliance,  automotive, business equipment,  construction,  do-it-
yourself,  general industrial and transportation  markets.   Sales
are   made   to  a  wide  range  of  customers,  including   OEMs,
distributors and consumers.  Fasteners manufactured by  the  Group
include  rivets,  threaded and non-threaded  fasteners  and  cold-
formed  special fasteners, as well as assemblies which incorporate
such  products  with other products, such as metal  stampings  and
molded plastics. Elco was acquired by Textron in 1995, as was  the
German-based  Boesner unit of Camcar.  In February  1996,  Textron
announced  that  it had signed a definitive agreement  to  acquire
Valios  Industries,  a  French based  manufacturer  of  engineered
fastening systems, subject to European Commission approval.

      Although  the Fastening Systems Group is one of the  largest
manufacturers of its products and services, there are hundreds  of
competitors  of  the  Fastening Systems Group ranging  from  small
proprietorships to multi-national companies.  As is the case  with
all  Divisions  of  the Industrial segment, competition  is  based
primarily   on  price,  quality,  reputation  and  delivery.    In
addition,   larger customers of fastening systems tend to  procure
products  and  services  from  the larger  suppliers,  except  for
"niche" products which may be sourced from smaller companies.  The
only  customers, the loss of  which would have a material  adverse
effect  on  the  Fastening Systems Group, are the U.S.  automotive
OEMs  and  their  first-tier suppliers.  However, because  of  the
broad  range  of products sold to such customers, it  is  unlikely
that  such  customers will cease all purchases from the  Fastening
Systems Group.

     The Golf and Turf Care Equipment Group consists of the E-Z-GO
Division,  which  manufactures  and  sells  electric  powered  and
gasoline powered golf cars and multipurpose utility vehicles,  and
the  Jacobsen  Division, which manufactures and sells professional
mowing and turf maintenance equipment.  The customers of the  Golf
and  Turf  Care Equipment Group consist primarily of golf courses,
resort  communities and commercial and industrial  users  such  as
airports  and factories.  Sales are made directly through  factory
branches,  through  a network of distributors  and  to  end-users.
Many  sales  of  golf  and  turf  care  equipment  (both  at   the
distributor  and  end-user  level) are  financed  through  Textron
Financial  Corporation,  both for marketing  purposes  and  as  an
additional source of revenue to Textron.

       The   Diversified  Products  Group  consists  of  Divisions
manufacturing   a   wide  range  of  products,  including   double
enveloping  worm gear speed reducers, gear motors  and  gear  sets
(Cone Drive);  powered equipment, electrical test instruments  and
hand  tools (Greenlee);  and watch attachments and fashion jewelry
(Speidel).  Products of the Diversified Products Group are sold to
a wide variety of customers, including OEMs, distributors and end-
users.

      Systems and Components.  The Systems and Components  segment
consists  of  seven  Divisions which  serve  both  commercial  and
military  customers,  primarily  in  aerospace  markets,  with  an
extensive  offering of systems, subsystems, components,  materials
and services.
      Fuel Systems designs, manufactures and overhauls gas turbine
engine  injection and metering devices, fuel distribution  valves,
and  augmentor fuel injection systems for commercial and  military
aircraft,  and  industrial, marine, and  vehicular  markets.   OEM
sales  are  made  directly to customers, and overhaul  and  repair
services  are  sold directly to domestic customers and  through  a
distributor for international customers.  Fuel Systems invests  in
the  design  and development of innovative, proprietary  products,
provides  on-site engineering support at customer facilities,  and
maintains  a  state-of-the-art development  laboratory  to  extend
customers' own design activities.
      HR  Textron ("HRT") designs and manufactures control systems
and  components  for  aircraft, armored  vehicles  and  commercial
applications.  HRT  markets  its aerospace  and  defense  products
directly  to the U.S. Government and OEMs and, in the aftermarket,
both  directly and through service centers.  HRT has  launched  an
initiative  to  diversify its business base by adapting  aerospace
technology  to  servovalves  used  in  commercial  and  industrial
applications,  including timber milling, molding  machinery,  test
equipment, and animated figures in entertainment theme parks.   In
addition, HRT is working with several automotive manufacturers  to
develop   fast  acting  precision  control  products  for   active
suspension, power steering, and braking systems.
      Textron  Aerostructures designs and manufactures  structural
assemblies  for  aircraft  and  space  vehicles.   The   principal
products of Textron Aerostructures, which are marketed directly to
its   customers,  are  wing  components  for  the  Airbus  330/340
aircraft,  the  empennage  for the C130  military  transport,  the
empennage  for  the  Bell/Boeing V-22 Osprey, the  wings  for  the
Gulfstream  GIV executive jet, and the nose cones and  aft  skirts
for the Titan IV booster.
       Textron  Lycoming  is  the  world  leader  in  the  design,
manufacture and overhaul of reciprocating piston aircraft  engines
serving  the worldwide general aviation market, with a   worldwide
market share of 80 percent of units sold.  Textron Lycoming  sells
new  products directly to general aviation airframe manufacturers,
including  Piper  Aircraft,  Robinson  Helicopter  and  SOCATA,  a
division  of Aerospatiale, and will build the engines for Cessna's
new  product  line of single engine aircraft.   Aftermarket  sales
are  made  to  the  more than 180,000 existing owners  of  Textron
Lycoming  products  through a worldwide network  of  independently
owned distributors.
      Textron Marine & Land Systems ("TM&LS") is a world leader in
the  design  and construction of advanced marine craft,  including
air  cushion vehicles, surface effect ships and rugged  monohulls.
TM&LS's   products  also  include light armored  combat  vehicles,
turrets,  gun  systems  and advanced suspension  systems.  TM&LS's
products  are  in  use  in  35  countries  by  both  military  and
commercial  customers.  TM&LS's products are marketed directly  in
the   United   States   and  through  sales  representatives   and
distributors internationally.  TM&LS has been awarded a production
contract from the U.S. Coast Guard for its 47' Motor Lifeboat  and
a contract from the U.S. Army for the design and production of its
Armored Security Vehicle.

      Textron  Systems designs and manufactures products in  three
primary  areas: sensor fuzed munitions, surveillance  systems  and
aircraft  landing systems.   The focus of Textron  Systems  is  on
real-time control systems _ products that sense their environment,
analyze and process data, make a decision, and take action in real
time.    Sales  are  made primarily to the  U.  S.  Department  of
Defense, but Textron Systems also is applying its technologies  to
several  commercial products, including aircraft  landing  systems
and  opto-electronic sensors. In February, 1996,  Textron  Systems
become  responsible  for  the operations  of  the  former  Textron
Specialty Materials Division, which develops and manufactures high
strength,  lightweight, advanced composite materials for aircraft,
automotive, industrial and sporting goods manufacturers, and  fire
protection  materials  for oil and chemical  companies  worldwide.
Textron  Systems  generally sells its  products  directly  to  its
customers, but Specialty Materials products are also sold  through
sales  representatives  and  a small proportion  of  international
sales are made through sales representatives and distributors.
      Turbine  Engine  Components is one of  the  world's  largest
independent  suppliers  of  internal components  for  gas  turbine
engines  for  aircraft and industrial applications.  Its  products
include  fan and compressor blades, vanes, shafts, disks,  rotors,
blisks  and  other  rotating components; the forgings  from  which
those  products are machined; and stationary components of turbine
engines,  such as frames, diffusers, and air collectors.   Turbine
Engine  Components manufactures its products to the specifications
of  its customers, and most of its sales are made directly to  its
customers.
      The  principal competitive factors affecting  sales  of  the
products of the Systems and Components segment are price, quality,
customer   service,  performance,  reliability,   reputation   and
existing product base.  In the case of programs requiring a  large
investment  in  inventory and tooling, such as  those  of  Textron
Aerostructures, competitive factors also include a willingness  to
invest in the customer's program.

      Finance.   The  Finance segment consists of  Avco  Financial
Services ("AFS") and Textron Financial Corporation ("TFC").

      AFS  is  primarily engaged in consumer finance and insurance
activities.  AFS's finance operations mainly involve loans made by
the  Avco  Financial Services Group, consisting of consumer  loans
which  are unsecured or secured by personal property, real  estate
loans  secured by real property, and retail installment contracts,
principally covering personal property.  AFS's insurance  business
consists  primarily of the sale of credit life, credit  disability
and   casualty  insurance,  offered  through  the  Avco  Insurance
Services Group, a significant part of which is directly related to
AFS's  finance activities.   AFS's consumer finance and  insurance
activities are conducted through its nearly 1,200 finance  offices
located  in the United States, Australia, Canada, Hong  Kong,  New
Zealand,  Spain  and the United Kingdom.  AFS's loan  business  is
regulated  by  laws  that,  among other  things,  generally  limit
maximum charges for loans and the maximum amount and term thereof.
Such  laws  also require disclosure to customers of  the  interest
rate  and  other basic terms of most credit transactions and  give
customers  a  limited  right to cancel certain  loans  and  retail

installment  contracts without penalty.  In addition,  in  certain
jurisdictions,  its  retail installment  business  is  subject  to
regulations that, among other things, limit the rates which may be
charged and require that certain disclosures be made to customers.
The  insurance business is subject to licensing and regulation  by
state authorities.

      The  consumer  finance business is highly competitive,  with
price  and service being the principal competitive factors.  AFS's
competitors  include  not  only other  companies  operating  under
consumer  loan laws, but also other types of lending  institutions
not  so  regulated and usually not limited in the  size  of  their
loans,  such  as  companies which finance the sale  of  their  own
merchandise  or the merchandise of others, industrial  banks,  the
personal  loan departments of commercial banks and credit  unions.
AFS's  strongest competition is from commercial banks  and  credit
unions.   The  interest rates charged by these lenders are usually
lower  than the rates charged by AFS.  AFS's insurance businesses,
to  the  extent  not related to AFS's finance activities,  compete
with many other insurance companies offering similar products.  In
January  1995, AFS purchased the stock of Household International,
Inc.'s  Australian  subsidiary,  HFC  of  Australia  Ltd.,  adding
approximately $436 million to AFS's finance receivable  portfolio.
Revenues  of AFS accounted for approximately 17%, 14% and  15%  of
Textron's total revenues in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

      TFC is a diversified commercial finance company specializing
in  aircraft,  golf and equipment financing and  revolving  credit
arrangements.   TFC provides commercial financing for a wide range
of  customers,  including  those who  purchase  or  lease  Textron
products   and  certain  suppliers  to  Textron  Divisions.    TFC
presently offers its services primarily in the United States  and,
to  a  lesser  extent,  in Europe and Canada,  through  its  eight
business  units.   Each TFC business unit has  a  discrete  market
focus  and  specific profit objectives and is staffed  to  provide
responsive  services to its market.  TFC's activities are  subject
to a variety of federal and state regulations.

      The businesses in which TFC operates are highly competitive.
TFC  is  subject  to competition from various types  of  financing
institutions,   including   banks,   investment   banks,   leasing
companies,  insurance  companies,  independent  finance  companies
associated  with manufacturers and public utilities,  and  finance
companies   that   are  subsidiaries  of   banking   institutions.
Competition  within the commercial finance industry  is  primarily
focused on price and service.

Finance Receivables

The  following  table  presents the Finance segment's  outstanding
finance receivables by country:

                            December 31,

                      1995               1994

                          (In millions)
                              
United States      $6,750              $6,627
                           
Australia           1,026                 626
                   
Canada              1,013                 942
                    
United Kingdom        632                 613
                   
Other countries       473                 276               
                    
                                   
                   $9,894              $9,084
                    
                    
                                 

      At  December  31, 1995, finance receivables  in  the  United
States  represented  68%  of Textron's total  finance  receivables
outstanding.  At such date, no receivables outstanding in any  one
state  other  than  California exceeded 7% of  the  United  States
portfolio.  In California, outstanding receivables represented 16%
of  the  United  States  portfolio and  11%  of  the  consolidated
portfolio.

      Accrual  of interest income is suspended for accounts  which
are   contractually   delinquent  by  more   than   three   months
(commercial) or three payments (consumer).  Accrual of interest on
commercial  loans  is resumed, and suspended  interest  income  is
recognized,  when  loans  become  contractually  current,  whereas
subsequent  interest income on consumer loans is  recognized  when
collected.   Nonearning consumer and commercial  loans  were  $115
million and $99 million, respectively,  at the end of 1995 and $82
million and $100 million, respectively, at the end of 1994.

      The following table presents accruing loans on which one  or
more installments were more than 60 days past due (expressed as  a
percentage of the related gross receivables outstanding):

  Years ended               Consumer   Commercial   Total
 December 31,                  
                             loans       loans      loans
                                                
 1995                        2.89%       0.24%      2.10%
                                           
 1994                        2.28%         -        1.59%
                                           

      The  following  table shows gross and  net  write-offs,  the
percentages   which   those  amounts  bear  to   average   finance
receivables, and the amount of the provision for losses charged to
income (less recoveries):
                                                          
                                        
                  Gross write-offs  Recoveries   Net write-offs
                   Percentage       from         Percentage       Provision
                   of average       receivables  of average       for losses
  Years ended      finance          previously   finance          less
 December 31, Amount receivables    written off Amount receivables recoveries
(In millions)                                                           

                                                              
   Consumer   $177    2.6%             $33      $144    2.1%       $149
   Commercial   25    0.9%               4        21    0.7%         19
        
              $202    2.1%             $37      $165    1.7%       $168
                                                            
   Consumer  $ 142    2.5%            $ 28     $ 114    2.0%      $ 136
   Commercial   27    1.0%               3        24    0.4%         24
        
             $ 169    2.0%            $ 31     $ 138    1.6%      $ 160
                                                            
                                                            
   Consumer $ 138    2.7%             $ 26     $ 112    2.1%      $ 121
   Commercial  20    0.8%                3        17    0.7%         21
        
            $ 158    2.0%             $ 29     $ 129    1.7%      $ 142
                                                            


     Paul Revere.   Paul Revere, which is 83% owned by Textron, is
the  leading  provider  of  individual  non-cancelable  disability
insurance  in  the United States and Canada.  In addition  to  its
individual   disability  insurance  products,  Paul  Revere   also
provides  group  disability,  life  and  annuity  products.   Paul

Revere's  products  are marketed primarily through  its  brokerage
organization, its national accounts program and its  career  sales
agency system.  Paul Revere is subject to regulation by the states
in  which  its  insurance subsidiaries are domiciled  or  transact
business.   In addition, Paul Revere's insurance subsidiaries  are
subject  to various regulatory restrictions on the maximum  amount
of  dividends and other payments that they can make to Paul Revere
without obtaining prior regulatory approval.  Paul Revere operates
in  a highly competitive environment.  Insurance companies compete
on  the  basis  of  many  factors, including  financial  strength,
pricing  and  other  terms and conditions of products,  commission
structure,  perceived  stability of  the  insurer,  claims  paying
ratings, service, name recognition and reputation.

Backlog
     Information  regarding Textron's backlog  of  government  and
commercial orders by business segment at the end of the  past  two
fiscal  years  is  contained on page 29 of Textron's  1995  Annual
Report  to  Shareholders,  which page is  incorporated  herein  by
reference.

     Approximately 45% of Textron's total backlog at December  30,
1995, represents orders which are not expected to be filled within
the  1996 fiscal year.  Approximately 60% of the total backlog  is
funded.

Government Contracts
     In  1995, 33% and 49% of the revenues of the Aircraft and the
Systems and Components segments, respectively, constituting 13% of
Textron's  consolidated revenues, were generated  by  or  resulted
from contracts with the United States Government.  U.S. Government
business   is  subject  to  competition,  changes  in  procurement
policies   and   regulations,  the  continuing   availability   of
Congressional  appropriations, world  events,  and  the  size  and
timing of programs in which Textron may participate.
     A  substantial portion of Textron's government contracts  are
fixed-price  or  fixed-price incentive contracts.  Contracts  that
contain  incentive  pricing terms provide for upward  or  downward
adjustments  in the prices paid by the U.S. Government  thereunder
upon  completion  of the contract or any agreed  portion  thereof,
based  on  cost  or  other performance factors.   U.S.  Government
contracts generally may be terminated in whole or in part  at  the
convenience  of  the U.S. Government or if the  contractor  is  in
default.   Upon  termination of a contract for the convenience  of
the  U.S.  Government,  the contractor  is  normally  entitled  to
reimbursement for allowable costs incurred  (up to a maximum equal
to  the  contract price) and an allowance for profit or adjustment
for  loss  if  the contractor would have incurred a loss  had  the
entire contract been completed.  If, however, a contract is  termi
nated for default:  (i) the contractor is paid such amount as  may
be agreed upon for manufacturing materials and partially completed
products accepted by the U.S. Government; (ii) the U.S. Government
is   not  liable  for  the  contractor's  costs  with  respect  to
unaccepted items and is entitled to repayment of advance  payments
and  progress payments, if any, related to the terminated portions
of the contract; and (iii) the contractor may be liable for excess
costs  incurred  by  the U.S. Government in procuring  undelivered
items from another source.

Research and Development
     Information  regarding  Textron's  research  and  development
expenditures  is  contained on page 45 of  Textron's  1995  Annual
Report  to  Shareholders,  which page is  incorporated  herein  by
reference.

Patents and Trademarks
     Textron  owns, or is licensed under, a number of patents  and
trademarks   throughout   the  world  relating   to   methods   of
manufacturing and products.  Patents and trademarks have  been  of
value  in the past and are expected to be of value in the  future;
however,  the loss of any single patent or group of patents  would
not,  in the opinion of Textron, materially affect the conduct  of
its business.

Environmental Considerations
    Textron's operations, like those of other companies engaged in
similar  businesses, are subject to numerous laws and  regulations
designed  to protect the environment.   Compliance with such  laws
and  expenditures  for environmental control facilities  have  not
had,  and  are not expected to have, a material effect on  capital
expenditures,  earnings or the competitive  position  of  Textron.
Additional   information   regarding  environmental   matters   is
contained  on pages 29, 38 and 48 of Textron's 1995 Annual  Report
to Shareholders, which pages are incorporated herein by reference.

Employees
     At  December  30,  1995,  Textron  had  approximately  57,000
employees.

ITEM 2.     PROPERTIES
     At  December 30, 1995, Textron operated a total of 136 plants
located  throughout  the United States and 9  plants  outside  the
United States.  Of the total of 145 plants, Textron owned 104  and
the balance was leased.  In the aggregate, the total manufacturing
space was approximately 25 million square feet.
      In  addition, Textron owns or leases offices, warehouse  and
other space at various locations throughout the United States  and
outside  the  United  States.  Textron also owns  or  leases  such
machinery  and equipment as is necessary in the operation  of  its
Divisions.   Textron  considers the  productive  capacity  of  the
plants  operated by each of its business segments to be  adequate.
In  general,  the plants and machinery are in good condition,  are
considered  to  be adequate for the uses to which they  are  being
put, and are substantially in regular use.

ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
     There  are pending or threatened against Textron and its  sub
sidiaries  lawsuits and other proceedings, some  of  which  allege
violations of federal government procurement regulations,  involve
environmental  matters, or are or purport  to  be  class  actions.
Among   these   suits  and  proceedings  are   some   which   seek
compensatory,  treble or punitive damages in substantial  amounts;
fines,  penalties or restitution; or the remediation of  allegedly
hazardous  wastes;  or which under federal government  procurement
regulations could result in suspension or debarment of Textron  or
its subsidiaries from U.S. Government contracting for a period  of
time.   On  the basis of information presently available,  Textron
believes  that  any liability for these suits and proceedings,  or
the  impact  of  the  application of such government  regulations,
would  not  have  a  material effect on Textron's  net  income  or
financial condition.

ITEM 4.     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
     No  matters  were  submitted to a vote of Textron's  security
holders  during  the last quarter of the period  covered  by  this
Report.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT


         The   following  table  sets  forth  certain  information
concerning the executive officers of Textron as of March 4,  1996.
Unless otherwise indicated, the employer is Textron.
                                                
Name                   Age                  Position
                                 
James F. Hardymon      61        Chairman since 1993, and  Chief
                                 Executive  Officer since  1992;
                                 formerly  President, 1989
                                 through  1993, and Chief
                                 Operating  Officer, 1989
                                 through 1991; Director since
                                 1989.
                                                
                 CORPORATE OPERATING MANAGEMENT
                                                
Lewis B. Campbell      49        President  and Chief  Operating
                                 Officer  since  1994;  formerly
                                 Executive  Vice  President  and
                                 Chief  Operating Officer,  1992
                                 to   1993;  Vice  President  of
                                 General  Motors (1988 to  1992)
                                 and  General Manager of its GMC
                                 Truck  Division (1991 to 1992),
                                 and   General  Manager  of  its
                                 Flint  Automotive  Division
                                 Buick  -  Oldsmobile - Cadillac
                                 Group (1988 to 1991); Director
                                 since 1994.
                                 
Harold K. McCard       64        Senior  Vice  President
                                 Operations  since August  1995;
                                 formerly  President of  Textron
                                 Systems  Division,  1985  to
                                 August 1995.
                                 
Herbert L. Henkel      47        President, Textron Industrial
                                 Products since August 1995;

                                 formerly Group Vice President,
                                 Textron Inc., 1993 to August
                                 1995;  President  of the
                                 Greenlee Textron Division,
                                 1987 to 1993.
                                 
Derek Plummer          62        Chairman, Textron Automotive
                                 Company  since April 1994;
                                 formerly Group Vice President,
                                 Textron Inc., 1986 to 1994.
                                 
Terry D. Stinson       54        President, Textron Systems  and
                                 Components  since August  1995;
                                 formerly  Group Vice President,
                                 Textron  Inc., 1991  to  August
                                 1995;  President  of  the
                                 Hamilton  Standard Division  of
                                 United Technologies
                                 Corporation, 1986 to 1991.
                                 
                                 
                   CORPORATE STAFF MANAGEMENT
                                 
Mary L. Howell         43        Executive    Vice    President,
                                 Government   and  International
                                 since  August  1995;  formerly
                                 Senior  Vice  President
                                 Government  and International
                                 Relations 1993 to August  1995;
                                 Vice  President  -  Government
                                 Affairs, 1985 to 1993.
                                 
Wayne W. Juchatz       49        Executive  Vice  President  and
                                 General  Counsel  since  April
                                 1995;  formerly Executive Vice
                                 President  and General Counsel
                                 of R.J.  Reynolds Tobacco
                                 Company, 1994 to 1995;  and
                                 Senior Vice President, General
                                 Counsel and Secretary of   R.J.
                                 Reynolds Tobacco Company,  1987
                                 to 1994.
                                 
Stephen L. Key         52        Executive  Vice  President  and
                                 Chief  Financial Officer  since
                                 March  1995; formerly Executive
                                 Vice  President  and  Chief
                                 Financial  Officer of  ConAgra,
                                 Inc., 1992 to  March  1995;
                                 Managing  Partner  of  the  New
                                 York  office of Ernst  &  Young
                                 (formerly  Arthur Young),  1988
                                 to 1992.
                                 
Richard A. McWhirter   61        Executive  Vice  President  and
                                 Corporate  Secretary  since
                                 March  1995; formerly Executive
                                 Vice  President  and  Chief
                                 Financial  Officer,  1993   to
                                 March  1995;  Senior  Vice
                                 President  and Secretary,  1991
                                 to  1993; Senior Vice President
                                 -  Insurance  and Environmental
                                 Affairs, 1988 to 1991.
                                 
William F. Wayland     60        Executive  Vice President
                                 Administration and Chief  Human
                                 Resources  Officer since
                                 January 1993; formerly
                                 Executive Vice President   -
                                 Human  Resources, 1989  to
                                 January 1993.
                                 
Richard A. Watson       51       Senior  Vice  President and
                                 Treasurer  since October  1995;
                                 formerly Senior  Vice
                                 President, Financial Services,
                                 August  1995  to October  1995;
                                 Group  Vice President, 1990  to
                                 August 1995.

                                 
Carl D. Burtner         53       Vice  President  -  Human
                                 Resources  since  September
                                 1995;  also  served  as  Acting
                                 President  of Speidel  Textron,
                                 September  1995  to  January
                                 1996;  formerly  President  of
                                 Greenlee  Textron, 1993 to
                                 September  1995; Vice President
                                 Operations   of  Greenlee
                                 Textron, 1991 to  1993;   and
                                 Vice  President, Administration
                                 of  Greenlee Textron,  1985  to
                                 1991.
                                 
Peter B. S. Ellis      42        Vice  President  Strategic
                                 Planning since  March  1995;
                                 formerly  Managing  Director,
                                 Telecommunications Practice  of
                                 Arthur  D.  Little, Inc.,  1991
                                 to  March 1995; Vice President,
                                 Business Development of  Contel
                                 Corporation, 1988 to 1991.
                                 
Douglas A. Fahlbeck    50        Vice  President -  Mergers  and
                                 Acquisitions    since    August
                                 1995;  formerly Executive  Vice
                                 President, Chief Financial
                                 Officer    and   Director    of
                                 Textron  Financial Corporation,
                                 1994  to  August  1995;  Senior
                                 Vice  President  and  Chief
                                 Financial  Officer  of  Textron
                                 Financial Corporation, 1985  to
                                 1994.
                                 
Arnold M. Friedman     53        Vice   President   and   Deputy
                                 General Counsel since 1984.
                                 
William B. Gauld       42        Vice   President  -   Corporate
                                 Information  Management  and
                                 Chief Information   Officer
                                 since  August  1995;  formerly
                                 Staff  Vice  President,
                                 Corporate  Information
                                 Management and  Chief
                                 Information  Officer,  1994  to
                                 August  1995; Chief Information
                                 Officer of General  Electric
                                 (Electrical  Distribution  and
                                 Control business) 1992  to
                                 1994; Manager,  Manufacturing
                                 Systems  of General  Electric
                                 (Appliances), 1989 to 1992.
                                 
Gregory E.Hudson       49        Vice  President -  Taxes  since
                                 1987.
                                 
William P. Janovitz    53        Vice   President  -   Financial
                                 Reporting  since October  1995;
                                 formerly  Vice  President  and
                                 Controller,  1983 to  October
                                 1995.
                                 
Mary F. Lovejoy        40        Vice   President   -   Investor
                                 Relations  since  August  1995;
                                 formerly  Director of  Investor
                                 Relations,   1993   to   August
                                 1995;   Vice   President    and
                                 Senior Corporate Banker of  The
                                 First  National  Bank   of
                                 Chicago,   1991 to  1993;  Vice
                                 President  and  Senior
                                 Transaction  Manager   of   The
                                 First National  Bank  of
                                 Chicago, 1989 to 1991.
                                 
Frank W. McNally       56        Vice   President   -   Employee
                                 Relations  and  Benefits  since
                                 August  1995;  formerly   Staff
                                 Vice  President,  Employee
                                 Relations  and  Benefits,  1993
                                 to   August  1995,  Staff  Vice
                                 President  Employee  Relations,
                                 1992  to  1993;  Director,
                                 Employee  Relations,  1991   to
                                 1992.
                                 
                                 
 Gero K.H. Meyersiek  49         Vice  President - International
                                 since  February 1996;  formerly
                                 Vice  President  of  Textron
                                 International  Inc.,   February
                                 1995  to  February  1996;  Vice
                                 President, International
                                 Business  Development  of  GE
                                 Financial  Services,  1991  to
                                 1994; Managing  Director,
                                 European  Business  Development
                                 of  GE Financial Services, 1988
                                 to 1991.
                                 
Daniel L. Shaffer      59        Vice  President  Audit   and
                                 Business  Ethics since November
                                 1994;  formerly  President  of
                                 Textron's  Aircraft  Engine
                                 Components  Division,  1992  to
                                 November  1994; Vice  President
                                 Finance  of the Textron Systems
                                 Division, 1984 to 1992.
                                 
Richard F. Smith       57        Vice   President  -  Government
                                 Affairs  since  August   1995;
                                 Staff  Vice   President    -
                                 Government Affairs, March  1995
                                 to  August  1995;  Director   -
                                 Government  Affairs,  1985   to
                                 March 1995.
                                 
Richard L. Yates       45        Vice  President and  Controller
                                 since  November 1995;  formerly
                                 Executive    Vice    President,
                                 Chief  Financial  Officer   and
                                 Treasurer of Paul Revere,  1994
                                 to  November 1995; Senior  Vice
                                 President,   Chief    Financial
                                 Officer  and Treasurer of  Paul
                                 Revere, 1991 to 1994.
                                 
John F. Zugschwert     62        Vice   President  -  Government
                                 Marketing  since  August  1995;
                                 Staff      Vice      President,
                                 Washington Operations  1993  to
                                 August  1995;  Vice  President,
                                 Washington Operations  of  Bell
                                 Helicopter  Textron,  1991   to
                                 1993.


      No family relationship exists between any of the individuals
named above.
                              
                              PART II

ITEM 5.     MARKETS FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON
             EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     Textron's common stock is traded on the New York, Chicago and
Pacific   Stock  Exchanges.    Additional  information   regarding
"Markets   for   the  Registrant's  Common  Equity   and   Related
Stockholder Matters" is contained on pages 51 and 52  and  on  the
inside back cover of Textron's 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders,
which pages are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 6.      SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     Information regarding "Selected Financial Data" is  contained
in  the  Five  Year  Summary on page 52 of Textron's  1995  Annual
Report  to  Shareholders,  which page is  incorporated  herein  by
reference.

ITEM 7.     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
            FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial  Condition
and  Results of Operations is contained on pages 23 through 29  of
Textron's  1995  Annual Report to Shareholders,  which  pages  are
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The  consolidated financial statements and the  supplementary
information   listed  in  the  accompanying  index  to   financial
statements and financial statement schedules are filed as part  of
this Report.


ITEM 9.      CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS
              ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    None.

                              PART III

ITEM 10.     DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Information  regarding Textron's directors  is  contained  on
pages 2 through 6 and page 9 of Textron's Proxy Statement for  the
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 24, 1996, which
pages are incorporated herein by reference.

    Information regarding Textron's executive officers is included
on pages 14 through 17 of Part I of this  Report.


ITEM 11.      EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

    Information regarding "Executive Compensation" is contained on
pages  10 through 20 of Textron's Proxy Statement for the   Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 24, 1996, which  pages
are incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 12.     SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN
              BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

      Information   regarding  "Security  Ownership   of   Certain
Beneficial  Holders"  and "Security Ownership  of  Management"  is
contained  on pages 8 and 9 of Textron's Proxy Statement  for  the
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 24, 1996, which
pages are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.     CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

      Information  regarding  certain  relationships  and  related
transactions is contained on page 19 of Textron's Proxy  Statement
for  the   Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April  24,
1996, which page is incorporated herein by reference.

                              PART IV

ITEM  14.     EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS
ON FORM 8-K

    (a) Financial Statements and Schedules
      The   consolidated   financial   statements,   supplementary
information  and  financial  statement  schedules  listed  in  the
accompanying index to financial statements and financial statement
schedules are filed as part of this Report.

    Exhibits
    3.1        Restated  Certificate  of  Incorporation   of
               Textron  as filed March 24, 1988.  Incorporated  by
               reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Textron's Annual Report
               on  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January  2,
               1988.
    3.2        By-Laws  of  Textron,  restated  December  10,
               1992.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2  to
               Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
               year ended January 2, 1993.
    
    NOTE:      Exhibits   10.1  through  10.21   below   are
               management   contracts   or   compensatory   plans,
               contracts or agreements.
    10.1       Annual  Incentive  Compensation  Plan   For
               Textron Employees.
    10.2       Deferred  Income  Plan  For   Textron   Key
               Executives.
    10.3       Severance Plan For Textron Key Executives.
    10.4       Special Benefits for Textron Key Executives.
    10.5       Supplemental  Benefits  Plan   For   Textron   Key
               Executives  with Market Square Profit  Sharing Plan
               Schedule.
    10.6       Supplemental  Retirement  Plan  For  Textron   Key
               Executives.
    10.7       Survivor Benefit Plan For Textron Key Executives.
    10.8A      Textron  1982 Long-Term Incentive Plan  ("1982
               Plan").    Incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit
               10.5(a) to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
               the fiscal year ended December 31, 1988.
    10.8B      First Amendment to 1982 Plan.  Incorporated by
               reference  to  Exhibit 10.5(b) to Textron's  Annual
               Report  on  Form  10-K for the  fiscal  year  ended
               January 3, 1987.
    10.8C      Second  Amendment to 1982 Plan.   Incorporated
               by reference to Exhibit 10.5(c) to Textron's Annual
               Report  on  Form  10-K for the  fiscal  year  ended
               January 2, 1988.
    10.9A      Textron  1987 Long-Term Incentive Plan  ("1987
               Plan").  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit  10.6
               to  Textron's  Annual Report on Form 10-K  for  the
               fiscal year ended December 30, 1989.
    10.9B      First  Amendment to 1987 Plan.    Incorporated
               by reference to Exhibit 10.6(b) to Textron's Annual
               Report  on  Form  10-K for the  fiscal  year  ended
               December 28, 1991.
    10.10A     Textron  1990 Long-Term Incentive Plan  ("1990
               Plan").  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit  10.7
               to  Textron's  Annual Report on Form 10-K  for  the
               fiscal year ended December 30, 1989.
    10.10B     First Amendment to 1990 Plan.  Incorporated by
               reference  to  Exhibit 10.7(c) to Textron's  Annual
               Report  on  Form  10-K for the  fiscal  year  ended
               December 28, 1991.
    10.10C     Second  Amendment to 1990 Plan.   Incorporated
               by reference to Exhibit 10.7(c) to Textron's Annual
               Report  on  Form  10-K for the  fiscal  year  ended
               January 2, 1993.
    10.11      Textron   1994   Long-Term  Incentive   Plan.
               Incorporated   by  reference  to  Exhibit   10   to
               Textron's  Quarterly Report on Form  10-Q  for  the
               fiscal quarter ended July 2, 1994.
    10.12      Form  of  Indemnity Agreement between  Textron
               and   its   directors   and   executive   officers.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to Textron's
               Proxy   Statement   for  its  Annual   Meeting   of
               Shareholders on April 29, 1987.

    10.13A     Pension  Plan for Directors as  amended  by  a
               First  Amendment.   Incorporated  by  reference  to
               Exhibit 10.14 to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-
               K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1988.
    10.13B     Second   Amendment  to   Pension   Plan   for
               Directors.   Incorporated by reference  to  Exhibit
               10.16(b)  to Textron's Annual Report on  Form  10-K
               for the fiscal year ended December 29, 1990.
    10.14      Deferred  Income  Plan for Textron  Directors.
               Incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.18  to
               Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
               year ended January 1, 1994.
    10.15A     Employment Agreement between Textron and James
               F.  Hardymon  dated November 24, 1989  ("Employment
               Agreement").  Incorporated by reference to  Exhibit
               10.9  to  Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for
               the fiscal year ended December 30, 1989.
    10.15B     Amendment  dated as of December  15,  1994  to
               Employment Agreement.  Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit  10.10B to Textron's Annual Report on  Form
               10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.
    10.16A     Employment  Agreement between Textron and  Lewis  B.
               Campbell  dated September 22, 1992.    Incorporated
               by  reference  to Exhibit 10.9 to Textron's  Annual
               Report  on  Form  10-K for the  fiscal  year  ended
               January 2, 1993.
    10.16B     Retention  Award granted to Lewis B.  Campbell
               on December 14, 1995.
    10.17      Employment Agreement between Textron and  Mary
               L.  Howell  dated  May  4, 1993.   Incorporated  by
               reference  to  Exhibit 10.11  to  Textron's  Annual
               Report  on  Form  10-K for the  fiscal  year  ended
               January 1, 1994.
    10.18      Employment Agreement between Textron and Wayne
               W.  Juchatz dated  November 1, 1995.
    10.19      Employment  Agreement  between  Textron   and
               Stephen L. Key dated November 1, 1995.
    10.20      Employment  Agreement  between  Textron   and
               Richard  A.  McWhirter  dated  February  16,  1993.
               Incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.11  to
               Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
               year ended January 2, 1993.
    10.21      Employment  Agreement  between  Textron   and
               William   F.   Wayland  dated  January   1,   1989.
               Incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.12  to
               Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
               year ended December 30, 1989.
    10.22A     Credit Agreement dated as of November 1,  1993
               among  Textron,  the  Lenders  listed  therein  and
               Bankers  Trust  Company  as  Administrative   Agent
               ("Credit Agreement").  Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit  10.20A to Textron's Annual Report on  Form
               10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 1994.

    10.22B     First  Amendment dated as of October 30,  1994
               to  Credit Agreement.  Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit  10.22B to Textron's Annual Report on  Form
               10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.
    10.22C     Second Amendment to Credit Agreement dated  as
               of  July  1,  1995.  Incorporated by  reference  to
               Exhibit  (b) (3) to Schedule 14D-1 filed by Textron
               on September 19, 1995.
    12.1       Computation  of  ratio  of  income  to  fixed
               charges  of  the  Textron Parent Company  Borrowing
               Group.
    12.2       Computation  of  ratio  of  income  to  fixed
               charges    of    Textron   Inc.    including    all
               majority-owned subsidiaries.
    13         A   portion  (pages  22  and  following)   of
               Textron's   1995  Annual  Report  to  Shareholders.
               Except for pages or items specifically incorporated
               by reference herein, such portion of Textron's 1995
               Annual Report to Shareholders is furnished for  the
               information of the Commission and is not  filed  as
               part of this Report.
    21         Certain   subsidiaries  of  Textron.    Other
               subsidiaries, which considered in the aggregate  do
               not   constitute  a  significant  subsidiary,   are
               omitted from such list.
    23         Consent of Independent Auditors.
    24.1       Power of attorney.
    24.2       Certified  copy of a resolution  of  the  Board  of
               Directors of Textron.
    27         Financial Data Schedule.
    
    (b) Reports on Form 8-K
         No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the last quarter
         of the period covered by this Report.
                          
                              SIGNATURES
    
         Pursuant to the requirement of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities  Exchange  Act  of 1934, the  registrant  has  duly
    caused  this  Annual Report on Form 10-K to be signed  on  its
    behalf  by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on  this
    14th day of March, 1996.
    
    TEXTRON INC.
    Registrant

    By: /s/ Michael D. Cahn
             Michael D. Cahn
             Attorney-in-fact

    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this Report has been signed below on this 14th day of March, 
1996, by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and  in
the capacities indicated:


    NAME                                             TITLE

         *
 James F. Hardymon                             Chairman and  Chief
                                               Executive Officer,
                                               Director (principal

         *
 Lewis B. Campbell                             President  and  Chief
                                               Operating Officer, Director


         *
 H. Jesse Arnelle                              Director


         *
 R. Stuart Dickson                             Director



      *  
 B.F. Dolan                                    Director


      *
 Paul E. Gagne                                 Director


        *
 John D. Macomber                              Director


          *
 Barbara Scott Preiskel                        Director


      *  
 Brian H. Rowe                                 Director


      *
 Sam F. Segnar                                 Director


      *
 Jean Head Sisco                               Director


      *
 John W. Snow                                  Director


      *
 Martin D. Walker                              Director


       *
 Thomas B. Wheeler                             Director


      *
 Stephen L. Key                                Executive Vice President and
                                               Chief Financial Officer
                                               (principal financial officer)

      *
 Richard L. Yates                              Vice President and Controller
                                               (principal accounting
                                                officer)

*By: /s/ Michael D. Cahn
      Michael D. Cahn
      Attorney-in-fact

                            TEXTRON INC.
                   INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
                            Item 14(a)
                                                                    
                                                    Form      Annual Report
Textron Inc.                                        10-K     to Shareholders
                                                                      
Report of Independent Auditors                                     31
                                                                      
Consolidated Statement of Income for each of the                    
three years in the period ended December 30, 1995                  32
                                                                      
Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 30, 1995 and                33
December 31, 1994
                                                                      
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for each of                   34
the three years in the period ended December 30,                    
                                                                      
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders'                 35
Equity for each of the three years in the period                    
ended December 30, 1995
                                                                      
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies                        36-38
                                                                      
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                        38-50
                                                                      
Revenues and Income by Business Segment                            22
                                                                      
Supplementary Information (Unaudited):                              
                                                                      
Quarterly Financial Information 1995 and 1994                      51
                                                                      
Financial Statement Schedules for each of the three                  
years in the period ended December 30, 1995
                                                           
    I   Condensed financial information of           27    
        registrant
                                                                              
   II   Valuation and qualifying accounts            28                       
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    








All  other  schedules are omitted because the conditions requiring
the  filing  thereof  do  not  exist or  because  the  information
required  is  included  in  the  financial  statements  and  notes
thereto.


                            TEXTRON INC.
                                 
    SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                 
 For each of the three years in the period ended December 30, 1995
                                 
                                 
      Financial  information of the Registrant is omitted  because
condensed  financial  information of the  Textron  Parent  Company
Borrowing  Group, which includes the Registrant  and  all  of  its
majority-owned subsidiaries other than its finance  and  insurance
subsidiaries, is shown on page 30 of Textron's 1995 Annual  Report
to  Shareholders.   Management believes  that  the  disclosure  of
financial  information on the basis of the Textron Parent  Company
Borrowing  Group results in a more meaningful presentation,  since
this group constitutes the Registrant's basic borrowing entity and
the  only  restrictions  on net assets of  Textron's  subsidiaries
relate   to   its   finance  and  insurance   subsidiaries.    The
Registrant's  investment in its finance and insurance subsidiaries
is   shown  on  page  30  of  Textron's  1995  Annual  Report   to
Shareholders  under  the  caption  "Investments  in  finance   and
insurance subsidiaries."

     The Textron Parent Company Borrowing Group received dividends
of $126 million, $115 million and $94 million from its finance and
insurance subsidiaries in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.   The
portion  of  the  net  assets of Textron's finance  and  insurance
subsidiaries  available for cash dividends and other  payments  to
the  Textron Parent Company Borrowing Group is restricted  by  the
terms  of lending agreements and insurance statutory requirements.
As  of December 30, 1995, approximately $376 million of their  net
assets  of  $2.6  billion was available to be transferred  to  the
Textron   Parent  Company  Borrowing  Group  pursuant   to   these
restrictions.

       For  information  concerning  the  Textron  Parent  Company
Borrowing Group's long-term debt and restrictions contained in its
debt   agreements,  see  Note  7  to  the  consolidated  financial
statements  appearing  on  pages 42-43 of  Textron's  1995  Annual
Report to Shareholders.

                           TEXTRON INC.
                                 
          SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 For each of the three years in the period ended December 30, 1995
                           (In millions)
                                 
Allowance for credit losses

Changes in the allowance for credit losses for the years indicated
were as follows:

                                                               
                                                1995   1994  1993
 Balance of the allowance for credit                                           
 losses at the biginning of the year            $250   $225  $212
                                                                  
 Add - charge to income:                             
        Consumer                                 149    136   121
        Commercial                                19     24    21
       
                                                 168    160   142
 Deduct - balances charged off:                                                 
                                                                  
  Gross charge offs:
        Consumer                               (177)  (142) (138)
        Commercial                              (25)   (27)  (20)
       
                                               (202)  (169) (158)
                                                    
                                                                  
 Recoveries:
        Consumer                                  33    28     26
        Commercial                                 4     3      3
       
                                                  37    31     29

 Net charge offs                               (165) (138)  (129)
                                                                  
 Other                                            17     3      -
                                                                  
 Balance of the allowance for credit
 losses at the end of the year                 $ 270 $ 250  $ 225              
                                                                  
                                                                  
 Balance of the allowance for credit
 losses at the end of the year applicable
 to:
                                                                  
 Consumer                                      $ 195 $ 181  $ 155
 Commercial                                       75    69     70

                                               $ 270 $ 250  $ 225
                                                               
                                 

                          TEXTRON INC.
                                
                        Index of Exhibits
                   Annual Report on Form 10-K
           for the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1994
    
    
    
    Exhibits                Description
    
    3.1        Restated  Certificate  of  Incorporation  of
               Textron as filed March 24, 1988.  Incorporated  by
               reference  to  Exhibit  3.1  to  Textron's  Annual
               Report  on  Form  10-K for the fiscal  year  ended
               January 2, 1988.
    3.2        By-Laws  of  Textron, restated  December  10,
               1992.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to
               Textron's  Annual  Report on  Form  10-K  for  the
               fiscal year ended January 2, 1993.
    
    NOTE:      Exhibits   10.1  through  10.21  below   are
               management   contracts  or   compensatory   plans,
               contracts or agreements.
    10.1       Annual  Incentive  Compensation  Plan   For
               Textron Employees.
    10.2       Deferred  Income  Plan  For  Textron   Key
               Executives.
    10.3       Severance Plan For Textron Key Executives.
    10.4       Special   Benefits   for   Textron    Key
               Executives.
    10.5       Supplemental  Benefits  Plan  For   Textron   Key
               Executives  with Market Square  Profit  Sharing
               Plan Schedule.
    10.6       Supplemental  Retirement  Plan  For  Textron   Key
               Executives.
    10.7       Survivor Benefit Plan For Textron Key Executives.
    10.8A      Textron 1982 Long-Term Incentive Plan  ("1982
               Plan").   Incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit
               10.5(a)  to Textron's Annual Report on  Form  10-K
               for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1988.
    10.8B      First  Amendment to 1982 Plan.   Incorporated
               by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.5(b)  to  Textron's
               Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
               ended January 3, 1987.
    10.8C      Second  Amendment to 1982 Plan.  Incorporated
               by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.5(c)  to  Textron's
               Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
               ended January 2, 1988.
    10.9A      Textron 1987 Long-Term Incentive Plan  ("1987
               Plan").  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6
               to  Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for  the
               fiscal year ended December 30, 1989.
    10.9B      First  Amendment to 1987 Plan.   Incorporated
               by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.6(b)  to  Textron's
               Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
               ended December 28, 1991.
    10.10A     Textron 1990 Long-Term Incentive Plan  ("1990
               Plan").  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7
               to  Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for  the
               fiscal year ended December 30, 1989.
    10.10B     First  Amendment to 1990 Plan.   Incorporated
               by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.7(c)  to  Textron's
               Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
               ended December 28, 1991.
    10.10C     Second  Amendment to 1990 Plan.  Incorporated
               by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.7(c)  to  Textron's
               Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
               ended January 2, 1993.
    10.11      Textron   1994  Long-Term  Incentive   Plan.
               Incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit   10   to
               Textron's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q  for  the
               fiscal quarter ended July 2, 1994.
    10.12      Form  of Indemnity Agreement between  Textron
               and   its   directors   and  executive   officers.
               Incorporated   by  reference  to  Exhibit   A   to
               Textron's  Proxy Statement for its Annual  Meeting
               of Shareholders on April 29, 1987.
    10.13A     Pension  Plan for Directors as amended  by  a
               First  Amendment.  Incorporated  by  reference  to
               Exhibit  10.14 to Textron's Annual Report on  Form
               10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1988.
    10.13B     Second   Amendment  to  Pension   Plan   for
               Directors.   Incorporated by reference to  Exhibit
               10.16(b)  to Textron's Annual Report on Form  10-K
               for the fiscal year ended December 29, 1990.
    10.14      Deferred  Income Plan for Textron  Directors.
               Incorporated  by  reference to  Exhibit  10.18  to
               Textron's  Annual  Report on  Form  10-K  for  the
               fiscal year ended January 1, 1994.
    10.15A     Employment  Agreement  between  Textron  and
               James   F.   Hardymon  dated  November  24,   1989
               ("Employment    Agreement").    Incorporated    by
               reference  to  Exhibit 10.9  to  Textron's  Annual
               Report  on  Form  10-K for the fiscal  year  ended
               December 30, 1989.
    10.15B     Amendment  dated as of December 15,  1994  to
               Employment  Agreement.  Incorporated by  reference
               to  Exhibit 10.10B to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December  31,
               1994.
    10.16A     Employment Agreement between Textron and  Lewis  B.
               Campbell  dated September 22, 1992.   Incorporated
               by  reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Textron's  Annual
               Report  on  Form  10-K for the fiscal  year  ended
               January 2, 1993.
    10.16B     Retention Award granted to Lewis B.  Campbell
               on December 14, 1995.
    10.17      Employment Agreement between Textron and Mary
               L.  Howell  dated  May 4, 1993.   Incorporated  by
               reference  to  Exhibit 10.11 to  Textron's  Annual
               Report  on  Form  10-K for the fiscal  year  ended
               January 1, 1994.
    10.18      Employment  Agreement  between  Textron  and
               Wayne W.  Juchatz dated  November 1, 1995.
    10.19      Employment  Agreement  between  Textron  and
               Stephen L. Key dated November 1, 1995.
    10.20      Employment  Agreement  between  Textron  and
               Richard  A.  McWhirter dated  February  16,  1993.
               Incorporated  by  reference to  Exhibit  10.11  to
               Textron's  Annual  Report on  Form  10-K  for  the
               fiscal year ended January 2, 1993.
    10.21      Employment  Agreement  between  Textron  and
               William   F.  Wayland  dated  January   1,   1989.
               Incorporated  by  reference to  Exhibit  10.12  to
               Textron's  Annual  Report on  Form  10-K  for  the
               fiscal year ended December 30, 1989.
    10.22A     Credit Agreement dated as of November 1, 1993
               among  Textron,  the  Lenders listed  therein  and
               Bankers  Trust  Company  as  Administrative  Agent
               ("Credit  Agreement").  Incorporated by  reference
               to  Exhibit 10.20A to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K  for the fiscal year ended  January  1,
               1994.
    10.22B     First Amendment dated as of October 30,  1994
               to Credit Agreement.  Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.22B to Textron's Annual Report on  Form
               10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.
    10.22C     Second Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as
               of  July  1,  1995.  Incorporated by reference  to
               Exhibit (b) (3) to Schedule 14D-1 filed by Textron
               on September 19, 1995.
    12.1       Computation  of  ratio  of  income  to  fixed
               charges  of  the Textron Parent Company  Borrowing
               Group.
    12.2       Computation  of  ratio  of  income  to  fixed
               charges    of    Textron   Inc.   including    all
               majority-owned subsidiaries.
    13         A   portion  (pages  22  and  following)  of
               Textron's  1995  Annual  Report  to  Shareholders.
               Except    for    pages   or   items   specifically
               incorporated by reference herein, such portion  of
               Textron's  1995  Annual Report to Shareholders  is
               furnished  for  the information of the  Commission
               and is not filed as part of this Report.
    21         Certain  subsidiaries  of  Textron.    Other
               subsidiaries, which considered in the aggregate do
               not   constitute  a  significant  subsidiary,  are
               omitted from such list.
    23         Consent of Independent Auditors.
    24.1       Power of attorney.
    24.2       Certified  copy of a resolution of  the  Board  of
               Directors of Textron.
    27         Financial Data Schedule.



