
10-K





                              
              SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                   WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                          Form 10-K

[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
     THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

     For the fiscal year ended January 3, 1998
     Commission File Number 1-5480
                        Textron Inc.

      (Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)

         Delaware                             05-0315468
        (State or other jurisdiction of       (I.R.S. Employer
         incorporation or organization)        Identification No.)

               40 Westminster Street, Providence, R.I. 02903
                             (401) 421-2800
     (Address and telephone number of principal executive offices)
                       ______________
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                    Name of Each Exchange on
      Title of Class                                   Which Registered

Common Stock - par value $.125; (163,142,742 shares   New York Stock Exchange
  outstanding at March 6, 1998);                      Pacific Stock Exchange
Preferred Stock Purchase Rights                       Chicago Stock Exchange

$2.08 Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock,         New York Stock Exchange
  Series A - no par value

$1.40 Convertible Preferred Dividend Stock, Series B  New York Stock Exchange
  (preferred only as to dividends) - no par value

8.75% Debentures due July 1, 2022                     New York Stock Exchange

7.92% Trust Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trust  New York Stock Exchange
(and Textron Guaranty with respect thereto)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1)
has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13  or
15(d)  of  the  Securities Exchange Act of 1934  during  the
preceding  12  months (or for such shorter period  that  the
registrant  was required to file such reports) and  (2)  has
been  subject to such filing  requirements for the  past  90
days.     Yes X.     No     

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent
filers  pursuant  to  Item  405 of  Regulation  S-K  is  not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best  of
registrant's  knowledge, in definitive proxy or  information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  [X]

     The aggregate market value of voting stock held by
non-affiliates  of the registrant is $12,025,454,250  as  of
March 6, 1998.

     Portions of Textron's Annual Report to
Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 3, 1998
are incorporated by reference in Parts I and II of this
Report.    Portions of Textron's Proxy Statement for its
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 22, 1998
are incorporated by reference in Part III of this Report.


                              PART I


ITEM 1. BUSINESS OF TEXTRON

           Textron  is a global multi-industry company  with
operations in four business segments - Aircraft, Automotive,
Industrial  and  Finance.   Included  within  the   business
segments are operations that are unincorporated divisions of
Textron   and   others  that  are  separately   incorporated
subsidiaries.   A  listing  of the  operations  within  each
business  segment, including a description  of  the  product
lines  of  each business segment, is incorporated herein  by
reference to pages 58 and 59 of Textron's 1997 Annual Report
to  Shareholders.  Financial information by business segment
and  geographic area is incorporated herein by reference  to
pages  24  and  55  of  Textron's  1997  Annual  Report   to
Shareholders.    Additional   information   regarding   each
business segment and Textron in general is set forth below.

Business Segments
      Aircraft.   The  Aircraft  segment  consists  of  Bell
Helicopter Textron and The Cessna Aircraft Company.  Textron
Lycoming  was  included  in  the  Aircraft  segment's   1997
financial  results,  but  was  transferred  for  operational
purposes to the Industrial segment in January 1998, and  its
business is described under Industrial below.
     
       Based on unit sales, Bell is the largest supplier  of
helicopters, spare parts and helicopter-related services  in
the world.  Since it was founded in 1946, Bell has delivered
over  33,000  aircraft to military and  civilian  customers.
Bell  has three military and six civilian helicopter  models
in current production. Its aircraft are turbine powered, and
range  in size from the five-place Bell Model 206 series  to
the  Bell Model 412EP aircraft, which carries up to  fifteen
people.   Revenues of Bell accounted for approximately  15%,
16%,  and 18% of Textron's total revenues in 1997, 1996  and
1995, respectively.

      Bell's military business includes both U.S. Government
and   non-U.S.   Government  customers.   There   are   more
helicopters  manufactured by Bell in field  service  in  the
inventory  of the U.S. Government than manufactured  by  any
other  helicopter  company.  Currently,  Bell  is  supplying
advanced  military  helicopters,  spare  parts  and  product
support  to  the U.S. and Canadian Governments  and  to  the
governments of several countries in the Pacific Rim,  Middle
East  and Europe.  Military sales to non-U.S. customers  are
made only with the concurrence of the U.S. Government.

      Bell  is  also  a  leading  supplier  of  commercially
certified   helicopters  to  charter,   offshore,   utility,
corporate,  police,  fire,  rescue  and  emergency   medical
helicopter  operators.  Bell's non-U.S. Government  business
(including non-U.S. military customers) typically represents
40%  to  60%  of  its  annual sales.  In  1997,  such  sales
accounted for approximately 60% of Bell's business.



      Bell  is  teamed with the Helicopter Division  of  The
Boeing Company ("Boeing Helicopters") in the development  of
the  V-22  Osprey tiltrotor aircraft for the U.S. Department
of  Defense.  Tiltrotor aircraft are designed to utilize the
benefits   of  both  helicopters  and  fixed-wing  aircraft.
Production  of V-22 aircraft was started in 1996 upon  award
of  a  contract for the first four aircraft.  In 1996,  Bell
and  Boeing  Helicopters entered into  a  joint  venture  to
develop a commercial tiltrotor aircraft designated the Model
609.   In February 1998, Bell and Boeing announced that  the
joint  venture  will  be  dissolved  and  Bell  will  assume
complete  control of the Model 609 program, although  Boeing
will continue to work as a major program subcontractor.

     In February 1998, Textron's Board of Directors approved
a   plan  to  acquire  a  substantial  portion  of  Boeing's
commercial  helicopter business.  Under  the  terms  of  the
proposed  sale, Bell will acquire the Boeing MD 500  and  MD
600  series product lines, assuming responsibility  for  the
manufacture, marketing and services/support of these  single
engine,  turbine-powered  light  helicopters.   Boeing's  MD
Explorer  helicopter line is not included  in  the  proposed
sale, but Bell has agreed to provide spare parts and support
for  the  MD  Explorer  after the sale  is  completed.   The
proposed  sale is subject to satisfactory due diligence  and
governmental approvals.

      Bell is developing a new light twin engine helicopter,
designated  the  Model  427, in collaboration  with  Samsung
Aerospace  Industries  Ltd.  of  South  Korea.   The   first
delivery of this eight place aircraft is scheduled  for  the
first quarter of 1999.

     In the light and medium helicopter market, Bell has two
major  U.S.  competitors (including Boeing) 
and one major European  competitor.
Certain of its competitors are substantially larger and more
diversified   aircraft  manufacturers.   Bell  markets   its
products  worldwide through its own sales force and  through
independent   representatives.   Price,   financing   terms,
aircraft  performance, reliability and product  support  are
significant  factors in the sale of helicopters.   Bell  has
developed  the world's largest distribution system  to  sell
and  support  helicopters, serving  customers  in  over  120
countries.

     Based on unit sales, The Cessna Aircraft Company is the
world's  largest manufacturer of light and mid-size business
jets,  single engine utility turboprop aircraft, and  single
engine  piston aircraft.  Cessna also designs,  manufactures
and  sells general aviation aircraft propellers and  related
accessories  worldwide.  Cessna currently  has  three  major
aircraft  product  lines:  Citation  business  jets,  single
engine  turboprop Caravans and Cessna single  engine  piston
aircraft.   Revenues of Cessna accounted  for  approximately
14%,  12% and 10% of Textron's total revenues in 1997,  1996
and 1995, respectively.

     Cessna currently produces a family of Citation business
jets  including  the  CitationJet, the Citation  Bravo,  the
Citation Ultra, the Citation VII, and the Citation  X.   The
Citation  X  is  the  world's fastest business  jet  with  a
maximum  operating  speed of Mach  .92.   Cessna  placed  28
Citation Xs in service in 1997.  Certification was completed
and 



customer deliveries of the Citation Bravo began in 1997.
Cessna  is scheduled to certify and begin deliveries of  the
Citation Excel business jet in 1998.

      The Cessna Caravan is the world's best selling utility
turboprop.  More than 850 Caravans have been sold by  Cessna
since the first Caravan was delivered in 1985.  Caravans are
offered in four distinct models including the Grand Caravan,
Super Cargomaster, Caravan Floatplane, and the Caravan  675.
Caravans  are used in the United States primarily  to  carry
overnight express package shipments.  International uses  of
Caravans  include commuter flights, relief flights,  tourism
and freight.

      Cessna  re-entered the single engine  piston  aircraft
market in 1996.  In 1997, Cessna made deliveries of the  172
Skyhawk  and  the  182 Skylane, which are four-place  single
engine  piston  aircraft.  In 1998, Cessna is  scheduled  to
certify  and  begin  deliveries of  two  six-place  aircraft
models, the 206 Stationair and the T206 Turbo Stationair.

     Cessna markets its products worldwide primarily through
its  own  sales  force  as  well as  through  a  network  of
authorized  independent sales representatives.   Cessna  has
four  major  competitors for its business jet products,  two
U.S.  and two foreign.  Cessna's aircraft compete with other
aircraft that vary in size, speed, range, capacity, handling
characteristics, and price.  Reliability and product support
are  significant factors in the sale of these aircraft.  The
Citation family of aircraft is supported by ten Cessna owned
and operated Citation Service Centers, along with Authorized
Service  Stations in more than 15 countries  throughout  the
world.

     Cessna provides its business jet operators with factory-
direct  customer support offering 24 hour a day service  and
maintenance.  More than 40% of the worldwide Citation  fleet
of  more than 2,500 aircraft receive service through Cessna-
owned  service centers.  Cessna Caravan and piston customers
receive  product support through independently owned service
stations  and  24  hour  a day spare parts  support  through
Cessna.

      Cessna's McCauley Propeller Systems unit provides  new
propellers  directly  to  original  equipment  manufacturers
("OEMs")  and spare parts for service and repairs worldwide.
All  new Cessna single engine piston aircraft built in  1997
used McCauley propellers.

     Automotive.  The Automotive segment, organized under an
umbrella  organization  called  Textron  Automotive  Company
("TAC"), consists of Textron Automotive Trim Operations, CWC
Castings  Textron,  Kautex  Textron,  McCord  Winn  Textron,
Micromatic  Textron  and Randall Textron.   These operations
sell  primarily  to  automotive  OEMs  and  their  suppliers
operating  in  North America and Europe, and,  to  a  lesser
extent,  South  America and Asia.  TAC is  headquartered  in
Troy, Michigan and has over fifty facilities located in  the
United  States,  Argentina, Belgium, Brazil, Canada,  China,
Czech  Republic, Germany, Mexico, the Netherlands, Portugal,
Spain, and the United Kingdom.



      Through its Textron Automotive Trim Operations, TAC is
a  leading  worldwide  supplier of automotive  interior  and
exterior plastic components.  Interior trim products include
instrument  panels,  door and sidewall trim,  airbag  doors,
consoles,  trim components, armrests and headliner  systems.
In  addition,  TAC's  Trim facilities  manufacture  exterior
decorative components including painted bumpers and  fascia,
body  side moldings and claddings, fender liners, decorative
wheel  trim, signal lighting and structural composite bumper
beams.   Many of these products are shipped just-in-time  as
fully  integrated  systems.  Revenues of Textron  Automotive
Trim  Operations accounted for 13%, 15% and 15% of Textron's
total revenues in 1997, 1996 and 1995 respectively.

      In January  1997, Textron completed the acquisition of
Kautex  Werke  Reinold  Hagen AG of Bonn,  Germany  and  the
assets  of  its  North  American  affiliate,  Kautex   North
America, Inc. (collectively "Kautex").  Kautex is a  leading
manufacturer  of blow-molded plastic fuel tank  systems  and
other   blow-molded  technical  parts  for  OEMs  throughout
Europe,   North  America,  Brazil  and  Argentina.    Kautex
supplies  Volkswagen in China through a joint  venture  with
Changchun  Junzilan Industrial Group.  Kautex established  a
manufacturing  plant  in  Puebla,  Mexico  in  1997.    This
facility  will  supply  all of Volkswagen's  and  Chrysler's
plastic fuel tank requirements for their Mexican production.

      CWC Castings designs and manufactures engine camshafts
and   vibration   damper  components  for   OEMs   and   the
aftermarket.    In  July  1997,  Textron  acquired   Kaywood
Products  Corporation, a manufacturer of precision  machined
parts  and  components  for assembled  camshafts.    Kaywood
operates as the Kaywood Products operation of CWC.

      McCord  Winn  manufactures  seating  comfort  systems,
windshield  and headlamp washer systems, and  armatures  for
precision  DC  motors.  In September 1997, Textron  acquired
the  General Rubber Goods division of Pirelli Tyres Limited,
based  in Burton-on-Trent, England, a manufacturer  of  seat
comfort  systems  products  for automotive  and  home/office
applications.  The combination makes McCord Winn  Textron  a
leader  in  both the North American and European  automotive
seat comfort markets.   In September 1997, McCord introduced
its  ASCTecTM,  (Active Surface Control Technology)  seating
comfort    system,    which   blends    microprocessor-based
electronics  and  a  pneumatically-controlled  air   support
system.  Potential applications include automobiles, airline
seating, office/home furniture and bedding products.

       Micromatic  manufactures  machine  tools   used   for
precision bore and surface finishing of automobile  engines.
In   addition,  Micromatic  produces  equipment  for  spline
rolling  and gear production.  Randall produces fuel  filler
systems.

      More than 70 models currently carry parts made by  TAC
including  Chrysler's  Jeep  Grand  Cherokee,  Voyager   and
Caravan  mini-vans;  Ford's Mondeo,  Lincoln  Town  Car  and
Windstar  mini-van; General Motors' Cadillac Seville,  newly
restyled  Corvette, and Venture, Transport,  Silhouette  and
Sintra mini-vans; and Volkswagen's new concept 



Beetle.   TAC continues  its strong position on Chrysler's  
LH series of cars that were redesigned for the 1998 model year.

       TAC's  manufacturing operations are  supported  by  a
staff of research and design specialists at TAC's Automotive
Technology  Center.  These specialists  have  developed  new
processes  and  products, many of which are  patented,  that
allow  TAC to offer its customers technology driven products
and processes.  In the plastics and coatings area, TAC is  a
recognized  leader in alternative skin materials  (including
non-PVC  materials), spray urethane and  cloth  integration,
energy  management  foam (including  head  impact  and  knee
bolsters),  the development of modular integrated assemblies
and vertical body panels, and High Crystalline Polypropylene
material  for  complete mold-in-color  interior  components.
CWC  Castings  is a leader in the design and manufacture  of
automotive   castings.    It  has  developed   a   selective
austempering  heat treatment process for ductile  camshafts.
McCord  Winn  is  working  with OEMs  worldwide  to  develop
advanced technologies in areas such as "intelligent" comfort
seating systems, brushless motors and carbon commutation for
flexible  fuel  applications. Micromatic machine  tools  are
used for cylindrical form generation and surface finishing.

      In the automotive business, there is often a long lead
time  from  the  time  a  supplier  is  selected  to  supply
components  on a new car model to the time the supplier  can
begin  shipping production parts.   During this period,  the
supplier  incurs engineering and development  costs.   Until
recently,  the OEMs reimbursed the supplier for these  costs
as incurred.  Within the last few years, the OEMs have begun
to require that these costs be recovered in the piece prices
charged  by  the  suppliers as the goods  are  shipped.   In
addition,   automotive  OEMs  often  require  "just-in-time"
delivery,  requiring the manufacturer to plan  shipments  in
advance and hold inventory.

      Automotive OEMs and their suppliers are the  principal
customers  of  TAC.   The loss of the U.S. and  Europe-based
automotive  OEM  customers  and their  first-tier  suppliers
would  have  a  material adverse effect  on  TAC.   However,
because  of  the  broad  range  of  products  sold  to  such
customers,  it  is  unlikely  that  they  would  cease   all
purchases from TAC.

      Each  of  TAC's  businesses faces competition  from  a
number  of  other  manufacturers based primarily  on  price,
quality,  reputation and delivery.  Although TAC is  one  of
the largest manufacturers offering its range of products and
services,  it faces strong competition in all of its  market
segments.  Because of the diversity of products and services
offered,  no  single company is a competitor in  all  market
segments.   In  certain  markets,  TAC  also  competes   for
business with the OEMs' own operations.

      Industrial.  The Industrial segment consists  of  four
major product groups: Fastening Systems, Golf and Turf  Care
Equipment,   Fluid   and   Power  Systems   and   Industrial
Components.    The  Fluid  and  Power  Systems   group   and



Industrial  Components  group  consist  of  operations  that
previously constituted the Engineered Products group and the
Systems and Components segment.

      Textron  Fastening  Systems ("TFS")  manufactures  and
sells fasteners, fastening systems and installation tools to
the  aerospace,  appliance, automotive, business  equipment,
construction,   do-it-yourself,   general   industrial   and
transportation  markets.  TFS  sells  to  a  wide  range  of
customers throughout the world, including OEMs, distributors
and   consumers.   Fasteners  manufactured  by  TFS  include
rivets,  threaded  and  non-threaded fasteners,  cold-formed
components,   metal   stampings,  plastic   components   and
assemblies that incorporate such products.  Revenues of  TFS
accounted  for  approximately 14%, 15% and 9%  of  Textron's
total revenues in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

      In  August  1997,  Textron  formed  Textron  Logistics
Corporation  ("TLC") by combining certain existing  fastener
operations.   TLC  provides  full-range  fastener  inventory
management  programs  for OEMs and for  retailers  (such  as
Sears  and Home Depot), supplying TFS products and  products
from  other sources, thus offering its customers the ability
to  obtain all of their fastener requirements from a  single
source.   In  December 1997, Textron acquired Brazaco  Mapri
Industrias   Metalurgicas  S.A.   ("Mapri"),   the   largest
manufacturer  of fasteners in Brazil, which is  the  primary
supplier  to  automotive OEMs in Brazil such as Fiat,  Ford,
General  Motors,  Mercedes, and Volkswagen.    Mapri,  which
will  operate as a unit of the Camcar operation of TFS, will
also  serve  as a lower-cost supplier of fasteners  for  the
other TFS operations.

     Although TFS is one of the world's largest providers of
fastener  products  and  services,  there  are  hundreds  of
competitors  of  TFS, ranging from small proprietorships  to
large   multi-national  companies.   Competition  is   based
primarily  on  price, quality, reputation and delivery.   In
addition,  larger  customers of fastening  systems  tend  to
procure  products  and services from the  larger  suppliers,
except  for  "niche"  products which  may  be  sourced  from
smaller   companies.   Only  the  loss  of  the  major   OEM
automotive  customers and their first-tier  suppliers  would
have a material adverse effect on TFS.  However, because  of
the  broad range of products sold to such customers,  it  is
unlikely that they will cease all purchases from TFS.

     The Golf and Turf Care Equipment group consists of E-Z-
GO  Textron,  which manufactures and sells electric  powered
and  gasoline  powered  golf cars and  multipurpose  utility
vehicles,  Jacobsen  Textron, which manufactures  and  sells
professional  mowing  and  turf maintenance  equipment,  and
Ransomes  plc,  a  multi-national  engineering  group   that
specializes  in  the design, manufacture  and  marketing  of
grass  care  machinery and specialized industrial  vehicles.
Textron acquired Ransomes in January 1998.

     The customers of the Golf and Turf Care Equipment group
consist  primarily of golf courses, resort  communities  and
commercial  and  industrial  users  such  as  airports   and
factories.    Sales  are  made  directly   through   factory
branches, through a network of distributors and directly  to
end-users.  Many sales of golf and turf care 



equipment (both
at  the distributor and end-user level) are financed through
Textron  Financial Corporation, both for marketing  purposes
and as an additional source of revenue to Textron.
     
     There are two major competitors and a number of smaller
competitors for golf cars, multipurpose utility vehicles and
turf maintenance equipment for golf courses.  Competition is
based   primarily   on  price,  quality,  product   support,
performance, reliability and reputation.

      The  Fluid  and Power Systems group consists  of  Cone
Drive   Textron,  HR  Textron,  Maag  Pump  Systems  Textron
(Switzerland)  and  Textron Systems.  The  Fluid  and  Power
Systems   group  operations  face  competition  from   other
manufacturers  based  primarily on price,  quality,  product
support, performance, delivery and reputation.
     
     Cone  Drive,  which  includes  Textron  Industrial  SpA
(formerly  Maag  Italia),  designs and  manufactures  double
enveloping  worm gear speed reducers, gear motors  and  gear
sets,   including  gear  systems  primarily   for   railroad
applications.   Maag Pump Systems manufactures  gears,  gear
pumps  and gear systems.  In December 1997, Textron acquired
the  assets of Vernon Engineering Company Limited, the long-
standing distributor of the products of Maag Pump Systems in
the  U.K.   Cone  Drive  and Maag Pump  Systems  sell  their
products   to  a  variety  of  customers,  including   OEMs,
distributors and end-users.
     
     HR  Textron  designs and manufacturers control  systems
and components for aircraft, armored vehicles and commercial
applications.  HR Textron is in the process of  diversifying
its  business  base  by  adapting  aerospace  technology  to
servovalves  used in industrial and automotive applications.
HR  Textron's  aerospace and defense products  are  marketed
directly  to  the  U.S.  Government and  OEMs  and,  in  the
aftermarket, both directly and through service centers.
     
     Textron   Systems   manufactures   "smart"   munitions,
airborne  surveillance systems, automatic  aircraft  landing
systems  and  advanced  composite  materials  for  the  U.S.
Department of Defense.  Once exclusively a supplier  to  the
Department  of  Defense,  Textron Systems  now  applies  its
technologies  to  non-defense  and  international   markets.
Current commercial products include laser ultrasonic systems
for   industrial  control,  infrared  sensors  for  medical,
industrial   and   agribusiness   applications,   and   fire
protection  and  insulating materials for oil  and  chemical
companies.  While Textron Systems sells most of its products
directly to customers, it also sells some products through a
growing,   global  network  of  sales  representatives   and
distributors.

      The  Industrial  Components  group  consists  of  Fuel
Systems Textron, Greenlee Textron, Textron Lycoming, Textron
Marine & Land Systems and Turbine Engine Components Textron,
each  of  which  is  a  leading  company  in  its  industry.
Products  of  this  group are sold  to  a  wide  variety  of
customers,  including  OEMs,  distributors  and  end  users,
including  the military.  The principal competitive  factors
affecting sales of the products of the Industrial Components



group  are  price,  quality, customer service,  performance,
reliability,  reputation  and existing  product  base.   The
Speidel  operation, a manufacturer of watch attachments  and
fashion jewelry, was sold to Herman Hirsch USA, Inc. at  the
end of 1997.

     Fuel  Systems  designs, manufactures and overhauls  gas
turbine   engine  injection  and  metering   devices,   fuel
distribution valves, and afterburner fuel injection  systems
for   commercial  and  military  aircraft,  and  industrial,
marine, and vehicular markets.  Fuel Systems invests in  the
design  and development of innovative, proprietary products,
with on-site engineering support at customer facilities  and
an  advanced  product  development facility  to  extend  the
customers' own design activities.

      Greenlee  is  a  worldwide market  leader  in  powered
equipment, electrical test instruments and hand tools.   The
principal  applications  of these  products  are  electrical
construction and maintenance, power generation, transmission
and  distribution, telecommunications, electronics, plumbing
and the mechanical trades.

     Textron  Lycoming is the world leader  in  the  design,
manufacture  and  overhaul of reciprocating piston  aircraft
engines  serving  the  worldwide  general  aviation  market.
Textron  Lycoming  sells new products  directly  to  general
aviation  airframe manufacturers, including Piper  Aircraft,
Robinson Helicopter, and SOCATA, a division of Aerospatiale,
and  is  the exclusive supplier of engines for Cessna's  new
product  line of single engine aircraft.  Aftermarket  sales
are made to the more than 180,000 existing owners of Textron
Lycoming   products   through   a   worldwide   network   of
independently owned distributors.

      Textron Marine & Land Systems is a world leader in the
design  and construction of advanced technology air  cushion
vehicles, surface effect ships, high performance search  and
rescue vessels, Cadillac Gage light armored combat vehicles,
suspension systems, turrets and artillery systems.   Textron
Marine  &  Land Systems has products operating  in  over  35
countries.

     Turbine Engine Components is one of the world's largest
independent suppliers of internal components for gas turbine
engines for aircraft and industrial applications.  Its
products include fan and compressor blades, vanes, shafts,
disks, rotors, blisks and other rotating components; the
forgings from which those products are machined; and
stationary components of turbine engines, such as frames,
diffusers, and air collectors.  Turbine Engine Components
manufacturers its products to the specifications of its
customers.

       Finance.   The  Finance  segment  consists  of   Avco
Financial Services ("AFS") and Textron Financial Corporation
("TFC").   AFS  is  engaged in consumer  finance,  insurance
services   related  to  consumer  finance,  and   commercial
finance.  TFC is engaged in commercial finance.



      AFS's consumer finance activities consist primarily of
the  following: (i) loans which are unsecured or secured  by
personal  property  for relatively small amounts  and  short
periods; (ii) real estate loans secured by real property for
larger  amounts  and for considerably longer periods;  (iii)
auto   financing  of  pre-owned  autos;  and   (iv)   retail
installment   contracts,   principally   covering   personal
property.  AFS, through various insurance subsidiaries, also
offers a variety of insurance products to its consumer  loan
customers  and  to  consumer  loan  customers  of  unrelated
financial  institutions.  AFS's insurance  products  include
credit life, credit disability and casualty insurance.

     AFS's  consumer  loan business is conducted  through  a
network  of  branch  offices.  At  December  31,  1997,  AFS
operated   approximately  1,200  consumer  finance   offices
located in the United States,  Australia, Australia, Canada,
Hong  Kong,  India, Ireland, New Zealand, Spain, Sweden  and
the  United  Kingdom.   Revenues of AFS's  consumer  lending
business  (including insurance products  sold  to  its  loan
customers) accounted for approximately 14%, 16% and  17%  of
Textron's   total   revenues  in  1997,   1996   and   1995,
respectively.

      The  consumer finance business is highly  competitive,
with  price  and  service  being the  principal  competitive
factors.  AFS's competitors include not only other companies
operating under consumer loan laws, but also other types  of
lending  institutions  not  so  regulated  and  usually  not
limited in the size of their loans, such as companies  which
finance the sale of their own merchandise or the merchandise
of  others,  industrial banks, the personal loan departments
of  commercial  banks  and credit unions.   AFS's  strongest
competition is from commercial banks and credit unions.  The
interest  rates charged by these lenders are  usually  lower
than  the rates charged by AFS.  AFS's insurance businesses,
to  the  extent  not  related to AFS's  finance  activities,
compete with many other insurance companies offering similar
products.

      AFS's  consumer finance business is regulated by  laws
that,  among  other  things, can limit maximum  charges  for
loans  and  the maximum amount and term thereof.  Such  laws
also  require  disclosure to customers of the interest  rate
and  other basic terms of most credit transactions and  give
customers a limited right to cancel certain loans and retail
installment  contracts  without  penalty.   AFS's  insurance
business  is  subject to licensing and regulation  by  state
authorities.

       AFS's   commercial  business  focuses  primarily   on
equipment leasing and inventory financing outside the United
States.   During  1996  and 1997,  AFS  acquired  or  opened
commercial   financing  operations  in  Australia,   Canada,
France,  India,  and the United Kingdom.   These  operations
were  added  to  AFS's commercial businesses  already  being
conducted  in  Australia  and Hong Kong.   AFS's  commercial
business portfolio grew to over $900 million at December 31,
1997, from approximately $300 million at December 31, 1996.
     
       TFC  is  a  diversified  commercial  finance  company
specializing in aircraft finance, golf finance,  vendor  and
middle   market  equipment  finance,  and  revolving  credit
arrangements.   TFC originates and syndicates a wide variety of



secured loan and lease transactions, selectively invests
in  leveraged  lease  transactions and provides  third-party
portfolio servicing.  TFC provides commercial financing  for
a  wide range of customers, including those who purchase  or
lease  Textron  products and certain  suppliers  to  Textron
operations.  TFC presently offers its services primarily  in
the  United  States and, to a lesser extent, in  Europe  and
Canada.  Each TFC business unit has a discrete market  focus
and  specific  profit objectives and is staffed  to  provide
responsive services to its market.

      The commercial finance businesses in which AFS and TFC
operate are highly competitive.  AFS and TFC are subject  to
competition  from  various types of financing  institutions,
including  banks,  leasing companies,  insurance  companies,
independent  finance companies associated with manufacturers
and  finance  companies  that are  subsidiaries  of  banking
institutions.   Competition within  the  commercial  finance
industry is primarily focused on price and service.

Finance Receivables

The following table presents the Finance segment's
outstanding finance receivables by country:


                            December 31,
                           1997     1996
                           (In millions)
                                    
United States            $6,626   $6,925
Canada                    1,239    1,079
Australia                 1,174    1,067
United Kingdom              857      692
Other countries             916      659
                                   
                        $10,812   $10,422
                                   


     At December 31, 1997, finance receivables in the United
States   represented   61%   of  Textron's   total   finance
receivables  outstanding.   At  such  date,  no  receivables
outstanding in any one state other than California  exceeded
8%   of   the   United  States  portfolio.   In  California,
outstanding receivables represented 15% of the United States
portfolio and 9% of the consolidated portfolio.



      The following table presents accruing commercial loans
and  all  consumer  loans on which one or more  installments
were  more  than  60  days past due on a  contractual  basis
(expressed  as a percentage of the related gross receivables
outstanding):

Years ended          Consumer*  Commercial  Total
December 31            loans      loans     loans
 1997                  3.42%      0.37%     2.30%
                                               
 1996                  3.25%      0.21%     2.32%
                                           

     *Excludes commercial loans that are subject to recourse
to other Textron operating units.

     The following table shows gross and net write-offs, the
percentages whichthat those amounts bear to average  finance
receivables,  and  the  amount of the provision  for  losses
charged to income:



Backlog
     Information  regarding Textron's backlog of  government
and  commercial  orders at the end of the  past  two  fiscal
years  is  contained  on  page 32 of Textron's  1997  Annual
Report to Shareholders, which page is incorporated herein by
reference.

     Approximately  39% of Textron's total backlog  of  $6.3
billion at January 3, 1998, represents orders which are  not
expected  to  be  filled within the 1998  fiscal  year.   At
January  3,  1998, approximately 96% of the total government
backlog of $2.2  billion was funded.

Government Contracts
    In 1997, 20% and 14% of the revenues of the Aircraft and
the  Industrial segments, respectively, constituting in  the
aggregate  10%  of  Textron's  consolidated  revenues,  were
generated  by  or  resulted from  contracts  with  the  U.S.
Government.    U.S.  Government  business  is   subject   to
competition,    changes   in   procurement   policies    and
regulations,  the  continuing availability of  Congressional
appropriations,  world events, and the size  and  timing  of
programs in which Textron may participate.

     A substantial portion of Textron's government contracts
are   fixed-price   or   fixed-price  incentive   contracts.
Contracts  that contain incentive pricing terms provide  for
upward  or  downward adjustments in the prices paid  by  the
U.S.  Government  upon completion of  the  contract  or  any
agreed  portion thereof, based on cost or other  performance
factors.   U.S.  Government  contracts  generally   may   be
terminated  in  whole or in part at the convenience  of  the
U.S.  Government or if the contractor is in  default.   Upon
termination  of a contract for the convenience of  the  U.S.
Government,   the   contractor  is  normally   entitled   to
reimbursement for allowable costs incurred  (up to a maximum
equal to the contract price) and an allowance for profit  or
adjustment for loss if the contractor would have incurred  a
loss had the entire contract been completed.  If, however, a
contract  is terminated for default:  (i) the contractor  is
paid  such  amount  as may be agreed upon for  manufacturing
materials and partially completed products accepted  by  the
U.S. Government; (ii) the U.S. Government is not liable  for
the  contractor's costs with respect to unaccepted items and
is  entitled  to repayment of advance payments and  progress
payments, if any, related to the terminated portions of  the
contract; and (iii) the contractor may be liable for  excess
costs   incurred  by  the  U.S.  Government   in   procuring
undelivered items from another source.

Research and Development
    Information regarding Textron's research and development
expenditures  is  contained on page  51  of  Textron's  1997
Annual  Report  to Shareholders, which page is  incorporated
herein by reference.



Patents and Trademarks
     Textron owns, or is licensed under, a number of patents
and trademarks throughout the world relating to products and
methods of manufacturing.  Patents and trademarks have  been
of  value in the past and are expected to be of value in the
future;  however, the loss of any single patent or group  of
patents  would  not,  in the opinion of Textron,  materially
affect the conduct of its business.

Environmental Considerations
     Textron's operations are subject to numerous  laws  and
regulations    designed   to   protect   the    environment.
Compliance with such laws and expenditures for environmental
control  facilities have not had, and are  not  expected  to
have, a material effect on capital expenditures, earnings or
the    competitive   position   of   Textron.     Additional
information regarding environmental matters is contained  on
pages  31  and  54  of  Textron's  1997  Annual  Report   to
Shareholders,  which  pages  are  incorporated   herein   by
reference.

Employees
     At  January  3, 1998, Textron had approximately  64,000
employees.


ITEM 2.     PROPERTIES
     At  January  3, 1998, Textron operated a total  of  139
plants  located throughout the United States and  45  plants
outside  the  United States.  Of the total  of  184  plants,
Textron  owned  114  and the balance were  leased.   In  the
aggregate,  the total manufacturing space was  approximately
34 million square feet.

      In addition, Textron owns or leases offices, warehouse
and  other space at various locations throughout the  United
States  and  outside the United States.   Textron  considers
the  productive capacity of the plants operated by  each  of
its business segments to be adequate.  In general, Textron's
facilities  are  in  good condition, are  considered  to  be
adequate for the uses to which they are being put,  and  are
substantially in regular use.

ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
      Textron   is   subject  to  a  number   of   lawsuits,
investigations and claims arising out of the conduct of  its
business,    including   those   relating   to    commercial
transactions,  government contracts, product liability,  and
environmental,  safety  and  health  matters.    Some   seek
compensatory,  treble  or punitive  damages  in  substantial
amounts; fines, penalties or restitution; or remediation  of
contamination; and  someand some are or purport to be  class
actions.   Under federal government procurement regulations,
some  could result in suspension or debarment of Textron  or
its  subsidiaries  from U.S. Government  contracting  for  a
period  of  time.   On  the basis of  information  presently
available,  Textron  believes 



that any liability  for  these suits  and  proceedings would 
not have a material effect on Textron's net income or financial 
condition.

ITEM  4.    SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A  VOTE  OF  SECURITY HOLDERS
     No  matters  were  submitted to  a  vote  of  Textron's
security  holders  during the last  quarter  of  the  period
covered by this Report.


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

        The  following table sets forth certain  information
concerning  the executive officers of Textron  as  of  March
6,  1998.   Unless  otherwise  indicated,  the  employer  is
Textron.

                                                
                                                
Name                   Age                  Position
                                 
James F. Hardymon      63        Chairman since 1993, and  Chief
                                 Executive  Officer since  1992;
                                 formerly  President,  1989   to
                                 1993; Director since 1989.
                                 
Lewis B. Campbell      51        President  and Chief  Operating
                                 Officer  since  1994;  formerly
                                 Executive  Vice  President  and
                                 Chief  Operating Officer,  1992
                                 to 1993; Director since 1994.
                                 
John D. Butler                   Executive     Vice    President
                       50        Administration and Chief  Human
                                 Resources  Officer  since  July
                                 1997;  formerly Vice  President
                                 Personnel  of  General   Motors
                                 International        Operations
                                 (Zurich, Switzerland), 1993  to
                                 June 1997.
                                 
Mary L. Howell         45        Executive     Vice    President
                                 Government   and  International
                                 since   1995;  formerly  Senior
                                 Vice  President Government  and
                                 International  Relations,  1993
                                 to    1995;    Vice   President
                                 Government  Affairs,  1985   to
                                 1993.
                                 
Wayne W. Juchatz       51        Executive  Vice  President  and
                                 General  Counsel  since   1995;
                                 formerly     Executive     Vice
                                 President  and General  Counsel
                                 of    R.J.   Reynolds   Tobacco
                                 Company,  1994 to 1995;  Senior
                                 Vice     President,     General
                                 Counsel and Secretary of   R.J.
                                 Reynolds Tobacco Company,  1987
                                 to 1994.
                                 
Stephen L. Key         54        Executive  Vice  President  and
                                 Chief  Financial Officer  since
                                 1995;  formerly Executive  Vice
                                 President  and Chief  Financial
                                 Officer of ConAgra, Inc.,  1992
                                 to 1995.


Herbert L. Henkel      49        President,  Textron  Industrial
                                 Products  since 1995;  formerly
                                 Group    Vice   President    of
                                 Textron  Inc.,  1993  to  1995;
                                 President   of   the   Greenlee
                                 Textron   Division,   1987   to
                                 1993.
                                 
Edward C. Arditte                Vice  President  and  Treasurer
                       42        since  May 1997; formerly  Vice
                                 President Finance and  Business
                                 Development     of      Textron
                                 Fastening Systems, 1995 to  May
                                 1997;       Vice      President
                                 Communications     and     Risk
                                 Management  of  Textron   Inc.,
                                 1994  to  1995; Vice  President
                                 Investor  Relations  and   Risk
                                 Management, 1993 to 1994.
                                 
Frederick K. Butler    46        Vice  President  and  Secretary
                                 since  January  1997;  formerly
                                 Group      General      Counsel
                                 Financial  Services,  1995   to
                                 1996;     Assistant     General
                                 Counsel,  1994  to  1995;  Vice
                                 President  and General  Counsel
                                 of   Paul   Revere   Investment
                                 Management  Company,  1993   to
                                 1994;        Senior        Vice
                                 President/Law    of     Textron
                                 Investment Management  Company,
                                 1991 to 1993.
                                 
Peter B. S. Ellis      44        Vice     President    Strategic
                                 Planning  since 1995;  formerly
                                 Managing               Director
                                 Telecommunications Practice  of
                                 Arthur  D.  Little, Inc.,  1991
                                 to 1995.
                                 
Douglas A. Fahlbeck    52        Vice   President  Mergers   and
                                 Acquisitions    since     1995;
                                 formerly     Executive     Vice
                                 President  and Chief  Financial
                                 Officer  of  Textron  Financial
                                 Corporation,  1994   to   1995;
                                 Senior   Vice   President   and
                                 Chief   Financial  Officer   of
                                 Textron  Financial Corporation,
                                 1985 to 1994.
                                 
Arnold M. Friedman     55        Vice   President   and   Deputy
                                 General Counsel since 1984.
                                 
William B. Gauld       44        Vice     President    Corporate
                                 Information   Management    and
                                 Chief    Information    Officer
                                 since   1995;  formerly   Staff
                                 Vice    President,    Corporate
                                 Information   Management    and
                                 Chief    Information   Officer,
                                 1994     to     1995;     Chief
                                 Information Officer of  General
                                 Electric            (Electrical
                                 Distribution    and     Control
                                 business) 1992 to 1994.
                                 
Carol J. Grant         44        Vice  President Human Resources
                                 since  February 1997;  formerly
                                 Vice  President of NYNEX (Rhode
                                 Island    Strategic    Business
                                 Unit),  1993  to January  1997;
                                 Vice  President Public  Affairs
                                 and  Communications of NYNEX  -
                                 Rhode Island, 1991 to 1993.
                                 
Gregory E. Hudson      51        Vice   President  Taxes   since
                                 1987.
                                 

                                 
William P. Janovitz    55        Vice     President    Financial
                                 Management since January  1997;
                                 formerly     Vice     President
                                 Financial  Reporting,  1995  to
                                 January  1997;  Vice  President
                                 and Controller, 1983 to 1995.
                                 
Mary F. Lovejoy        42        Vice  President  Communications
                                 and  Investor  Relations  since
                                 1996;  formerly Vice  President
                                 Investor  Relations,  1995   to
                                 1996;     Director     Investor
                                 Relations,  1993 to 1995;  Vice
                                 President  and Senior Corporate
                                 Banker  of  The First  National
                                 Bank   of  Chicago,   1991   to
                                 1993.
                                 
John W. Mayers, Jr.    44        Vice  President Risk Management
                                 since  January  1997;  formerly
                                 Director Risk Management,  1993
                                 to     January    1997;    Vice
                                 President   and  Treasurer   of
                                 Textron  Financial Corporation,
                                 1990 to 1993.
                                 
Frank W. McNally       58        Vice     President     Employee
                                 Relations  and  Benefits  since
                                 1995;   formerly   Staff   Vice
                                 President,  Employee  Relations
                                 and  Benefits,  1993  to  1995;
                                 Staff  Vice President  Employee
                                 Relations, 1992 to 1993.
Gero K. H. Meyersiek   50        Vice   President  International
                                 since   1996;   formerly   Vice
                                 President      of       Textron
                                 International  Inc.,  1995   to
                                 1996;       Vice      President
                                 International          Business
                                 Development  of  GE   Financial
                                 Services, 1991 to 1994.
                                 
Freda M. Peters        56        Vice     President    Executive
                                 Development and Human  Resource
                                 Policy  and  Compliance   since
                                 February     1997;     formerly
                                 Director
                                 Management/Organization
                                 Development,  1996  to  January
                                 1997;   Vice  President   Human
                                 Resources      of       Branson
                                 Ultrasonics         Corporation
                                 (subsidiary     of      Emerson
                                 Electric  Company),   1985   to
                                 1996.
                                 
Daniel L. Shaffer      61        Vice   President   Audit    and
                                 Business  Ethics  since   1994;
                                 formerly      President      of
                                 Textron's    Aircraft    Engine
                                 Components  Division,  1992  to
                                 1994.
                                 
Richard F. Smith       58        Vice    President    Government
                                 Affairs  since  1995;  formerly
                                 Staff       Vice      President
                                 Government Affairs, March  1995
                                 to    August   1995;   Director
                                 Government  Affairs,  1985   to
                                 March 1995.
                                 
Richard L. Yates       47        Vice  President and  Controller
                                 since  1995; formerly Executive
                                 Vice      President,      Chief
                                 Financial      Officer      and
                                 Treasurer  of The  Paul  Revere
                                 Corporation,  1993   to   1995;
                                 Senior  Vice  President,  Chief
                                 Financial      Officer      and
                                 Treasurer  of The  Paul  Revere
                                 Corporation, 1991 to 1993.



John F. Zugschwert     64        Vice    President    Government
                                 Marketing since 1995;  formerly
                                 Staff       Vice      President
                                 Government Marketing,  1993  to
                                 1995;       Vice      President
                                 Washington Operations  of  Bell
                                 Helicopter  Textron,  1991   to
                                 1993.


      Textron's Board of Directors has approved a management
succession  plan  in which Mr. Campbell  will  become  chief
executive officer on July 1, 1998.  Mr. Hardymon will remain
chairman   of  Textron's  Board  of  Directors   until   his
retirement at year-end 1999 at age 65.

                              PART II

ITEM 5.     MARKETS FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON
            EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     Textron's  Common  Stock is traded  on  the  New  York,
Chicago  and Pacific Stock Exchanges.  At January  3,  1998,
there  were  approximately 24,000 holders of Textron  Common
Stock.   The  information on the price  range  of  Textron's
Common  Stock  and dividends paid per share appearing  under
"Common  Stock  Information" on page 56  of  Textron's  1997
Annual  Report  to  Shareholders is incorporated  herein  by
reference.

ITEM 6.      SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The  information  appearing under  "Selected  Financial
Information" on page 57 of Textron's 1997 Annual  Report  to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7.     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
            FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     "Management's  Discussion and Analysis,"  appearing  on
pages  25  through  32 of Textron's 1997  Annual  Report  to
Shareholders, is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The consolidated financial statements and supplementary
information  contained in Textron's 1997  Annual  report  to
Shareholders  and  the  Financial  Statement  schedules,  as
listed in the accompanying Index to Financial Statements and
Financial  Statement Schedules, are incorporated  herein  by
reference.




ITEM 9.      CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS
             ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    None.

                              PART III

ITEM  10.      DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The information appearing under "Nominees for Director"
on  pages 2 through 6 of Textron's Proxy Statement  for  the
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 22, 1998,
is incorporated herein by reference.

     Information regarding Textron's executive  officers  is
included on pages 15 through 18 of Part I of this Report.


ITEM 11.      EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

      The   information  appearing  under  "Report  of   the
Organization   and  Compensation  Committee   on   Executive
Compensation, Executive Compensation and Performance  Graph"
on  pages 10 through 20 of Textron's Proxy Statement for the
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 22, 1998,
is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 12.     SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN
             BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     The information appearing under "Security Ownership  of
Certain  Beneficial  Holders"  and  "Security  Ownership  of
Management,"  on  pages  8 through  10  of  Textron's  Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be  held
on April 22, 1998, is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.     CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The  information  appearing  under  "Transactions  with
Management" on page 19 of Textron's Proxy Statement for  the
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 22, 1998,
is incorporated herein by reference.



                              PART IV

ITEM  14.      EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES,  AND
               REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
                              
    (a) Financial Statements and Schedules
     The  consolidated  financial statements,  supplementary
information and financial statement schedules listed in  the
accompanying  Index  to Financial Statements  and  Financial
Statement Schedules are filed as part of this Report.

    Exhibits
    3.1        Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
               Textron as filed January 29, 1998.
    3.2        By-Laws  of  Textron, restated  December
               10,  1992.   Incorporated  by  reference   to
               Exhibit  3.2  to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended  January
               2, 1993.
    NOTE:      Exhibits  10.1 through 10.21B below  are
               management  contracts or compensatory  plans,
               contracts or agreements.
    10.1       Annual  Incentive Compensation Plan  For
               Textron Employees.  Incorporated by reference
               to Exhibit 10.1 to Textron's Annual Report on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1995.
    10.2       Deferred  Income Plan  For  Textron  Key
               Executives.   Incorporated  by  reference  to
               Exhibit  10.2 to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1995.
    10.3       Severance   Plan   For   Textron   Key
               Executives.   Incorporated  by  reference  to
               Exhibit  10.3 to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1995.
    10.4       Special   Benefits  for   Textron   Key
               Executives.   Incorporated  by  reference  to
               Exhibit  10.4 to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1995.
    10.5       Supplemental Benefits Plan  For  Textron
               Key  Executives  with  Market  Square  Profit
               Sharing   Plan  Schedule.   Incorporated   by
               reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Textron's Annual
               Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
               December 30, 1995.
    10.6       Supplemental Retirement Plan For Textron
               Key Executives.  Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit  10.6 to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1995.
    10.7       Survivor  Benefit Plan For  Textron  Key
               Executives.   Incorporated  by  reference  to
               Exhibit  10.7 to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1995.
    10.8A      Textron  1987  Long-Term Incentive  Plan
               ("1987 Plan").  Incorporated by reference  to
               Exhibit  10.6 to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1989.
    10.8B      First   Amendment   to   1987    Plan.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit  10.6(b)
               to  Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for
               the fiscal year ended December 28, 1991.


    10.9A      Textron  1990  Long-Term Incentive  Plan
               ("1990 Plan").  Incorporated by reference  to
               Exhibit  10.7 to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1989.
    10.9B      First   Amendment   to   1990    Plan.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit  10.7(c)
               to  Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for
               the fiscal year ended December 28, 1991.
    10.9C      Second   Amendment   to   1990   Plan.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit  10.7(c)
               to  Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for
               the fiscal year ended January 2, 1993.
    10.10      Textron  1994 Long-Term Incentive  Plan.
               Incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  10  to
               Textron's Quarterly Report on Form  10-Q  for
               the fiscal quarter ended July 2, 1994.
    10.11      Form  of  Indemnity  Agreement  between
               Textron   and  its  directors  and  executive
               officers.    Incorporated  by  reference   to
               Exhibit  A  to Textron's Proxy Statement  for
               its  Annual Meeting of Shareholders on  April
               29, 1987.
    10.12A     Pension Plan for Directors as amended by
               a   First  Amendment  (discontinued   as   of
               September   30,   1996).    Incorporated   by
               reference   to  Exhibit  10.14  to  Textron's
               Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for  the  fiscal
               year ended December 31, 1988.
    10.12B     Second  Amendment to  Pension  Plan  for
               Directors  (discontinued as of September  30,
               1996).   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
               10.16(b) to Textron's Annual Report  on  Form
               10-K  for the fiscal year ended December  29,
               1990.
    10.13      Deferred  Income  Plan for  Non-Employee
               Directors.   Incorporated  by  reference   to
               Exhibit  10.14 to Textron's Annual Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               28, 1996.
    10.14A     Employment Agreement between Textron and
               James  F.  Hardymon dated November  24,  1989
               ("Employment  Agreement").   Incorporated  by
               reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Textron's Annual
               Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
               December 30, 1989.
    10.14B     Amendment dated as of December 15, 1994,
               to  Employment  Agreement.   Incorporated  by
               reference  to  Exhibit  10.10B  to  Textron's
               Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for  the  fiscal
               year ended December 31, 1994.
    10.15A     Employment   Agreement  between  Textron   and
               Lewis  B. Campbell dated September 22,  1992.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9  to
               Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for  the
               fiscal year ended January 2, 1993.
    10.15B     Retention  Award  granted  to  Lewis  B.
               Campbell  on December 14, 1995.  Incorporated
               by  reference to Exhibit 10.16B to  Textron's
               Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for  the  fiscal
               year ended December 30, 1995.
    10.16      Employment Agreement  between
               Textron  and  John D. Butler dated  June  10,
               1997.   Incorporated by reference to  Exhibit
               10 to Textron's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
               for the fiscal quarter ended June 28, 1997.


    10.17      Retention Award granted to Herbert L. Henkel
               on December 12, 1996.
    10.18      Employment Agreement between Textron and
               Mary   L.   Howell   dated   May   4,   1993.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to
               Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for  the
               fiscal year ended January 1, 1994.
    10.19A     Employment   Agreement   between
               Textron and Wayne W.  Juchatz dated  November
               1,   1995.   Incorporated  by  reference   to
               Exhibit  10.18 to Textron's Annual Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1995.
    10.19B     Description  of  modified  pension arrangement.
    10.20A     Employment Agreement  between
               Textron and Stephen L. Key dated November  1,
               1995.   Incorporated by reference to  Exhibit
               10.19 to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K
               for the fiscal year ended December 30, 1995.
    10.20B     Description  of  stock  equivalent grant.
    10.21A     Employment   Agreement   between
               Textron  and William F. Wayland dated January
               1,  1989  ("WFW Agreement"). Incorporated  by
               reference   to  Exhibit  10.12  to  Textron's
               Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for  the  fiscal
               year ended December 30, 1989.
    10.21B     Supplement to WFW Agreement  dated May 1, 1997.
    10.22A     Credit Agreement dated as of November 1,
               1993,   among  Textron,  the  Lenders  listed
               therein  and Bankers Trust Company  as  Admin
               istrative    Agent   ("Credit    Agreement").
               Incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  10.20A
               to  Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for
               the fiscal year ended January 1, 1994.
    10.22B     First Amendment dated as of October  30,
               1994,  to Credit Agreement.  Incorporated  by
               reference  to  Exhibit  10.22B  to  Textron's
               Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for  the  fiscal
               year ended December 31, 1994.
    10.22C     Second  Amendment  to  Credit  Agreement
               dated  as  of July 1, 1995.  Incorporated  by
               reference to Exhibit (b) (3) to Schedule 14D-
               1 filed by Textron on September 19, 1995.
    10.22D     Third  Amendment  to  Credit  Agreement
               dated  as  of July 1, 1996.  Incorporated  by
               reference  to  Exhibit  10.21D  to  Textron's
               Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for  the  fiscal
               year ended December 28, 1996.
    12.1       Computation  of  ratio  of  income   to
               combined  fixed  charges and preferred  stock
               dividends of the Parent Group.
    12.2       Computation  of  ratio  of  income   to
               combined  fixed  charges and preferred  stock
               dividends  of  Textron  Inc.  including   all
               majority-owned subsidiaries.
    13         A  portion (pages 24 through 59)  of
               Textron's 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders.
    21         Certain  subsidiaries of  Textron.
               Other  subsidiaries, which considered in  the
               aggregate  do  not constitute  a  significant
               subsidiary, are omitted from such list.
    23         Consent of Independent Auditors.


    24.1       Power of attorney.
    24.2       Certified copy of a resolution of  the  Board
               of Directors of Textron.
    27         Financial Data Schedule.
    
    (b) Reports on Form 8-K
        No  reports  on  Form  8-K were  filed  during  the
         quarter ended January 3, 1998.


                         SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirement of Section 13 or  15(d)  of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused  this Annual Report on Form 10-K to be signed on  its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on this
16th day of March 1998.

TEXTRON INC.
Registrant

By: /s/Michael D. Cahn
    Michael D. Cahn
    Attorney-in-fact

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange
Act  of 1934, this Report has been signed below on this 16th
day of March 1998, by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated:


       NAME                                  TITLE


           *                       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,
James F. Hardymon                  Director (principal executive officer)


           *                       President and Chief Operating Officer,
Lewis B. Campbell                  Director


           *                       Director
H. Jesse Arnelle


           *                       Director
Teresa Beck



           *                       Director
R. Stuart Dickson


           *                       Director
Paul E. Gagne


           *                       Director
John D. Macomber


           *                       Director
Dana G. Mead


           *                       Director
Barbara Scott Preiskel


           *                       Director
Brian H. Rowe


           *                       Director
Sam F. Segnar


           *                       Director
Jean Head Sisco


           *                       Director
John W. Snow



           *                       Director
Martin D. Walker


           *                       Director
Thomas B. Wheeler


           *                       Executive Vice President and
Stephen L. Key                     Chief Financial Officer
                                   (principal financial officer)


            *                      Vice President and Controller
Richard L. Yates                   (principal accounting officer)



*By:    /s/Michael D. Cahn
    Michael D. Cahn
    Attorney-in-fact



                         TEXTRON INC.
                INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
              AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
                         Item 14(a)
                              
                              
                              
                                                                  
                                                    Form    Annual Report
Textron Inc.                                        10-K   to Shareholders
                                                                    
Report of Independent Auditors                                   33
                                                                    
Consolidated Statement of Income for each of the                 34
three years in the period ended January 3, 1998
                                                                    
Consolidated Balance Sheet at January 3, 1998                    36
                                                                    
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for each of                 38
the three years in the period ended January 3,
                                                                    
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders'               40
Equity for each of the three years in the period
ended January 3, 1998
                                                                    
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                      41-55
                                                                    
Revenues and Income by Business Segment                          24
                                                                    
Supplementary Information (Unaudited):                            
                                                                    
   Quarterly Financial Information 1997 and 1996                 56
                                                                    
Financial Statement Schedules for each of the three                
years in the period ended January 3, 1998
                                                           
    I   Condensed financial information of              28
        registrant

   II   Valuation and qualifying accounts               29











All  other  schedules  are omitted  because  the  conditions
requiring  the  filing thereof do not exist or  because  the
information required is included in the financial statements
and notes thereto.





                         TEXTRON INC.

 SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

 For each of the three years in the period ended January 3, 1998

                              
      Financial  information of the  Registrant  is  omitted
because condensed financial information of the Parent Group,
which  includes the Registrant and all of its majority-owned
subsidiaries  other  than its finance subsidiaries  (Finance
Group),  is  shown on pages 34 through 39 of Textron's  1997
Annual Report to Shareholders.  Management believes that the
disclosure  of  financial information on the  basis  of  the
Parent  Group  results  in  a more meaningful  presentation,
since   this   group  constitutes  the  Registrant's   basic
borrowing entity and the only restrictions on net assets  of
Textron's  subsidiaries relate to its  Finance  Group.   The
Registrant's  investment in its Finance Group  is  shown  on
pages  36  and  37  of  Textron's  1997  Annual  Report   to
Shareholders  under  the  caption  "Investments  in  Finance
Group."

      The  Parent Group received dividends of $221  million,
$124  million  and  $117 million from its Finance  Group  in
1997,  1996 and 1995, respectively.  The portion of the  net
assets  of  Textron's  Finance  Group  available  for   cash
dividends  and  other  payments  to  the  Parent  Group   is
restricted by the terms of lending agreements and  insurance
statutory   requirements.    As   of   January   3,    1998,
approximately  $475  million of their  net  assets  of  $1.6
billion was available to be transferred to the Parent  Group
pursuant to these restrictions.

     The Parent Group's credit agreements contain provisions
requiring  it  to maintain a minimum level of  shareholders'
equity   and   a  minimum  interest  coverage  ratio.    For
additional   information  concerning  the   Parent   Group's
long-term  debt,  see  Note 9 to the consolidated  financial
statements  appearing on pages 46 and 47 of  Textron's  1997
Annual Report to Shareholders.

        For    information    concerning   Textron-obligated
Mandatorily  Redeemable Preferred Securities  of  Subsidiary
Trust  Holding  Solely  Textron  Junior  Subordinated   Debt
Securities,  see  Note  11  to  the  consolidated  financial
statements  appearing  on page 48 of Textron's  1997  Annual
Report to Shareholders.



                        TEXTRON INC.
                              
       SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 For each of the three years in the period ended January 3,
                        (In millions)
                              
Allowance for credit losses

Changes  in  the allowance for credit losses for  the  years
indicated were as follows:

                                                                      
                                                  1997      1996     1995

Balance of the allowance for                                             
credit losses at the
beginning of the year                             $293      $270     $250

Add - charged to income:                                                
        Consumer                                   229       203      149
        Commercial                                  27        27       20
                                                   256       230      169
Deduct - balances                                                        
charged off:
   Gross charge offs:
        Consumer                                  (267)     (230)    (177)
        Commercial                                 (32)      (30)     (25)
                                                  (299)     (260)    (202)

   Recoveries:                                                           
        Consumer                                    48        36       33
        Commercial                                  10         3        4
                                                    58        39       37
   Net charge offs                                (241)     (221)    (165)

Other                                                7        14       16

Balance of the allowance for                                             
credit losses at the end of
the year                                          $315      $293     $270
                                                                         

Balance of the allowance for
credit losses at the end of
the year applicable to:

Consumer                                          $236      $218      $195
Commercial                                          79        75        75
                                                  $315      $293      $270

                              
                        EXHIBIT LIST
                              
                              
                              
    Exhibits
    3.1        Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
               Textron as filed January 29, 1998.
    3.2        By-Laws  of  Textron, restated  December
               10,  1992.   Incorporated  by  reference   to
               Exhibit  3.2  to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended  January
               2, 1993.
    NOTE:      Exhibits  10.1 through 10.21B below  are
               management  contracts or compensatory  plans,
               contracts or agreements.
    10.1       Annual  Incentive Compensation Plan  For
               Textron Employees.  Incorporated by reference
               to Exhibit 10.1 to Textron's Annual Report on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1995.
    10.2       Deferred  Income Plan  For  Textron  Key
               Executives.   Incorporated  by  reference  to
               Exhibit  10.2 to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1995.
    10.3       Severance   Plan   For   Textron   Key
               Executives.   Incorporated  by  reference  to
               Exhibit  10.3 to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1995.
    10.4       Special   Benefits  for   Textron   Key
               Executives.   Incorporated  by  reference  to
               Exhibit  10.4 to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1995.
    10.5       Supplemental Benefits Plan  For  Textron
               Key  Executives  with  Market  Square  Profit
               Sharing   Plan  Schedule.   Incorporated   by
               reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Textron's Annual
               Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
               December 30, 1995.
    10.6       Supplemental Retirement Plan For Textron
               Key Executives.  Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit  10.6 to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1995.
    10.7       Survivor  Benefit Plan For  Textron  Key
               Executives.   Incorporated  by  reference  to
               Exhibit  10.7 to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1995.
    10.8A      Textron  1987  Long-Term Incentive  Plan
               ("1987 Plan").  Incorporated by reference  to
               Exhibit  10.6 to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1989.
    10.8B      First   Amendment   to   1987    Plan.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit  10.6(b)
               to  Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for
               the fiscal year ended December 28, 1991.

    10.9A      Textron  1990  Long-Term Incentive  Plan
               ("1990 Plan").  Incorporated by reference  to
               Exhibit  10.7 to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1989.
    10.9B      First   Amendment   to   1990    Plan.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit  10.7(c)
               to  Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for
               the fiscal year ended December 28, 1991.
    10.9C      Second   Amendment   to   1990   Plan.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit  10.7(c)
               to  Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for
               the fiscal year ended January 2, 1993.
    10.10      Textron  1994 Long-Term Incentive  Plan.
               Incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  10  to
               Textron's Quarterly Report on Form  10-Q  for
               the fiscal quarter ended July 2, 1994.
    10.11      Form  of  Indemnity  Agreement  between
               Textron   and  its  directors  and  executive
               officers.    Incorporated  by  reference   to
               Exhibit  A  to Textron's Proxy Statement  for
               its  Annual Meeting of Shareholders on  April
               29, 1987.
    10.12A     Pension Plan for Directors as amended by
               a   First  Amendment  (discontinued   as   of
               September   30,   1996).    Incorporated   by
               reference   to  Exhibit  10.14  to  Textron's
               Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for  the  fiscal
               year ended December 31, 1988.
    10.12B     Second  Amendment to  Pension  Plan  for
               Directors  (discontinued as of September  30,
               1996).   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
               10.16(b) to Textron's Annual Report  on  Form
               10-K  for the fiscal year ended December  29,
               1990.
    10.13      Deferred  Income  Plan for  Non-Employee
               Directors.   Incorporated  by  reference   to
               Exhibit  10.14 to Textron's Annual Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               28, 1996.
    10.14A     Employment Agreement between Textron and
               James  F.  Hardymon dated November  24,  1989
               ("Employment  Agreement").   Incorporated  by
               reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Textron's Annual
               Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
               December 30, 1989.
    10.14B     Amendment dated as of December 15, 1994,
               to  Employment  Agreement.   Incorporated  by
               reference  to  Exhibit  10.10B  to  Textron's
               Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for  the  fiscal
               year ended December 31, 1994.
    10.15A     Employment   Agreement  between  Textron   and
               Lewis  B. Campbell dated September 22,  1992.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9  to
               Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for  the
               fiscal year ended January 2, 1993.
    10.15B     Retention  Award  granted  to  Lewis  B.
               Campbell  on December 14, 1995.  Incorporated
               by  reference to Exhibit 10.16B to  Textron's
               Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for  the  fiscal
               year ended December 30, 1995.

    10.16      Employment Agreement  between
               Textron  and  John D. Butler dated  June  10,
               1997.   Incorporated by reference to  Exhibit
               10 to Textron's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
               for the fiscal quarter ended June 28, 1997.
    10.17      Retention Award granted to Herbert L. Henkel
               on December 12, 1996.
    10.18      Employment Agreement between Textron and
               Mary   L.   Howell   dated   May   4,   1993.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to
               Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for  the
               fiscal year ended January 1, 1994.
    10.19A     Employment   Agreement   between
               Textron and Wayne W.  Juchatz dated  November
               1,   1995.   Incorporated  by  reference   to
               Exhibit  10.18 to Textron's Annual Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1995.
    10.19B     Description  of  modified  pension
               arrangement.
    10.20A     Employment   Agreement
               between  Textron  and Stephen  L.  Key  dated
               November  1, 1995.  Incorporated by reference
               to  Exhibit 10.19 to Textron's Annual  Report
               on  Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended
               December 30, 1995.
    10.20B     Description  of  stock  equivalent grant
    10.21A     Employment   Agreement   between
               Textron  and William F. Wayland dated January
               1,  1989  ("WFW Agreement"). Incorporated  by
               reference   to  Exhibit  10.12  to  Textron's
               Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for  the  fiscal
               year ended December 30, 1989.
    10.21B     Supplement to WFW Agreement dated May 1,1997.
    10.22A     Credit Agreement dated as of November 1,
               1993,   among  Textron,  the  Lenders  listed
               therein  and Bankers Trust Company  as  Admin
               istrative    Agent   ("Credit    Agreement").
               Incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  10.20A
               to  Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for
               the fiscal year ended January 1, 1994.
    10.22B     First Amendment dated as of October  30,
               1994,  to Credit Agreement.  Incorporated  by
               reference  to  Exhibit  10.22B  to  Textron's
               Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for  the  fiscal
               year ended December 31, 1994.
    10.22C     Second  Amendment  to  Credit  Agreement
               dated  as  of July 1, 1995.  Incorporated  by
               reference to Exhibit (b) (3) to Schedule 14D-
               1 filed by Textron on September 19, 1995.
    10.22D     Third  Amendment  to  Credit  Agreement
               dated  as  of July 1, 1996.  Incorporated  by
               reference  to  Exhibit  10.21D  to  Textron's
               Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for  the  fiscal
               year ended December 28, 1996.
    12.1       Computation  of  ratio  of  income   to
               combined  fixed  charges and preferred  stock
               dividends of the Parent Group.
    12.2       Computation  of  ratio  of  income   to
               combined  fixed  charges and preferred  stock
               dividends  of  Textron  Inc.  including   all
               majority-owned subsidiaries.

    13         A portion (pages 24 through 59) of Textron's
               1997 Annual Report to Shareholders.
    21         Certain  subsidiaries of  Textron.
               Other  subsidiaries, which considered in  the
               aggregate  do  not constitute  a  significant
               subsidiary, are omitted from such list.
    23         Consent of Independent Auditors.
    24.1       Power of attorney.
    24.2       Certified copy of a resolution of  the  Board
               of Directors of Textron.
    27         Financial Data Schedule.



