
10-K




                              
              SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                   WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                          Form 10-K

[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
     THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

     For the fiscal year ended January 2, 1999
     Commission File Number 1-5480
                        Textron Inc.

      (Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)

Delaware                                            05-0315468
(State or other jurisdiction of                    (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                     Identification No.)

        40 Westminster Street, Providence, R.I. 02903
                       (401) 421-2800
     (Address and telephone number of principal executive offices)
                       ______________
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                 Name of Each Exchange on
           Title of Class                             Which Registered

Common Stock - par value $.125 (151,598,791 shares    New York Stock Exchange
  outstanding at February 26, 1999);                  Pacific Stock Exchange
Preferred Stock Purchase Rights                       Chicago Stock Exchange

$2.08 Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock,         New York Stock Exchange
  Series A - no par value

$1.40 Convertible Preferred Dividend Stock, Series B  New York Stock Exchange
  (preferred only as to dividends) - no par value

8.75% Debentures due July 1, 2022                     New York Stock Exchange

7.92% Trust Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trust  New York Stock Exchange
(and Textron Guaranty with respect thereto)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1)
has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13  or
15(d)  of  the  Securities Exchange Act of 1934  during  the
preceding  12  months (or for such shorter period  that  the
registrant  was required to file such reports) and  (2)  has
been  subject to such filing  requirements for the  past  90
days.     Yes [x].     No     .
          Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent
filers  pursuant  to  Item  405 of  Regulation  S-K  is  not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best  of
registrant's  knowledge, in definitive proxy or  information
statements  incorporated by reference in Part  III  of  this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  [x]
          The aggregate market value of voting stock held by
non-affiliates  of the registrant is $11,893,857,775  as  of
February 26, 1999.
            Portions   of  Textron's   Annual   Report    to
Shareholders  for  the fiscal  year  ended  January 2, 1999,
are  incorporated by reference in Parts I  and  II  of  this
Report.    Portions  of Textron's Proxy  Statement  for  its
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 28, 1999,
are incorporated by reference in Part III of this Report.



                              PART I


ITEM 1. BUSINESS OF TEXTRON

           Textron  is a global multi-industry company  with
operations in four business segments - Aircraft, Automotive,
Industrial  and  Finance.   Included  within  the   business
segments are operations that are unincorporated divisions of
Textron   and   others  that  are  separately   incorporated
subsidiaries.   A  listing  of the  operations  within  each
business  segment, including a description  of  the  product
lines  of  each business segment, is incorporated herein  by
reference  to pages 60 through 62 of Textron's  1998  Annual
Report  to Shareholders.  Financial information by  business
segment  and  geographic  area  is  incorporated  herein  by
reference  to pages 22, 54 and 55 of Textron's  1998  Annual
Report  to  Shareholders.  Additional information  regarding
each  business segment and Textron in general is  set  forth
below.

Business Segments
      Aircraft.   The  Aircraft  segment  consists  of  Bell
Helicopter Textron and The Cessna Aircraft Company.
     
       Based on unit sales, Bell is the largest supplier  of
helicopters, spare parts and helicopter-related services  in
the world.  Since it was founded in 1946, Bell has delivered
over  34,000  aircraft to military and  civilian  customers.
Bell has three military and seven civilian helicopter models
in current production. Its aircraft are turbine powered, and
range  in size from the five-place Bell Model 206 series  to
the  Bell Model 412EP aircraft, which carries up to  fifteen
people.   Revenues of Bell accounted for approximately  15%,
18%  and  20% of Textron's total revenues in 1998, 1997  and
1996, respectively.

      Bell  supplies  advanced military  helicopters,  spare
parts  and  product  support to the U.S. Government  and  to
military   customers  outside  the  U.S.   There  are   more
helicopters  manufactured by Bell in the  inventory  of  the
U.S.   Government  than  are  manufactured  by   any   other
helicopter  company.  Military sales to  non-U.S.  customers
are made only with the concurrence of the U.S. Government.

      Bell  is  also  a  leading  supplier  of  commercially
certified   helicopters  to  charter,   offshore,   utility,
corporate,  police,  fire,  rescue  and  emergency   medical
helicopter  operators.  Bell's non-U.S. Government  business
(including non-U.S. military customers) typically represents
40%  to  60%  of  its  annual sales.  In  1998,  such  sales
accounted for approximately 55% of Bell's business.

      Bell  is teamed with The Boeing Company ("Boeing")  in
the  development of the V-22 Osprey tiltrotor  aircraft  for
the  U.S.  Department  of Defense.  Tiltrotor  aircraft  are
designed  to  utilize the benefits of both  helicopters  and
fixed-wing  aircraft.   Deliveries of the V-22 to  the  U.S.
Marine Corps are scheduled to begin in 1999.



     In  1996, Bell and Boeing entered into a joint  venture
to develop a commercial tiltrotor aircraft designated as the
Model  609.    This joint venture was dissolved in  February
1998, and Bell assumed control of the Model 609 program.  In
November  1998, Bell entered into a new joint  venture  with
Agusta,  Italy's leading helicopter manufacturer.   The  new
joint  venture  with  Agusta  will  engage  in  the  design,
manufacture,  sale  and  customer  support  of   the   civil
tiltrotor aircraft, now designated as the BA609, and  a  new
medium  twin-engine helicopter, in the 5  to  6  metric  ton
class, to be designated the AB139.

      Bell is developing a new light twin-engine helicopter,
designated  the  Model  427, in collaboration  with  Samsung
Aerospace  Industries  Ltd.  of  South  Korea.   The   first
delivery of this eight-place aircraft is scheduled for 1999.

     In the light and medium helicopter market, Bell has two
major  U.S.  competitors and one major European  competitor.
Certain of its competitors are substantially larger and more
diversified   aircraft  manufacturers.   Bell  markets   its
products  worldwide through its own sales force and  through
independent   representatives.   Price,   financing   terms,
aircraft  performance, reliability and product  support  are
significant  factors in the sale of helicopters.   Bell  has
developed  the world's largest distribution system  to  sell
and  support  helicopters, serving  customers  in  over  120
countries.

     Based on unit sales, The Cessna Aircraft Company is the
world's  largest manufacturer of light and mid-size business
jets,  single engine utility turboprop aircraft, and  single
engine  piston aircraft.  Cessna also designs,  manufactures
and  sells general aviation aircraft propellers and  related
accessories  worldwide.  Cessna currently  has  three  major
aircraft  product  lines:  Citation  business  jets,  single
engine  turboprop Caravans and Cessna single  engine  piston
aircraft.   Revenues of Cessna accounted  for  approximately
18%,  17% and 14% of Textron's total revenues in 1998,  1997
and 1996, respectively.

      The  family  of  business jets currently  produced  by
Cessna  includes the CitationJet, the Bravo, the Ultra,  the
Excel, the Citation VII, and the Citation X.  The Citation X
is the world's fastest business jet with a maximum operating
speed of Mach .92.   In 1998, certification of the Excel was
completed   and   customer  deliveries  began.   Cessna   is
developing  four  new  Citation models,  to  be  called  the
Citation  CJ1,  the Citation CJ2, the Ultra Encore  and  the
Citation Sovereign.

      The Cessna Caravan is the world's best selling utility
turboprop.   More  than 1,000 Caravans  have  been  sold  by
Cessna  since  the  first  Caravan was  delivered  in  1985.
Caravans  are offered in four distinct models including  the
Grand   Caravan,   the   Super  Cargomaster,   the   Caravan
Floatplane, and the Caravan 675.  Caravans are used  in  the
U.S. primarily to carry overnight express package shipments.
International  uses  of Caravans include  commuter  flights,
relief flights, tourism and freight.



      Cessna  re-entered the single engine  piston  aircraft
market  in  1996.  In 1998, Cessna made deliveries  of  five
models in this product line: the four-place 172 Skyhawk, 172
Skyhawk SP and 182 Skylane, and the six-place 206 Stationair
and T206 Turbo Stationair.

     Cessna markets its products worldwide primarily through
its  own  sales  force  as  well as  through  a  network  of
authorized  independent sales representatives.   Cessna  has
two  U.S. and two foreign major competitors for its business
jet products.  Cessna's aircraft compete with other aircraft
that   vary  in  size,  speed,  range,  capacity,   handling
characteristics, and price.  Reliability and product support
are  significant factors in the sale of these aircraft.  The
Citation  family  of aircraft is supported by  ten  Citation
Service  Centers  owned and operated by Cessna,  along  with
authorized independent service stations and centers in  more
than 15 countries throughout the world.

     Cessna provides its business jet operators with factory-
direct  customer support offering 24 hour a day service  and
maintenance.    Cessna  Caravan  and  single-engine   piston
customers  receive  product  support  through  independently
owned service stations and 24 hour a day spare parts support
through Cessna.

      Cessna's McCauley Propeller Systems unit provides  new
propellers  directly  to  original  equipment  manufacturers
("OEMs")  and spare parts for service and repairs worldwide.
All  new Cessna single-engine piston aircraft built in  1998
used McCauley propellers.

     Automotive.  The Automotive segment, organized under an
umbrella  organization  called  Textron  Automotive  Company
("TAC"), consists of Textron Automotive Trim Operations, CWC
Castings  Textron, Kautex Textron, McCord Winn  Textron  and
Micromatic  Textron.   These operations  sell  primarily  to
automotive  OEMs  and  their suppliers  operating  in  North
America  and Europe, and, to a lesser extent, South  America
and  Asia.  TAC is headquartered in Troy, Michigan  and  has
over  fifty  facilities  located  in  the  U.S.,  Argentina,
Belgium,   Brazil,  Canada,  China,   the  Czech   Republic,
Germany, Mexico, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain,  and  the
United Kingdom.

      Through its Textron Automotive Trim Operations, TAC is
a  leading  worldwide  supplier of automotive  interior  and
exterior plastic components.  Interior trim products include
instrument  panels,  door and sidewall trim,  airbag  doors,
consoles, armrests, package trays and other trim components.
In  addition,  TAC's  Trim facilities  manufacture  exterior
decorative  components  including painted  bumpers,  fascia,
body  side moldings and claddings, fender liners, decorative
wheel  trim, signal lighting and structural composite bumper
beams.   Many of these products are shipped just-in-time  as
fully  integrated systems.  In August 1998, Textron acquired
Gerald  Bloom  Holdings, a U.K. company  that,  through  its
Midland Industrial Plastics Limited subsidiary, manufactures
interior and exterior trim including door panels, instrument
panels,  package  shelves  and truck  liners.   Revenues  of
Textron  Automotive Trim Operations accounted for  15%,  16%
and  18% of Textron's total revenues in 1998, 1997 and  1996
respectively.



     Kautex is a leading manufacturer of blow-molded plastic
fuel  tank  systems  and other blow-molded  parts  for  OEMs
throughout Europe, North America and South America.   Kautex
supplies  Volkswagen in China through a joint  venture  with
Changchun Junzilan Industrial Group.  Kautex's manufacturing
plant  in  Puebla,  Mexico supplies all of Volkswagen's  and
DaimlerChrysler's plastic fuel tank requirements  for  their
Mexican production.  Kautex produces fuel filler systems  in
its North American operations.

      CWC Castings designs and manufactures engine camshafts
and   vibration   damper  components  for   OEMs   and   the
aftermarket.   Through its Kaywood Products  operation,  CWC
manufactures  precision machined parts  and  components  for
assembled camshafts.

      McCord  Winn  manufactures  seating  comfort  systems,
windshield  and headlamp washer systems, and  armatures  for
precision  DC  motors.    In  1998,  McCord  established   a
manufacturing  base in Buenos Aires, Argentina,  to  produce
washer  system components for South American OEM  customers.
McCord's ASCTecT (Active Surface Control Technology) seating
comfort    system,    which   blends    microprocessor-based
electronics  and  a  pneumatically-controlled  air   support
system,   has  generated  broad  potential  automotive   and
consumer   applications.    McCord   continues   to   expand
applications  of  its  new  RitecT  product,  an  innovative
integration   of   automotive  cooling   system   components
including  the fan shroud and windshield washer and  coolant
reservoirs.  A production program with DaimlerChrysler  will
launch in 1999, and other RitecT development programs are in
progress.

       Micromatic  manufactures  machine  tools   used   for
precision bore and surface finishing of automobile  engines.
In   addition,  Micromatic  produces  equipment  for  spline
rolling and gear production.

      More than 100 models currently carry parts made by TAC
including DaimlerChrysler's Jeep Grand Cherokee, Voyager and
Caravan  mini-vans;  Ford's Mondeo,  Lincoln  Town  Car  and
Windstar   mini-van;  General  Motors'   Cadillac   Seville,
Cadillac   De  Ville,  Corvette,  and  Venture,   Transport,
Silhouette  and  Sintra mini-vans;  BMW's  5  series  and  8
series;  Mitsubishi's  Galant; and VW/Audi's  Golf,  Passat,
Polo,  T4, Beetle and A4.  TAC continues its strong position
on  DaimlerChrysler's LH series of cars that were redesigned
for the 1998 model year.

       TAC's  manufacturing operations are  supported  by  a
staff of research and design specialists at TAC's Automotive
Technology  Center.  These specialists  have  developed  new
processes  and  products, many of which are  patented,  that
allow  TAC to offer its customers technology-driven products
and processes.  In the plastics and coatings area, TAC is  a
recognized  leader  in interior surface material  (including
TAC's  proprietary  PVC-free  TPU  product  line),  seamless
passenger   airbag   door  technology,   structural   molded
instrument panel systems, integrated modular assemblies, and
molded-in-color  interior  and  exterior  components.    CWC
Castings  is  a  leader  in the design  and  manufacture  of
automotive   castings.    It  has  developed   a   selective
austempering  heat treatment process for ductile  camshafts.
McCord  



Winn  is  working  with OEMs  worldwide  to  develop
advanced technologies in areas such as "intelligent" comfort
seating systems, brushless motors and carbon commutation for
flexible  fuel  applications. Micromatic machine  tools  are
used for cylindrical form generation and surface finishing.

      In the automotive business, there is often a long lead
time  from  the  time  a  supplier  is  selected  to  supply
components  on a new car model to the time the supplier  can
begin  shipping production parts.   During this period,  the
supplier incurs engineering and development costs.  The OEMs
reimburse the supplier for these costs as incurred or in the
piece  prices  charged by the suppliers  as  the  goods  are
shipped.  In addition, automotive OEMs often require  "just-
in-time"  delivery, requiring the supplier to plan shipments
in advance and hold inventory.

      Automotive OEMs and their suppliers are the  principal
customers  of  TAC.   The loss of the U.S. and  Europe-based
automotive  OEM  customers  and their  first-tier  suppliers
would  have  a  material adverse effect  on  TAC.   However,
because  of  the  broad  range  of  products  sold  to  such
customers,  it  is  unlikely  that  they  would  cease   all
purchases from TAC.

      Each  of  TAC's  businesses faces competition  from  a
number  of  other  manufacturers based primarily  on  price,
quality,  reputation and delivery.  Although TAC is  one  of
the largest manufacturers offering its range of products and
services,  it faces strong competition in all of its  market
segments.  Because of the diversity of products and services
offered,  no  single company is a competitor in  all  market
segments.   In  certain  markets,  TAC  also  competes   for
business  with  the  OEMs'  own operations.   TAC  is  under
continual pressure from the OEMs to reduce costs and  prices
on an annual basis.

      Industrial.  The Industrial segment consists  of  four
major product groups: Fastening Systems; Golf, Turf Care and
Specialty  Products; Fluid and Power Systems; and Industrial
Components.

      Textron  Fastening  Systems ("TFS")  manufactures  and
sells fasteners, fastening systems and installation tools to
the  aerospace,  appliance, automotive, business  equipment,
construction, do-it-yourself and general industrial markets.
TFS sells to a wide range of customers throughout the world,
including   OEMs,  distributors  and  consumers.   Fasteners
manufactured  by  TFS  include  rivets,  threaded  and  non-
threaded fasteners, cold-formed components, metal stampings,
plastic  components  and assemblies  that  incorporate  such
products.    In  addition,  Textron  Logistics  Corporation,
created from the combination of certain fastener operations,
provides fastener inventory management programs supplying  a
full   range  of  TFS  products  and  products  from   other
manufacturers,  thus offering its customers the  ability  to
obtain  all  of  their fastener requirements from  a  single
source.   Revenues  of TFS accounted for approximately  18%,
17%  and  18% of Textron's total revenues in 1998, 1997  and
1996, respectively.



       In   March   1998,  Textron  acquired   the   Sukosim
Verbindungselemente  Group,  a  manufacturer   of   threaded
fasteners  and  specialty  stamped components  for  European
automotive and construction industries.  Sukosim is a  world
leader  in  "next generation" stamping technology  that  can
form,  in  the  same  process,  engineered  fasteners   with
internal threading, attached clips and locking washers.   In
May  1998, Textron acquired Ring Screw Works, a supplier  of
specialty threaded fasteners and inventory management to the
automotive  industry.   Also in May 1998,  Textron  acquired
Peiner  Umformtechnik  GmbH, a German fastener  manufacturer
with  special  expertise  in  hot  forging  (a  process  not
previously  used  by TFS to any significant  extent),  which
enables   the  manufacture  of  larger  products.   Peiner's
customers  are in the automotive, distribution,  mining  and
machine tool industries.

       In December 1998, Textron formed a joint venture with
Taiwan-based   San  Shing  Hardware  Works  Company,   Ltd.,
Taiwan's  largest fastener manufacturer.  TFS holds  an  80%
interest  in  the  joint company, called  Textron  Fastening
Systems/Tri-Star Corp.

     Although TFS is one of the world's largest providers of
fastener  products  and  services,  there  are  hundreds  of
competitors  of  TFS, ranging from small proprietorships  to
large   multi-national  companies.   Competition  is   based
primarily  on  price, quality, reputation and delivery.   In
addition,  larger  customers of fastening  systems  tend  to
procure  products  and services from the  larger  suppliers,
except  for  "niche"  products which  may  be  sourced  from
smaller   companies.   Only  the  loss  of  the  major   OEM
automotive  customers and their first-tier  suppliers  would
have a material adverse effect on TFS.  However, because  of
the  broad range of products sold to such customers,  it  is
unlikely that they will cease all purchases from TFS.

      The  Golf,  Turf  Care  and Specialty  Products  group
consists  of  E-Z-GO Textron, which manufactures  and  sells
electric-powered   and  gasoline-powered   golf   cars   and
multipurpose  utility vehicles, and Textron  Turf  Care  and
Specialty  Products, which designs, manufactures  and  sells
professional  mowing and turf maintenance  equipment,  grass
care  machinery  and specialized industrial vehicles,  under
the  trade names Bobcat, Brouwer, Bunton, Cushman, Jacobsen,
Ransomes,  Ryan and Steiner.  Textron acquired  Ransomes  in
January 1998.

     The  customers  of  the Golf, Turf Care  and  Specialty
Products  group  consist primarily of golf  courses,  resort
communities  and  commercial and industrial  users  such  as
airports  and  factories.  Sales are made  directly  through
factory  branches,  through a network  of  distributors  and
directly  to  end-users.  Many sales of golf and  turf  care
equipment  and  specialty vehicles (both at the  distributor
and  end-user level) are financed through Textron  Financial
Corporation,  both  for  marketing  purposes   and   as   an
additional source of revenue to Textron.
     
     There are two major competitors and a number of smaller
competitors for golf cars, multipurpose utility vehicles and
turf maintenance equipment for golf courses.  Competition is
based   primarily   on  price,  quality,  product   support,
performance, reliability and reputation.



      The  Fluid and Power Systems group consists of  Motion
Control   Products,  Power  Transmission   Products,   Fluid
Handling  Products  and Textron Systems.   Textron  acquired
David  Brown in October 1998 and reorganized the  Fluid  and
Power  Systems  group,  as more fully  described  below,  in
January  1999.  David Brown has operations in  23  countries
and  sales  worldwide.  The Fluid and  Power  Systems  group
operations  face competition from other manufacturers  based
primarily  on  price, quality, product support, performance,
delivery and reputation.
     
     The  Motion Control Products businesses, HR Textron and
David  Brown  Hydraulics,  design  and  manufacture  control
systems  and  components for aircraft, armored vehicles  and
commercial  applications.  HR Textron is in the  process  of
diversifying   its  business  base  by  adapting   aerospace
technology  to servovalves used in industrial and automotive
applications.   HR Textron's aerospace and defense  products
are   marketed  directly  to  the  U.S.  Government,   other
governments and OEMs and, in the aftermarket, both  directly
and through service centers.
     
     The  Power Transmission Products businesses consist  of
Textron  Industrial Gears and David Brown  Mobile  Equipment
Drives.   Textron Industrial Gears designs and  manufactures
industrial   gears,  double  enveloping  worm   gear   speed
reducers, gear motors and gear sets, including gear  systems
primarily for railroad applications, under the David  Brown,
Cone Drive and Textron Industrial S.p.A. trade names.  David
Brown  Mobile  Equipment  Drives  designs  and  manufactures
mechanical   and  hydraulic  transmission  systems.    These
products are sold to a variety of customers, including OEMs,
distributors and end-users.
     
     The Fluid and Handling Products businesses, David Brown
Union  Pumps  and Maag Pump Systems, design and  manufacture
industrial  pumps for oil, gas and petrochemical industries,
and  gears, gear pumps and gear systems.  These products are
sold to OEMs, distributors and end-users.
     
     Textron Systems is a supplier of sensors, software  and
electronics,   and  advanced  materials  for   defense   and
industrial   markets.   It  manufactures  "smart"   weapons,
airborne  surveillance systems, automatic  aircraft  landing
systems  and  advanced  composite  materials  for  the  U.S.
Department of Defense.  Current commercial products  include
laser,   ultrasonic   and  infrared   sensor   systems   for
agricultural  and  industrial  monitoring  and  control  and
advanced  materials such as fire protection  and  insulating
materials  for  oil and chemical companies.   While  Textron
Systems sells most of its products directly to customers, it
also  sells  an  increasing number  of  products  through  a
growing,   global  network  of  sales  representatives   and
distributors.

      The  Industrial Components group consists of  Greenlee
Textron, Textron Lycoming, Textron Marine & Land Systems and
Turbine  Engine  Components Textron,  each  of  which  is  a
leading company in its industry.  Products of this group are
sold  to  a  wide  variety  of  customers,  including  OEMs,
distributors  and  end-users.   The  principal   competitive
factors  affecting sales of the products of  the  Industrial
Components  group  are  price,  quality,  customer  service,



performance,  reliability, reputation and  existing  product
base.   Textron sold its Fuel Systems Textron  operation  in
June 1998.

      Greenlee  is  a  worldwide market  leader  in  powered
equipment, electrical test instruments and hand tools.   The
principal  applications  of these  products  are  electrical
construction and maintenance, power generation, transmission
and  distribution, telecommunications, electronics, plumbing
and   the  mechanical  trades.   In  August  1998,  Greenlee
acquired  Datacom  Technologies,  Inc.,  which  designs  and
manufactures certification and verification products for the
installation   and  management  of  information   technology
networks.

     Textron  Lycoming is the world leader  in  the  design,
manufacture  and  overhaul of reciprocating piston  aircraft
engines  serving  the  worldwide  general  aviation  market.
Textron  Lycoming  sells new products  directly  to  general
aviation  airframe manufacturers, including Piper  Aircraft,
Robinson Helicopter, and SOCATA, a division of Aerospatiale,
and  is  the exclusive supplier of engines for Cessna's  new
product  line of single-engine aircraft.  Aftermarket  sales
are made to the more than 180,000 existing owners of Textron
Lycoming   products   through   a   worldwide   network   of
independently owned distributors.

      Textron Marine & Land Systems is a world leader in the
design  and construction of advanced technology air  cushion
vehicles and a major supplier of high performance search and
rescue   vessels,  armored  vehicles,  suspension   systems,
turrets  and  artillery  systems.   Textron  Marine  &  Land
Systems has products operating in over 35 countries.

     Turbine Engine Components is one of the world's largest
independent suppliers of internal components for gas turbine
engines  for  aircraft  and  industrial  applications.   Its
products  include fan and compressor blades, vanes,  shafts,
disks, rotors, blisks and other rotating components and  the
forgings  from  which those products are machined.   Turbine
Engine   Components  manufacturers  its  products   to   the
specifications of its customers.

      Finance.   The  Finance segment  consists  of  Textron
Financial Corporation ("TFC").   On January 6, 1999, Textron
sold   substantially  all  the  assets  of  Avco   Financial
Services,  Inc. ("AFS"), its consumer lending operation,  to
Associates  First Capital Corporation for  $3.9  billion  in
cash.  Textron's financial statements have been restated  to
reflect AFS as a discontinued operation.

       TFC  is  a  diversified  commercial  finance  company
specializing  in  aircraft finance, golf finance,  equipment
finance  and revolving credit arrangements.   TFC originates
and  syndicates  a wide variety of secured  loan  and  lease
transactions,   selectively  invests  in   leveraged   lease
transactions   and  provides  asset  management,   insurance
products  and third-party portfolio servicing.  TFC provides
commercial   financing  for  a  wide  range  of   customers,
including  those who purchase or lease Textron products  and
certain  suppliers  to  Textron operations.   TFC  presently
offers its services 



primarily in the U.S. and, to a  lesser
extent, in South America and Canada.  Each TFC business unit
has  a  discrete market focus and specific profit objectives
and is staffed to provide responsive services to its market.

       Information  concerning  TFC's  Finance   Receivables
appears  on pages 41 and 42 of Textron's 1998 Annual  Report
to  Shareholders,  which  page  is  incorporated  herein  by
reference.

      In  February 1998, Textron acquired Systran  Financial
Services.   Systran  provides accounts receivable  financing
and other financial services to the trucking industry and is
expanding into other industries.  Systran's customers  range
in  size  from  start-up companies to  multi-million  dollar
operations.   In  December 1998, Textron  acquired  Business
Leasing   Group   ("BLG")   from  NationsCredit   Commercial
Corporation.   BLG,  which specializes in  commercial  loans
under   $50,000,   is  being  merged  into  TFC's   existing
businesses.

     The commercial finance businesses in which TFC operates
are  highly competitive. TFC is subject to competition  from
various  types  of financing institutions, including  banks,
leasing  companies, insurance companies, independent finance
companies   associated  with  manufacturers,   and   finance
companies  that  are  subsidiaries of banking  institutions.
Competition  within  the  commercial  finance  industry   is
primarily focused on price and service.

Backlog
     Information  regarding Textron's backlog of  government
and  commercial  orders at the end of the  past  two  fiscal
years  is  contained  on  page 31 of Textron's  1998  Annual
Report to Shareholders, which page is incorporated herein by
reference.

     Approximately  43% of Textron's total backlog  of  $7.7
billion at January 2, 1999, represents orders which are  not
expected  to  be  filled within the 1999  fiscal  year.   At
January  2,  1999, approximately 97% of the total government
backlog of $2.1 billion was funded.

Government Contracts
    In 1998, 20% and 12% of the revenues of the Aircraft and
Industrial  segments,  respectively,  constituting  in   the
aggregate  11%  of  Textron's  consolidated  revenues,  were
generated  by  or  resulted from  contracts  with  the  U.S.
Government.    U.S.  Government  business  is   subject   to
competition,    changes   in   procurement   policies    and
regulations,  the  continuing availability of  Congressional
appropriations,  world events, and the size  and  timing  of
programs in which Textron may participate.

     A substantial portion of Textron's government contracts
are   fixed-price   or   fixed-price  incentive   contracts.
Contracts  that contain incentive pricing terms provide  for
upward  or  downward adjustments in the prices paid  by  the
U.S.  Government  upon completion of  the  contract  or  any
agreed  portion thereof, based on cost or other  performance



factors.   U.S.  Government  contracts  generally   may   be
terminated  in  whole or in part at the convenience  of  the
U.S.  Government or if the contractor is in  default.   Upon
termination  of a contract for the convenience of  the  U.S.
Government,  the contractor is normally entitled  (up  to  a
maximum  equal  to the contract price) to reimbursement  for
allowable  costs incurred  and an allowance  for  profit  or
adjustment for loss if the contractor would have incurred  a
loss had the entire contract been completed.  If, however, a
contract  is terminated for default:  (a) the contractor  is
paid  such  amount  as may be agreed upon for  manufacturing
materials and partially completed products accepted  by  the
U.S. Government; (b) the U.S. Government is not liable  for
the  contractor's costs with respect to unaccepted items and
is  entitled  to repayment of advance payments and  progress
payments, if any, related to the terminated portions of  the
contract; and (c) the contractor may be liable for  excess
costs   incurred  by  the  U.S.  Government   in   procuring
undelivered items from another source.

Research and Development
    Information regarding Textron's research and development
expenditures  is  contained on page  49  of  Textron's  1998
Annual  Report  to Shareholders, which page is  incorporated
herein by reference.

Patents and Trademarks
     Textron owns, or is licensed under, a number of patents
and trademarks throughout the world relating to products and
methods of manufacturing.  Patents and trademarks have  been
of  value in the past and are expected to be of value in the
future;  however, the loss of any single patent or group  of
patents  would  not,  in the opinion of Textron,  materially
affect the conduct of its business.

Environmental Considerations
     Textron's operations are subject to numerous  laws  and
regulations    designed   to   protect   the    environment.
Compliance with such laws and expenditures for environmental
control  facilities have not had, and are  not  expected  to
have, a material effect on capital expenditures, earnings or
the    competitive   position   of   Textron.     Additional
information regarding environmental matters is contained  on
pages  29  and  53  of  Textron's  1998  Annual  Report   to
Shareholders,  which  pages  are  incorporated   herein   by
reference.

Employees
     At  January  2, 1999, Textron had approximately  64,000
employees.

ITEM 2.     PROPERTIES
     At  January  2, 1999, Textron operated a total  of  160
plants  located  throughout the U.S. and 108 plants  outside
the  U.S.  Of the total of 268 plants, Textron owned 147 and
the  balance  were  leased.   In the  aggregate,  the  total
manufacturing  space  was approximately  35  million  square
feet.



      In addition, Textron owns or leases offices, warehouse
and other space at various locations throughout the U.S. and
outside the U.S.   Textron considers the productive capacity
of  the plants operated by each of its business segments  to
be  adequate.  In general, Textron's facilities are in  good
condition,  are considered to be adequate for  the  uses  to
which  they are being put, and are substantially in  regular
use.

ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
      Textron   is   subject  to  a  number   of   lawsuits,
investigations and claims arising out of the conduct of  its
business,    including   those   relating   to    commercial
transactions,  government contracts, product liability,  and
environmental,  safety  and  health  matters.    Some   seek
compensatory,  treble  or punitive  damages  in  substantial
amounts; fines, penalties or restitution; or remediation  of
contamination.  and   someSome are or purport  to  be  class
actions.   Under federal government procurement regulations,
some  could result in suspension or debarment of Textron  or
its  subsidiaries  from U.S. Government  contracting  for  a
period  of  time.   On  the basis of  information  presently
available,  Textron  believes that any liability  for  these
suits  and  proceedings would not have a material effect  on
Textron's net income or financial condition.

ITEM  4.      SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A  VOTE  OF  SECURITY
HOLDERS
     No  matters  were  submitted to  a  vote  of  Textron's
security  holders  during the last  quarter  of  the  period
covered by this Report.


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

        The  following table sets forth certain  information
concerning  the  executive  officers  and  other   corporate
officers  of  Textron  as  of March 15,  1999.   Unless
otherwise indicated, the employer is Textron.

Executive Officers:

                                                
                                                
Name                   Age                  Position
                                 
                                 
Lewis B. Campbell      52        Chairman  and  Chief  Executive
                                 officer  since  February  1999;
                                 formerly  President  and  Chief
                                 Executive  Officer,  July  1998
                                 to   February  1999;  President
                                 and  Chief  Operating  Officer,
                                 1994  to  July  1998;  Director
                                 since 1994.
                                 
John A. Janitz         56        President  and Chief  Operating
                                 Officer  since  March  1999;
                                 formerly Chairman, President and
                                 Chief 



                                 Executive Officer, Textron
                                 Automotive Company,  1996 
                                 to March 1999; Executive Vice
                                 President and General Manager of
                                 TRW Inc.'s Occupant Restraint
                                 Group, 1990 to 1996.  Appointed
                                 Director effective March 25, 1999.
                                 
John D. Butler     51            Executive     Vice    President
                                 Administration and Chief  Human
                                 Resources     Officer     since
                                 January      1999;     formerly
                                 Executive  Vice  President  and
                                 Chief  Human Resources  Officer,
                                 1997  to  December  1998;  Vice
                                 President Personnel of  General
                                 Motors            International
                                 Operations             (Zurich,
                                 Switzerland), 1993 to 1997.
                                 
Mary L. Howell     46            Executive     Vice    President
                                 Government,      International,
                                 Communications   and   Investor
                                 Relations   since  July   1998;
                                 formerly     Executive     Vice
                                 President    Government     and
                                 International,  1995  to   July
                                 1998;   Senior  Vice  President
                                 Government   and  International
                                 Relations, 1993 to 1995;
                                 
Wayne W. Juchatz   52            Executive  Vice  President  and
                                 General  Counsel  since   1995;
                                 formerly     Executive     Vice
                                 President  and General  Counsel
                                 of    R.J.   Reynolds   Tobacco
                                 Company,  1994 to 1995;  Senior
                                 Vice     President,     General
                                 Counsel and Secretary of   R.J.
                                 Reynolds Tobacco Company,  1987
                                 to 1994.
                                 
Stephen L. Key     55            Executive  Vice  President  and
                                 Chief  Financial Officer  since
                                 1995;  formerly Executive  Vice
                                 President  and Chief  Financial
                                 Officer of ConAgra, Inc.,  1992
Other Corporate                  to 1995.
Officers:                        

Edward C. Arditte  43            Vice  President  and  Treasurer
                                 since   1997;   formerly   Vice
                                 President Finance and  Business
                                 Development     of      Textron
                                 Fastening  Systems,   1995   to
                                 1997;       Vice      President
                                 Communications     and     Risk
                                 Management  of  Textron   Inc.,
                                 1994  to  1995; Vice  President
                                 Investor  Relations  and   Risk
                                 Management, 1993 to 1994.
                                 
Frederick K. Butler 47           Vice  President Business Ethics
                                 and  Corporate Secretary  since
                                 January  1999;  formerly   Vice
                                 President  and  Secretary  1997
                                 to  1998; Group General Counsel
                                 Financial  Services,  1995   to
                                 1996;     Assistant     General
                                 Counsel,  1994  to  1995;  Vice
                                 President  and General  Counsel
                                 of   Paul   Revere   Investment
                                 Management  Company,  1993   to
                                 1994.
                                 
John R. Curran      43           Vice     President,    Business
                                 Development          Industrial
                                 Products  Segment  since   July
                                 1998;     formerly    Director,
                                 Business     Development     of
                                 Textron   Industrial  Products,
                                 1995  to  June  1998;  Director
                                 Tax  Planning  and  Senior  Tax
                                 Counsel, 1994 to 1995.


                                 
Peter B. S. Ellis   45           Vice President Strategy and
                                 Business Development since March
                                 1999; formerly Vice President
                                 Strategic Planning, 1995 to March 
                                 1999; Managing       Director
                                 Telecommunications Practice  of
                                 Arthur  D.  Little, Inc.,  1991
                                 to 1995.
                                 
Douglas A. Fahlbeck    53        Vice President and Assistant
                                 Controller since March 1999;
                                 formerly Vice   President  Mergers
                                 and Acquisitions, 1995 to March 1999;
                                 Executive     Vice
                                 President  and Chief  Financial
                                 Officer  of  Textron  Financial
                                 Corporation,  1994   to   1995;
                                 Senior   Vice   President   and
                                 Chief   Financial  Officer   of
                                 Textron  Financial Corporation,
                                 1985 to 1994.
                                 
Arnold M. Friedman     56        Vice   President   and   Deputy
                                 General Counsel since 1984.
                                 
William B. Gauld       45        Vice     President    Corporate
                                 Information   Management    and
                                 Chief    Information    Officer
                                 since   1995;  formerly   Staff
                                 Vice    President,    Corporate
                                 Information   Management    and
                                 Chief    Information   Officer,
                                 1994     to     1995;     Chief
                                 Information Officer of  General
                                 Electric            (Electrical
                                 Distribution    and     Control
                                 business), 1992 to 1994.
                                 
Carol J. Grant         45        Vice  President Human Resources
                                 since   1997;   formerly   Vice
                                 President   of   NYNEX   (Rhode
                                 Island    Strategic    Business
                                 Unit), 1993 to 1997.
                                 
Gregory E. Hudson      52        Vice   President  Taxes   since
                                 1987.
                                 
William P. Janovitz    56        Vice     President    Financial
                                 Management     since      1997;
                                 formerly     Vice     President
                                 Financial  Reporting,  1995  to
                                 1997;   Vice   President    and
                                 Controller, 1983 to 1995.
                                 
Barbara B. Kacir       57        Vice   President   and   Deputy
                                 General  Counsel -  Litigation,
                                 July  1998 to present; formerly
                                 Deputy   General   Counsel    -
                                 Litigation, 1995 to July  1998;
                                 Partner,  Jones, Day, Reavis  &
                                 Pogue, 1980 to 1995.
                                 
Mary F. Lovejoy        43        Vice  President  Communications
                                 and  Investor  Relations  since
                                 1996;  formerly Vice  President
                                 Investor  Relations,  1995   to
                                 1996;     Director     Investor
                                 Relations, 1993 to 1995.
                                 
Frank W. McNally       59        Vice     President     Employee
                                 Relations  and  Benefits  since
                                 1995;   formerly   Staff   Vice
                                 President,  Employee  Relations
                                 and Benefits, 1993 to 1995.
Gero K. H. Meyersiek   51        Vice   President  International
                                 since   1996;   formerly   Vice
                                 President      of       Textron
                                 International  Inc.,  1995   to
                                 1996;       Vice      President
                                 International          Business
                                 Development  of  GE   Financial
                                 Services, 1991 to 1994.

Freda M. Peters        57        Vice     President    Executive
                                 Development and Human  


                                 Resource
                                 Policy  and  Compliance   since
                                 February     1997;     formerly
                                 Director
                                 Management/Organization
                                 Development,  1996   to   1997;
                                 Vice  President Human Resources
                                 of      Branson     Ultrasonics
                                 Corporation   (subsidiary    of
                                 Emerson    Electric   Company),
                                 1985 to 1996.
                                 
Daniel L. Shaffer      62        Vice   President  Audit   since
                                 January  1999;  formerly   Vice
                                 President  Audit  and  Business
                                 Ethics,  1994 to January  1999;
                                 President      of     Textron's
                                 Aircraft    Engine   Components
                                 Division, 1992 to 1994.
                                 
Richard F. Smith       59        Vice    President    Government
                                 Affairs  since  1995;  formerly
                                 Staff       Vice      President
                                 Government Affairs, March  1995
                                 to    August   1995;   Director
                                 Government  Affairs,  1985   to
                                 March 1995.
                                 
Richard L. Yates       48        Vice  President and  Controller
                                 since  1995; formerly Executive
                                 Vice      President,      Chief
                                 Financial      Officer      and
                                 Treasurer  of The  Paul  Revere
                                 Corporation, 1993 to 1995.
                                 
John F. Zugschwert     65        Vice    President    Government
                                 Marketing since 1995;  formerly
                                 Staff       Vice      President
                                 Government Marketing,  1993  to
                                 1995.



                              PART II

ITEM 5.     MARKETS FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON
             EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     Textron's  Common  Stock is traded  on  the  New  York,
Chicago  and Pacific Stock Exchanges.  At January  2,  1999,
there  were  approximately 23,000 holders of Textron  Common
Stock.   The  information on the price  range  of  Textron's
Common  Stock  and dividends paid per share appearing  under
"Common  Stock  Information" on page 56  of  Textron's  1998
Annual  Report  to  Shareholders is incorporated  herein  by
reference.

ITEM 6.      SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The  information  appearing under  "Selected  Financial
Information" on page 57 of Textron's 1998 Annual  Report  to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.



ITEM 7.     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
            FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     "Management's  Discussion and Analysis,"  appearing  on
pages  23  through  32 of Textron's 1998  Annual  Report  to
Shareholders, is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM  7A.   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE  DISCLOSURES  ABOUT
MARKET RISKS

     "Quantitative Risks Measures," appearing on page 29  of
Textron's   1998   Annual   Report   to   Shareholders,   is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The consolidated financial statements and supplementary
information  contained in Textron's 1998  Annual  Report  to
Shareholders  and  the  Financial  Statement  Schedules,  as
listed in the accompanying Index to Financial Statements and
Financial  Statement Schedules, are incorporated  herein  by
reference.

ITEM 9.      CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS
              ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    None.

                              PART III

ITEM  10.      DIRECTORS  AND  EXECUTIVE  OFFICERS  OF   THE
REGISTRANT

     The information appearing under "Nominees for Director"
and "Directors Continuing in Office" on pages 2 through 6 of
Textron's   Proxy  Statement  for  the  Annual  Meeting   of
Shareholders  to be held on April 28, 1999, is  incorporated
herein by reference.

     Information regarding Textron's executive  officers  is
included on pages 12 through 15 of Part I of this Report.



ITEM 11.      EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

      The   information  appearing  under  "Report  of   the
Organization   and  Compensation  Committee   on   Executive
Compensation, Executive Compensation and Performance  Graph"
on  pages 11 through 16 of Textron's Proxy Statement for the
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 28, 1999,
is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.     SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN
              BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     The information appearing under "Security Ownership  of
Certain  Beneficial  Holders"  and  "Security  Ownership  of
Management,"  on  pages  9 through  11  of  Textron's  Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be  held
on April 28, 1999, is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.     CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The  information  appearing  under  "Transactions  with
Management" on page 23 of Textron's Proxy Statement for  the
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 28, 1999,
is incorporated herein by reference.

                              PART IV

ITEM  14.      EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES,  AND
REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
                              
    (a) Financial Statements and Schedules
     The  consolidated  financial statements,  supplementary
information and financial statement schedules listed in  the
accompanying  Index  to Financial Statements  and  Financial
Statement Schedules are filed as part of this Report.

    Exhibits
    3.1        Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
               Textron   as   filed   January   29,    1998.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit  3.1  to
               Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for  the
               fiscal year ended January 3, 1998.
    3.2        By-Laws of Textron.
    NOTE       Exhibits  10.1 through 10.18  below  are
               management  contracts or compensatory  plans,
               contracts or agreements.
    10.1       Annual  Incentive Compensation Plan  For
               Textron Employees.  Incorporated by reference
               to Exhibit 10.1 to Textron's Annual Report on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1995.



    10.2A      Deferred  Income Plan  For  Textron  Key
               Executives.   Incorporated  by  reference  to
               Exhibit  10.2 to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1995.
    10.2B      Amendments  to Deferred Income  Plan  for
               Textron Key Executives.
    10.3       Special   Benefits  for   Textron   Key
               Executives.   Incorporated  by  reference  to
               Exhibit  10.4 to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1995.
    10.4A      Supplemental Benefits Plan  For  Textron
               Key  Executives  with  Market  Square  Profit
               Sharing   Plan  Schedule.   Incorporated   by
               reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Textron's Annual
               Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
               December 30, 1995.
    10.4B      Amendments to Supplemental Benefits  Plan
               for Textron Key Executives.
    10.5A      Supplemental Retirement Plan For Textron
               Key Executives.  Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit  10.6 to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1995.
    10.5B      Amendment  to  Supplemental  Retirement
               Plan for Textron Key Executives.
    10.6       Survivor  Benefit Plan For  Textron  Key
               Executives.   Incorporated  by  reference  to
               Exhibit  10.7 to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1995.
    10.7A      Textron  1987  Long-Term Incentive  Plan
               ("1987 Plan").  Incorporated by reference  to
               Exhibit  10.6 to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1989.
    10.7B      First   Amendment   to   1987    Plan.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit  10.6(b)
               to  Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for
               the fiscal year ended December 28, 1991.
    10.8A      Textron  1990  Long-Term Incentive  Plan
               ("1990 Plan").  Incorporated by reference  to
               Exhibit  10.7 to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1989.
    10.8B      First   Amendment   to   1990    Plan.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit  10.7(c)
               to  Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for
               the fiscal year ended December 28, 1991.
    10.8C      Second   Amendment   to   1990   Plan.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit  10.7(c)
               to  Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for
               the fiscal year ended January 2, 1993.
    10.9A      Textron  1994  Long-Term Incentive  Plan
               ("1994 Plan").  Incorporated by reference  to
               Exhibit  10 to Textron's Quarterly Report  on
               Form  10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended  July
               2, 1994.
    10.9B      Amendment to 1994 Plan.
    10.10      Form  of  Indemnity  Agreement  between
               Textron   and  its  directors  and  executive
               officers.    Incorporated  by  reference   to
               Exhibit  A  to Textron's Proxy Statement  for
               its  Annual Meeting of Shareholders on  April
               29, 1987.



    10.11      Deferred  Income  Plan for  Non-Employee
               Directors.   Incorporated  by  reference   to
               Exhibit  10.14 to Textron's Annual Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               28, 1996.
    10.12      Employment Agreement  between
               Textron  and  John D. Butler dated  July  23,
               1998.   Incorporated by reference to  Exhibit
               10.2 to Textron's Quarterly Report on Form 10-
               Q  for  the  fiscal quarter ended October  3,
               1998.
    10.13A     Employment   Agreement  between  Textron   and
               Lewis   B.  Campbell  dated  July  23,  1998.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3  to
               Textron's Quarterly Report on Form  10-Q  for
               the fiscal quarter ended October 3, 1998.
    10.13B     Retention  Award  granted  to  Lewis  B.
               Campbell  on December 14, 1995.  Incorporated
               by  reference to Exhibit 10.16B to  Textron's
               Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for  the  fiscal
               year ended December 30, 1995.
    10.14A     Employment Agreement between Textron and
               James  F.  Hardymon dated November  24,  1989
               ("Employment  Agreement").   Incorporated  by
               reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Textron's Annual
               Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
               December 30, 1989.
    10.14B     Amendment dated as of December 15, 1994,
               to  Employment  Agreement.   Incorporated  by
               reference  to  Exhibit  10.10B  to  Textron's
               Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for  the  fiscal
               year ended December 31, 1994.
    10.14C     Letter  Agreement  between  Textron  and
               James  F.  Hardymon dated as of November  16,
               1998.
    10.15A     Employment Agreement between Textron and
               Herbert  L.  Henkel dated  August  12,  1998.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4  to
               Textron's Quarterly Report on Form  10-Q  for
               the fiscal quarter ended October 3, 1998.
    10.15B     Retention Award  granted
               to  Herbert L. Henkel on December  12,  1996.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to
               Textron's  Annual Report for the fiscal  year
               ended January 3, 1998.
    10.16      Employment Agreement between Textron and
               Mary   L.   Howell  dated  July   23,   1998.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5  to
               Textron's Quarterly Report on Form  10-Q  for
               the fiscal quarter ended October 3, 1998.
    10.17      Employment   Agreement   between
               Textron and Wayne W.  Juchatz dated July  23,
               1998.   Incorporated by reference to  Exhibit
               10.6 to Textron's Quarterly Report on Form 10-
               Q  for  the  fiscal quarter ended October  3,
               1998.
    10.18      Employment   Agreement
               between Textron and Stephen L. Key dated July
               23,  1998.   Incorporated  by  reference   to
               Exhibit 10.7 to Textron's Quarterly Report on
               Form   10-Q  for  the  fiscal  quarter  ended
               October 3, 1998.
    10.19      5-Year Credit Agreement dated as of
               April  1,  1998,  among  Textron,  the  Banks
               listed  therein  and  Morgan  Guaranty  Trust
               Company of New York as Administrative  Agent.
               Incorporated 



               by reference to Exhibit 10.2  to
               Textron's Quarterly Report on Form  10-Q  for
               the fiscal quarter ended April 4, 1998.
    12.1       Computation  of  ratio  of  income   to
               combined  fixed  charges and preferred  stock
               dividends of Textron Manufacturing.
    12.2       Computation  of  ratio  of  income   to
               combined  fixed  charges and preferred  stock
               dividends  of  Textron  Inc.  including   all
               majority-owned subsidiaries.
    13         A portion (pages 22 through 57 and pages
               60 through 62) of Textron's 1998 Annual Report to
               Shareholders.
    21         Certain  subsidiaries of  Textron.
               Other  subsidiaries, which considered in  the
               aggregate  do  not constitute  a  significant
               subsidiary, are omitted from such list.
    23         Consent of Independent Auditors.
    24.1       Power of attorney.
    24.2       Certified copy of a resolution of  the  Board
               of Directors of Textron.
    27         Financial Data Schedule (filed electronically
               only).
    
    (b)  Reports on Form 8-K
         During  the quarter ended January 2, 1999,  Textron
         filed  the  following report on Form 8-K  with  the
         Securities and Exchange Commission:
         Current  Report on Form 8-K dated October 6,  1998,
         reporting  under Item 5 (Other Events) and  Item  7
         (Financial  Statements and Exhibits)  that  Textron
         had  restated its financial statements  to  reflect
         its  Avco  Financial  Services,  Inc.  unit  as   a
         discontinued operation.



                         SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirement of Section 13 or  15(d)  of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused  this Annual Report on Form 10-K to be signed on  its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on this
15th day of March 1999.

TEXTRON INC.
Registrant

By: /s/Michael D. Cahn
    Michael D. Cahn
    Attorney-in-fact

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange
Act  of 1934, this Report has been signed below on this 15th
day of March 1999, by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated:


      NAME                                 TITLE


         *                        Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,
Lewis B. Campbell                 Director



         *                         Director
H. Jesse Arnelle


         *                         Director
Teresa Beck


         *                         Director
R. Stuart Dickson



         *                         Director
Lawrence K. Fish


         *                         Director
Joe T. Ford


         *                         Director
Paul E. Gagne


         *                         Director
John D. Macomber


        *                          Director
Dana G. Mead


        *                          Director
Brian H. Rowe


        *                          Director
Sam F. Segnar


        *                          Director
Jean Head Sisco


        *                          Director
John W. Snow





        *                          Director
Martin D. Walker


        *                          Director
Thomas B. Wheeler


        *                          Executive Vice President and
Stephen L. Key                     Chief Financial Officer
                                   (principal financial officer)


        *                          Vice President and Controller
Richard L. Yates                   (principal accounting officer)



*By:/s/Michael D. Cahn
    Michael D. Cahn
    Attorney-in-fact



                         TEXTRON INC.
                INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
              AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
                         Item 14(a)
                              
                              
                              
                                                                  
                                                    Form    Annual Report
Textron Inc.                                        10-K   to Shareholders
                                                                    
Report of Independent Auditors                                   33
                                                                    
Consolidated Statement of Income for each of the                 34
three years in the period ended January 2, 1999
                                                                    
Consolidated Balance Sheet at January 2, 1999                    35
                                                                    
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for each of                 36
the three years in the period ended January 2,
                                                                    
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders'               38
Equity for each of the three years in the period
ended January 2, 1999
                                                                    
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                      39-53
                                                                    
Revenues and Income by Business Segment                          22
                                                                    
Supplementary Information (Unaudited):                           54
                                                                    
Quarterly Financial Information 1998 and 1997                    56
                                                                    
Financial Statement Schedule for each of the three                
years in the period ended January 2, 1999
                                                           
    I   Condensed financial information of           25    
        registrant
                                                                          
                                                                          
                                                                  
                                                                  
                                                                  
                                                                  







All  other  schedules  are omitted  because  the  conditions
requiring  the  filing thereof do not exist or  because  the
information required is included in the financial statements
and notes thereto.




                        TEXTRON INC.
                              
 SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                              
 For each of the three years in the period ended January 2,
                              
                              
     Financial  information  of the  Registrant  is  omitted
because   condensed   financial   information   of   Textron
Manufacturing, which includes the Registrant and all of  its
majority-owned   subsidiaries   other   than   its   finance
subsidiaries (Textron Finance) is shown on pages 34  through
37   of   Textron's  1998  Annual  Report  to  Shareholders.
Management   believes  that  the  disclosure  of   financial
information on the basis of Textron Manufacturing results in
a more meaningful presentation, since this group constitutes
the   Registrant's  basic  borrowing  entity  and  the  only
restrictions on net assets of Textron's subsidiaries  relate
to  Textron Finance.  The Registrant's investment in Textron
Finance is $473 million in 1998 and $406 million in 1997.

     Textron   Manufacturing  received  dividends   of   $62
million, $74 million and $29 million from Textron Finance in
1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.  Lending agreements limit
Textron  Finance's net assets available for  cash  dividends
and other payments to Textron Manufacturing to approximately
$169 million of Textron Finance's net assets of $473 million
at year-end 1998.

     Textron   Manufacturing's  credit  agreements   contain
provisions  requiring  it to maintain  a  minimum  level  of
shareholders' equity and a minimum interest coverage  ratio.
For     additional     information    concerning     Textron
Manufacturing's  long-term  debt,  see   Note   7   to   the
consolidated financial statements appearing on pages 43  and
44 of Textron's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders.
     
     For     information     concerning    Textron-obligated
Mandatorily  Redeemable Preferred Securities  of  Subsidiary
Trust  Holding  Solely  Textron  Junior  Subordinated   Debt
Securities,  see  Note  9  to  the  consolidated   financial
statements  appearing  on page 46 of Textron's  1998  Annual
Report to Shareholders.



                      List of  Exhibits

    3.1        Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
               Textron   as   filed   January   29,    1998.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit  3.1  to
               Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for  the
               fiscal year ended January 3, 1998.
    3.2        By-Laws of Textron.
    NOTE:      Exhibits  10.1 through 10.18  below  are
               management  contracts or compensatory  plans,
               contracts or agreements.
    10.1       Annual  Incentive Compensation Plan  For
               Textron Employees.  Incorporated by reference
               to Exhibit 10.1 to Textron's Annual Report on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1995.
    10.2A      Deferred  Income Plan  For  Textron  Key
               Executives.   Incorporated  by  reference  to
               Exhibit  10.2 to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1995.
    10.2B      Amendments  to Deferred Income  Plan  for
               Textron Key Executives.
    10.3       Special   Benefits  for   Textron   Key
               Executives.   Incorporated  by  reference  to
               Exhibit  10.4 to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1995.
    10.4A      Supplemental Benefits Plan  For  Textron
               Key  Executives  with  Market  Square  Profit
               Sharing   Plan  Schedule.   Incorporated   by
               reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Textron's Annual
               Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
               December 30, 1995.
    10.4B      Amendments to Supplemental Benefits  Plan
               for Textron Key Executives.
    10.5A      Supplemental Retirement Plan For Textron
               Key Executives.  Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit  10.6 to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1995.
    10.5B      Amendment  to  Supplemental  Retirement
               Plan for Textron Key Executives.
    10.6       Survivor  Benefit Plan For  Textron  Key
               Executives.   Incorporated  by  reference  to
               Exhibit  10.7 to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1995.
    10.7A      Textron  1987  Long-Term Incentive  Plan
               ("1987 Plan").  Incorporated by reference  to
               Exhibit  10.6 to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1989.
    10.7B      First   Amendment   to   1987    Plan.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit  10.6(b)
               to  Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for
               the fiscal year ended December 28, 1991.
    10.8A      Textron  1990  Long-Term Incentive  Plan
               ("1990 Plan").  Incorporated by reference  to
               Exhibit  10.7 to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               30, 1989.
    10.8B      First   Amendment   to   1990    Plan.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit  10.7(c)
               to  Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for
               the fiscal year ended December 28, 1991.
    10.8C      Second   Amendment   to   1990   Plan.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit  10.7(c)
               to  Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for
               the fiscal year ended January 2, 1993.
    10.9A      Textron  1994  Long-Term Incentive  Plan
               ("1994 Plan").  Incorporated by reference  to
               Exhibit  10 to Textron's Quarterly Report  on
               Form  10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended  July
               2, 1994.
    10.9B      Amendment to 1994 Plan.
    10.10      Form  of  Indemnity  Agreement  between
               Textron   and  its  directors  and  executive
               officers.    Incorporated  by  reference   to
               Exhibit  A  to Textron's Proxy Statement  for
               its  Annual Meeting of Shareholders on  April
               29, 1987.
    10.11      Deferred  Income  Plan for  Non-Employee
               Directors.   Incorporated  by  reference   to
               Exhibit  10.14 to Textron's Annual Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               28, 1996.
    10.12      Employment Agreement  between
               Textron  and  John D. Butler dated  July  23,
               1998.   Incorporated by reference to  Exhibit
               10.2 to Textron's Quarterly Report on Form 10-
               Q  for  the  fiscal quarter ended October  3,
               1998.
    10.13A     Employment   Agreement  between  Textron   and
               Lewis   B.  Campbell  dated  July  23,  1998.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3  to
               Textron's Quarterly Report on Form  10-Q  for
               the fiscal quarter ended October 3, 1998.
    10.13B     Retention  Award  granted  to  Lewis  B.
               Campbell  on December 14, 1995.  Incorporated
               by  reference to Exhibit 10.16B to  Textron's
               Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for  the  fiscal
               year ended December 30, 1995.
    10.14A     Employment Agreement between Textron and
               James  F.  Hardymon dated November  24,  1989
               ("Employment  Agreement").   Incorporated  by
               reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Textron's Annual
               Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
               December 30, 1989.
    10.14B     Amendment dated as of December 15, 1994,
               to  Employment  Agreement.   Incorporated  by
               reference  to  Exhibit  10.10B  to  Textron's
               Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for  the  fiscal
               year ended December 31, 1994.
    10.14C     Letter  Agreement  between  Textron  and
               James  F.  Hardymon dated as of November  16,
               1998.
    10.15A     Employment Agreement between Textron and
               Herbert  L.  Henkel dated  August  12,  1998.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4  to
               Textron's Quarterly Report on Form  10-Q  for
               the fiscal quarter ended October 3, 1998.
    10.15B     Retention Award  granted
               to  Herbert L. Henkel on December  12,  1996.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to
               Textron's  Annual Report for the fiscal  year
               ended January 3, 1998.
    10.16      Employment Agreement between Textron and
               Mary   L.   Howell  dated  July   23,   1998.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5  to
               Textron's Quarterly Report on Form  10-Q  for
               the fiscal quarter ended October 3, 1998.
    10.17      Employment   Agreement   between
               Textron and Wayne W.  Juchatz dated July  23,
               1998.   Incorporated by reference to  Exhibit
               10.6 to Textron's Quarterly Report on Form 10-
               Q  for  the  fiscal quarter ended October  3,
               1998.
    10.18      Employment   Agreement
               between Textron and Stephen L. Key dated July
               23,  1998.   Incorporated  by  reference   to
               Exhibit 10.7 to Textron's Quarterly Report on
               Form   10-Q  for  the  fiscal  quarter  ended
               October 3, 1998.
    10.19      5-Year Credit Agreement dated as of
               April  1,  1998,  among  Textron,  the  Banks
               listed  therein  and  Morgan  Guaranty  Trust
               Company of New York as Administrative  Agent.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2  to
               Textron's Quarterly Report on Form  10-Q  for
               the fiscal quarter ended April 4, 1998.
    12.1       Computation  of  ratio  of  income   to
               combined  fixed  charges and preferred  stock
               dividends of Textron Manufacturing.
    12.2       Computation  of  ratio  of  income   to
               combined  fixed  charges and preferred  stock
               dividends  of  Textron  Inc.  including   all
               majority-owned subsidiaries.
    13         A portion (pages 22 through 57 and pages
               60 through 62) of Textron's 1998 Annual Report to
               Shareholders.
    21         Certain  subsidiaries of  Textron.
               Other  subsidiaries, which considered in  the
               aggregate  do  not constitute  a  significant
               subsidiary, are omitted from such list.
    23         Consent of Independent Auditors.
    24.1       Power of attorney.
    24.2       Certified copy of a resolution of  the  Board
               of Directors of Textron.
    27         Financial Data Schedule (filed electronically
               only).
                              



