
10-K



              SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                   WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                          Form 10-K

[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
     THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

            For the fiscal year ended December 28, 1996
                  Commission File Number 1-5480
                        Textron Inc.

      (Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)

            Delaware                                 05-0315468
   state or other jurisdiction of                    (I.R.S. Employer
   incorporation or organization)                    Identification No.)
              40 Westminster Street, Providence, R.I. 02903
                               (401) 421-2800
       (Address and telephone number of principal executive offices)
                           ______________
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                            Name of Each Exchange on
         Title of Class                        Which Registered

Common Stock - par value $.125; (83,027,315  New York Stock Exchange
  shares outstanding at February 28, 1997)   Pacific Stock Exchange
  Preferred Stock Purchase Rights            Chicago Stock Exchange

$2.08 Cumulative Convertible Preferred       New York Stock Exchange
  Stock, Series A  - no par value

$1.40 Convertible Preferred Dividend Stock,  New York Stock Exchange
   Series B (preferred only as to
   dividends) - no par value

8.75% Debentures due July 1, 2022            New York Stock Exchange

7.92% Trust Preferred Securities of          New York Stock Exchange
  Subsidiary Trust (and Textron Guaranty 
  with respect thereto)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1)
has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13  or
15(d)  of  the  Securities Exchange Act of 1934  during  the
preceding  12  months (or for such shorter period  that  the
registrant  was required to file such reports) and  (2)  has
been  subject to such filing  requirements for the  past  90
days.     Yes  x    .     No     .

          Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent
filers  pursuant  to  Item  405 of  Regulation  S-K  is  not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best  of
registrant's  knowledge, in definitive proxy or  information
statements  incorporated by reference in Part  III  of  this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  [x]

          The aggregate market value of voting stock held by
non-affiliates  of  the registrant is $8,252,124,965  as  of
February 28, 1997.

            Portions   of  Textron's   Annual   Report    to
Shareholders   for   the fiscal  year  ended   December  28,
1996  are  incorporated by  reference in Parts I and  II  of
this  Report.    Portions of Textron's Proxy Statement   for
its  Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April  23,
1997  are  incorporated by reference in  Part  III  of  this
Report.


                              PART I


ITEM 1. BUSINESS OF TEXTRON*

            Textron   is  a  global  multi-industry  company   with
operations  in  five  business  segments  -  Aircraft,  Automotive,
Industrial, Systems and Components, and Finance.  A listing of  the
Divisions within each business segment, including a description  of
the  product  lines  of  each Division, is incorporated  herein  by
reference  to  pages 54 and 55 of Textron's 1996 Annual  Report  to
Shareholders.   Financial  information  by  business  segment   and
geographic area is incorporated herein by reference to pages 23 and
51  of  Textron's  1996 Annual Report to Shareholders.   Additional
information regarding each business segment and Textron in  general
is set forth below.

Business Segments
      Aircraft.   The Aircraft segment consists of Bell  Helicopter
Textron, The Cessna Aircraft Company and Textron Lycoming.    Based
on  unit sales, Bell is the largest supplier of helicopters,  spare
parts  and helicopter-related services in the world.  Since it  was
founded  in  1946,  Bell  has delivered  over  33,000  aircraft  to
military  and civilian customers in over 120 countries.   Bell  has
three  military  and  six  civilian helicopter  models  in  current
production.  Its aircraft are turbine powered, and  range  in  size
from  the five-place Bell Model 206 series to the  Bell Model 412EP
aircraft, which carries up to fifteen people.

     Bell's military business includes both U.S. Government and non-
U.S.  Government customers. There are more helicopters manufactured
by  Bell  in  field service in the inventory of the U.S. Government
than manufactured by any other helicopter company.  Currently, Bell
is supplying advanced military helicopters, spare parts and product
support to the U.S. and Canadian Governments and to the governments
of  several  countries in the Pacific Rim, Middle East and  Europe.
Military  sales  to  non-U.S. customers  are  made  only  with  the
concurrence of the U.S. Government.

      Bell  is  also  a  leading supplier of commercially-certified
helicopters to charter, offshore, utility, corporate, police, fire,
rescue and emergency medical helicopter operators.  Bell's non-U.S.
Government   business   (including  non-U.S.  military   customers)
typically represents 40% to 60% of its annual sales.  In 1996, such
sales accounted for  approximately 60% of Bell's business.

____________________
*   Reference  herein  to  "Textron"  includes  Textron  Inc.,  its
divisions  and subsidiaries.   A Textron "Division" is an operating
unit  which  may  be  comprised of an  unincorporated  division  of
Textron, a subsidiary of Textron, or an unincorporated division  of
a subsidiary.



      Bell  is  teamed with the Helicopter Division of  the  Boeing
Company  ("Boeing  Helicopters") in the  development  of  the  V-22
Osprey  tiltrotor  aircraft  for the U.S.  Department  of  Defense.
Tiltrotor  aircraft are designed to utilize the  benefits  of  both
helicopters  and fixed-wing aircraft.  Production of V-22  aircraft
was  started  in 1996 upon award of a contract for the  first  four
aircraft.   In  1996, Bell and Boeing Helicopters  entered  into  a
joint venture to develop a commercial tiltrotor aircraft designated
the  Model  609.   First  delivery of this nine-place  aircraft  is
scheduled for 2001.

      In  1996,  Bell  was also awarded a development  contract  to
upgrade the U.S. Marines' fleet of AH-1W and UH-1N helicopters.

      Bell  introduced two new civilian helicopter models in  1996:
the single-engine Bell Model 407 (a light helicopter), and the twin-
engine intermediate size Bell Model 430.  Other commercial products
and product improvements continue to be developed.

      In the light and medium helicopter market, Bell has two major
U.S. competitors and one major European competitor.  Certain of its
competitors are substantially larger and more diversified  aircraft
manufacturers.  Bell markets its products worldwide through its own
sales force as well as through independent representatives.  Price,
financing  terms,  aircraft performance,  reliability  and  product
support  are significant factors in the sale of helicopters.   Bell
has  developed the world's largest distribution system to sell  and
support  helicopters,  serving customers  in  over  120  countries.
Revenues  of Bell accounted for approximately 16%, 18% and  16%  of
Textron's total revenues in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

      The  Cessna  Aircraft Company is, based on  unit  sales,  the
world's  largest manufacturer of light and mid-size  business  jets
and  single-engine  utility  turboprop aircraft.   Cessna  designs,
manufactures   and   sells  general  aviation  aircraft,   aircraft
propellers,  and  related  accessories worldwide.  Based  on  units
shipped by manufacturers, Cessna's 1996 share of all manufacturers'
worldwide sales of light and mid-size jets was approximately 54%.

      Cessna  currently  has  two  major  product  lines,  Citation
business  jets and single-engine turboprop Caravans.  In  addition,
Cessna  has  reentered the business of manufacturing  single-engine
piston aircraft, and began deliveries in January 1997.

      Cessna currently produces a family of Citation business  jets
ranging from the CitationJet to the Citation X.  The Citation X  is
the world's fastest business jet with a maximum operating speed  of
Mach .92.  Certification was 



completed and customer deliveries  of the  Citation X began in 1996.   
In addition, deliveries of the new Citation  Bravo and Citation Excel 
business jets will  commence  in 1997 and 1998, respectively.

      The  Cessna  Caravan  is  the world's  best  selling  utility
turboprop.  The delivery of the 850th Caravan will occur  in  early
1997.   Caravan deliveries have averaged over 75 aircraft per  year
since  the Caravan's first delivery in 1985.  Caravans are used  in
the  United  States  primarily to carry overnight  express  package
shipments.    International  uses  of  Caravans  include   commuter
airlines, relief flights, tourism and freight.

      Cessna  markets its products worldwide primarily through  its
own  sales  force  as  well  as through  a  network  of  authorized
independent   sales  representatives.   Cessna   has   four   major
competitors  for  its  business jet  products,  two  U.S.  and  two
foreign.   Cessna's aircraft compete with other aircraft that  vary
in  size,  speed,  range, capacity, handling  characteristics,  and
price.  Reliability and product support are significant factors  in
the  sale  of  these aircraft.  Cessna provides  its  business  jet
operators with factory-direct customer support offering 24  hour  a
day  service  and  maintenance.  More than  40%  of  the  worldwide
Citation fleet of more than 2,400 aircraft receive service  through
Cessna-owned service centers.  Cessna Caravan and piston  customers
receive   product  support  through  independently  owned   service
stations  and 24 hour spare parts support through Cessna.  Revenues
of Cessna accounted for approximately 12%, 10% and 10% of Textron's
total revenues in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

     Textron Lycoming, formerly reported as part of the Systems and
Components  segment, is the world leader in the design, manufacture
and  overhaul of reciprocating piston aircraft engines serving  the
worldwide  general  aviation market.  Textron  Lycoming  sells  new
products  directly  to  general  aviation  airframe  manufacturers,
including  Piper  Aircraft,  Robinson  Helicopter,  and  SOCATA,  a
division of Aerospatiale, and is the exclusive supplier of  engines
for   Cessna's   new  product  line  of  single  engine   aircraft.
Aftermarket sales are made to the more than 180,000 existing owners
of  Textron  Lycoming  products  through  a  worldwide  network  of
independently owned distributors.

     Textron Lycoming's McCauley Propeller Systems unit is a leader
in the general aviation industry.  McCauley provides new propellers
directly  to  original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs")  and  sells
parts for service and repairs worldwide through independently-owned
distributors.   The new Cessna single-engine piston  aircraft  will
use McCauley propellers exclusively.

      Automotive.   The  Automotive  segment,  organized  under  an
umbrella  organization called Textron Automotive  Company  ("TAC"),
consists  of the Textron Automotive Trim Operations, CWC  Castings,
Kautex, McCord Winn, Micromatic and Randall.  These operations sell
primarily to automotive OEMs and their suppliers operating in North
America  and  Europe and, to a lesser extent, in Latin America  and
Asia.   TAC  is  headquartered in Troy, Michigan and  



has  over  45 facilities  located in the United States, Belgium, 
Brazil,  Canada, China,  the  Czech  Republic,  Germany,  Mexico,  
the  Netherlands,Portugal, Spain, and the United Kingdom.

      Through  its  Textron Automotive Trim Operations,  TAC  is  a
leading  worldwide  supplier of automotive  interior  and  exterior
plastic  components.   Interior trim  products  include  instrument
panels,  door  and  sidewall  trim, airbag  doors,  consoles,  trim
components,  armrests  and  headliner systems.   During  1996,  TAC
assumed 100% ownership of Textron Automotive B.V., its former joint
venture in the Netherlands for the manufacture of instrument panels
and,  beginning  in  1998,  door trim.   In  addition,  TAC's  trim
facilities  manufacture  exterior decorative  components  including
painted  bumpers  and  fascia, body side  moldings  and  claddings,
fender   liners,  decorative  wheel  trim,  signal   lighting   and
structural  composite  bumper  beams.   Revenues  of  the   Textron
Automotive  Trim  Operations accounted for  15%,  15%  and  16%  of
Textron's total revenues in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

      On  January  7,  1997, Textron completed the  acquisition  of
Kautex  Werke Reinold Hagen AG of Bonn, Germany and the  assets  of
its   North   American  affiliate,  Kautex  North   America,   Inc.
(collectively "Kautex").  Kautex is a leading manufacturer of blow-
molded  plastic  fuel  tank systems and other  blow-molded  plastic
technical  parts  for  OEMs throughout Europe,  North  America  and
Brazil.   Kautex also manufactures a broad selection of blow-molded
plastic  containers  for  a  variety  of  industrial  and  consumer
applications.   Kautex's  sales  in 1996  were  approximately  $500
million  from fifteen plants located close to automotive  customers
in  Germany,  Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, the  Czech  Republic,
Portugal, Spain, the United Kingdom and the United States.

     TAC's other operations manufacture and sell a broad variety of
functional  components.   CWC  Castings  designs  and  manufactures
engine  camshafts and vibration damper components for OEMs and  the
aftermarket.   McCord  Winn manufactures seating  comfort  systems,
windshield  washer systems and armatures for precision  DC  motors.
In  1996, McCord Winn expanded its washer systems business with the
acquisition  of  Valeo  Wiper  Systems  Limited  in  Wales  (U.K.).
Micromatic  manufactures machine tools used in  the  production  of
automobile  engines for precision bore and surface  finishing,  and
spline and gear production.  Randall produces fuel filler systems.

     More than 70 vehicle models currently carry parts made by TAC,
including  Chrysler's  Jeep  Grand Cherokee,  Voyager  and  Caravan
minivans,  Ford's Lincoln Town Car and Windstar and Aerostar  mini-
vans,   and  GM's  Cadillac  Seville,  Corvette  and  the  Venture,
Silhouette and Sintra mini-vans.

       TAC's  manufacturing operations are supported by a staff  of
research  and  design  specialists at TAC's  Automotive  Technology
Center.   These  specialists  have  developed  new  processes   and
products,  many of which are patented, that allow TAC to offer  its
customers  technology  driven  products  and  processes.   In   the
plastics  and  coatings  area,  TAC  is  a   recognized  leader  in
alternative  skin  materials (including non-PVC  materials),  spray
urethane  and cloth 



integration, energy management foam  (including
impact  and  knee bolsters), the development of modular  integrated
assemblies   and   vertical  body  panels,  and  High   Crystalline
Polypropylene   material   for  complete   mold-in-color   interior
components.  CWC Castings is a leader in the design and manufacture
of  automotive castings. It has developed a selective  austempering
heat  treatment process for ductile camshafts as well as  a  vacuum
casting  system for hollow steel camshafts. McCord Winn is  working
with  OEMs worldwide to develop advanced technologies in areas such
as  "intelligent"  comfort seating systems,  brushless  motors  and
carbon  commutation  for  flexible  fuel  applications.  Micromatic
machine  tools are used for cylindrical form generation and surface
finishing.

      In  the automotive business, there is often a long lead  time
from the time a supplier is selected to supply components on a  new
car  model  to the time the supplier can begin shipping  production
parts.    During  this period, the supplier incurs engineering  and
development costs. Until recently, the OEMs reimbursed the supplier
for  these costs as incurred. Within the last few years,  the  OEMs
have  begun to require that these costs be recovered in  the  piece
prices  charged  by  the suppliers as the goods  are  shipped.   In
addition, automotive OEMs often require "just-in-time" delivery, so
the  manufacturer  has to both plan shipments in advance  and  hold
inventory.

       Automotive  OEMs  and  their  suppliers  are  the  principal
customers of TAC.  The only customers, the loss of which would have
a  material  adverse effect on TAC, are the U.S.  and  Europe-based
automotive  OEMs and their first-tier suppliers.  However,  because
of  the  broad  range  of products sold to such  customers,  it  is
unlikely that such customers would cease all purchases from TAC.

      Each  of TAC's businesses faces competition from a number  of
other  manufacturers based primarily on price, quality,  reputation
and  delivery.   Although TAC is one of the  largest  manufacturers
offering  its  range  of  products and services,  it  faces  strong
competition  in  all  of  its  market  segments.   Because  of  the
diversity of products and services offered, no single company is  a
competitor  in all market segments.  In certain markets,  TAC  also
competes for business with the OEMs' own operations.


      Industrial.  The Industrial segment consists of  three  major
product  groups:   Fastening Systems, Golf and Turf-Care  Products,
and Engineered Products and Components.

      The  Fastening  Systems Group consists of the Avdel,  Camcar,
Elco,  Textron  Aerospace Fasteners (formerly,  "Cherry"),  Textron
Industries   (France)   and   Textron   Fastening   Systems-Germany
Divisions.   The  Fastening Systems Group  manufactures  and  sells
fasteners,  fastening  systems  and  installation  tools   to   the
aerospace,  appliance,  automotive,  construction,  do-it-yourself,
electronics, general industrial and transportation markets.   Sales
are made to a wide range of customers, including OEMs, distributors
and consumers.  Fasteners manufactured by the Group include rivets,
threaded and non-threaded fasteners, cold-formed components,  metal
stampings,  plastic  components, and assemblies  



which  incorporate
such  products.   Textron acquired Valois Industries  (now  renamed
Textron   Industries,  S.A.S.),  a  France-based  manufacturer   of
engineered fastening systems, in April 1996.  The German operations
of  Valois  and  Boesner (acquired in 1995) were combined  to  form
Textron  Fastening Systems-Germany.  In 1996, Textron also acquired
Xact  Products,  a Michigan-based manufacturer of metal  stampings,
which  is  now  part of the Elco operation.  In addition,  in  1996
certain   of   Randall's  metal  stampings  operations  (previously
included in the Automotive segment) were combined with Elco.

      Although  the Fastening Systems Group is one of  the  largest
manufacturers of its products and services, there are  hundreds  of
competitors  of  the  Fastening Systems Group  ranging  from  small
proprietorships to large multinational companies.  As is  the  case
with  all Divisions of the Industrial segment, competition is based
primarily on price, quality, reputation and delivery.  In addition,
larger customers of fastening systems tend to procure products  and
services  from  the larger suppliers, except for  "niche"  products
which may be sourced from smaller companies.  Only the loss of  the
major OEM automotive customers and their first-tier suppliers would
have  a  material  adverse effect on the Fastening  Systems  Group.
However,  because  of  the broad range of  products  sold  to  such
customers,  it  is  unlikely that such  customers  will  cease  all
purchases from the Fastening Systems Group.

      The  Golf and Turf-Care Products Group consists of the E-Z-GO
Division,  which  manufactures  and  sells  electric  and  gasoline
powered  golf  cars  and  multipurpose utility  vehicles,  and  the
Jacobsen Division, which manufactures and sells professional mowing
and  turf  maintenance equipment.  In 1996, Jacobsen  acquired  The
Bunton  Company, a leading manufacturer of commercial lawn  mowers.
The  customers  of the Golf and Turf-Care Products   Group  consist
primarily  of  golf courses, resort communities and commercial  and
industrial  users such as airports and factories.  Sales  are  made
directly   through   factory  branches,  through   a   network   of
distributors  and to end-users.  Many sales of golf  and  turf-care
equipment (both at the distributor and end-user level) are financed
through  Textron Financial Corporation, both for marketing purposes
and as an additional source of revenue to Textron.

      The  Engineered  Products and Components  Group  consists  of
Divisions manufacturing a wide range of products, including  double
enveloping  worm  gear speed reducers, gear motors  and  gear  sets
(Cone  Drive);  powered equipment, electrical test instruments  and
hand  tools  (Greenlee); and watch attachments and fashion  jewelry
(Speidel).  In 1996, Greenlee purchased Gustae Klauke GmbH  &  Co.
KG   (Remschied),  a  Germany-based  manufacturer   of   electrical
connectors, and its related companies.  Products of these Divisions
are   sold  to  a  wide  variety  of  customers,  including   OEMs,
distributors  and  end-users.   Also  included  in  the  Engineered
Products  and  Components  Group is HR  Textron  ("HRT"),  formerly
reported  as  part  of  the  Systems and Components  segment.   HRT
designs  and  manufactures  control  systems  and  components   for
aircraft,  armored  vehicles,  and  commercial  applications.   Its
aerospace  and defense products are marketed directly to  the  U.S.
Government  and  OEMs and, in the aftermarket,  both  directly  and
through



service centers.  In January 1997, Textron acquired Zurich,
Switzerland-based Maag Pump Systems AG and Milan, Italy-based  Maag
Italia S.p.A., manufacturers of gears, gear pumps and gear systems.

      Systems  and Components.  The Systems and Components  segment
consists of four Divisions which serve both commercial and military
customers,  primarily  in  aerospace  markets,  with  an  extensive
offering   of   systems,  subsystems,  components,  materials   and
services.

       Fuel  Systems  Textron  ("FST")  designs,  manufactures  and
overhauls  gas turbine engine injection and metering devices,  fuel
distribution  valves,  and afterburner fuel injection  systems  for
commercial  and  military  aircraft, and  industrial,  marine,  and
vehicular   markets.   OEM  sales  are  made  directly  to   engine
manufacturers  with aftermarket overhaul and repair  services  sold
directly  to  domestic  end  users and through  a  distributor  for
international customers.  FST invests in the design and development
of  innovative,  proprietary  products,  with  on-site  engineering
support  at customer facilities and an advanced product development
facility to extend the customers' own design activities.

      Textron Marine & Land Systems ("TM&LS") is a world leader  in
the  design  and  construction of advanced technology  air  cushion
vehicles, surface effect ships, high performance search and  rescue
vessels,  light  armored combat vehicles, and  suspension  systems.
TM&LS  has products operating in over 35 countries.  These products
are  marketed  directly  in  the United States  and  through  sales
representatives   and  distributors  internationally.    In   1996,
deliveries  commenced for the Engineering/Manufacturing/Development
phase  of the U.S. Army's Armored Security Vehicle as a prelude  to
full  production.  In addition, a new contract for the  development
of  a  Service  Life  Extension Program for the Landing  Craft  Air
Cushion (LCAC) was received, and the U.S. Coast Guard exercised  an
option  for  an  additional 20 Motor Lifeboats  under  an  existing
production contract.

      Textron  Systems is a leading supplier of "smart"  munitions,
airborne  surveillance  systems,  and  automatic  aircraft  landing
systems  to  the U.S. Department of Defense.  Textron Systems  also
supplies  a  number of key components and specialty  materials  for
critical defense needs, including infrared detectors, high strength
composites,  reentry systems and materials, and high power  lasers.
Once  exclusively a supplier to the Department of Defense,  Textron
Systems  now  applies  its  technologies  to  non-defense  markets.
Current   commercial  products  include  advanced  composites   for
automotive,  industrial, sporting goods and aircraft manufacturers;
laser  ultrasonic systems for industrial control; infrared  sensors
for  medical  and  industrial  applications;  fire  protection  and
insulating materials for oil and chemical companies worldwide;  and
unique  decorative  materials  for automotive  and  other  markets.
While  Textron Systems sells most of its products directly  to  its
customers,   it   also   sells   some   products   through    sales
representatives and distributors.

      Turbine  Engine Components Textron ("TECT")  is  one  of  the
world's  largest independent suppliers of internal  components  for
gas  turbine engines for aircraft and industrial applications.  Its
products  include fan and compressor 



blades, vanes, shafts,  disks,
rotors,  blisks  and other rotating components; the  forgings  from
which  those  products are machined; and stationary  components  of
turbine  engines,  such as frames, diffusers, and  air  collectors.
TECT  manufactures  its  products  to  the  specifications  of  its
customers,  and  most  of  its  sales  are  made  directly  to  its
customers.

      The  principal  competitive factors affecting  sales  of  the
products  of the Systems and Components segment are price, quality,
customer service, performance, reliability, reputation and existing
product base.

      In  September 1996, Textron Aerostructures, which designs and
manufactures structural assemblies for aircraft and space vehicles,
was sold to The Carlyle Group.

      Finance.   The  Finance segment consists  of  Avco  Financial
Services ("AFS") and Textron Financial Corporation ("TFC").

      AFS  is  primarily engaged in consumer finance and  insurance
activities.  AFS's finance operations mainly involve loans made  by
the  Avco  Financial Services Group, consisting of  consumer  loans
which  are  unsecured or secured by personal property, real  estate
loans  secured by real property, and retail installment  contracts,
principally  covering personal property.  AFS's insurance  business
consists  primarily of the sale of credit life,  credit  disability
and casualty insurance, offered through the Avco Insurance Services
Group,  a  significant part of which is directly related  to  AFS's
finance   activities.    AFS's  consumer  finance   and   insurance
activities are conducted through its more than 1,200 branch offices
located  in  the United States, Australia, Canada, Hong  Kong,  New
Zealand,  Spain  and  the United Kingdom.  In  1996,  AFS  acquired
Tuckahoe Leasing, Inc., a Canadian provider of equipment financing,
and Insurex Canada Inc., a provider of insurance premium financing.

      AFS's  loan  business is regulated by laws that, among  other
things, can limit maximum charges for loans and the maximum  amount
and  term  thereof.  Such laws also require disclosure to customers
of  the  interest  rate  and  other  basic  terms  of  most  credit
transactions  and give customers a limited right to cancel  certain
loans  and  retail  installment  contracts  without  penalty.   The
insurance business is subject to licensing and regulation by  state
authorities.

      The  consumer  finance business is highly  competitive,  with
price  and service being the principal competitive factors.   AFS's
competitors  include  not  only  other  companies  operating  under
consumer  loan  laws, but also other types of lending  institutions
not  so  regulated  and usually not limited in the  size  of  their
loans,  such  as  companies which finance the  sale  of  their  own
merchandise  or  the merchandise of others, industrial  banks,  the
personal  loan  departments of commercial banks and credit  unions.
AFS's  strongest  competition is from commercial banks  and  credit
unions.   The  interest rates charged by these lenders are  usually
lower  than  the rates charged by AFS.  AFS's insurance businesses,
to the extent not related to AFS's finance activities, compete with
many other insurance companies offering similar 



products.  Revenues
of  AFS  accounted for approximately 19%, 20% and 17% of  Textron's
total revenues in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

      TFC  is a diversified commercial finance company specializing
in  aircraft,  golf  and equipment financing and  revolving  credit
arrangements.   TFC provides commercial financing for a wide  range
of  customers,  including  those  who  purchase  or  lease  Textron
products and certain suppliers to Textron Divisions.  TFC presently
offers its services primarily in the United States and, to a lesser
extent, in Europe and Canada, through its 11 business units.   Each
TFC  business unit has a discrete market focus and specific  profit
objectives  and  is staffed to provide responsive services  to  its
market.   TFC's activities are subject to a variety of federal  and
state regulations.

      The  businesses in which TFC operates are highly competitive.
TFC  is  subject  to  competition from various types  of  financing
institutions,   including  banks,  leasing   companies,   insurance
companies,   independent   finance   companies   associated    with
manufacturers  and  finance  companies  that  are  subsidiaries  of
banking  institutions.  Competition within the  commercial  finance
industry is primarily focused on price and service.

Finance Receivables

The  following  table  presents the Finance  segment's  outstanding
finance receivables by country:


                                      December 31,
                                  1996            1995
                                     (In millions)
                                    
United States                    $7,096           $6,750
Canada                            1,079            1,013
Australia                         1,067            1,026
United Kingdom                      692              632
Other countries                     488              473
                                   
                                $10,422           $9,894
                                   

     At December 31, 1996, finance receivables in the United States
represented 68% of Textron's total finance receivables outstanding.
At  such  date, no receivables outstanding in any one  state  other
than  California  exceeded 8% of the United States  portfolio.   In
California, outstanding receivables represented 15% of  the  United
States portfolio and 10% of the consolidated portfolio.



      The  following table presents accruing loans on which one  or
more  installments were more than 60 days past due on a contractual
basis  (expressed as a percentage of the related gross  receivables
outstanding):

Years ended              Consumer     Commercial      Total
December, 31               loans        loans         loans
                                           
 1996                      3.25%        0.21%         2.32%
                                               
 1995                      2.89%        0.24%         2.10%
                                           

      The  following  table  shows gross and  net  write-offs,  the
percentages   which   those  amounts  bear   to   average   finance
receivables, and the amount of the provision for losses charged  to
income:

                                                              
                                                              


Backlog
     Information  regarding  Textron's backlog  of  government  and
commercial  orders  at  the end of the past  two  fiscal  years  is
contained   on  page  30  of  Textron's  1996  Annual   Report   to
Shareholders, which page is incorporated herein by reference.



     Approximately 37% of Textron's total backlog at  December  28,
1996,  represents orders which are not expected to be filled within
the  1997 fiscal year.  At December 28, 1996, approximately 95%  of
the total government backlog of $2.2 billion was funded.

Government Contracts

     In  1996, 24% and 50% of the revenues of the Aircraft and  the
Systems and Components segments, respectively, constituting in  the
aggregate 10% of Textron's consolidated revenues, were generated by
or   resulted  from  contracts  with  the  U.S.  Government.   U.S.
Government   business  is  subject  to  competition,   changes   in
procurement  policies and regulations, the continuing  availability
of  Congressional appropriations, world events, and  the  size  and
timing of programs in which Textron may participate.

     A  substantial portion of Textron's government  contracts  are
fixed-price  or  fixed-price incentive contracts.   Contracts  that
contain  incentive  pricing terms provide for  upward  or  downward
adjustments  in  the  prices  paid  by  the  U.S.  Government  upon
completion of the contract or any agreed portion thereof, based  on
cost  or  other  performance  factors.  U.S.  Government  contracts
generally  may be terminated in whole or in part at the convenience
of  the  U.S. Government or if the contractor is in default.   Upon
termination  of  a  contract  for  the  convenience  of  the   U.S.
Government,  the  contractor is normally entitled to  reimbursement
for  allowable costs incurred  (up to a maximum equal  to  the  con
tract price) and an allowance for profit or adjustment for loss  if
the  contractor would have incurred a loss had the entire  contract
been completed.  If, however, a contract is terminated for default:
(i)  the  contractor is paid such amount as may be agreed upon  for
manufacturing  materials and partially completed products  accepted
by  the U.S. Government; (ii) the U.S. Government is not liable for
the  contractor's  costs with respect to unaccepted  items  and  is
entitled to repayment of advance payments and progress payments, if
any,  related to the terminated portions of the contract; and (iii)
the  contractor may be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S.
Government in procuring undelivered items from another source.

Research and Development

      Information  regarding  Textron's  research  and  development
expenditures  is  contained on page 47  of  Textron's  1996  Annual
Report  to  Shareholders,  which page  is  incorporated  herein  by
reference.

Patents and Trademarks

     Textron  owns, or is licensed under, a number of  patents  and
trademarks throughout the world relating to products and methods of
manufacturing.  Patents and trademarks have been of  value  in  the
past  and  are expected to be of value in the future; however,  the
loss  of  any single patent or group of patents would not,  in  the
opinion of Textron, materially affect the conduct of its business.



Environmental Considerations

      Textron's  operations  are  subject  to  numerous  laws   and
regulations designed to protect the environment.   Compliance  with
such  laws  and  expenditures for environmental control  facilities
have  not  had, and are not expected to have, a material effect  on
capital  expenditures,  earnings or  the  competitive  position  of
Textron.    Additional information regarding environmental  matters
is  contained on pages 30 and 50 of Textron's 1996 Annual Report to
Shareholders, which pages are incorporated herein by reference.

Employees

      At  December  28,  1996,  Textron  had  approximately  57,000
employees.

Recent Development

     On February 26, 1997,  Textron's Board of Directors declared a
two-for-one split of Textron common stock in the form  of  a  stock
dividend,  subject  to  shareholder  approval  of  an  increase  in
Textron's  authorized number of common shares from 250  million  to
500  million  shares.   If the increase is  approved  at  Textron's
Annual  Meeting  on  April  23,  1997,  the  new  shares  will   be
distributed on June 1, 1997, to shareholders of record on the close
of business on May 9, 1997.

ITEM 2.     PROPERTIES

     At  December 28, 1996, Textron operated a total of 142  plants
located  throughout  the United States and 30  plants  outside  the
United  States.  Of the total of 172 plants, Textron owned 113  and
the balance were leased.  In the aggregate, the total manufacturing
space was approximately 30 million square feet.

      In  addition,  Textron owns or leases offices, warehouse  and
other  space at various locations throughout the United States  and
outside  the  United  States.  Textron also  owns  or  leases  such
machinery  and equipment as are necessary in the operation  of  its
Divisions.  Textron considers the productive capacity of the plants
operated  by  each  of its business segments to  be  adequate.   In
general,  the  plants  and machinery are  in  good  condition,  are
considered to be adequate for the uses to which they are being put,
and are substantially in regular use.

ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     Lawsuits  and  other  proceedings are  pending  or  threatened
against  Textron and its subsidiaries.  Some allege  violations  of
federal  government procurement regulations, involve  environmental
matters,  or  are  or  purport  to be  class  actions.   Some  seek
compensatory,  treble  or punitive damages in substantial  amounts;
fines,  penalties or restitution; or remediation of  contamination.
Under federal government procurement regulations, some could result
in  suspension  or  debarment of Textron or its  subsidiaries  from
U.S. Government contracting for a period of time.  On the basis  of
information   presently  available,  Textron  believes   that   any
liability for these suits and proceedings would not have a material
effect on Textron's net income or financial condition.



ITEM 4.     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No  matters  were  submitted to a vote of  Textron's  security
holders  during  the  last quarter of the period  covered  by  this
Report.


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The  following table sets forth certain information concerning
the  executive officers of Textron as of February 28, 1997.  Unless
otherwise indicated, the employer is Textron.

                                                
                                                
Name                   Age                  Position
                                 
James F. Hardymon      62        Chairman since 1993, and  Chief
                                 Executive  Officer since  1992;
                                 formerly  President,  1989   to
                                 1993;   and   Chief   Operating
                                 Officer,    1989    to    1991;
                                 Director since 1989.
                                 
Lewis B. Campbell      50        President  and Chief  Operating
                                 Officer  since  1994;  formerly
                                 Executive  Vice  President  and
                                 Chief  Operating Officer,  1992
                                 to   1993;  Vice  President  of
                                 General  Motors (1988 to  1992)
                                 and  General Manager of its GMC
                                 Truck  Division (1991 to 1992);
                                 Director since 1994.
                                 
Mary L. Howell         44        Executive    Vice    President,
                                 Government   and  International
                                 since   1995;  formerly  Senior
                                 Vice  President Government  and
                                 International  Relations,  1993
                                 to    1995;    Vice   President
                                 Government  Affairs,  1985   to
                                 1993.
                                 
Wayne W. Juchatz       50        Executive  Vice  President  and
                                 General  Counsel  since   1995;
                                 formerly     Executive     Vice
                                 President  and General  Counsel
                                 of    R.J.   Reynolds   Tobacco
                                 Company,  1994 to 1995;  Senior
                                 Vice     President,     General
                                 Counsel and Secretary of   R.J.
                                 Reynolds Tobacco Company,  1987
                                 to 1994.
                                 
Stephen L. Key         53        Executive  Vice  President  and
                                 Chief  Financial Officer  since
                                 1995;  formerly Executive  Vice
                                 President  and Chief  Financial
                                 Officer of ConAgra, Inc.,  1992
                                 to  1995;  Managing Partner  of
                                 the New York office of Ernst  &
                                 Young  (formerly Arthur Young),
                                 1988 to 1992.
                                 
William F. Wayland     61        Executive     Vice    President
                                 Administration and Chief  Human
                                 Resources  Officer since  1993;
                                 formerly     


                                 Executive Vice President Human   
                                 Resources, 1989 to 1993.
                                 
Herbert L. Henkel      48        President,  Textron  Industrial
                                 Products  since 1995;  formerly
                                 Group  Vice President,  Textron
                                 Inc.,  1993 to 1995;  President
                                 of    the    Greenlee   Textron
                                 Division, 1987 to 1993.
                                 
Richard A. Watson      52        Senior   Vice   President   and
                                 Treasurer  since October  1995;
                                 formerly      Senior       Vice
                                 President, Financial  Services,
                                 August  1995  to October  1995;
                                 Group  Vice President, 1990  to
                                 August 1995.
                                 
Frederick K. Butler    45        Vice  President  and  Secretary
                                 since  January  1997;  formerly
                                 Group      General      Counsel
                                 Financial  Services,  1995   to
                                 1996;     Assistant     General
                                 Counsel,  1994  to  1995;  Vice
                                 President  and General  Counsel
                                 of   Paul   Revere   Investment
                                 Management  Company,  1993   to
                                 1994;        Senior        Vice
                                 President/Law    of     Textron
                                 Investment Management  Company,
                                 1991 to 1993.
                                 
Peter B. S. Ellis      43        Vice     President    Strategic
                                 Planning  since 1995;  formerly
                                 Managing              Director,
                                 Telecommunications Practice  of
                                 Arthur  D.  Little, Inc.,  1991
                                 to 1995.
                                 
Douglas A. Fahlbeck    51        Vice   President  Mergers   and
                                 Acquisitions    since     1995;
                                 formerly     Executive     Vice
                                 President  and Chief  Financial
                                 Officer  of  Textron  Financial
                                 Corporation,  1994   to   1995;
                                 Senior   Vice   President   and
                                 Chief   Financial  Officer   of
                                 Textron  Financial Corporation,
                                 1985 to 1994.
                                 
Arnold M. Friedman     54        Vice   President   and   Deputy
                                 General Counsel since 1984.
                                 
William B. Gauld       43        Vice     President    Corporate
                                 Information   Management    and
                                 Chief    Information    Officer
                                 since   1995;  formerly   Staff
                                 Vice    President,    Corporate
                                 Information   Management    and
                                 Chief    Information   Officer,
                                 1994     to     1995;     Chief
                                 Information Officer of  General
                                 Electric            (Electrical
                                 Distribution    and     Control
                                 business)   1992    to    1994;
                                 Manager, Manufacturing  Systems
                                 of       General       Electric
                                 (Appliances), 1989 to 1992.
                                 
Carol J. Grant         43        Vice  President Human Resources
                                 since  January  1997;  formerly
                                 Vice    President   and   Chief
                                 Executive  Officer   of   NYNEX
                                 (Rhode     Island     Strategic
                                 Business   Unit),    1993    to
                                 January  1997;  Vice  President
                                 Public       Affairs        and
                                 Communications   of   NYNEX   -
                                 Rhode Island, 1991 to 1993.
                                 
Gregory E. Hudson      50        Vice   President  Taxes   since
                                 1987.


                                 
William P. Janovitz    54        Vice     President    Financial
                                 Management since January  1997;
                                 formerly     Vice     President
                                 Financial  Reporting,  1995  to
                                 January  1997;  Vice  President
                                 and Controller, 1983 to 1995.
                                 
Mary F. Lovejoy        41        Vice  President  Communications
                                 and  Investor  Relations  since
                                 September  1996; formerly  Vice
                                 President  Investor  Relations,
                                 1995    to   September    1996;
                                 Director       of      Investor
                                 Relations,  1993 to 1995;  Vice
                                 President  and Senior Corporate
                                 Banker  of  The First  National
                                 Bank   of  Chicago,   1991   to
                                 1993.
                                 
John W. Mayers, Jr.    43        Vice  President Risk Management
                                 and   Insurance  since  January
                                 1997;  formerly  Director  Risk
                                 Management and Insurance,  1993
                                 to  January 1997; Treasurer  of
                                 Textron  Financial Corporation,
                                 1990 to 1993.
                                 
Frank W. McNally       57        Vice     President     Employee
                                 Relations  and  Benefits  since
                                 1995;   formerly   Staff   Vice
                                 President,  Employee  Relations
                                 and  Benefits,  1993  to  1995;
                                 Staff  Vice President  Employee
                                 Relations,   1992   to    1993;
                                 Director,  Employee  Relations,
                                 1991 to 1992.
Gero K. H. Meyersiek   49        Vice   President  International
                                 since  February 1996;  formerly
                                 Vice   President   of   Textron
                                 International  Inc.,  1995   to
                                 February  1996; Vice President,
                                 International          Business
                                 Development  of  GE   Financial
                                 Services, 1991 to 1994.
                                 
Freda M. Peters        55        Vice     President    Executive
                                 Development and Human  Resource
                                 Policy  and  Compliance   since
                                 January      1997;     formerly
                                 Director
                                 Management/Organization
                                 Development,   July   1996   to
                                 January  1997; Vice  President,
                                 Human   Resources  of   Branson
                                 Ultrasonics         Corporation
                                 (subsidiary     of      Emerson
                                 Electric  Company),   1985   to
                                 July 1996.
                                 
Daniel L. Shaffer      60        Vice   President   Audit    and
                                 Business  Ethics  since   1994;
                                 formerly      President      of
                                 Textron's    Aircraft    Engine
                                 Components  Division,  1992  to
                                 1994;  Vice  President  Finance
                                 of    the    Textron    Systems
                                 Division, 1984 to 1992.
                                 
Richard F. Smith       57        Vice    President    Government
                                 Affairs   since  August   1995;
                                 Staff       Vice      President
                                 Government Affairs, March  1995
                                 to    August   1995;   Director
                                 Government  Affairs,  1985   to
                                 March 1995.
                                 
Richard L. Yates       46        Vice  President and  Controller
                                 since  1995; formerly Executive
                                 Vice      President,      Chief
                                 Financial      Officer      and
                                 Treasurer of Paul Revere,  1994
                                 to     1995;    Senior     Vice
                                 President,   Chief    Financial
                                 Officer  and Treasurer of  Paul
                                 Revere, 1991 to 1994.

                                 
John F. Zugschwert     63        Vice    President    Government
                                 Marketing  since  1995;   Staff
                                 Vice    President,   Washington
                                 Operations, 1993 to 1995;  Vice
                                 President,           Washington
                                 Operations  of Bell  Helicopter
                                 Textron, 1991 to 1993.


      No  family relationship exists between any of the individuals
named above.


                              PART II

ITEM 5.     MARKETS FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON
            EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     Textron's Common Stock is traded on the New York, Chicago  and
Pacific Stock Exchanges.  Additional information regarding "Markets
for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters"
is  contained  on pages 52 and 53 and on the inside back  cover  of
Textron's  1996  Annual  Report to Shareholders,  which  pages  are
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 6.      SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

    Information regarding "Selected Financial Data" is contained in
the  Selected  Financial Information on page 53 of  Textron's  1996
Annual Report to Shareholders, which page is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 7.     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
            FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results  of  Operations  is contained on pages  24  through  30  of
Textron's  1996  Annual  Report to Shareholders,  which  pages  are
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The  consolidated  financial statements and the  supplementary
information   listed  in  the  accompanying  index   to   financial
statements and financial statement schedules are filed as  part  of
this Report.



ITEM 9.      CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS
             ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    None.

                              PART III

ITEM 10.     DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    Information regarding Textron's directors is contained on pages
2  through  7  and  page 10 of Textron's Proxy  Statement  for  the
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 23, 1997,  which
pages are incorporated herein by reference.

     Information regarding Textron's executive officers is included
on pages 14 through 17 of Part I of this  Report.


ITEM 11.      EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     Information regarding "Executive Compensation" is contained on
pages  10  through  20 and pages 23 through 26 of  Textron's  Proxy
Statement  for the  Annual Meeting of Shareholders to  be  held  on
April 23, 1997, which pages are incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 12.     SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN
             BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

    Information regarding "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Holders"  and  "Security Ownership of Management" is  contained  on
pages  9 and 10 of Textron's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting
of  Shareholders  to  be held on April 23, 1997,  which  pages  are
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.     CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

      Information  regarding  certain  relationships  and   related
transactions  is  contained on pages 19 and 20 of  Textron's  Proxy
Statement  for the  Annual Meeting of Shareholders to  be  held  on
April 23, 1997, which pages are incorporated herein by reference.



                              PART IV

ITEM  14.     EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND  REPORTS
ON FORM 8-K

    (a) Financial Statements and Schedules
       The   consolidated   financial   statements,   supplementary
information  and  financial  statement  schedules  listed  in   the
accompanying index to financial statements and financial  statement
schedules are filed as part of this Report.

    Exhibits
    3.1A       Restated   Certificate  of  Incorporation   of
               Textron  as  filed March 24, 1988.  Incorporated  by
               reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Textron's Annual  Report
               on  Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended January  2,
               1988.

    3.1B       Amendment   to  Certificate  of  Designations,
               Preferences   and   Rights  of   Series   C   Junior
               Participating  Preferred Stock as  filed  March  20,
               1996.

    3.2        By-Laws of Textron, restated December 10, 1992.
               Incorporated   by  reference  to  Exhibit   3.2   to
               Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal
               year ended January 2, 1993.

    NOTE:      Exhibits   10.1   through  10.20   below   are
               management   contracts   or   compensatory    plans,
               contracts or agreements.

    10.1       Annual  Incentive Compensation Plan For Textron
               Employees.   Incorporated by  reference  to  Exhibit
               10.1 to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               fiscal year ended December 30, 1995.

    10.2       Deferred   Income   Plan   For   Textron   Key
               Executives.   Incorporated by reference  to  Exhibit
               10.2 to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               fiscal year ended December 30, 1995.

    10.3       Severance  Plan  For  Textron  Key  Executives.
               Incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit   10.3   to
               Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal
               year ended December 30, 1995.

    10.4       Special  Benefits for Textron  Key  Executives.
               Incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit   10.4   to
               Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal
               year ended December 30, 1995.

    10.5       Supplemental  Benefits  Plan  For  Textron  Key
               Executives  with Market Square Profit  Sharing  Plan
               Schedule.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5
               to  Textron's  Annual Report on Form  10-K  for  the
               fiscal year ended December 30, 1995.

    10.6       Supplemental  Retirement Plan For  Textron  Key
               Executives.   Incorporated by reference  to  Exhibit
               10.6 to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               fiscal year ended December 30, 1995.



    10.7       Survivor   Benefit  Plan   For   Textron   Key
               Executives.   Incorporated by reference  to  Exhibit
               10.7 to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               fiscal year ended December 30, 1995.

    10.8A      Textron  1982 Long-Term Incentive  Plan  ("1982
               Plan").    Incorporated  by  reference  to   Exhibit
               10.5(a) to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for
               the fiscal year ended December 31, 1988.

    10.8B      First Amendment to 1982 Plan.  Incorporated  by
               reference  to  Exhibit 10.5(b) to  Textron's  Annual
               Report  on  Form  10-K  for the  fiscal  year  ended
               January 3, 1987.

    10.8C      Second Amendment to 1982 Plan.  Incorporated by
               reference  to  Exhibit 10.5(c) to  Textron's  Annual
               Report  on  Form  10-K  for the  fiscal  year  ended
               January 2, 1988.

    10.9A      Textron  1987 Long-Term Incentive  Plan  ("1987
               Plan").   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit  10.6
               to  Textron's  Annual Report on Form  10-K  for  the
               fiscal year ended December 30, 1989.

    10.9B      First Amendment to 1987 Plan.   Incorporated by
               reference  to  Exhibit 10.6(b) to  Textron's  Annual
               Report  on  Form  10-K  for the  fiscal  year  ended
               December 28, 1991.

    10.10A     Textron  1990 Long-Term Incentive  Plan  ("1990
               Plan").   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit  10.7
               to  Textron's  Annual Report on Form  10-K  for  the
               fiscal year ended December 30, 1989.

    10.10B     First Amendment to 1990 Plan.  Incorporated  by
               reference  to  Exhibit 10.7(c) to  Textron's  Annual
               Report  on  Form  10-K  for the  fiscal  year  ended
               December 28, 1991.

    10.10C     Second Amendment to 1990 Plan.  Incorporated by
               reference  to  Exhibit 10.7(c) to  Textron's  Annual
               Report  on  Form  10-K  for the  fiscal  year  ended
               January 2, 1993.

    10.11      Textron   1994   Long-Term   Incentive   Plan.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to Textron's
               Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter
               ended July 2, 1994.

    10.12      Form of Indemnity Agreement between Textron and
               its  directors and executive officers.  Incorporated
               by   reference  to  Exhibit  A  to  Textron's  Proxy
               Statement for its Annual Meeting of Shareholders  on
               April 29, 1987.

    10.13A     Pension  Plan  for Directors as  amended  by  a
               First  Amendment (discontinued as of  September  30,
               1996).   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit  10.14
               to  Textron's  Annual Report on Form  10-K  for  the
               fiscal year ended December 31, 1988.

    10.13B     Second  Amendment to Pension Plan for Directors
               (discontinued   as   of   September    30,    1996).
               Incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit  10.16(b)  to
               Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal
               year ended December 29, 1990.

    10.14      Deferred   Income   Plan   for   Non-Employee
               Directors.



    10.15A     Employment Agreement between Textron and  James
               F.  Hardymon  dated  November 24, 1989  ("Employment
               Agreement").  Incorporated by reference  to  Exhibit
               10.9 to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               fiscal year ended December 30, 1989.

    10.15B     Amendment  dated  as of December  15,  1994  to
               Employment Agreement.  Incorporated by reference  to
               Exhibit 10.10B to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-
               K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.

    10.16A     Employment  Agreement between Textron  and  Lewis  B.
               Campbell dated September 22, 1992.   Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Textron's Annual Report
               on  Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended January  2,
               1993.

    10.16B     Retention Award granted to Lewis B. Campbell on
               December  14,  1995.  Incorporated by  reference  to
               Exhibit 10.16B to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-
               K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 1995.

    10.17      Employment Agreement between Textron  and  Mary
               L.  Howell  dated  May  4,  1993.   Incorporated  by
               reference  to  Exhibit  10.11  to  Textron's  Annual
               Report  on  Form  10-K  for the  fiscal  year  ended
               January 1, 1994.

    10.18      Employment Agreement between Textron and  Wayne
               W.   Juchatz  dated  November 1, 1995.  Incorporated
               by  reference  to Exhibit 10.18 to Textron's  Annual
               Report  on  Form  10-K  for the  fiscal  year  ended
               December 30, 1995.

    10.19      Employment   Agreement  between  Textron   and
               Stephen L. Key dated November 1, 1995.  Incorporated
               by  reference  to Exhibit 10.19 to Textron's  Annual
               Report  on  Form  10-K  for the  fiscal  year  ended
               December 30, 1995.

    10.20      Employment   Agreement  between  Textron   and
               William   F.   Wayland  dated   January   1,   1989.
               Incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.12   to
               Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal
               year ended December 30, 1989.

    10.21A     Credit  Agreement dated as of November 1,  1993
               among  Textron,  the  Lenders  listed  therein   and
               Bankers   Trust  Company  as  Administrative   Agent
               ("Credit Agreement").  Incorporated by reference  to
               Exhibit 10.20A to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-
               K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 1994.

    10.21B     First Amendment dated as of October 30, 1994 to
               Credit  Agreement.   Incorporated  by  reference  to
               Exhibit 10.22B to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-
               K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.

    10.21C     Second  Amendment to Credit Agreement dated  as
               of  July  1,  1995.  Incorporated  by  reference  to
               Exhibit  (b) (3) to Schedule 14D-1 filed by  Textron
               on September 19, 1995.

    10.21D     Third Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of
               July 1, 1996.



    12.1       Computation  of  ratio of  income  to  combined
               fixed  charges and preferred stock dividends of  the
               Parent Group.

    12.2       Computation  of  ratio of  income  to  combined
               fixed  charges  and  preferred  stock  dividends  of
               Textron    Inc.    including   all    majority-owned
               subsidiaries.

    13         A portion (pages 23 and following) of Textron's
               1996  Annual  Report  to Shareholders.   Except  for
               pages   or   items   specifically  incorporated   by
               reference  herein,  such portion of  Textron's  1996
               Annual  Report to Shareholders is furnished for  the
               information  of the Commission and is not  filed  as
               part of this Report.

    21         Certain   subsidiaries  of   Textron.    Other
               subsidiaries, which considered in the  aggregate  do
               not constitute a significant subsidiary, are omitted
               from such list.

    23         Consent of Independent Auditors.

    24.1       Power of attorney.

    24.2       Certified  copy  of a resolution  of  the  Board  of
               Directors of Textron.

    27         Financial Data Schedule.
    
    (b) Reports on Form 8-K
         During the quarter ended December 28, 1996, Textron  filed
         with  the  Securities and Exchange Commission a report  on
         Form  8-K dated November 8, 1996, reporting, under Item  5
         (Other   Events)   and  Item  7  (Exhibits),   information
         regarding the sale to Provident Companies, Inc. of all the
         outstanding shares of The Paul Revere Corporation, 83%  of
         which are owned by Textron.


                          
                              SIGNATURES
    
         Pursuant to the requirement of Section 13 or 15(d) of  the
    Securities  Exchange  Act  of 1934,  the  registrant  has  duly
    caused  this  Annual Report on Form 10-K to be  signed  on  its
    behalf  by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized  on  this
    14th day of March, 1997.
    
    TEXTRON INC.
    Registrant

    By: /s/ Michael D. Cahn
         Michael D. Cahn
         Attorney-in-fact

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934,  this Report has been signed below on this 14th day of March,
1997,  by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and  in
the capacities indicated:


    NAME                                      TITLE


      *                                        Chairman and Chief
James F. Hardymon                              Executive Officer,
                                               Director  (principal
                                               executive officer)


      *                                        President and  Chief
Lewis B. Campbell                              Operating Officer, Director


      *                                        Director
H. Jesse Arnelle


      *                                        Director
Teresa Beck



      *                                        Director
R. Stuart Dickson


      *                                        Director
Paul E. Gagne


      *                                        Director
John D. Macomber


      *                                        Director
Dana G. Mead


      *                                        Director
Barbara Scott Preiskel


      *                                        Director
Brian H. Rowe


      *                                        Director
Sam F. Segnar


      *                                        Director
Jean Head Sisco



      *                                        Director
John W. Snow


      *                                        Director
Martin D. Walker


      *                                        Director
Thomas B. Wheeler


      *                                        Executive Vice President and
Stephen L. Key                                 Chief Financial Officer
                                               (principal financial officer)


      *                                        Vice President and Controller
Richard L. Yates                               (principal accounting officer)



*By:/s/ Michael D. Cahn
    Michael D. Cahn
    Attorney-in-fact



                            TEXTRON INC.
                   INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
                            Item 14(a)
                                                                  
                                                    Form    Annual Report
Textron Inc.                                        10-K   to Shareholders
                                                                    
Report of Independent Auditors                                   31
                                                                    
Consolidated Statement of Income for each of the                 32
three years in the period ended December 28, 1996
                                                                    
Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 28, 1996 and              34
December 30, 1995
                                                                    
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for each of                 36
the three years in the period ended December 28,
                                                                    
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders'               38
Equity for each of the three years in the period
ended December 28, 1996
                                                                    
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                      39-51
                                                                    
Revenues and Income by Business Segment                          23
                                                                    
Supplementary Information (Unaudited):                            
                                                                    
Quarterly Financial Information 1996 and 1995                    52
                                                                    
Financial Statement Schedules for each of the three                
years in the period ended December 28, 1996
                                                           
    I   Condensed financial information of           27    
        registrant
                                                                          
   II   Valuation and qualifying accounts            28                   
                                                                  
                                                                  
                                                                  
                                                                  








All  other  schedules are omitted because the conditions  requiring
the filing thereof do not exist or because the information required
is included in the financial statements and notes thereto.


                                 
                                 
                                 
                            TEXTRON INC.
                                 
    SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                 
 For each of the three years in the period ended December 28, 1996
                                 
                                 
      Financial  information of the Registrant is  omitted  because
condensed financial information of the Parent Group, which includes
the  Registrant  and  all of its majority-owned subsidiaries  other
than its finance subsidiaries (Finance Group), is shown on pages 32
through  37  of  Textron's  1996  Annual  Report  to  Shareholders.
Management believes that the disclosure of financial information on
the  basis  of  the  Parent  Group results  in  a  more  meaningful
presentation,  since this group constitutes the Registrant's  basic
borrowing  entity  and  the  only restrictions  on  net  assets  of
Textron's   subsidiaries  relate  to  its   Finance   Group.    The
Registrant's investment in its Finance Group is shown on  pages  34
and  35  of Textron's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders under  the
caption "Investments in Finance Group."

      The  Parent  Group received dividends of $124  million,  $117
million  and $106 million from its Finance Group in 1996, 1995  and
1994,  respectively.   The portion of the net assets  of  Textron's
Finance  Group available for cash dividends and other  payments  to
the  Parent  Group is restricted by the terms of lending agreements
and  insurance  statutory requirements.  As of December  28,  1996,
approximately $473 million of their net assets of $1.6 billion  was
available to be transferred to the Parent Group pursuant  to  these
restrictions.

      The  Parent  Group's  credit  agreements  contain  provisions
requiring  it  to maintain a minimum level of shareholders'  equity
and  a minimum interest coverage ratio.  For additional information
concerning  the Parent Group's long-term debt, see Note  9  to  the
consolidated financial statements appearing on pages 43 and  44  of
Textron's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders.

       For  information  concerning  Textron-obligated  Mandatorily
Redeemable Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trust Holding  Solely
Textron  Junior Subordinated Debt Securities, see Note  11  to  the
consolidated financial statements appearing on page 45 of Textron's
1996 Annual Report to Shareholders.



                           TEXTRON INC.
                                 
          SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 For each of the three years in the period ended December 28, 1996
                           (In millions)
                                 
Allowance for credit losses

Changes  in the allowance for credit losses for the years indicated
were as follows:

                                                                
                                                1996   1995   1994
Balance of the allowance for credit losses
at the beginning of the year                    $270   $250   $225

Add - charged to income:
        Consumer                                 203    149    136
        Commercial                                27     20     26
                                                 230    169    162
Deduct - balances charged off:
 Gross charge offs:

        Consumer                                (230)  (177)  (142)
        Commercial                               (30)   (25)   (27)
                                                (260)  (202)  (169)

 Recoveries:
        Consumer                                  36     33     28
        Commercial                                 3      4      3
                                                  39     37     31
 Net charge offs                                (221)  (165)  (138)

Other                                             14     16      1
                                                                  
Balance of the allowance for credit losses
at the end of the year                          $293   $270   $250

Balance of the allowance for credit losses
at the end of the year applicable to:

Consumer                                        $218   $195   $181
Commercial                                        75     75     69
                                                $293   $270   $250
                                                                
                                 


                          TEXTRON INC.
                                
                        Index of Exhibits
                   Annual Report on Form 10-K
           for the Fiscal Year Ended December 28, 1996
    
    
    
    Exhibits  Description
    
    3.1A       Restated  Certificate  of  Incorporation  of
               Textron as filed March 24, 1988.  Incorporated  by
               reference  to  Exhibit  3.1  to  Textron's  Annual
               Report  on  Form  10-K for the fiscal  year  ended
               January 2, 1988.

    3.1B       Amendment  to  Certificate  of  Designations,
               Preferences   and  Rights  of  Series   C   Junior
               Participating Preferred Stock as filed  March  20,
               1996.

    3.2        By-Laws  of  Textron, restated  December  10,
               1992.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to
               Textron's  Annual  Report on  Form  10-K  for  the
               fiscal year ended January 2, 1993.

    NOTE:      Exhibits   10.1  through  10.20  below   are
               management   contracts  or   compensatory   plans,
               contracts or agreements.

    10.1       Annual   Incentive  Compensation  Plan   For
               Textron  Employees.  Incorporated by reference  to
               Exhibit 10.1 to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-
               K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 1995.

    10.2       Deferred   Income  Plan  For   Textron   Key
               Executives.  Incorporated by reference to  Exhibit
               10.2  to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for
               the fiscal year ended December 30, 1995.

    10.3       Severance  Plan  For Textron Key  Executives.
               Incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.3  to
               Textron's  Annual  Report on  Form  10-K  for  the
               fiscal year ended December 30, 1995.

    10.4       Special  Benefits for Textron Key Executives.
               Incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.4  to
               Textron's  Annual  Report on  Form  10-K  for  the
               fiscal year ended December 30, 1995.

    10.5       Supplemental  Benefits Plan For  Textron  Key
               Executives with Market Square Profit Sharing  Plan
               Schedule.   Incorporated by reference  to  Exhibit
               10.5  to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for
               the fiscal year ended December 30, 1995.

    10.6       Supplemental Retirement Plan For Textron  Key
               Executives.  Incorporated by reference to  Exhibit
               10.6  to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for
               the fiscal year ended December 30, 1995.

    10.7       Survivor   Benefit  Plan  For  Textron   Key
               Executives.  Incorporated by reference to  Exhibit
               10.7  to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for
               the fiscal year ended December 30, 1995.

    10.8A      Textron 1982 Long-Term Incentive Plan  ("1982
               Plan").   Incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit
               10.5(a)  to Textron's Annual Report on  Form  10-K
               for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1988.

    10.8B      First  Amendment to 1982 Plan.   Incorporated
               by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.5(b)  to  Textron's
               Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
               ended January 3, 1987.

    10.8C      Second  Amendment to 1982 Plan.  Incorporated
               by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.5(c)  to  Textron's
               Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
               ended January 2, 1988.

    10.9A      Textron 1987 Long-Term Incentive Plan  ("1987
               Plan").  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6
               to  Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for  the
               fiscal year ended December 30, 1989.

    10.9B      First  Amendment to 1987 Plan.   Incorporated
               by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.6(b)  to  Textron's
               Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
               ended December 28, 1991.

    10.10A     Textron 1990 Long-Term Incentive Plan  ("1990
               Plan").  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7
               to  Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for  the
               fiscal year ended December 30, 1989.

    10.10B     First  Amendment to 1990 Plan.   Incorporated
               by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.7(c)  to  Textron's
               Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
               ended December 28, 1991.

    10.10C     Second  Amendment to 1990 Plan.  Incorporated
               by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.7(c)  to  Textron's
               Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
               ended January 2, 1993.

    10.11      Textron   1994  Long-Term  Incentive   Plan.
               Incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit   10   to
               Textron's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q  for  the
               fiscal quarter ended July 2, 1994.

    10.12      Form  of Indemnity Agreement between  Textron
               and   its   directors   and  executive   officers.
               Incorporated   by  reference  to  Exhibit   A   to
               Textron's  Proxy Statement for its Annual  Meeting
               of Shareholders on April 29, 1987.

    10.13A     Pension  Plan for Directors as amended  by  a
               First Amendment (discontinued as of September  30,
               1996).  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14
               to  Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K  for  the
               fiscal year ended December 31, 1988.

    10.13B     Second   Amendment  to  Pension   Plan   for
               Directors (discontinued as of September 30, 1996).
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit  10.16(b)  to
               Textron's  Annual  Report on  Form  10-K  for  the
               fiscal year ended December 29, 1990.

    10.14      Deferred   Income   Plan  for   Non-Employee
               Directors.

    10.15A     Employment  Agreement  between  Textron  and
               James   F.   Hardymon  dated  November  24,   1989
               ("Employment    Agreement").    Incorporated    by
               reference  to  Exhibit 10.9  to  Textron's  Annual
               Report  on  Form  10-K for the fiscal  year  ended
               December 30, 1989.

    10.15B     Amendment  dated as of December 15,  1994  to
               Employment  Agreement.  Incorporated by  reference
               to  Exhibit 10.10B to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December  31,
               1994.

    10.16A     Employment Agreement between Textron and  Lewis  B.
               Campbell  dated September 22, 1992.   Incorporated
               by  reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Textron's  Annual
               Report  on  Form  10-K for the fiscal  year  ended
               January 2, 1993.

    10.16B     Retention Award granted to Lewis B.  Campbell
               on  December 14, 1995.  Incorporated by  reference
               to  Exhibit 10.16B to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended December  30,
               1995.

    10.17      Employment Agreement between Textron and Mary
               L.  Howell  dated  May 4, 1993.   Incorporated  by
               reference  to  Exhibit 10.11 to  Textron's  Annual
               Report  on  Form  10-K for the fiscal  year  ended
               January 1, 1994.

    10.18      Employment  Agreement  between  Textron  and
               Wayne   W.   Juchatz  dated   November  1,   1995.
               Incorporated  by  reference to  Exhibit  10.18  to
               Textron's  Annual  Report on  Form  10-K  for  the
               fiscal year ended December 30, 1995.

    10.19      Employment  Agreement  between  Textron  and
               Stephen   L.   Key   dated   November   1,   1995.
               Incorporated  by  reference to  Exhibit  10.19  to
               Textron's  Annual  Report on  Form  10-K  for  the
               fiscal year ended December 30, 1995.

    10.20      Employment  Agreement  between  Textron  and
               William   F.  Wayland  dated  January   1,   1989.
               Incorporated  by  reference to  Exhibit  10.12  to
               Textron's  Annual  Report on  Form  10-K  for  the
               fiscal year ended December 30, 1989.

    10.21A     Credit Agreement dated as of November 1, 1993
               among  Textron,  the  Lenders listed  therein  and
               Bankers  Trust  Company  as  Administrative  Agent
               ("Credit  Agreement").  Incorporated by  reference
               to  Exhibit 10.20A to Textron's Annual  Report  on
               Form  10-K  for the fiscal year ended  January  1,
               1994.

    10.21B     First Amendment dated as of October 30,  1994
               to Credit Agreement.  Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.22B to Textron's Annual Report on  Form
               10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.

    10.21C     Second Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as
               of  July  1,  1995.  Incorporated by reference  to
               Exhibit (b) (3) to Schedule 14D-1 filed by Textron
               on September 19, 1995.

    10.21D     Third Amendment to Credit Agreement dated  as
               of July 1, 1996.

    12.1       Computation  of ratio of income  to  combined
               fixed charges and preferred stock dividends of the
               Parent Group.

    12.2       Computation  of ratio of income  to  combined
               fixed  charges  and preferred stock  dividends  of
               Textron    Inc.   including   all   majority-owned
               subsidiaries.

    13         A   portion  (pages  23  and  following)  of
               Textron's  1996  Annual  Report  to  Shareholders.
               Except    for    pages   or   items   specifically
               incorporated by reference herein, such portion  of
               Textron's  1996  Annual Report to Shareholders  is
               furnished  for  the information of the  Commission
               and is not filed as part of this Report.

    21         Certain  subsidiaries  of  Textron.    Other
               subsidiaries, which considered in the aggregate do
               not   constitute  a  significant  subsidiary,  are
               omitted from such list.

    23         Consent of Independent Auditors.

    24.1       Power of attorney.

    24.2       Certified  copy of a resolution of  the  Board  of
               Directors of Textron.

    27         Financial Data Schedule.
    


