ITEM I. BUSINESS

PulteGroup, Inc.

On
March 18, 2010, we changed our name from Pulte Homes, Inc. to PulteGroup, Inc. (“PulteGroup” or the “Company”). PulteGroup is a publicly-held holding company traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol
“PHM”. We are one of the largest homebuilders in the United States. PulteGroup is a Michigan corporation organized in 1956, though our founder began our homebuilding operations in 1950. While our subsidiaries engage primarily in the
homebuilding business, we also have mortgage banking operations, conducted principally through Pulte Mortgage LLC (“Pulte Mortgage”), and title operations.

On August 18, 2009, we completed the acquisition of Centex Corporation (“Centex”) through the merger of PulteGroup’s merger subsidiary with and into Centex pursuant to the Agreement
and Plan of Merger dated as of April 7, 2009 among PulteGroup, Pi Nevada Building Company, and Centex. As a result of the merger, Centex became a wholly-owned subsidiary of PulteGroup. Accordingly, the results of Centex are included in our
consolidated financial statements from the date of the merger.

Since early 2006, the U.S. housing market has been unfavorably
impacted by weak consumer confidence, tightened mortgage standards, and large supplies of resale and new home inventories and related pricing pressures, among other factors. When combined with significant foreclosure activity, a more challenging
appraisal environment, higher than normal unemployment levels, and uncertainty in the United States economy in recent periods, these conditions have contributed to sharply weakened demand for new homes, slower sales, and heightened pricing pressures
to attract homebuyers. As a result, we have experienced a pre-tax loss in each quarter since the fourth quarter of 2006. Such losses resulted from a combination of reduced operational profitability and significant asset impairments.

Homebuilding, our core business, is engaged in the acquisition and development of land primarily for residential purposes within the
continental United States and the construction of housing on such land targeted for first-time, first and second move-up, and active adult home buyers. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we realigned the organizational structure for certain of our
Areas. As a result, our reportable Homebuilding segments are as follows:

We also have one reportable segment for our financial services operations, which consists principally of mortgage banking and title operations. Our Financial Services segment operates generally in the
same geographic markets as our Homebuilding segments.

Financial information for each of our reportable business segments is
included in Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Available information

Our internet website address is

www.pultegroupinc.com

. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them
with or furnish them to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our code of ethics for principal officers, our business practices policy, our corporate governance guidelines, and the charters of the Audit, Compensation and Management Development,
and Nominating and Governance committees of our Board of Directors are also posted on our website and are available in print, free of charge, upon request.



Homebuilding Operations

Through our brands, which include Pulte Homes, Del Webb, Centex, and DiVosta, we offer a wide variety of
home designs including single-family detached, townhouses, condominiums, and duplexes at different prices and with varying levels of options and amenities to all of our major customer segments: first-time, first and second move-up, and active adult.
Over our 61-year history, we have delivered over 575,000 homes.

As of December 31, 2010, our Homebuilding operations
offered homes for sale in nearly 800 communities. Sales prices of unit settlements during 2010 ranged from less than $100,000 to greater than $1.0 million, with 89% falling within the range of $100,000 to $400,000. The average unit selling price in
2010 was $259,000, compared with $258,000 in 2009, $284,000 in 2008, $322,000 in 2007, and $337,000 in 2006. The significant decrease in the average selling price of our homes since 2006 resulted from a combination of pricing pressures due to
challenging industry conditions and a shift in product mix toward more first-time buyers.

Sales of single-family detached
homes, as a percentage of total unit sales, were 79% in 2010, compared with 77% in 2009, 75% in 2008, and 74% in both 2007 and 2006. The increase in the percentage of single-family detached homes can be attributed to a weakened demand for
townhouses, condominiums, and other attached housing, as prices for detached new homes have become more affordable for first-time and active adult homebuyers. Our Homebuilding operations are geographically diverse and, as a result, help to insulate
us from demand changes in individual markets. Since 2006, however, such diversification has not insulated us from demand changes due to the nationwide downturn in the homebuilding industry that has had a significant adverse impact on operations in
each of our markets. As of December 31, 2010, our Homebuilding business operated in 67 markets spanning 29 states and the District of Columbia.

Ending backlog, which represents orders for homes that have not yet closed, was $1.1 billion (3,984 units) at December 31, 2010 and $1.6 billion (5,931 units) at December 31, 2009. For each
order in backlog, we have received a signed customer contract and the required customer deposit, which is refundable in certain instances. Of the orders in backlog at December 31, 2010, substantially all are scheduled to be closed during 2011,
though all orders are subject to potential cancellation by or final negotiations with the customer. In the event of cancellation, the majority of our sales contracts stipulate that we have the right to retain the customer’s deposit, though we
may choose to refund the deposit in certain instances.

Land acquisition and development

We acquire land primarily for the construction of our homes for sale to homebuyers, though we periodically sell select parcels of land to
third parties for commercial or other development. Additionally, we may determine that certain land assets no longer fit into our strategic operating plans. We select locations for development of homebuilding communities after completing a
feasibility study, which includes, among other things, soil tests, independent environmental studies and other engineering work, an evaluation of the necessary zoning and other governmental entitlements, and extensive market research that enables us
to match the location and product offering with our targeted consumer group. We consider factors such as proximity to developed areas, population and job growth patterns and, if applicable, estimated development costs. We frequently manage a portion
of the risk of controlling our land positions through the use of option contracts. We typically acquire land with the intent to complete sales of housing units within 24 to 36 months from the date of opening a community, except in the case of
certain Del Webb active adult developments and other large projects for which the completion of community build-out requires a longer time period. As a result of the downturn in the homebuilding industry that began in 2006, however, our supply of
controlled land is in excess of our short-term needs in many of our markets.

Land is generally purchased after it is properly
zoned and developed or is ready for development. In the normal course of business, we dispose of owned land not required by our homebuilding operations through sales to appropriate end users. Where we develop land, we engage directly in many phases
of the development process, including land and



Homebuilding Operations (continued)

Land acquisition and development (continued)

site planning, and obtaining environmental and other regulatory approvals, as well as constructing roads, sewers, water and drainage facilities, and other amenities. We use our staff and the
services of independent engineers and consultants for land development activities. Land development work is performed primarily by independent contractors and local government authorities who construct sewer and water systems in some areas. At
December 31, 2010, we controlled 147,194 lots, of which 131,964 were owned and 15,230 were under option agreements.

Sales and
marketing

We are dedicated to improving the quality and value of our homes through innovative architectural and community
designs and state-of-the-art customer marketing techniques. Analyzing various qualitative and quantitative data obtained through extensive market research, we segment our potential customers into well-defined buyer groups. Segmentation analysis
provides a method for understanding the business opportunities and risks across the full spectrum of consumer groups in each market. Once the demands of potential buyers are understood, we link our home design and community development efforts to
the specific lifestyle of each targeted consumer group.

To meet the demands of our various customers, we have established a
solid design expertise for a wide array of product lines. We believe that we are an innovator in home design, and we view design capacity as an integral aspect of our marketing strategy. Our in-house architectural services teams and management,
supplemented by outside consultants, are successful in creating distinctive design features, both in exterior facades and interior options and features. We typically offer a variety of potential options and upgrades, such as different flooring,
countertop, and appliance choices and design our base house and option packages to meet the needs of our customers as defined through rigorous market research.

Typically, our sales teams, together with outside sales brokers, are responsible for guiding the customer through the sales process. We are committed to industry-leading customer service through a variety
of quality initiatives, including our customer care program, which ensures that homeowners are comfortable at every stage of the building process. Using a seven-step, interactive process, homeowners are kept informed during their homebuilding and
home owning experience. The steps include (1) a pre-construction meeting with the construction field manager; (2) pre-dry wall frame walk; (3) quality assurance inspection; (4) first homeowner orientation; (5) 30-day
follow-up after the close of the home; (6) three-month follow-up after the close of the home; and (7) an 11-month quality list after the close of the home. Fully furnished and landscaped model homes are used to showcase our homes and their
distinctive design features. Financing under United States government-insured and guaranteed programs is often used and is facilitated through our financial services operations.

Through our Del Webb brand, we are better able to address the needs of active adults, which is among the fastest growing homebuying
segments. We offer both destination communities and “in place” communities, for those buyers who prefer to remain in their current geographic area. These highly amenitized communities offer a variety of features, including golf courses,
recreational centers, and educational classes, to the over age fifty-five buyer to maintain an active lifestyle.

Through our
portfolio of brands, each serving unique customer segments, we are able to provide a distinct experience to potential customers. We introduce our homes to prospective buyers through a variety of media advertising, illustrated brochures, Internet
listings and link placements, mobile applications, and other advertising displays. In addition, our websites,

www.pulte.com, www.delwebb.com, www.centex.com,

and

www.divosta.com

provide tools to help users find a home that meets their
needs, investigate financing alternatives, communicate moving plans, maintain a home, learn more about us, and communicate directly with us. Approximately 6.5 million potential customers visited our websites during 2010.

Construction

The
construction process for our homes begins with the in-house design of the homes we sell. The building phase is conducted under the supervision of our on-site construction field managers. Substantially all of our construction work is performed by
independent subcontractors under contracts that, in many instances, cover both labor and materials on a fixed-price basis. We believe that our subcontractors and material suppliers are an extension of our



Homebuilding Operations (continued)

Construction (continued)

production system and jointly focus on lean construction techniques to bring the highest value possible to our customers while maintaining strong trade relations. Using a selective process, we
have teamed up with what we believe are premier subcontractors and suppliers to improve all aspects of the house construction process.

We maintain efficient construction operations by using standard materials and components from a variety of sources and utilizing standard construction practices. We continue to shift toward component
off-site manufacturing methods for certain portions of the construction process to provide high efficiency, high quality, and lower cost products to our customers. To minimize the effects of changes in construction costs, the contracting and
purchasing of building supplies and materials generally is negotiated at or near the time when related sales contracts are signed. In addition, we leverage our size by actively negotiating certain materials on a national or regional basis to
minimize production component cost. We are also working to establish a more integrated system that can effectively link suppliers, contractors, and the production schedule through various strategic business partnerships and e-business initiatives.

We cannot determine the extent to which necessary building materials will be available at reasonable prices in the future.
While the availability of materials and labor is not a significant concern under current market conditions, we have, on occasion, experienced shortages of skilled labor in certain trades and of building materials in some markets in previous years.

Competition, regulation, and other factors

Our dedication to customer satisfaction is evidenced by our consumer and value-based brand approach to product development and is something that we believe distinguishes us in the homebuilding industry
and contributes to our long-term competitive advantage. The housing industry in the United States, however, is fragmented and highly competitive. In each of our local markets, there are numerous homebuilders with which we compete. We also compete
with sales of existing house inventory. Any provider of housing units, for sale or to rent, including apartment operators, may be considered a competitor. Conversion of apartments to condominiums further provides certain segments of the population
an alternative to traditional housing, as does manufactured housing. We compete primarily on the basis of location, price, reputation, design, community amenities, and the quality of our homes. The housing industry is affected by a number of
economic and other factors including: (1) significant national and world events, which impact consumer confidence; (2) changes in the costs of building materials and labor; (3) changes in interest rates; (4) changes in other
costs associated with home ownership, such as property taxes and energy costs; (5) the supply of new and existing housing, including foreclosures; (6) various demographic factors; (7) changes in federal income tax laws;
(8) changes in government mortgage financing programs; and (9) availability of sufficient mortgage capacity. In addition to these factors, our business and operations could be affected by shifts in the overall demand for new homes.

Our homebuilding operating cycle historically reflected increased revenues and cash flow from operations during the fourth
quarter based on the timing of home settlements. However, the challenging market conditions experienced since early 2006 have lessened the seasonal variations of our results. Given the current significant uncertainty in the homebuilding industry, we
can make no assurances as to when and whether our historical seasonality will recur.

Our operations are subject to building,
environmental, and other regulations of various federal, state, and local governing authorities. For our homes to qualify for Federal Housing Administration (“FHA”) or Veterans Administration (“VA”) mortgages, we must satisfy
valuation standards and site, material, and construction requirements of those agencies. Our compliance with federal, state, and local laws relating to protection of the environment has had, to date, no material effect upon our capital expenditures,
earnings, or competitive position. More stringent requirements could be imposed in the future on homebuilders and developers, thereby increasing the cost of compliance.

On December 1, 2009, the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) promulgated new regulations regarding effluent limitation guidelines (“ELG”) for discharges from construction and
development sites. The new rule requires all construction sites subject to National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System construction storm water permits issued by the EPA or an authorized state to implement certain sediment and erosion controls
and pollution prevention measures. These rules also require sampling of storm water discharges and compliance with a numeric effluent



Homebuilding Operations (continued)

Competition, regulation, and other factors (continued)

limitation of 280 nephelometric turbidity units (“NTUs”) beginning August 1, 2011 for sites disturbing 20 or more acres at once and beginning February 2, 2014 for sites
disturbing 10 or more acres at once. Effective January 4, 2011, the effluent limitation standard of 280 NTUs has been stayed by the EPA until it can complete a new rulemaking to correct the numeric limitation. The EPA currently plans to prepare
a revision to the current numeric limit of 280 NTUs in early 2011 and to take final action in May 2011. The numeric limit is the only portion of the new rule that has been stayed by the EPA.

In addition to the new ELG rules, the EPA also announced that it is committed to and has begun a rulemaking to address post-construction
storm water discharges from newly developed and redeveloped sites. This rulemaking is expected to be completed by November 2012. There can be no assurance whether the EPA will adopt final rules regarding post-construction storm water discharges, or,
if it does, the form the final rules will take.

We are currently assessing the impact that the new ELG rules and potential
post-construction rules will have on its business and results of operations.

Financial Services Operations

We conduct our financial services business, which includes mortgage and title operations, through Pulte Mortgage and other subsidiaries.
Pulte Mortgage arranges financing through the origination of mortgage loans primarily for the benefit of our homebuyers. We also engage in the sale of such loans and the related servicing rights. We are a lender approved by the FHA and VA and are a
seller/servicer approved by Government National Mortgage Association (“GNMA”), Federal National Mortgage Association (“FNMA”), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“FHLMC”), and other investors. In our conventional
mortgage lending activities, we follow underwriting guidelines established by FNMA, FHLMC, and private investors. We believe that our customers’ use of our in-house mortgage and title operations provides us with a competitive advantage by
enabling more control over the quality of the overall home buying process for our customers while also helping us align the timing of the house construction process with our customers’ financing needs.

We utilize a centralized fulfillment center to perform our mortgage underwriting, processing and closing functions and also use
centralized loan consultants. We believe centralizing both the fulfillment and origination of our loans improves the speed, efficiency, consistency, and quality of our mortgage operations, improving our profitability and allowing us to focus on
providing attractive mortgage financing opportunities for our customers. The majority of our customers now send us their data online to start the mortgage process. Once the completed online questionnaire is received, an interview is scheduled and
the combination of the interview with the data sent online represents our mortgage application.

In originating mortgage
loans, we initially use our own funds and borrowings made available to us through various credit arrangements. We subsequently sell such mortgage loans to outside investors. Substantially all of the loans we originate are sold in the secondary
market within a short period of time after origination.

During 2010, 2009, and 2008, we originated mortgage loans for 63%,
70%, and 72%, respectively, of the homes we sold. Such originations represented substantially all of our total originations in each of those years as the primary purpose for our mortgage operations is to support our homebuilding business. Our
capture rate, which we define as loan originations from our homebuilding business as a percentage of total loan opportunities from our homebuilding business excluding cash settlements, was 78% in 2010, while the capture rate was 85% in 2009 and 92%
in 2008.

We sell our servicing rights monthly on a flow basis through fixed price servicing sales contracts to reduce the
risks inherent in servicing loans. This strategy results in owning the servicing rights for only a short period of time. The servicing sales contracts provide for the reimbursement of payments made when loans prepay within specified periods of time,
usually 90 to 120 days after sale.

The mortgage industry in the United States is highly competitive. We compete with other
mortgage companies and financial institutions to provide attractive mortgage financing to our homebuyers. The Internet is also an important resource for homebuyers in obtaining financing as a number of competitors provide online approval for their
customers.



Financial Services Operations (continued)

In originating and servicing mortgage loans, we are subject to rules and regulations of
the FHA, VA, GNMA, FNMA, and FHLMC. In addition to being affected by changes in these programs, our mortgage banking business is also affected by many of the same factors that impact our homebuilding business.

Our mortgage operations are also subject to potential losses associated with mortgage loans originated and sold to investors that may
result from borrower fraud, borrower early payment defaults, or loans that have not been underwritten in accordance with the investor guidelines. In the normal course of business, our mortgage operations also provide limited indemnities for certain
loans sold to investors. Historically, losses related to these indemnities were not significant. Beginning in 2009, we experienced a significant increase in anticipated losses as a result of the high level of loan defaults and related losses in the
mortgage industry and increasing aggressiveness by investors in presenting such claims to us. The vast majority of these losses relate to loans originated in 2006 and 2007 when industry lending standards were less stringent and borrower fraud is
believed to have peaked.

Our subsidiary title insurance companies serve as title insurance agents in select markets by
providing title insurance policies and examination and closing services to buyers of homes we sell. We have only limited risk associated with our title operations due to the low incidence of claims related to underwriting risk associated with
issued title insurance policies and fiduciary risk resulting from closing services.

Financial Information About Geographic Areas

Substantially all of our operations are located within the United States. However, we have some non-operating foreign
subsidiaries and affiliates, which are insignificant to our consolidated financial results.

Other Non-Operating Expenses

Other non-operating expenses consist of income and expenses related to corporate services provided to our subsidiaries. These expenses are
incurred for financing, developing, and implementing strategic initiatives centered on new business development and operating efficiencies, and providing the necessary administrative support associated with being a publicly traded entity listed on
the New York Stock Exchange. Accordingly, these results will vary from year to year as these strategic initiatives evolve.

Organization/Employees

All subsidiaries and operating units operate independently with respect to daily operations. Homebuilding real estate purchases and other
significant homebuilding, mortgage banking, financing activities, and similar operating decisions must be approved by the business unit’s management and/or corporate senior management.

At December 31, 2010, we employed 4,363 people, of which 630 people were employed in our Financial Services operations. Except for a
small group of employees in our St. Louis homebuilding division, our employees are not represented by any union. Contracted work, however, may be performed by union contractors. Our local and corporate management personnel are paid incentive
compensation based on a combination of individual performance and the performance of the applicable business unit or the Company. Each business unit is given a level of autonomy regarding employment of personnel, although our senior corporate
management acts in an advisory capacity in the employment of subsidiary officers. We consider our employee and contractor relations to be satisfactory.