
10-K405
ANNUAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 3/31/99


================================================================================
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
[X]  Annual report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
     Exchange Act of 1934

     For the fiscal year ended March 31, 1999 or

[ ]  Transition report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
     Exchange Act of 1934

     For the transition period from __________ to __________

     Commission File Number: 0-21184

                        MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED
             (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)

                     ---------------------------------------

        Delaware                                         86-0629024
(State of Incorporation)                    (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

                   2355 W. Chandler Blvd., Chandler, AZ 85224
          (Address of Principal Executive Offices, Including Zip Code)

                                 (480) 786-7200
              (Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code)

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                      None

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                     Common Stock, $.001 Par Value Per Share
                         Preferred Share Purchase Rights

     The registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13
or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

         Yes [X]   No [ ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form
10-K. [X]

     The  approximate  aggregate  market  value  of  the  voting  stock  of  the
registrant  beneficially owned by stockholders,  other than directors,  officers
and affiliates of the registrant, at April 30, 1999 was $1,750,061,763.

     Number of shares of Common Stock, $.001 par value,  outstanding as of April
30, 1999: 51,271,135.

                       Documents Incorporated by Reference

          Document                                          Part of Form 10-K
          --------                                          -----------------
     Proxy Statement for the 1999 Annual                           III
     Meeting of Stockholders

                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

     Microchip Technology  Incorporated,  a Delaware corporation ("Microchip" or
the  "Company"),  develops,  manufactures  and markets  8-bit  microcontrollers,
application-specific  standard  products (ASSPs) and related memory products for
high-volume  embedded control applications in the consumer,  automotive,  office
automation,  communications and industrial markets.  The Company provides highly
cost-effective  embedded control products for a wide variety of applications and
believes that its PIC(R)  product  family is a  price/performance  leader in the
worldwide 8-bit  microcontroller  market.  Microchip's embedded control products
also offer the advantages of a small  footprint and low voltage  operation along
with ease of development, enabling timely and cost-effective product integration
by its customers.  The Company's ASSP products  include a variety of specialized
integrated  circuits,  including its family of KEELOQ(R) security products.  The
Company's memory products are primarily  comprised of Serial EEPROMs,  which are
used  primarily  to provide  non-volatile  memory  storage in  embedded  control
systems.

     Except as noted below,  references  to the Company  include the Company and
its  subsidiaries.  The  Company's  executive  offices  are located at 2355 West
Chandler  Boulevard,  Chandler,  Arizona  85224-6199 and its telephone number is
(480) 786-7200.

     Risks and  uncertainties  that may affect the  Company's  future  operating
results are set forth  throughout  the  following  discussion  of the  Company's
business.  For further  discussion  on certain  risk factors that may affect the
Company's future operating  results,  see "Item 7 - Management's  Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation," below.

     THIS REPORT CONTAINS CERTAIN FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS WHICH INVOLVE RISKS
AND  UNCERTAINTIES,  INCLUDING  STATEMENTS  REGARDING  THE  COMPANY'S  STRATEGY,
FINANCIAL  PERFORMANCE AND REVENUE  SOURCES.  THE COMPANY'S ACTUAL RESULTS COULD
DIFFER  MATERIALLY  FROM  THE  RESULTS  ANTICIPATED  IN  THESE   FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS AS A RESULT OF CERTAIN FACTORS  INCLUDING THOSE SET FORTH UNDER "ITEM
7 - MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL  CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS" AND ELSEWHERE IN THIS REPORT.

INDUSTRY BACKGROUND

     Competitive pressures require manufacturers to expand product functionality
and provide differentiation while maintaining or reducing cost. To address these
requirements,   manufacturers  use  integrated  circuit-based  embedded  control
systems which provide an integrated  solution for  application-specific  control
requirements.  Embedded  control systems enable  manufacturers  to differentiate
their products,  replace less efficient  electromechanical  control devices, add
product  functionality  and  significantly  reduce product  costs.  In addition,
embedded  control  systems  facilitate  the emergence of complete new classes of
products.  Embedded  control  systems have been  incorporated  into thousands of
products and  subassemblies  in a wide variety of markets  worldwide,  including
automotive air bag systems, remote control devices,  handheld tools, appliances,
portable  computers,  cordless  and  cellular  telephones,  motor  controls  and
security systems.

     Embedded control systems  typically  incorporate a  microcontroller  as the
principal  active,  and  sometimes  sole,  component.  A  microcontroller  is  a
self-contained  computer-on-a-chip  consisting  of a  central  processing  unit,
non-volatile   program   memory,   RAM  memory  for  data  storage  and  various
input/output functions. In addition to the microcontroller,  a complete embedded
control  system  incorporates  application-specific  software  and  may  include
specialized  peripheral  device  controllers  and external  non-volatile  memory
components, such as EEPROMs, to store additional program software.

     The  increasing  demand  for  embedded  control  has  made the  market  for
microcontrollers  one of the largest segments of the semiconductor logic market.
Microcontrollers are currently available in 4-bit through 32-bit  architectures.
Although 4-bit  microcontrollers are relatively  inexpensive,  typically costing
under $1.00 each,  they  generally  lack the minimum  performance  and  features
required  by  today's  design  engineers  for  product  differentiation  and are
typically used only to produce basic  functionality  in products.  While 16- and
32-bit  architectures  provide  very high  performance,  they are  prohibitively
expensive for most high-volume embedded control applications,  typically costing
over $5.00 each. As a result, manufacturers of competitive, high-volume products
have  increasingly  found 8-bit  microcontrollers,  that typically cost $1.00 to
$8.00  each,  to be the  most  cost-effective  embedded  control  solution.  For
example,  a typical new  automobile may include one 32-bit  microcontroller  for
engine control,  three 16-bit  microcontrollers for transmission control,  audio
systems and anti-lock braking,  and up to 50 8-bit  microcontrollers  to provide
other embedded control functions,  such as door locking,


automatic windows, sun roof,  adjustable seats, electric mirrors, air bags, fuel
pump, speedometer, and the security and climate control systems.

     Most microcontrollers  available today are ROM-based and must be programmed
by the semiconductor supplier during manufacturing,  resulting in six-to-20 week
lead times for delivery of such microcontrollers. In addition to delayed product
introduction,   these  long  lead  times  can  result  in  potential   inventory
obsolescence and factory shutdowns when changes to the firmware are required. To
address time-to-market  constraints,  some suppliers have made EPROM, EEPROM, or
Flash Memory-based programmable  microcontrollers  available for prototyping and
preproduction  runs.  However,   these  microcontrollers  have  been  relatively
expensive,  and  manufacturers  have still been required to send program code to
the semiconductor  factory for ROM programming as product changes are made. As a
result, the long lead times for production volume microcontrollers have not been
significantly reduced by traditional approaches.

PRODUCTS

     Microchip's  strategic  focus is on embedded  control  products,  including
microcontrollers,  ASSPs,  related memory products and  application  development
systems.

     MICROCONTROLLERS

     Microchip offers a broad family of proprietary 8-bit microcontrollers under
the   PIC(R)   name  and  has   shipped   approximately   850   million   PIC(R)
microcontrollers  to  customers  worldwide  since  1990.  The  Company's  PIC(R)
products are designed for applications  requiring high performance and low cost.
They feature a variety of memory  configurations,  low voltage and power,  small
footprint and ease of use. Microchip believes this product family is currently a
price/performance leader in the 8-bit microcontroller  marketplace.  Microchip's
performance  results from an exclusive  RISC-based  architecture  that  provides
significant speed advantages over the alternative 8-bit CISC  architectures.  In
addition to providing up to 40 MHz performance, this architecture offers up to a
2:1 software  compaction  advantage,  thereby  significantly  reducing  software
development  time.  RISC  architectures  also have the  advantage  of being more
easily scaled to higher  internal  clock speeds in future  products.  Prices for
Microchip's 8-bit  microcontrollers  range from approximately $.49 to $12.00 per
unit.

     Microchip's  original  market  focus was in the lowest cost  segment of the
8-bit microcontroller marketplace. With its baseline 8-bit products, the Company
built its current market position as the leading supplier of field  programmable
microcontrollers.  Over the past four years,  Microchip has introduced more than
100 new 8-bit microcontrollers targeted at the baseline,  mid-range and high-end
segments of the 8-bit microcontroller  marketplace,  as well as the lower end of
the  16-bit  microcontroller   market.  In  addition,   with  its  8-pin,  8-bit
microcontroller, introduced in the first quarter of fiscal 1997, the Company has
also  targeted a portion of the large  4-bit  microcontroller  marketplace.  The
Company  believes  that  these  additional   segments  represent  a  significant
opportunity for future sales growth.

     Microchip  has used its  manufacturing  experience  and design and  process
technology to bring additional  enhancements and  manufacturing  efficiencies to
the development and production of its PIC(R) family of microcontroller products.
This extensive  experience base has enabled the Company to develop its advanced,
low cost user  programmability  feature  by  incorporating  non-volatile  memory
(EPROM,  EEPROM and Flash Memory) into the microcontroller in addition to masked
ROM program memory.

     DEVELOPMENT SYSTEMS

     The  Company  offers a  comprehensive  set of low  cost  and  easy-to-learn
application  development  tools.  These tools enable system designers to quickly
and easily program a PIC(R)  microcontroller for specific applications and are a
key factor for obtaining design wins.  Microchip's  family of development  tools
operates  in  the  standard   Windows   environment  on  standard  PC  hardware.
Entry-level  systems,  which include an assembler and programmer  hardware,  are
priced at less  than  $200.  A fully  configured  system,  which  also  provides
in-circuit emulation hardware, performance simulators and software debuggers, is
priced at approximately  $3,700.  Customers  moving from entry-level  designs to
those  requiring  real-time  emulation are able to preserve their  investment in
software  tools as they migrate to future  PIC(R)  devices since all the product
families are assembly- and C- language compatible.

     Many independent companies also develop and market application  development
tools and systems which support  Microchip's  standard  microcontroller  product
architecture.  The Company  believes that  familiarity  with and adoption of the


Company's,  and  third-party,  development  systems by an  increasing  number of
product  designers  will be an  important  factor  in the  future  selection  of
Microchip's  embedded control  products.  These  development  tools allow design
engineers to develop thousands of application-specific products from Microchip's
standard  microcontrollers.  Currently, there are more than 120 third-party tool
suppliers   worldwide   whose   products   support  the  Company's   proprietary
microcontroller architecture.

     ASSPS (APPLICATION-SPECIFIC STANDARD PRODUCTS)

     Microchip's application-specific standard products are specialized products
designed to perform specific  end-user  applications as opposed to the Company's
other  products  which are more general  purpose in nature.  The Company's  ASSP
device  families   currently   include  the  KEELOQ(R)  family  of  secure  data
transmission  products, as well as other specialized integrated circuit devices.
KEELOQ(R) security products are designed for low cost,  secure,  uni-directional
communications and verification purposes. Applications include automotive remote
keyless entry systems, automotive immobilizer systems, automatic garage and gate
openers and smart cards.

     MEMORY PRODUCTS

     Microchip's  memory  products  consist  primarily  of Serial  EEPROMs.  The
Company sells these devices  primarily  into the embedded  control market and is
one of the largest  suppliers of such devices  worldwide.  EEPROM  (electrically
erasable  programmable  read only  memory)  products  are used for  non-volatile
program and data storage in systems where such data must be modified frequently.
Serial  EEPROMs have a very low I/O pin  requirement,  permitting  production of
very small  devices.  As a result,  Serial  EEPROMs  are  widely  used to supply
non-volatile memory in space-sensitive  applications such as portable computers,
cellular and cordless telephones, pagers and remote control devices.

     Within this market,  Microchip has emphasized  providing  Serial EEPROMs to
customers that require features such as highly compact packaging,  low operating
voltage, reduced power consumption,  extended data retention and high endurance.
The Company  addresses these  requirements  by offering  products with extremely
small  package  sizes  and very low  operating  voltage  for both read and write
functions  (1.8 volts in  contrast  with the  industry  standard  of 3.3 volts),
together  with  a  wide  operating  voltage  range  (1.8  to  5.5  volts).  High
performance   circuitry  and  microcode  are  also  available  to  reduce  power
consumption  when a device is not in use, while permitting  immediate  operating
capability when required. The products also feature long data retention and high
erase/write endurance.

     Microchip  currently  offers a complete  Serial EEPROM family,  which meets
three  principal  industry  bus  interface  standards  and is  available in most
standard density,  configuration and packaging alternatives. The Company's Smart
Serials(TM)   line  of  specialized   Serial   EEPROMs  with   user-configurable
architecture and other advanced  features targets  applications such as cellular
telephones and data communications.

MANUFACTURING

     Microchip's  ownership  of  its  manufacturing  resources  is an  important
component  of its  business  strategy,  enabling  it to maintain a high level of
manufacturing control and to be one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded
control  industry.  By owning its wafer fabrication and the majority of its test
operations, and by employing proprietary statistical process control techniques,
the Company has been able to achieve high production yields. Direct control over
wafer  fabrication  also allows  Microchip to shorten the  Company's  design and
production  cycles and to capture the manufacturing and a portion of the testing
profit  margin.  Wafer  fabrication  and wafer test  facilities  are  located in
Chandler ("Fab 1") and Tempe ("Fab 2"), Arizona. Currently, the Company performs
product test at its facilities in Kaohsiung, Taiwan and Chachoengsao,  Thailand,
located near Bangkok.

     During the fourth quarter of fiscal 1999, the Company ceased  manufacturing
five-inch  wafers at Fab 1. Also,  during the fourth quarter of fiscal 1999, the
Company  announced  that it was phasing out test  operations  at its  Kaohsiung,
Taiwan  facility over the first two quarters of fiscal 2000. The Company intends
to shift the Kaohsiung test operations to its Thailand facility.  See also "Item
2 --  Properties,"  and  "Item 7 --  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of
Financial  Condition  and Results of  Operation  --  Introduction,  and -- Gross
Profit," below.

     Wafers are produced in Class 10 fabrication modules in Fab 1 and Fab 2. Fab
1 and Fab 2 currently contain approximately 27,000 square feet and 50,000 square
feet of usable clean room space,  respectively.  Fab 1 currently produces


6-inch wafers,  while Fab 2 currently  produces 6-inch and 8-inch wafers.  Wafer
sort is performed in an 8,000  square  foot,  Class 10,000 clean room,  equipped
with automated  wafer  handlers and test  equipment.  The two wafer  fabrication
sites are managed by the same  management  team and utilize  similar  production
techniques.

     The Company is continuing the process of transitioning  products to smaller
geometries and to larger wafer sizes to reduce future  manufacturing  costs. The
Company is continuing  the  transitioning  of products to its 0.7 micron process
and has commenced  development of its next generation process technology.  Other
companies in the industry have experienced  difficulty in effecting  transitions
to smaller  geometry  processes  and to larger  wafers and,  consequently,  have
experienced reduced  manufacturing  yields or delays in product deliveries.  The
Company believes that its transition to smaller  geometries and to larger wafers
will be important for the Company to remain competitive,  and operating results,
particularly   gross  profit  margins,   could  be  adversely  affected  if  the
transitions are substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented.

     Microchip currently employs proprietary design and manufacturing  processes
in developing its microcontroller and memory products.  The Company believes its
processes  afford it both  cost-effective  designs in  existing  and  derivative
products and greater  functionality  in new product  designs.  While many of the
Company's  competitors  develop and optimize separate  processes for their logic
and memory  product lines,  Microchip uses a common process  technology for both
microcontroller and non-volatile memory products.  This allows Microchip to more
fully  absorb its  process  research  and  development  costs and to deliver new
products to market more rapidly.  Microchip engineers utilize advanced CAD tools
and software to perform  circuit  design,  simulation and layout.  The Company's
in-house photomask and wafer fabrication facilities enable it to rapidly verifiy
design techniques by processing test wafers quickly and efficiently.

     Currently,   the   Company's   Taiwan  and   Thailand   subsidiaries   test
approximately  90% of the  products  produced  in Fab 1 and Fab 2.  The  Company
intends to shift all of its in-house test  operations to the Company's  Thailand
facility  following  the closing of the Kaohsiung  facility as described  above.
Currently,  the 150,000 square foot  Chachoengsao test facility has the capacity
to  handle  up  to  30  million  units  per  month.  The  Company  is  presently
constructing a 50,000 square foot expansion to the  Chachoengsao  facility that,
once completed,  will increase the facility's  capacity to 120 million units per
month.  The  expansion is  currently  scheduled to be complete by the end of the
third quarter of fiscal 2000. See "Item 2 - Properties,"  below.  The balance of
Microchip's  test  requirements  are  fulfilled  by  several   third-party  test
contractors in Thailand, People's Republic of China, and several other countries
in Asia and the Pacific  Rim.  Final test and burn-in  functions  are handled by
advanced automated equipment.

     THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS RELATED TO THE COMPANY'S INTENTION TO SHIFT ALL OF
ITS IN-HOUSE TEST OPERATIONS TO ITS THAILAND  FACILITY AND THE COMPLETION OF THE
EXPANSION OF THE CHACHOENGSAO  FACILITY ARE FORWARD LOOKING  STATEMENTS.  ACTUAL
RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS,  AMONG OTHERS:
DELAYS  IN  CONSTRUCTION  AND  FACILITIZATION  OF  THE  EXPANSION  AREA  AT  THE
CHACHOENGSAO  FACILITY;  TIMING AND SUCCESS OF THE TRANSITION OF TEST OPERATIONS
FROM  KAOHSIUNG  TO  CHACHOENGSAO;  THE  AVAILABILITY  OF  EQUIPMENT  AND  OTHER
SUPPLIES;  SUPPLY DISRUPTION;  LABOR UNREST; CHANGES IN PRODUCT MIX; COMPETITIVE
PRESSURES ON PRICES; POLITICAL INSTABILITY AND EXPROPRIATION; AND OTHER ECONOMIC
CONDITIONS.

     At March 31, 1999, all of the Company's assembly  operations were performed
by third-party contractors located in Thailand,  People's Republic of China, and
several  other  countries in Asia and the Pacific  Rim.  Due  primarily to cost,
yield and cycle time  considerations,  the Company  currently intends to develop
its own in-house assembly  operations over the next fiscal year and will shift a
portion of its assembly operations to the Company's Thailand facility over time.
The Company will continue to use  subcontractors to provide the remainder of its
assembly  services.  Reliance on third parties  involves  some  reduction in the
Company's  level of control over the assembly and test portion of its  business.
While the Company  reviews the quality,  delivery and cost  performance of these
third-party  contractors,  there can be no assurance that increased  reliance on
third-party  contractors  will not adversely  impact results in future reporting
periods if any  third-party  contractor is unable to maintain  assembly and test
yields  and costs at  approximately  their  current  levels.  See also "Item 7 -
Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of  Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations - Gross Profit," below.

     THE  FOREGOING  STATEMENTS  RELATED TO THE  COMPANY'S  INTENTION TO DEVELOP
IN-HOUSE ASSEMBLY OPERATIONS OVER THE NEXT FISCAL YEAR AND SHIFTING A PORTION OF
ITS ASSEMBLY OPERATIONS TO ITS THAILAND FACILITY ARE FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS.
ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING  FACTORS,  AMONG
OTHERS:  DELAYS IN CONSTRUCTION  AND  FACILITIZATION  OF THE COMPANY'S  IN-HOUSE
ASSEMBLY  OPERATIONS;  TIMING AND  SUCCESS OF THE  TRANSITION  FROM  THIRD-PARTY
ASSEMBLY  PROVIDERS TO COMPANY-OWNED  ASSEMBLY  OPERATIONS;  DIFFICULTIES IN THE
TRANSITION OF THE ASSEMBLY  FUNCTION  FROM THIRD PARTIES TO THE COMPANY;  SUPPLY
DISRUPTION;  LABOR  UNREST;  CHANGES IN PRODUCT  MIX;  COMPETITIVE  PRESSURES ON
PRICES; POLITICAL INSTABILITY AND EXPROPRIATION; AND OTHER ECONOMIC CONDITIONS.


     The Company's reliance on facilities in Taiwan, Thailand, and other foreign
countries,  and  maintenance  of  substantially  all of its  finished  goods  in
inventory  overseas,  entails certain  political and economic  risks,  including
political  instability and expropriation,  supply disruption,  currency controls
and exchange  fluctuations,  as well as changes in tax laws,  tariff and freight
rates. To date, the Company has not experienced any significant interruptions in
its  foreign  business  operations.  Nonetheless,  the  Company's  business  and
operating  results  could  be  adversely   affected  if  foreign  operations  or
international air transportation were disrupted.

     Due to the  high  fixed  costs  inherent  in  semiconductor  manufacturing,
increased  manufacturing  yields can have significant  positive effects on gross
profits and overall operating results. During fiscal 1999, the Company continued
to focus on manufacturing  productivity,  and maintained  average wafer fab line
yields in excess of 90%.  The yields  are  primarily  driven by a  comprehensive
implementation of statistical  process control,  extensive employee training and
selective  upgrading of the Company's  manufacturing  facilities  and equipment.
Maintenance of manufacturing  productivity  and yields are important  factors in
the  achievement  of the  Company's  operating  results.  As is  typical  in the
semiconductor industry, the Company has from time to time experienced lower than
anticipated  manufacturing  yields.  The  Company's  operating  results would be
adversely  affected if it were unable to maintain  yields at  approximately  the
current levels.

     The raw  materials and  equipment  used in the  production of the Company's
integrated circuits currently are available from a number of suppliers,  and the
Company is not materially dependent on any single source of supply. Although the
Company has not  experienced  any material  difficulty  to date in obtaining raw
materials or equipment, the interruption of certain components or ingredients of
certain raw materials could reduce the  availability or increase the cost of raw
materials  used by the  Company.  The  manufacture  and  assembly of  integrated
circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic devices such
as those produced by the Company, is a highly complex process and sensitive to a
wide  variety  of  factors,   including  the  level  of   contaminants   in  the
manufacturing environment,  impurities in the materials used and the performance
of the fabrication equipment.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

     The Company's  current  research and  development  activities  focus on the
design of new  microcontroller  and  memory  products,  ASSPs,  new  development
systems, and software and  application-specific  software libraries. The Company
is also  developing  new design and process  technology to achieve  further cost
reductions and performance  improvements in existing  products.  As of April 30,
1999,  261 employees were engaged in research and  development.  In fiscal 1999,
1998 and 1997,  the  Company's  research  and  development  expenses  were $40.8
million, $38.4 million and $32.1 million, respectively. The Company expects that
it will  continue  to  spend  substantial  funds  on  research  and  development
activities.

     The Company's future operating results will depend to a significant  extent
on its ability to continue to develop  and  introduce  new  products on a timely
basis  which  compete  effectively  on the  basis of price and  performance  and
address customer requirements. If the Company were unable to design, develop and
introduce  competitive  products on a timely basis, its future operating results
would be adversely affected.

SALES AND DISTRIBUTION

     The  Company  markets  its  products   worldwide  through  a  direct  sales
organization  and through  distributors.  In fiscal  1999,  the Company  derived
approximately  38% of its net sales from direct sales to OEM  customers  and 62%
from sales through distributors.

     The  Company's  direct sales  force,  currently  consisting  of 198 people,
focuses on three  geographical  markets:  the Americas,  Europe and Asia. In the
Americas, the Company currently maintains Technical Support Centers in San Jose,
Los Angeles,  Dallas,  Dayton,  Detroit,  Chicago,  Atlanta,  Boston,  New York,
Toronto,  Bramford,  Connecticut and Mt. Vernon,  New Hampshire.  Microchip also
maintains  Technical Support Centers in Tokyo,  London,  Munich,  Paris,  Milan,
Taipei, Seoul, Singapore, Hong Kong, Shanghai and Bangalore,  India. Microchip's
direct sales force is augmented by a worldwide network of national  distributors
and regional distributors in North and South America.  Microchip's  distribution
effort  also  includes  a network  of  manufacturer's  representatives  in North
America and Europe.

     Microchip believes that a strong technical service presence is essential to
the  continued  development  of the  embedded  control  market.  The majority of
Microchip's field sales engineers (FSEs), field application engineers (FAEs) and
sales management have technical degrees and have been previously  employed in an
engineering  environment.  The Company


believes  the  technical  knowledge  of its  sales  force  is a key  competitive
advantage in the sale of field programmable products.  Currently,  Microchip has
at least one dedicated  application  engineer in every Technical Support Center.
The primary  mission of the FAE team is to provide  technical  assistance to OEM
customers and to conduct  periodic  training  sessions for FSEs,  manufacturer's
representatives  and  distributor  sales teams.  The FAEs also conduct  frequent
technical seminars in major cities around the world. FAEs also work closely with
the  Company's  distributors  and  manufacturer's   representatives  to  provide
technical assistance in end-user support and to assist in the sales process.

     As is  common in the  semiconductor  industry,  the  Company  grants  price
protection to distributors. Under this policy, distributors receive a credit for
the difference,  at the time of a price  reduction,  between the price they were
originally  charged for  products in inventory  and the reduced  price which the
Company subsequently charges distributors.  From time to time, distributors also
receive credit on an individual basis for  Company-approved  price reductions on
specific transactions.  The Company also grants some distributors limited rights
to return  products.  The Company defers  recognition of net sales and profit on
sales to  distributors  that have  rights of return and price  protection  until
those distributors have resold the products to end-customers.

     Foreign sales, primarily in Asia and Europe, represented approximately 69%,
68% and 66% of  consolidated  net sales in  fiscal  years  1999,  1998 and 1997,
respectively.  International  sales are  predominately  billed in U.S.  Dollars.
Although foreign sales are subject to certain  government  export  restrictions,
the Company has not experienced any material  difficulties as a result of export
restrictions to date.

     The Company's policy is to hedge its net foreign currency  positions in the
normal  course of business to reduce its  exposure  to  fluctuations  in foreign
exchange  rates.  Foreign  exchange  gains and losses were not  material  during
fiscal years 1997 through 1999.

BACKLOG

     As of April  30,  1999,  the  Company's  backlog  was  approximately  $73.8
million, as compared to $76.7 million as of April 26, 1998. The Company includes
in its backlog all purchase orders  scheduled for delivery within the subsequent
12 months.

     Microchip  produces  standard  products that can be shipped from  inventory
within a short time after receipt of an order. The Company's  business and, to a
large extent,  that of the entire  semiconductor  industry,  is characterized by
short-term  orders and shipment  schedules.  Orders  constituting  the Company's
current backlog are subject to changes in delivery  schedules or to cancellation
at the  option  of  the  purchaser  without  significant  penalty.  Accordingly,
although useful for scheduling production, backlog as of any particular date may
not be a reliable  measure of sales for any future period.  Turns orders (orders
received in a quarter for shipment in that quarter) have become an  increasingly
important component of the Company's quarterly operating results.  See "Item 7 -
Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of  Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations - Results of Operations - Net Sales," below.

COMPETITION

     The   semiconductor   industry  is  intensely   competitive  and  has  been
characterized  by  price  erosion,   rapid  technological   change  and  foreign
competition  with  respect to many  products.  The Company  competes  with major
domestic and international  semiconductor companies,  many of which have greater
market recognition and substantially  greater financial,  technical,  marketing,
distribution  and  other  resources  than  the  Company  with  which  to  pursue
engineering,  manufacturing,  marketing  and  distribution  of  their  products.
Emerging  companies are also increasing  their  participation  in the market for
embedded control applications.  The Company's overall average selling prices for
its microcontroller  products have remained relatively  constant,  while average
selling prices of its memory products have declined over time. Over the last two
fiscal years,  the Company has  experienced  increased  pricing  pressure on its
memory products,  primarily due to the less proprietary nature of these products
and  increased  competition.  Over time,  the  Company  expects to  continue  to
experience  increased  pricing  competition  and  declining  prices  for  memory
products.  While  average  selling  prices for  microcontrollers  have  remained
relatively  constant,  the Company has  experienced,  and expects to continue to
experience,  increasing  pricing  pressure  in certain  microcontroller  product
lines,  due primarily to  competitive  conditions.  The Company has been able to
maintain  average  selling  prices by  continuing to introduce new products with
more features and higher  prices,  thereby  offsetting  price  declines in older
products.  There  can be no  assurance  that  average  selling  prices  for  the
Company's  microcontroller  or other products can be maintained due to increased
pricing pressure in the future.  An increase in pricing pressure could adversely
affect the Company's  operating results.  In addition,  the Company's ability to
compete  successfully


depends on a number of factors  both within and outside its  control,  including
the  quality,  performance,  reliability,  features,  ease of use,  pricing  and
diversity of its products;  the quality of its customer  service and its ability
to  address  the  needs  of  its   customers;   its  success  in  designing  and
manufacturing  new  products  including  those  implementing  new  technologies;
efficiency of production,  adequate  sources of raw materials and other supplies
at acceptable  prices;  protection  of the  Company's  products and processes by
effective utilization of intellectual property laws; the rate at which customers
incorporate   the  Company's   products   into  their  own   products;   product
introductions by the Company's  competitors;  the number,  nature and success of
its competitors in a given market;  and general market and economic  conditions.
Furthermore,  capacity in the semiconductor industry is increasing over time and
such increased capacity or improved product  availability could adversely affect
the Company's competitive position.

     The Company  currently  competes  principally on the basis of the technical
innovation and  performance of its embedded  control  products,  including their
speed,  functionality,  density,  power  consumption,  reliability and packaging
alternatives, as well as on price and product availability. The Company believes
that other important  competitive factors in the embedded control market include
ease of use,  functionality  of  application  development  systems and technical
service and support.  The Company believes that it competes favorably with other
companies  on all of these  factors,  although  there is no  assurance  that the
Company will continue to be able to compete successfully in the future.

PATENTS, LICENSES AND TRADEMARKS

     The  Company's  success  depends in part on its ability to obtain  patents,
licenses  and other  intellectual  property  rights  covering  its  products and
manufacturing processes, and to protect its proprietary information. As of March
31, 1999, the Company owned 86 U.S. patents and 20 foreign patents,  expiring on
various  dates  between  2005 and 2017,  and had an  additional  91 U.S.  patent
applications and 96 foreign patent applications  pending. The Company intends to
continue  to  seek  patents  on  its   inventions   used  in  its  products  and
manufacturing  processes.  However,  the  Company  believes  that its  continued
success  depends  primarily  on such  factors  as the  technological  skills and
innovative  abilities of its personnel rather than on its patents.  There can be
no assurance the Company's  existing  patents or any new patents that are issued
will be of  sufficient  scope or strength to provide  meaningful  protection  or
other commercial advantage to the Company.

     The Company has entered into  certain  intellectual  property  licenses and
cross-licenses  with other  companies  related  to  semiconductor  products  and
manufacturing  processes.  As is  typical  in the  semiconductor  industry,  the
Company  has  from  time  to  time  received,  and  may in the  future  receive,
communications  alleging possible  infringement of patents or other intellectual
property  rights of  others.  The  Company  investigates  all such  notices  and
responds as it believes is appropriate.  Based on industry practice, the Company
believes  that in most cases it could  obtain any  necessary  licenses  or other
rights on commercially reasonable terms. However, no assurance can be given that
licenses would be on acceptable  terms,  that litigation  would not ensue,  that
damages  for any past  infringement  would not be  assessed  or that the Company
would not be forced to pay  royalties on future sales.  Litigation,  which could
result in  substantial  cost to the Company and diversion of management  effort,
may be necessary to enforce patents or other intellectual property rights of the
Company, or to defend the Company against claimed  infringement of the rights of
others. See "Item 3 - Legal Proceedings," below.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION

     The  Company  is  subject  to  a  variety  of  federal,   state  and  local
governmental regulations related to the use, storage,  discharge and disposal of
toxic,  volatile or  otherwise  hazardous  chemicals  used in its  manufacturing
processes,   including   the  Resource   Conversation   and  Recovery  Act,  the
Comprehensive  Environmental  Response,  Compensation  and  Liability  Act,  the
Superfund  Amendment  and  Reauthorization  Act, the Clean Air Act and the Water
Pollution  Control  Act.  The Company  believes it has  obtained  all  necessary
environmental  permits to conduct its  business.  Although the Company  believes
that its activities conform to presently applicable  environmental  regulations,
the failure to comply with present or future  regulations  could result in fines
being  imposed on the  Company,  suspension  of  production  or a  cessation  of
operations. While the Company has not experienced any materially adverse effects
on its operations from governmental regulations,  there can be no assurance that
changes in such  regulations  will not  require  the  Company to acquire  costly
equipment or to incur other  significant  expenses to comply with  environmental
regulations.  Any  failure by the  Company to control  the use of or  adequately
restrict  the  discharge  of  hazardous  substances  could  subject it to future
liabilities.  There can be no assurance  that  environmental  problems  will not
occur  in the  future  which  could  subject  the  Company  to  future  costs or
liabilities.


EMPLOYEES

     As of April 30, 1999, the Company had 1,977  employees,  including 1,365 in
manufacturing,  261 in research and development,  224 in sales and marketing and
127 in finance and administration.  Approximately 46% of the Company's employees
work at the facilities located in Kaohsiung, Taiwan and Chachoengsao,  Thailand.
No employees in the U.S. or Thailand are  represented  by a labor  organization.
All  employees  in  the  Kaohsiung  facility,   except  for  certain  management
employees, are represented by a labor organization.  The Company has never had a
work stoppage and believes that its employee relations are good.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

     The  following  sets forth  certain  information  regarding  the  Company's
executive officers as of April 30, 1999:

       Name             Age                       Position
       ----             ---                       --------
Steve Sanghi            43    Chairman of the Board, President and Chief
                               Executive Officer
Timothy B. Billington   56    Vice President, Manufacturing and Technology Group
C. Philip Chapman       45    Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and
                               Secretary
George P. Rigg          59    Vice President, Advanced Microcontroller and
                               Systems Group
Mitchell R. Little      46    Vice President, Americas Sales

     Mr. Sanghi is currently,  and has been since August 1990,  President of the
Company,  since October 1991,  Chief  Executive  Officer and since October 1993,
Chairman of the Board of  Directors.  He has served as a director of the Company
since August  1990.  He served as the  Company's  Chief  Operating  Officer from
August 1990 through October 1991 and as Senior Vice President of Operations from
February 1990 through August 1990. Mr. Sanghi holds an M.S. degree in Electrical
and Computer  Engineering from the University of Massachusetts and a B.S. degree
in Electronics and Communication from Punjab University,  India. Mr. Sanghi also
serves as chairman of the board of directors of ADFlex  Solutions,  Inc., a U.S.
supplier of flexible circuit-based interconnect solutions.

     Mr.  Billington has served as Vice President,  Manufacturing and Technology
Group since November 1998. From October 1994 to November 1998, he served as Vice
President,  Manufacturing  Operations.  From April 1991 until  October  1994, he
served as Vice  President,  Process  Development and  Manufacturing  Operations.
Prior to his appointment as Vice President, Mr. Billington served as Director of
Wafer Fabrication from November 1990 to April 1991 and Wafer Fabrication Manager
from June 1989 to November 1990. Mr. Billington holds a B.S. degree in marketing
from Abilene Christian University.

     Mr. Chapman has served as the Company's Vice President and Chief  Financial
Officer  since  joining the Company in  September  1992 and as  Secretary of the
Company  since  December  1992.  Mr.  Chapman  holds an M.B.A.  from the Harvard
Graduate School of Business  Administration  and B.A.  degrees in Accounting and
Managerial Finance from the University of California.

     Mr. Rigg has served as Vice President, Advanced Microcontroller and Systems
Group since  March 1997.  From  November  1995 to March 1997,  he served as Vice
President,  Advanced  Microcontroller and Technology Division. From June 1989 to
November 1995, he served as Vice President,  Logic Products  Division.  Mr. Rigg
holds a B.S. degree in Physics from Manchester University, England.

     Mr. Little has served as Vice  President,  Americas Sales since April 1998.
From  November  1995 to  April  1998,  he  served  as Vice  President,  Standard
Microcontroller  and ASSP  Division.  From  September  1993 to November 1995, he
served  as Vice  President,  Memory  Products  and ASSP  Division.  Prior to his
appointment as Vice  President,  Mr. Little served as Division  Director for the
Company's  Memory  Products  Division from July 1991 to September  1993,  and as
Director of Memory Marketing from November 1989 to July 1991. Mr. Little holds a
BSET from United Electronics Institute.


ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

     The Company's current headquarters, research and development center and one
of its U.S. wafer fabrication facilities are located in three buildings totaling
approximately  242,000  square  feet  situated  on a  77-acre  parcel of land in
Chandler,  Arizona.  A second  U.S.  manufacturing  site  consisting  of a wafer
fabrication facility,  office and warehouse facilities and a development systems
center,  totaling  approximately  253,000  square feet, is situated on a 22-acre
parcel  of land in Tempe,  Arizona.  The  Company  owns the  Chandler  and Tempe
facilities.  Company-owned  final  test  facilities  are  located  in Taiwan and
Thailand. The Taiwan operations are housed in a three-story,  88,700 square foot
building located in the Kaohsiung Export  Processing Zone in Kaohsiung,  Taiwan,
Republic  of  China.  The  Taiwan  building  is  owned by the  Company's  Taiwan
subsidiary  and is located  on land that is leased to the  Company  pursuant  to
leases  from the Taiwan  government  expiring  in  December  2002 and 2003.  The
Company will not renew these leases as the Company's  Kaohsiung  operations will
be closed by the end of the second  quarter of fiscal year 2000.  The  Company's
Thailand final test and assembly  operations are housed in a 150,000 square foot
facility  located  in the  Alphatechnopolis  Industrial  Park  in  Chachoengsao,
Thailand,  near Bangkok.  An expansion of 50,000 square feet is presently  under
construction  and is scheduled to be complete by the end of the third quarter of
fiscal year 2000. This area will house additional test capacity and will also be
available for incremental assembly capacity. The Thailand facility, owned by the
Company's Thailand subsidiary,  is situated on land to which the Company expects
to acquire  title by the end of fiscal  2000,  in  accordance  with an agreement
between  the  Company  and the land  owner.  The  Company  leases  space  for 23
Technical  Support  Centers in major  metropolitan  areas in the United  States,
Europe and Asia. See "Item 1 - Business - Sales and  Distribution,"  above.  The
Company's  aggregate  monthly  rental  payments  for its leased  facilities  are
approximately $128,000.

     The Company currently believes that its existing facilities,  together with
the  additional  capacity  presently  under  construction  in Thailand,  will be
adequate to meet its requirements for the next 12 months.

     THE  FOREGOING  STATEMENTS  RELATED  TO  THE  SCHEDULED  COMPLETION  OF THE
EXPANSION  OF THE  CHACHOENGSAO  FACILITY,  ACQUISITION  OF TITLE OF THE LAND ON
WHICH THE  CHACHOENGSAO  FACILITY IS SITUATED AND THE ADEQUACY OF FACILITIES FOR
THE NEXT 12 MONTHS ARE FORWARD LOOKING  STATEMENTS.  ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER
MATERIALLY   BECAUSE  OF  THE  FOLLOWING  FACTORS,   AMONG  OTHERS:   DELAYS  IN
CONSTRUCTION  AND  FACILITIZATION  OF THE  EXPANSION  AREA  AT THE  CHACHOENGSAO
FACILITY;  THE AVAILABILITY OF EQUIPMENT AND OTHER SUPPLIES;  SUPPLY DISRUPTION;
LABOR UNREST;  CHANGES IN PRODUCT MIX; THE CYCLICAL NATURE OF THE  SEMICONDUCTOR
INDUSTRY AND THE MARKETS  ADDRESSED BY THE  COMPANY'S  PRODUCTS;  DEMAND FOR THE
COMPANY'S PRODUCTS;  FLUCTUATIONS IN PRODUCTION YIELDS,  PRODUCTION EFFICIENCIES
AND OVERALL CAPACITY  UTILIZATION;  COMPETITIVE  PRESSURES ON PRICES;  POLITICAL
INSTABILITY  AND  EXPROPRIATION;  ECONOMIC  CONDITIONS  IN  THAILAND;  AND OTHER
ECONOMIC CONDITIONS.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     In the  ordinary  course of its  business,  the  Company is  involved  in a
limited  number of legal  actions,  both as plaintiff and  defendant,  and could
incur  uninsured  liability in any one or more of them.  Although the outcome of
these  actions is not  presently  determinable,  the Company  believes  that the
ultimate  resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on
the Company's results of operations or financial conditions. Litigation relating
to the semiconductor industry is not uncommon, and the Company is, and from time
to time, has been,  subject to such litigation.  No assurances can be given with
respect to the extent or outcome of any such litigation in the future. See "Item
1 --Business --Patents, Licenses and Trademarks," above.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matters  were  submitted  to a vote of the  Company's  security  holders
during the fourth quarter of fiscal 1999.


                                     PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     The Company's  Common Stock is traded on the Nasdaq  National  Market under
the symbol  "MCHP."  The  Company's  Common  Stock has been quoted on the Nasdaq
National  Market  since  March 19,  1993.  The  following  table  sets forth the
quarterly  high and low  closing  prices of the Common  Stock as reported by the
Nasdaq National Market for the last two years:

       Fiscal 1999       High      Low        Fiscal 1998      High      Low
       -----------       ----      ---        -----------      ----      ---

      First Quarter    $31.750   $20.813     First Quarter    $36.25    $29.00
      Second Quarter    33.375    18.313     Second Quarter    48.88     29.88
      Third Quarter     39.188    18.375     Third Quarter     48.38     26.94
      Fourth Quarter    40.875    27.125     Fourth Quarter    31.88     21.00

     On May 17, 1999, the closing sale price for the Company's  Common Stock was
$43.0625 per share.  As of such date,  there were  approximately  480 holders of
record of the Company's  Common Stock.  This figure does not reflect  beneficial
ownership of shares held in nominee names.

     The Company has not paid cash dividends on its capital  stock.  The Company
currently  anticipates  that it will retain all  available  funds for use in the
operations of its business and  therefore  does not  anticipate  paying any cash
dividends in the foreseeable future.

     The trading price of the Company's Common Stock has been, and in the future
could be, subject to wide  fluctuations  in response to quarterly  variations in
operating results of the Company and other  semiconductor  companies,  actual or
anticipated  announcements  of  technical  innovations  or new  products  by the
Company or its  competitors,  changes in analysts'  estimates  of the  Company's
financial  performance,   general  conditions  in  the  semiconductor  industry,
worldwide  economic and  financial  conditions  and other events or factors.  In
addition,  the  stock  market  has  experienced  significant  price  and  volume
fluctuations  which have  particularly  affected the market prices for many high
technology  companies  and which  often  have been  unrelated  to the  operating
performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations and other factors
may adversely affect the market price of the Company's Common Stock.

     During fiscal 1999, the Company sold put options whereby the Company agreed
to  acquire  Common  Stock at  various  prices as part of its  stock  repurchase
program.  The issuance of stock put options was deemed exempt from  registration
under the  Securities  Act of 1933,  as amended,  in reliance on Section 4(2) of
such  Act.  See Item 7 -  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial
Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity  and Capital  Resources,  above,
and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The following selected consolidated financial data for the five-year period
ended  March  31,  1999  should  be  read  in  conjunction  with  the  Company's
Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto and "Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"  included in Item
7 of this report. The Company's  consolidated  income statement data for each of
the years in the three year period ended March 31, 1999,  and the balance  sheet
data as of March 31, 1999 and 1998,  are derived  from the audited  consolidated
financial statements of the Company, included in Item 8 of this report.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
        RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

INTRODUCTION

     During fiscal 1999, the global semiconductor  industry was characterized by
flat to negative  sales  growth,  extremely low order  visibility  and declining
inventory levels at customers and throughout the distribution channel. Over this
period,  Microchip's sales remained  relatively flat overall,  while the Company
experienced moderate growth in its core 8-bit  microcontroller  product line and
has  continued  to gain market share in that market.  Microchip  anticipates  an
industry-wide return to growth during calendar year 1999 and has taken a variety
of measures to optimally position the Company for such an upturn.


     The Company  has  implemented  two  restructuring  actions to position  the
Company for future cost  effective  growth.  During the March 1999 quarter,  the
Company  completed  closure of its  5-inch  wafer  line  which  represented  the
Company's  least  flexible  and  least   cost-effective   production   capacity.
Eliminating  the 5-inch  production  capacity  reduces the Company's  productive
capacity by approximately 20%. The Company intends to replace this capacity with
6-inch  and 8-inch  wafer  production  over  time.  This  action  resulted  in a
restructuring charge of $7.5 million in the March 1999 quarter. The Company also
decided to restructure its test operations over the next two quarters by closing
its  Kaohsiung  facility  and  migrating  its test  capacity to its  lower-cost,
Thailand facility.  See "Item 1 - Business - Manufacturing,"  above. This action
resulted in a restructuring charge of $6.1 million in the March 1999 quarter.

     Additionally,  as  indicated  in  Note  2  to  the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements,  under the terms of the acquisition of the Keeloq(R) technology, the
Company made the final acquisition  payment to the seller of $10.3 million,  net
of legal expenses of $1.1 million. Under the provision of FAS 121, Impairment of
Assets,  the Company has determined  that $4.3 million of the final  acquisition
payment will be treated as purchased  technology and amortized over the expected
life of the revenue stream of the Keeloq(R) product. The balance of the payment,
including the residual asset value  capitalized as part of the initial  payment,
has been  written off as part of the  special  charge made by the Company in the
quarter ended March 31, 1999. The total charge  associated  with this matter was
$7.6 million.

     Included  in the  special  charge the  Company  has taken in the March 1999
quarter  is $1.8  million  related  to two  legal  settlements  associated  with
intellectual property matters and $0.4 million related to the restructuring of a
portion of the Company sales infrastructure.

     During the quarter  ended June 30, 1998,  the Company  recognized a special
charge of $5.5 million  which was  comprised of three  elements:  a $3.3 million
legal  settlement  with  another  company  involving  an  intellectual  property
dispute;  a $1.7 million write-off of products  obsoleted by the introduction of
newer products; and a $0.5 million charge associated with the restructuring of a
portion of the Company's sales organization.

     THE FOREGOING  STATEMENTS RELATING TO ANTICIPATED  INDUSTRY-WIDE  RETURN TO
GROWTH, THE COMPANY'S  POSITIONING FOR AN INDUSTRY-WIDE UPTURN AND RESTRUCTURING
OF TEST  OPERATIONS OVER THE NEXT TWO QUARTERS ARE  FORWARD-LOOKING  STATEMENTS.
ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING  FACTORS,  AMONG
OTHERS:  MARKET  CONDITIONS  IN THE  SEMICONDUCTOR  INDUSTRY  AND DEMAND FOR THE
COMPANY'S PRODUCTS;  THE TIMING AND SUCCESS OF MANUFACTURING PROCESS TRANSITION;
THE IMPACT OF COST REDUCTIONS AND THE POSSIBLE NEED FOR FURTHER COST REDUCTIONS;
DELAY  IN  THE  FACILITATION  OF  THE  COMPANY'S   IN-HOUSE  ASSEMBLY  AND  TEST
OPERATIONS;  FLUCTUATIONS  IN  PRODUCTION  YIELDS AND  PRODUCTION  EFFICIENCIES;
OVERALL CAPACITY UTILIZATION; COST AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS; ABSORPTION
OF FIXED COSTS, LABOR AND OTHER DIRECT  MANUFACTURING  COSTS; CHANGES IN PRODUCT
MIX; AND OTHER ECONOMIC CONDITIONS.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The following table sets forth certain  operational data as a percentage of
net sales for the years indicated:

                                                    Year Ended March 31,
                                                1999        1998        1997
                                                ----        ----        ----
Net sales ..................................   100.0%      100.0%      100.0%
Cost of sales ..............................    50.1%       50.3%       50.1%
                                               -----       -----       -----
Gross profit ...............................    49.9%       49.7%       49.9%
Research and development ...................    10.0%        9.7%        9.6%
Selling, general and administrative ........    15.5%       17.0%       16.8%
Special charges ............................     7.1%        1.2%        2.2%
                                               -----       -----       -----
Operating income ...........................    17.3%       21.8%       21.3%
                                               =====       =====       =====

     NET SALES

     Microchip's  net sales of $406.5  million in fiscal 1999  increased by $9.6
million,  or 2.4%,  over fiscal  1998 and net sales of $396.9  million in fiscal
1998 increased by $62.6 million, or 18.7%, over fiscal 1997.

     The  Company's  family of 8-bit  microcontrollers  represents  the  largest
component  of  Microchip's  total net  sales.  Microcontrollers  and  associated
application  development  systems  accounted  for 76%,  68% and 66% of total net
sales in


fiscal 1999, 1998 and 1997,  respectively.  A related component of the Company's
product sales consists  primarily of Serial EEPROM  memories which accounted for
24%, 32% and 34% of net sales in fiscal 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

     The  Company's  net  sales  in  any  given  quarter  are  dependent  upon a
combination  of orders  received in that  quarter for  shipment in that  quarter
("turns  orders") and shipments  from backlog.  The Company has  emphasized  its
ability  to  respond  quickly  to  customer  orders  as part of its  competitive
strategy. This strategy,  combined with current industry conditions,  results in
customers placing orders with short delivery schedules.  The Company experienced
increasing  turns orders as a portion of the Company's  business in fiscal 1999,
as compared to the last two years,  which  reduced the  Company's  visibility of
future net sales levels.  Visibility improved at the end of fiscal 1999. Backlog
for the first  quarter of fiscal  2000 grew 28% from  backlog  for the  previous
fiscal  quarter,  which is the first  quarter  this has occurred in 12 quarters.
However,  because  turns  orders  are  difficult  to  predict,  there  can be no
assurance that the combination of turns orders and shipments from backlog in any
quarter will be sufficient to achieve  growth in net sales.  If the Company does
not achieve a  sufficient  level of turns orders in a  particular  quarter,  the
Company's revenues and operating results would be adversely affected.

     The  Company's  overall  average  selling  prices  for its  microcontroller
products have remained relatively constant,  while average selling prices of its
memory  products have declined  over time.  Over the last two fiscal years,  the
Company has  experienced  increased  pricing  pressure  on its memory  products,
primarily  due to the less  proprietary  nature of these  products and increased
competition.  Over time, the Company expects to continue to experience increased
pricing  competition  and declining  prices for memory  products.  While average
selling  prices for  microcontrollers  have remained  relatively  constant,  the
Company has  experienced,  and expects to  continue  to  experience,  increasing
pricing  pressure in certain  microcontroller  product  lines,  due primarily to
competitive  conditions.  There can be no assurance that average  selling prices
for the Company's  microcontroller  or other  products can be maintained  due to
increased  pricing pressure in the future. An increase in pricing pressure could
adversely affect the Company's operating results.

     THE  FOREGOING  STATEMENTS  REGARDING  TURNS ORDERS,  IMPROVED  VISIBILITY,
AVERAGE  SELLING PRICES AND PRICING  PRESSURES are FORWARD  LOOKING  STATEMENTS.
ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING  FACTORS,  AMONG
OTHERS:  THE LEVEL OF ORDERS THAT ARE  RECEIVED AND CAN BE SHIPPED IN A QUARTER;
INVENTORY  MIX AND  TIMING  OF  CUSTOMER  ORDERS;  COMPETITION  AND  COMPETITIVE
PRESSURES  ON PRICING AND PRODUCT  AVAILABILITY;  CUSTOMERS'  INVENTORY  LEVELS,
ORDER PATTERNS AND  SEASONALITY;  THE CYCLICAL NATURE OF BOTH THE  SEMICONDUCTOR
INDUSTRY AND THE MARKETS ADDRESSED BY THE COMPANY'S PRODUCTS;  MARKET ACCEPTANCE
OF THE PRODUCTS OF BOTH THE COMPANY AND ITS CUSTOMERS;  DEMAND FOR THE COMPANY'S
PRODUCTS, FLUCTUATIONS IN PRODUCTION YIELDS, PRODUCTION EFFICIENCIES AND OVERALL
CAPACITY  UTILIZATION;  CHANGES IN PRODUCT MIX; AND  ABSORPTION  OF FIXED COSTS,
LABOR AND OTHER FIXED MANUFACTURING COSTS.

     Foreign  sales  represented  69%,  68% and 66% of net sales in fiscal 1999,
1998 and 1997, respectively. The Company's foreign sales have been predominantly
in Asia and Europe which the Company attributes to the manufacturing strength in
those areas for consumer,  automotive,  office  automation,  communications  and
industrial products.  The majority of foreign sales are U.S. Dollar denominated.
The Company has entered  into and,  from time to time,  will enter into  hedging
transactions  in order to  minimize  exposure  to  currency  rate  fluctuations.
Although none of the countries in which the Company conducts significant foreign
operations have had a highly inflationary  economy in the last five years, there
is no assurance that inflation rates or  fluctuations in foreign  currency rates
in countries where the Company conducts operations will not adversely affect the
Company's operating results in the future.

     ADDITIONAL FACTORS AFFECTING OPERATING RESULTS

     The Company believes that future growth in net sales of its 8-bit family of
microcontroller  products and related  memory  products will depend largely upon
the  Company's  success in having its current  and new  products  designed  into
high-volume customer  applications.  Design wins typically precede the Company's
volume  shipment of products  for such  applications  by 15 months or more.  The
Company  also  believes  that  shipment  levels of its  proprietary  application
development  systems  are an  indicator  of  potential  future  design  wins and
microcontroller  sales. The Company continued to achieve a high volume of design
wins and shipped increased numbers of application  development systems in fiscal
1999  compared to previous  fiscal  years.  There can be no  assurance  that any
particular  development  system  shipment will result in a product design win or
that any particular design win will result in future product sales.

     The  Company's  operating  results are  affected by a wide variety of other
factors that could  adversely  impact its net sales and  profitability,  many of
which are beyond the  Company's  control.  These  factors  include the Company's
ability  to  design  and  introduce  new  products  on a  timely  basis,  market
acceptance  of products of both the Company and its  customers,


customer order  patterns and  seasonality,  changes in product mix,  whether the
Company's customers buy from a distributor or directly from the Company, product
performance and  reliability,  product  obsolescence,  the amount of any product
returns, availability and utilization of manufacturing capacity, fluctuations in
manufacturing  yield, the availability and cost of raw materials,  equipment and
other  supplies,  the  cyclical  nature of the  semiconductor  industry  and the
markets addressed by the Company's products,  technological changes, competition
and competitive pressures on prices, and economic, political or other conditions
in the United States,  and other  worldwide  markets served by the Company.  The
Company's products are incorporated into a wide variety of consumer, automotive,
office automation,  communications and industrial products. A slowdown in demand
for products  which  utilize the  Company's  products as a result of economic or
other conditions in the worldwide  markets served by the Company could adversely
affect the Company's operating results.

     GROSS PROFIT

     The Company's  gross profit was $202.9  million,  $197.4 million and $166.9
million in fiscal 1999, 1998 and 1997,  respectively.  Gross profit as a percent
of sales was 49.9%, 49.7% and 49.9% in fiscal 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.
While the gross profit  percentage in the last three fiscal years was relatively
constant,  the Company's  performance was impacted by several factors  including
reduced  5-inch wafer  production at Fab 1,  increased  pricing  pressure on its
non-volatile  memory  products,   increased  8-inch  wafer  production  and  the
Company's ongoing cost reduction programs. The Company is continuing the process
of  transitioning  products to smaller  geometries  and to larger wafer sizes to
reduce future manufacturing costs.  Eight-inch wafer production commenced at the
Tempe wafer fabrication  facility in early fiscal 1998 and the Company continues
transition  products to its 0.7 micron process.  The Company expects that 50% of
its products will be produced on 8-inch  wafers during fiscal 2000.  The Company
anticipates  that its gross product  margins will  fluctuate  over time,  driven
primarily  by the  product  mix of 8-bit  microcontroller  products  and related
memory products,  manufacturing yields, fixed cost absorption, wafer fab loading
levels and competitive and economic conditions.

     During  the  quarter  ended  March 31,  1999,  the  Company  completed  the
shut-down of its 5-inch wafer production line,  primarily due to the higher cost
and lower  manufacturing  flexibility of this production line as compared to the
Company's  6-inch  and  8-inch  wafer  capacity.  This  action  will  reduce the
Company's  production  capacity by  approximately  20%.  The Company  intends to
replace this capacity  with 6-inch and 8-inch wafer  production  over time.  The
Company  also  plans  to  restructure  its  test  operations  over  the next two
quarters,  by closing  its test  facility in  Kaohsiung  and  transferring  this
capacity to its more cost effective test facility in Thailand.

     In order to offset  the  adverse  cost  absorption  effects  related to the
elimination of the 5-inch wafer  production  line,  and the potential  impact of
conversion  of its test  capacity to its location in  Thailand,  the Company has
instituted a series of cost reductions in all aspects of its business. There can
be no  assurance  that these  restructuring  actions  and cost  reductions  will
sufficiently  reduce fixed manufacturing costs to enable the Company to maintain
gross profit margins. In addition,  these restructuring  actions could result in
execution problems and manufacturing  yield problems that could adversely impact
the Company's gross profit.

     THE FOREGOING  STATEMENTS  RELATING TO ANTICIPATED  GROSS PRODUCT  MARGINS,
6-INCH  AND  8-INCH  WAFER   PRODUCTION,   THE  TRANSITION  TO  HIGHER  YIELDING
MANUFACTURING  PROCESSES,  RESTRUCTURING OF TEST  OPERATIONS,  AND THE IMPACT OF
COST  REDUCTIONS  ARE  FORWARD-LOOKING  STATEMENTS.  ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER
MATERIALLY  BECAUSE OF THE  FOLLOWING  FACTORS,  AMONG OTHERS:  FLUCTUATIONS  IN
PRODUCTION  YIELDS,  PRODUCTION  EFFICIENCIES AND OVERALL CAPACITY  UTILIZATION;
COST AND  AVAILABILITY  OF RAW MATERIALS;  ABSORPTION OF FIXED COSTS,  LABOR AND
OTHER  DIRECT  MANUFACTURING  COSTS;  THE  TIMING AND  SUCCESS OF  MANUFACTURING
PROCESS  TRANSITION;  DELAYS IN CONSTRUCTION AND FACILITIZATION OF THE EXPANSION
AREA AT THE CHACHOENGSAO FACILITY;  TIMING AND SUCCESS OF THE TRANSITION OF TEST
OPERATIONS  FROM  TAIWAN  TO  THAILAND,   DEMAND  FOR  THE  COMPANY'S  PRODUCTS;
COMPETITION AND COMPETITIVE  PRESSURE ON PRICING;  THE IMPACT OF COST REDUCTIONS
AND THE POSSIBLE NEED FOR FURTHER COST  REDUCTIONS;  CHANGES IN PRODUCT MIX; AND
OTHER ECONOMIC CONDITIONS.

     In the  quarter  ended June 30,  1997,  the  Company  changed its method of
accounting  for  inventories  from the last-in,  first-out  (LIFO) method to the
first-in,  first-out (FIFO) method. The change did not have a material effect on
the results of operations.  The FIFO method is the predominant accounting method
used  in the  semiconductor  industry.  Prior  to  this  change,  the  Company's
inventory costs did not differ significantly under the two methods. Prior period
results of  operations  have not been  restated for this change as the impact is
not material.

     Currently all of Microchip's assembly operations, and a portion of its test
requirements,  are  performed  by  third-party  contractors.  Reliance  on third
parties  involves some  reduction in the  Company's  level of control over these
portions of its


business.  While the Company reviews the quality,  delivery and cost performance
of these  third-party  contractors,  there can be no assurance  that reliance on
third-party  contractors  will not adversely  impact results in future reporting
periods if any  third-party  contractor is unable to maintain  assembly and test
yields and costs at  approximately  their current levels.  Microchip  intends to
develop its own in-house assembly  operations over the next fiscal year and will
shift a portion of its assembly operations from third-party  contractors to fill
this capacity.  The Company currently  performs test operations at Company owned
facilities in Taiwan and Thailand.

     THE  FOREGOING  STATEMENT  RELATED TO THE  COMPANY'S  INTENTION  TO DEVELOP
IN-HOUSE  ASSEMBLY  OPERATIONS  OVER THE  NEXT 12  MONTHS  IS A  FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENT.  ACTUAL  RESULTS  COULD DIFFER  MATERIALLY  BECAUSE OF THE  FOLLOWING
FACTORS,  AMONG OTHERS:  TIMING AND SUCCESS OF THE  TRANSITION  FROM THIRD PARTY
ASSEMBLY SERVICES PROVIDERS TO COMPANY-OWNED  ASSEMBLY OPERATIONS;  DELAY IN THE
FACILITATION OF THE COMPANY'S IN-HOUSE ASSEMBLY OPERATIONS;  DIFFICULTIES IN THE
TRANSITION OF THE ASSEMBLY  FUNCTION  FROM THIRD PARTIES TO THE COMPANY;  SUPPLY
DISRUPTION;  LABOR  UNREST;  CHANGES IN PRODUCT  MIX;  COMPETITIVE  PRESSURES ON
PRICES; AND OTHER ECONOMIC CONDITIONS.

     The Company's reliance on facilities in Taiwan, Thailand, and other foreign
countries,  and  maintenance  of  substantially  all of its  finished  goods  in
inventory  overseas,  entails certain  political and economic  risks,  including
political  instability and expropriation,  supply disruption,  currency controls
and exchange  fluctuations,  as well as changes in tax laws,  tariff and freight
rates. To date, the Company has not experienced any significant interruptions in
its  foreign  business  operations.  Nonetheless,  the  Company's  business  and
operating  results  could  be  adversely   affected  if  foreign  operations  or
international air transportation were disrupted.

     RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

     The  Company is  committed  to  continued  investment  in new and  enhanced
products,  including  its  development  systems  software  and in its design and
manufacturing  process technology,  which are significant factors in maintaining
the  Company's  competitive  position.  The dollar  investment  in research  and
development  increased 6.3% in fiscal 1999 over fiscal 1998, and 19.6% in fiscal
1998 over fiscal  1997.  The  Company  will  continue to invest in research  and
development  in the  future,  including  an  investment  in process  and product
development.

     The Company's future operating results will depend to a significant  extent
on its ability to continue to develop  and  introduce  new  products on a timely
basis which can compete  effectively on the basis of price and  performance  and
which address customer  requirements.  The success of new product  introductions
depends on various  factors,  including  proper new  product  selection,  timely
completion and introduction of new product designs, development of support tools
and collateral  literature  that make complex new products easy for engineers to
understand and use and market acceptance of customers' end products.  Because of
the complexity of its products,  the Company has experienced delays from time to
time in completing  development  of new products.  In addition,  there can be no
assurance  that any new  products  will receive or maintain  substantial  market
acceptance.  If the  Company  were  unable  to  design,  develop  and  introduce
competitive  products on a timely basis, its future  operating  results would be
adversely affected.

     The Company's  future  success will also depend upon its ability to develop
and  implement  new design and process  technologies.  Semiconductor  design and
process technologies are subject to rapid technological change,  requiring large
expenditures for research and development.  Other companies in the industry have
experienced  difficulty in effecting  transitions to smaller geometry  processes
and to larger  wafers and,  consequently,  have suffered  reduced  manufacturing
yields or delays in product deliveries. The Company believes that its transition
to smaller  geometries and to larger wafers will be important for the Company to
remain  competitive,  and operating  results could be adversely  affected if the
transition is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented.

     SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE

     The Company reduced its level of selling,  general and administrative costs
to $63.0 million in fiscal 1999  compared to $67.5 million in fiscal 1998.  This
reduction resulted from the Company's ongoing cost reduction programs.  Selling,
general and administrative  costs in fiscal year 1998 increased by $11.3 million
from selling,  general and administrative costs in fiscal 1997. Selling, general
and  administrative  costs represented 15.5%, 17.0% and 16.8% of sales in fiscal
years 1999, 1998 and 1997,  respectively.  As the Company continues to invest in
incremental  worldwide  sales and  technical  support  resources  to promote the
Company's embedded control products,  selling,  general and administrative costs
are expected to rise over time.


     OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)

     Interest  income in fiscal  1999  decreased  from fiscal 1998 and 1997 as a
result  of lower  invested  cash  balances.  Interest  expense  in  fiscal  1999
increased over fiscal 1998 due to increased borrowing levels associated with the
Company's stock buyback programs.  Other income represents  numerous  immaterial
non-operating items.

     PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES

     Provisions for income taxes reflect tax on foreign earnings and federal and
state tax on U.S.  earnings.  The  Company had an  effective  tax rate of 27.0%,
27.0% and 26.4% for the years ended March 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively,
due primarily to lower tax rates at its foreign locations.  The Company believes
that its tax rate for the  foreseeable  future will be  approximately  27%.  THE
FOREGOING  STATEMENT  REGARDING THE COMPANY'S  ANTICIPATED  FUTURE TAX RATE IS A
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE
FOLLOWING  FACTORS,  AMONG OTHERS:  CURRENT TAX LAWS AND  REGULATIONS;  TAXATION
RATES IN GEOGRAPHIC  REGIONS WHERE THE COMPANY HAS SIGNIFICANT  OPERATIONS;  AND
CURRENT TAX HOLIDAYS AVAILABLE IN FOREIGN LOCATIONS.

YEAR 2000 ISSUE

     The Year 2000  ("Y2K")  issue is the  result of various  computer  programs
being  written  using two  digits  rather  than four to  define  the year,  thus
potentially  rendering them incapable of properly managing and manipulating data
that  includes  21st century  dates.  The  potential  for Y2K issues which could
reasonably  affect  the  Company  could  arise from any  combination  of: a) the
Company's own internal information  processing and embedded systems, b) external
systems  used by  providers  of critical  goods or services to the  Company,  c)
customer  failures  resulting from Y2K problems  leading to reductions in demand
from the customer, and d) Y2K issues arising within the products manufactured by
the Company.

     THE COMPANY'S CURRENT STATE OF YEAR 2000 READINESS

     The Company has  implemented a Y2K  readiness  program and has, as of March
31, 1999, taken substantial efforts to reasonably insure that its operations are
not subject to substantial  adverse  Y2K-related  impact.  This program began in
1997 with a  comprehensive  documentation  of potential  sources of Y2K exposure
which could  reasonably  impact the  Company's  business.  This  initial  source
identification phase has been completed.

     The subsequent step in the program has been to systematically  analyze each
identified  potential  source of Y2K exposure as to its  likelihood  of material
effect  on the  Company's  operations  and the  range of  available  remediation
actions.  In the case of identified  systems  internal to the Company,  analysis
generally involved performing physical tests which simulated  performance of the
systems with post-year 2000 dates.  For potential  sources of Y2K risk which are
external  to the  Company,  such as with  the  Company's  external  vendors  and
suppliers,  the Company has  typically  relied upon  written  assurances  of Y2K
compliance  from  those  various  parties  in lieu of  physical  testing  by the
Company's  employees.  To date,  the Company has not  identified  any Y2K issues
inherent in the products  manufactured by the Company.  The Company's  products,
for the most part,  involve hardware  integrated  circuits which, at the time of
sale to customers,  have no inherent date sensitive features. The analysis phase
of the Y2K readiness program has been substantially completed.

     The final phase of the Y2K  readiness  program  involves the  modification,
replacement or elimination of systems  identified in the prior analysis phase as
being in need of remediation. To date, the Company has completed the remediation
process for the majority of its identified  internal  systems,  with the primary
effort centered around the total  replacement of information  systems related to
the Company's sales order process,  planning,  physical distribution and finance
functions.  The  majority of this task was  completed  during the quarter  ended
September  30, 1998. As of March 31, 1999,  the Company had received  letters of
Y2K compliance from  approximately 93% of its key EXTERNAL vendors and suppliers
and expects to secure  documentation  of compliance  from the remainder of these
key vendors and suppliers by September 30, 1999.

     COSTS TO ADDRESS THE YEAR 2000 ISSUE

     The total  cost  associated  with  required  modifications  to  become  Y2K
compliant is not expected to be material to the  Company's  financial  position.
The  amount  expended  through  March 31,  1999 was  approximately  $14,000,000,
primarily  associated  with the total  replacement  of the  information  systems
related to the Company's sales order process,  planning,  physical  distribution
and finance functions which was completed during the quarter ended September 30,
1998. The


Company  had  intended to replace  such  systems in the  ordinary  course of its
business and the implementation was not substantially accelerated due to the Y2K
issue. The Company believes that the cost of its Y2K readiness program,  as well
as  currently  anticipated  costs to be incurred  with  respect to Y2K issues of
third parties,  will not exceed  $18,000,000,  inclusive of the costs  described
above.  It is  anticipated  that  all  such  expenditures  will be  funded  from
operating cash flows and absorbed as part of the Company's ongoing operations.

     MOST REASONABLY LIKELY WORST CASE SCENARIO(S)

     Having  reasonably  determined that the Company's own hardware and software
systems will be  substantially  Y2K compliant  and that its products  inherently
have no date  code-related  issues,  management  believes  that the  worst  case
scenarios   would  most  likely  involve   massive,   simultaneous   Y2K-related
disruptions  from the  Company's  key  external raw  material  suppliers  and/or
service providers. For these worst case scenarios to have maximum adverse impact
on the  Company,  the vendors in question  would  either need to be  sole-source
providers   or  their  peer   companies,   who  would   otherwise  be  potential
second-source  suppliers,   would  also  need  to  undergo  similar  Y2K-related
disruption.  Examples on the material  supplier side would include  extended and
substantial  disruptions of the Company's key raw material  suppliers of silicon
wafers,  leadframes,  specialty  chemicals  and gasses.  Examples on the service
provider side would include extended,  substantial  disruptions of the Company's
third-party    semiconductor    assembly    firms,     telecommunications    and
datacommunications services,  airfreight and delivery services, or the worldwide
banking  system.  Examples  on the  customer  side would  include  Y2K  problems
encountered by such customer  adversely  impacting that customer's  business and
reducing the customer's  purchases from the Company.  The Company  believes that
such  massive  and  simultaneous  disruptions  of the supply of basic  goods and
services due to Y2K-related issues are highly unlikely to occur.

     CONTINGENCY PLANS

     The Company has made no  contingency  plans for handling Y2K issues because
it believes  that the steps it has taken to assess its own hardware and software
systems  and those of its key  vendors  and  suppliers  are  adequate  to ensure
minimal disruption to its business processes. In the event of random, unforeseen
Y2K problems (such as the failure of specific  pieces of process  equipment,  or
the temporary  inability of certain  vendors to provide  materials or services),
the Company  believes  that these types of issues will most likely be able to be
resolved  in the normal  course of  business,  including  the  potential  use of
alternate suppliers, in most cases.

     THE FOREGOING  STATEMENTS RELATED TO MATERIALITY OF Y2K COSTS, THE COSTS TO
ADDRESS  Y2K ISSUES AND THE  FUNDING AND  ABSORPTION  OF SUCH COSTS,  WORST-CASE
SCENARIO(S) AND CONTINGENCY PLANS ARE FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS. ACTUAL RESULTS
COULD DIFFER  MATERIALLY  BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING  FACTORS,  AMONG OTHERS:  THE
FAILURE TO CORRECTLY  TIMELY  IDENTIFY AND CORRECT Y2K  PROBLEMS,  EITHER BY THE
COMPANY OR ITS KEY SUPPLIERS OR CUSTOMERS.

EURO CONVERSION ISSUES

     The  Company  operates  in the  European  Market  and  currently  generates
approximately  30% of its net  sales  from  customers  located  in  Europe.  The
Company's  commercial  headquarters in Europe are located in the United Kingdom,
which is not currently  one of the eleven  member  states of the European  Union
converting to a common currency.

     The  Company  currently  conducts  96% of its  business  in  Europe in U.S.
Dollars and 2% of its business in Europe in Pounds Sterling.  The balance of its
net sales are conducted in currencies  which will  eventually be replaced by the
Euro.  The  Company  will be  monitoring  the  potential  commercial  impact  of
converting  a portion of its current  business to the Euro,  but does not expect
any material impact to its business based on this transition.

     The  Company  does not  currently  anticipate  any  material  impact to its
business  related  to  Euro  matters  from  information  technology,  derivative
transactions, tax issues and accounting software issues.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     The Company  had $30.8  million in cash and cash  equivalents  at March 31,
1999, a decrease of $1.4 million  from the March 31, 1998  balance.  The Company
has an  unsecured  line of credit with a syndicate  of domestic  banks  totaling
$90.0 million. Borrowings under the domestic line of credit as of March 31, 1999
were $25.0 million.  The domestic line of credit requires the Company to achieve
certain  financial ratios and operating  results.  The Company was in compliance
with these


covenants at March 31, 1999.  The Company also has an unsecured  short term line
of credit  totaling $32.8 million with certain foreign banks.  Borrowings  under
the foreign line of credit as of March 31, 1999 were $1.5 million.  There are no
covenants related to the foreign line of credit. At March 31, 1999, an aggregate
of $96.3  million  of these  facilities  was  available,  subject  to  financial
covenants  and ratios with which the Company was in  compliance.  The  Company's
ability to fully utilize these facilities is dependent on the Company  remaining
in compliance with such covenants and ratios.

     During the year ended March 31, 1999, the Company  generated $102.6 million
of cash from  operating  activities,  a decrease of $33.9  million from the year
ended March 31, 1998, and an increase of $25.1 million from the year ended March
31, 1997. The decrease in cash flow from operations  during fiscal year 1999 was
primarily due to reduced  profitability,  the impact of special charges, and the
impact of changes in accounts payable, accrued expenses and accounts receivable.

     The Company's level of capital  expenditures  varies from time to time as a
result of actual and anticipated  business  conditions.  Capital expenditures in
the years ended March 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 were $39.6 million, $145.3 million
and $79.0 million,  respectively.  Capital  expenditures  were primarily for the
expansion of  production  capacity and the addition of research and  development
equipment  in each of these  periods.  The  Company  currently  intends to spend
approximately  $120.0 million  during the next 12 months for additional  capital
equipment to increase capacity at its existing wafer fabrication facilities,  to
expand product test operations and to develop in-house assembly capability.  The
Company  expects  capital  expenditures  will  be  financed  by cash  flow  from
operations,  available  debt  arrangements  and other sources of financing.  The
Company believes that the capital  expenditures  anticipated to be incurred over
the next 12 months will provide sufficient additional  manufacturing capacity to
meet its currently anticipated needs.

     THE  FOREGOING  STATEMENTS  REGARDING  THE  ANTICIPATED  LEVEL  OF  CAPITAL
EXPENDITURES  OVER  THE  NEXT 12  MONTHS  AND  THE  FINANCING  OF  SUCH  CAPITAL
EXPENDITURES ARE FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS.  ACTUAL CAPITAL  EXPENDITURES COULD
DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING  FACTORS,  AMONG OTHERS: THE CYCLICAL
NATURE OF THE SEMICONDUCTOR  INDUSTRY AND THE MARKETS ADDRESSED BY THE COMPANY'S
PRODUCTS;  MARKET  ACCEPTANCE  OF THE  PRODUCTS  OF  BOTH  THE  COMPANY  AND ITS
CUSTOMERS; UTILIZATION OF CURRENT MANUFACTURING CAPACITY; DELAYS IN CONSTRUCTION
AND  FACILITIZATION  OF THE EXPANSION  AREA AT THE  CHACHOENGSAO  FACILITY;  THE
AVAILABILITY  AND COST OF RAW MATERIALS,  EQUIPMENT AND OTHER SUPPLIES;  AND THE
ECONOMIC, POLITICAL AND OTHER CONDITIONS IN THE MARKETS SERVED BY THE COMPANY.

     Net cash used in financing  activities  was $64.4  million and $2.1 million
for the years ended March 31, 1999 and March 31,  1998,  respectively.  Net cash
provided by financing  activities was $13.4 million for the year ended March 31,
1997.  Proceeds  from sale of stock and put options  were $16.0  million,  $12.5
million and $59.5  million for the years  ended March 31,  1999,  1998 and 1997,
respectively. Payments on long term debt and capital lease obligations were $4.4
million,  $6.1 million and $5.7 million for the years ended March 31, 1999, 1998
and 1997, respectively.  Net proceeds from lines of credit were $3.5 million and
$23.0  million  for the  years  ended  March  31,  1999 and  1998  respectively.
Repayments  on lines of credit  were $21.0  million for the year ended March 31,
1997.  Cash  expended for the purchase of the  Company's  Common Stock was $79.5
million,  $31.5  million and $19.5  million for the years ended March 31,  1999,
1998 and 1997, respectively.

     During the year ended  March 31,  1999,  the  Company  purchased  2,847,500
shares of Common Stock at an aggregate cost of $70,324,000  and had  outstanding
700,000 put options at prices  ranging  from $22.30 to $28.81.  The Company also
has outstanding a net share settled forward contact. See Note 8 to "Consolidated
Financial Statements." The net share settled forward contract could obligate the
Company to purchase  shares of the  Company's  Common Stock in the future if the
price  of  the  Company's  Common  Stock  is  below  the  strike  price  of  the
instruments.

     The Company expects from time to time to purchase shares of Common Stock in
connection  with its authorized  stock purchase  program.  The Company will also
have cash requirements  associated with the restructuring  activities  described
above.

     The Company believes that its existing  sources of liquidity  combined with
cash  generated  from  operations  will  be  sufficient  to meet  the  Company's
currently  anticipated  cash  requirements  for at  least  the  next 12  months.
However,  the semiconductor  industry is capital  intensive.  In order to remain
competitive,  the Company  must  continue  to make  significant  investments  in
capital equipment, for both production and research and development. The Company
may seek additional  equity or debt financing  during the next 12 months for the
capital  expenditures  required  to  maintain  or  expand  the  Company's  wafer
fabrication and product test facilities or other purposes. The timing and amount
of any such capital  requirements will depend on a number of factors,  including
demand for the Company's  products,  product mix, changes in


industry conditions and competitive factors. There can be no assurance that such
financing  will be available on  acceptable  terms,  and any  additional  equity
financing could result in additional dilution to existing investors.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     The  information  required  by  this  item  is  set  forth  at  "Item  7 --
Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of  Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations -- Liquidity and Capital Resources," above.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The  Consolidated  Financial  Statements of the Company listed in the index
appearing  under Item 14(a)(1) hereof are filed as part of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. See also Index to Financial Statements on page F-1 hereof.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     Not applicable.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Information with respect to the Company's  directors is incorporated herein
by reference to the Company's  proxy  statement  for the 1999 annual  meeting of
stockholders under the caption "Election of Directors."

     See Item I,  Part I hereof  under  the  caption  "Executive  Officers"  for
information with respect to the Company's executive  officers.  Information with
respect to compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended, is incorporated herein by reference to the Company's proxy statement
for the 1999 annual  meeting of  stockholders  under the  caption  "Section16(a)
Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance."

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     Information with respect to executive  compensation is incorporated  herein
by reference to the information  under the caption  "Executive  Compensation" in
the Company's proxy statement for the 1999 annual meeting of stockholders.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     Information with respect to security ownership of certain beneficial owners
and  management  of the  Company  is  incorporated  herein by  reference  to the
information  under the caption  "Security  Ownership of Principal  Stockholders,
Directors and Executive  Officers" in the Company's proxy statement for the 1999
annual meeting of stockholders.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     Not applicable.


                                     PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a)  The  following  documents  are filed as part of this Annual  Report on
          Form 10-K:

                                                                        Page No.
                                                                        --------
          (1) Financial Statements:

              Independent Auditors' Report                                F-1

              Consolidated Balance Sheets as of
              March 31, 1999 and 1998                                     F-2

              Consolidated Statements of Income for each
              of the years in the three-year period ended
              March 31, 1999                                              F-3

              Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for
              each of the years in the three-year period
              ended March 31, 1999                                        F-4

              Consolidated Statements of Stockholders'
              Equity for each of the years in the
              three-year period ended March 31, 1999                      F-5

              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                  F-6


          (2)  Financial  Statement  Schedules -  Applicable
               schedules    have   been   omitted    because
               information  is included in the  footnotes to
               the Financial Statements.

          (3)  The Exhibits which are filed with this report
               or which are incorporated herein by reference
               are set  forth  in the  Exhibit  Index  which
               appears  on page E-1  hereof,  which  Exhibit
               Index   is   incorporated   herein   by  this
               reference.

     (b)  No current  reports on Form 8-K were filed  during the  quarter  ended
          March 31, 1999.

     (c)  See Item 14(a)(3) above.

     (d)  See  "Index to  Financial  Statements"  included  under Item 8 to this
          report.


                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                       MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED
                                                 (Registrant)

                                       By: /s/ Steve Sanghi
                                           -------------------------------------
                                           Steve Sanghi
                                           President and Chief Executive Officer


Date: May 17, 1999

     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Name and Signature                  Title                              Date
- ------------------                  -----                              ----

/s/ Steve Sanghi              Director, President and               May 17, 1999
- --------------------------    Chief Executive Officer
Steve Sanghi


- --------------------------
Albert J. Hugo-Martinez*      Director                              May 17, 1999


- --------------------------
L. B. Day*                    Director                              May 17, 1999


- --------------------------
Matthew W. Chapman*           Director                              May 17, 1999


/s/ C. Philip Chapman         Vice President, Chief Financial       May 17, 1999
- --------------------------    Officer and Secretary (Principal
C. Philip Chapman             Financial and Accounting Officer)


*By: /s/ Steve Sanghi         Individually and as  Attorney-in-fact May 17, 1999
- --------------------------
         Steve Sanghi










                           Annual Report on Form 10-K

                   Item 8, Item 14(a)(1) and (2), (c) and (d)

                        ---------------------------------


                          INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                        CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                    EXHIBITS

                        ---------------------------------


                            YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1999

                        MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                CHANDLER, ARIZONA




               MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



                                                                     Page Number
                                                                     -----------

         Independent Auditors' Report                                    F-1

         Consolidated Balance Sheets
         as of March 31, 1999 and 1998                                   F-2

         Consolidated Statements of Income
         for each of the years in the three-year
         period ended March 31, 1999                                     F-3

         Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
         for each of the years in the three-year
         period ended March 31, 1999                                     F-4

         Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
         for each of the years in the three-year
         period ended March 31, 1999                                     F-5

         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                      F-6


                                       i


                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Microchip Technology Incorporated:

We have  audited  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets of  Microchip
Technology  Incorporated and subsidiaries as of March 31, 1999 and 1998, and the
related consolidated statements of income,  stockholders' equity, and cash flows
for each of the years in the  three-year  period  ended  March 31,  1999.  These
consolidated  financial  statements  are  the  responsibility  of the  Company's
management.  Our  responsibility is to express an opinion on these  consolidated
financial statements based on our audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally   accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated  financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material aspects,  the financial position of Microchip Technology
Incorporated  and subsidiaries as of March 31, 1999 and 1998, and the results of
their  operations  and their cash flows for each of the years in the  three-year
period ended March 31, 1999, in conformity  with generally  accepted  accounting
principles.



Phoenix, Arizona
April 20, 1999

                                      F-1

               MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                      (in thousands except share amounts)

                                     ASSETS
                                                        March 31,     March 31,
                                                          1999          1998
                                                        ---------     ---------
Cash and cash equivalents                               $  30,826     $  32,188
Accounts receivable, net                                   62,545        56,320
Inventories                                                67,975        66,293
Prepaid expenses                                            2,982         2,208
Deferred tax asset                                         37,129        35,778
Other current assets                                        1,958         1,802
                                                        ---------     ---------
   Total current assets                                   203,415       194,589

Property, plant and equipment, net                        293,663       325,892
Other assets                                                8,152         4,262
                                                        ---------     ---------
   Total assets                                         $ 505,230     $ 524,743
                                                        =========     =========

                      LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

Short-term lines of credit                              $   1,509     $  16,000
Accounts payable                                           28,489        36,049
Current maturities of long-term debt                        1,403         2,196
Current maturities of capital  lease obligations              413         2,206
Accrued liabilities                                        49,699        53,452
Deferred income on shipments to distributors               28,607        29,515
                                                        ---------     ---------
   Total current liabilities                              110,120       139,418

Long-term lines of credit                                  25,000         7,000
Long-term debt, less current maturities                        --         1,420
Capital lease obligations, less current maturities             --           348
Long-term pension accrual                                      --           976
Deferred tax liability                                     11,313         8,273

Stockholders'  equity:

Preferred stock, $.001 par value; authorized
 5,000,000 shares; no shares issued or outstanding             --            --
Common stock, $.001 par value; authorized 100,000,000
 shares; issued 53,881,342 and outstanding 51,232,157
 shares at March 31, 1999;                                     54            54
 issued 53,881,342 and outstanding 52,870,389 shares
 at March 31, 1998
Additional paid-in capital                                161,242       176,865
Retained  earnings                                        264,281       214,193
Less shares of common stock held in treasury at cost;
 2,649,185 shares at March 31, 1999 and 1,010,953
 at March 31, 1998                                        (66,780)      (23,804)
                                                        ---------     ---------
   Net stockholders' equity                               358,797       367,308

   Total liabilities and stockholders' equity           $ 505,230     $ 524,743
                                                        =========     =========

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements

                                      F-2

               MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

                    (in thousands except per share amounts)

                                                  Years Ended March 31,
                                          -------------------------------------
                                             1999          1998          1997
                                          ---------     ---------     ---------

Net sales                                 $ 406,460     $ 396,894     $ 334,252
Cost of sales                               203,574       199,538       167,330
                                          ---------     ---------     ---------
   Gross profit                             202,886       197,356       166,922

Operating expenses:
   Research and development                  40,787        38,362        32,073
   Selling, general and administrative       63,006        67,549        56,248
   Special charges                           28,937         5,000         7,544
                                          ---------     ---------     ---------
                                            132,730       110,911        95,865

Operating income                             70,156        86,445        71,057

Other income (expense):
   Interest income                              754         2,635         1,419
   Interest expense                          (2,964)       (1,130)       (3,271)
   Other, net                                   665           217           288
                                          ---------     ---------     ---------

Income  before income  taxes                 68,611        88,167        69,493

Income taxes                                 18,523        23,799        18,361
                                          ---------     ---------     ---------

Net income                                $  50,088     $  64,368     $  51,132
                                          =========     =========     =========

 Basic net income per share               $    0.98     $    1.21     $    0.99
                                          =========     =========     =========

 Diluted net income per share             $    0.94     $    1.14     $    0.94
                                          =========     =========     =========
Weighted average common
   shares outstanding                        51,136        53,376        51,569
                                          =========     =========     =========
Weighted average common and common
   equivalent shares outstanding             53,528        56,313        54,683
                                          =========     =========     =========

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements

                                      F-3

               MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

                                 (in thousands)

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements

                                      F-4

               MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIAIRES
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

           See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements

                                      F-5

MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.   SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     NATURE OF BUSINESS
     Microchip  develops,  manufactures  and markets  field  programmable  8-bit
     microcontrollers,  application  specific  standard  products  ("ASSPs") and
     related   specialty  memory  products  for  high-volume   embedded  control
     applications in the consumer, automotive, office automation, communications
     and industrial markets.

     PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION
     The  consolidated  financial  statements  include the accounts of Microchip
     Technology  Incorporated and its wholly owned subsidiaries  ("Microchip" or
     the "Company"). All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have
     been eliminated in consolidation.

     CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
     All highly liquid investments  including  marketable  securities  purchased
     with an original maturity of three months or less are considered to be cash
     equivalents.  There were no  marketable  securities  at March 31,  1999 and
     1998.

     INVENTORIES
     Inventories  are valued at the lower of cost or market using the  first-in,
     first-out (FIFO) method.

     PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
     Property,  plant and  equipment  are  stated at cost.  Major  renewals  and
     improvements  are capitalized,  while  maintenance and repairs are expensed
     when incurred.  Depreciation is provided on a straight-line  basis over the
     estimated  useful  lives of the  related  assets  which range from three to
     twenty-five years.

     Assets acquired under capital lease  arrangements have been recorded at the
     present value of the future minimum lease payments and are being  amortized
     on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset or the
     lease  term,  whichever  is  shorter.  Amortization  of this  equipment  is
     included in depreciation and amortization expense.

     FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION AND FORWARD CONTRACTS
     The Company's  foreign  subsidiaries are considered to be extensions of the
     U.S.  company  and any  translation  gains  and  losses  related  to  these
     subsidiaries are included in income.  As the U.S. Dollar is utilized as the
     functional  currency,  gains and losses  resulting  from  foreign  currency
     transactions  (transactions  denominated  in  a  currency  other  than  the
     subsidiaries'  functional  currency) are also included in income. Gains and
     losses  associated  with  currency  rate changes on forward  contracts  are
     recorded currently in income.

     REVENUE RECOGNITION
     Revenue from product sales to direct customers is recognized upon shipment.
     The  Company  defers  recognition  of net  sales  and  profits  on sales to
     distributors  that have  rights of return  and price  protection  until the
     distributors have resold the products.

     INCOME TAXES
     Deferred  tax  assets and  liabilities  are  recognized  for the future tax
     consequences  attributable to differences  between the financial  statement
     carrying  amounts of existing assets and  liabilities and their  respective
     tax bases.  Deferred tax assets and  liabilities are measured using enacted
     tax rates  expected to apply to taxable  income in the years in which these
     temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled.

     COMPUTATION OF NET INCOME PER SHARE
     In 1997,  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board issued  Statement of
     Financial Accounting Standard No. 128, EARNINGS PER SHARE ("SFAS No. 128").
     SFAS No. 128 replaced the calculation of primary and fully diluted earnings
     per share  with  basic and  diluted  earnings  per  share.  Unlike  primary
     earnings per share,  basic earnings per share excludes any dilutive effects
     of options, warrants and convertible securities. Diluted earnings per share
     is very  similar to the  previously  reported  fully  diluted  earnings per
     share.  All earnings per share amounts for all periods have been presented,
     and  where   appropriate   restated,   to  conform  to  the  SFAS  No.  128
     requirements.

                                      F-6

     IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS
     The  Company  records  impairment  losses  on  long-lived  assets  used  in
     operations when  indicators of impairment are present and the  undiscounted
     cash flows  estimated  to be  generated  by those  assets are less than the
     assets' carrying amount.

     STOCK OPTION PLANS
     Prior to April 1, 1996, the Company accounted for its stock option plans in
     accordance  with the  provisions  of  Accounting  Principles  Board ("APB")
     Opinion  No. 25,  ACCOUNTING  FOR STOCK  ISSUED TO  EMPLOYEES,  and related
     interpretations.  As such,  compensation expense would be recorded only if,
     on the date of grant,  the current  market  price of the  underlying  stock
     exceeded the exercise price. On April 1, 1996, the Company adopted SFAS No.
     123,  ACCOUNTING  FOR  STOCK-BASED  COMPENSATION,  ("SFAS No.  123")  which
     permits  entities to recognize as expense over the vesting  period the fair
     value of all stock-based awards on the date of grant.  Alternatively,  SFAS
     No. 123 also allows  entities to  continue to apply the  provisions  of APB
     Opinion No. 25 and provide pro forma net income and pro forma  earnings per
     share  disclosures for employee stock option grants made in fiscal 1996 and
     future years as if the fair-value-based  method defined in SFAS No. 123 had
     been applied.  The Company has elected to continue to apply the  provisions
     of APB Opinion No. 25 and provide the pro forma  disclosure  provisions  of
     SFAS No. 123.

     USE OF ESTIMATES
     The Company has made a number of estimates and assumptions  relating to the
     reporting of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets
     and  liabilities to prepare these  financial  statements in conformity with
     generally accepted accounting principles.  Actual results could differ from
     those estimates.

     RECLASSIFICATIONS
     Certain  1998 and 1997  fiscal  year  balances  have been  reclassified  to
     conform to the fiscal year 1999 presentation.

2.   SPECIAL CHARGES

     LEGAL SETTLEMENT WITH LUCENT TECHNOLOGIES INC.
     On January 13,  1998,  the Company  finalized  a  settlement  of its patent
     litigation with Lucent Technologies Inc. resulting in the Company recording
     a $5,000,000  special  charge during the quarter  ended  December 31, 1997.
     Under the terms of the  settlement,  Microchip made a one-time cash payment
     to Lucent and issued to Lucent warrants to acquire 300,000 shares of Common
     Stock  of the  Company  priced  at  $25.25  per  share.  The  terms  of the
     settlement  also  provide for the Company to make a  contingent  payment to
     Lucent if the Company's  earnings per share  performance  for the three and
     one-half  year period  ending June 30, 2001 does not meet certain  targeted
     levels.  Based on the  current  estimate  of  earnings  per  share  for the
     measurement period the Company has provided the appropriate reserve to meet
     this liability.  It is currently anticipated that any additional contingent
     payment  required  under the terms of the  settlement,  in  addition to the
     current reserve, would be expensed in the period the amount is determined.

     RESTRUCTURING CHARGES
     The Company  has  implemented  two  restructuring  actions to position  the
     Company for future cost  effective  growth.  During the March 1999 quarter,
     the Company  completed  closure of its 5-inch wafer line which  represented
     the Company's least flexible and least cost-effective  production capacity.
     Eliminating the 5-inch production capacity reduces the Company's productive
     capacity by approximately 20%. The Company intends to replace this capacity
     with 6-inch and 8-inch wafer  production over time. This action resulted in
     a restructuring charge of $7,561,000 in the March 1999 quarter. The Company
     also decided to restructure  its test operations over the next two quarters
     by closing its  Kaohsiung  facility and  migrating its test capacity to its
     lower-cost,  Thailand  facility.  This action  resulted in a  restructuring
     charge of $6,089,000 in the March 1999 quarter.

     Included in the  restructuring  charges  resulting from  elimination of the
     5-inch  production  capacity was  $6,758,000  related to equipment that was
     written  off,  $310,000  related to employee  severance  costs and $493,000
     related to other restructuring costs. Included in the restructuring charges
     resulting from the closure of the Kaohsiung facility was $5,579,000 related
     to employee  severance  costs and $510,000  related to other  restructuring
     costs.

     Included  in the  special  charge the  Company  recorded  in the March 1999
     quarter was $1,805,000  related to two legal  settlements  associated  with
     intellectual  property  matters,  and $350,000  related to restructure of a
     portion of the  Company's  sales  infrastructure.

                                      F-7

     During the quarter  ended June 30, 1998,  the Company  recognized a special
     charge of $5,500,000  which was comprised of three  elements:  a $3,300,000
     legal  settlement with another company  involving an intellectual  property
     dispute;  a $1,700,000  write-off of products obsoleted by the introduction
     of newer products;  and a $500,000 charge associated with the restructuring
     of a portion of the Company's sales organization.

     During the quarter ended June 30, 1996,  primarily in response to inventory
     correction activities at the Company's customers, the Company implemented a
     series of  actions to reduce  production  capacity,  curtail  the growth of
     inventories and reduce operating expenses.  These actions included delaying
     capital expansion plans and deferring  capital  spending,  a 15% production
     cutback in wafer  fabrication,  a headcount  reduction  in early April 1996
     representing  approximately 3% of the Company's worldwide employees,  and a
     two-week  wafer  fab shut  down in early  July  1996.  As a result of these
     actions, the Company recorded a pre-tax special charge of $5,969,000 in the
     quarter ended June 30, 1996 to cover costs primarily related to idling part
     of the Company's  5-inch wafer fab  capacity,  paying  continuing  expenses
     during the wafer  fabrication  facility shutdown and paying severance costs
     associated with the April 1996 headcount reduction.

     ACQUISITIONS

     KEELOQ(R) HOPPING COde
     On November  17, 1995,  the Company  acquired  the  Keeloq(R)  hopping code
     technology  and patents  developed by Nanoteq Ltd. of the Republic of South
     Africa,   and  the   marketing   rights   related   thereto   (the  "Keeloq
     Acquisition").  The Keeloq Acquisition was treated as an asset purchase for
     accounting purposes. The amount paid for the Keeloq Acquisition,  including
     all  related  costs,  was  $12,948,000.  The  Company  has  written  off  a
     substantial  portion  of the  purchase  price that  relates  to  in-process
     research and  development  costs,  which is  consistent  with the Company's
     ongoing treatment of research and development  costs, as well as all Keeloq
     Acquisition-related  costs.  The special charge  associated with the Keeloq
     Acquisition  was  $11,448,000,   with  the  balance  treated  as  purchased
     technology  and amortized on a straight  line basis over five years.  Under
     the terms of the Keeloq  Acquisition,  the  Company  agreed to a  secondary
     payment which has been determined to be $10,250,000,  net of legal expenses
     of $1,107,000.  The Company has determined  that $4,250,000 will be treated
     as purchased  technology and amortized over the remaining  expected life of
     the revenue stream of the Keeloq products. Under the provisions of SFAS No.
     121,  ACCOUNTING FOR THE IMPAIRMENT OF LONG LIVED ASSETS AND FOR LONG LIVED
     ASSETS TO BE DISPOSED OF, the balance of the payment including the residual
     asset value capitalized as part of the initial payment has been written off
     as part of the special  charge  made by the  Company in the  quarter  ended
     March 31, 1999. The total amount  expensed as part of the special charge in
     the quarter ended March 31, 1999 was $7,632,000.

     ASIC TECHNICAL SOLUTIONS
     On June 25, 1996, the Company  acquired ASIC Technical  Solutions,  Inc., a
     fabless provider of quick turn gate array devices (the "ASIC Acquisition").
     The ASIC Acquisition was treated as a purchase for accounting purposes. The
     amount paid for the ASIC  Acquisition and related costs was $1,750,000.  As
     part of the ASIC Acquisition,  the Company allocated a substantial  portion
     of the purchase price to in-process  research and development  costs, which
     is  consistent  with the  Company's  on-going  treatment  of  research  and
     development  costs.  The  total  special  charge  associated  with the ASIC
     Acquisition  was   $1,575,000,   with  the  balance  treated  as  purchased
     technology related to current products and amortized over five years.

3.   CONTINGENCIES

     The Company is subject to lawsuits and other claims arising in the ordinary
     course of its business.  In the Company's  opinion,  based on  consultation
     with legal  counsel,  as of March 31, 1999, the effect of such matters will
     not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position.

                                      F-8

4.   ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE

     Accounts receivable consists of the following (amounts in thousands):

                                                               March 31,
                                                         1999            1998
                                                         ----            ----
            Trade accounts receivable                  $64,335         $57,922
            Other                                          570             790
                                                       -------         -------
                                                                    
                                                        64,905          58,712
                                                                    
            Less allowance for doubtful accounts         2,360           2,392
                                                       -------         -------
                                                                    
                                                       $62,545         $56,320
                                                       =======         =======
                                                                   
5.   INVENTORIES

     The components of inventories are as follows (amounts in thousands):

                                                               March 31,
                                                         1999            1998
                                                         ----            ----
            Raw materials                              $ 4,491         $ 5,795
            Work in process                             46,947          40,000
            Finished goods                              26,531          30,021
                                                       -------         -------
                                                                     
                                                        77,969          75,816
                                                                     
            Less allowance for inventory valuation       9,994           9,523
                                                       -------         -------
                                                                     
                                                       $67,975         $66,293
                                                       =======         =======
                                                                    
     In the  quarter  ended June 30,  1997,  the  Company  changed its method of
     accounting for inventories from the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method to the
     first-in,  first-out  (FIFO)  method.  The  change  did not have a material
     effect on the results of  operations.  The FIFO  method is the  predominant
     accounting method used in the semiconductor industry. Prior to this change,
     the Company's  inventory costs did not differ  significantly  under the two
     methods. Prior period results of operations have not been restated for this
     change as the impact is not material.

6.   PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

     Property,  plant  and  equipment  consists  of the  following  (amounts  in
     thousands):

                                                               March 31,
                                                         1999            1998
                                                         ----            ----
            Land                                      $ 11,545        $ 11,749
            Building and building improvements          77,600          59,725
            Machinery and equipment                    365,947         322,624
            Projects in process                         41,143          82,528
                                                      --------        --------
                                                                   
                                                       496,235         476,626
            Less accumulated depreciation                          
              and amortization                         202,572         150,734
                                                      --------        --------
                                                                   
                                                      $293,663        $325,892
                                                      ========        ========
                                                                  
                                      F-9

7.   LONG-TERM DEBT

     Long-term debt consists of borrowings  (denominated  in U.S.  Dollars) from
     three Taiwan financial institutions, secured by equipment financed thereby.
     Interest rates are at the Singapore Interbank Offering Rate (SIBOR) (5.125%
     at March 31,  1999) plus 0.75% and at the London  Interbank  Offering  Rate
     (LIBOR)  (5.125%  at March 31,  1999)  plus  0.75%.  The  weighted  average
     interest rate on these  borrowings was 5.875% at March 31, 1999.  Payments,
     including  interest,  are due on a semi-annually  basis. With the scheduled
     closure of the Kaohsiung testing facility and the transfer of the equipment
     secured by this  financing to the  Company's  testing  facility in Bangkok,
     Thailand,  the  balance  of  $1,403,000  remaining  under the terms of this
     financing has been classified as a current liability.

     The Company has an unsecured  line of credit with a syndicate of U.S. banks
     for up to $90,000,000, bearing interest at the LIBOR plus .325% expiring in
     October 2000. The Company had utilized  $25,000,000  and $7,000,000 of this
     line of credit as of March 31, 1999 and 1998,  respectively.  The agreement
     between the  Company and the  syndicate  of banks  requires  the Company to
     achieve certain financial ratios and operating results.  The Company was in
     compliance with these covenants as of March 31, 1999.

     The Company has an additional  unsecured line of credit with various Taiwan
     financial  institutions  for up to $32,814,000  (U.S.  Dollar  equivalent).
     These borrowings are  predominantly  denominated in U.S.  Dollars,  bearing
     interest  at SIBOR plus  0.59%  (average)  and  expiring  on various  dates
     through November, 1999. At March 31, 1999 and 1998 the Company had utilized
     $1,509,000 and $16,000,000, respectively, of this line of credit.

8.   EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

     The Company maintains a contributory  profit-sharing plan for a majority of
     its domestic  employees  meeting  certain  service  requirements.  The plan
     qualifies  under Section  401(k) of the Internal  Revenue Code,  and allows
     employees to contribute up to 15% of their compensation, subject to maximum
     annual  limitations  prescribed by the Internal  Revenue  Service.  Company
     contributions  to the plan were at the discretion of the Board of Directors
     until January 1, 1997, when the employer match was revised to provide for a
     fixed and  discretionary  component.  The  Company  shall  make a  matching
     contribution  of up to 25% of the  first 4% of the  participant's  eligible
     compensation and may award up to an additional 25% under the  discretionary
     match.  All  matches  are  provided  on a  quarterly  basis and require the
     participant  to be an active  employee at the end of each quarter.  For the
     fiscal years ended March 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, the Company contributions
     to the plan totaled $445,000, $525,000 and $452,000, respectively.

     The Company's  Employee Stock  Purchase Plan (the  "Purchase  Plan") allows
     eligible  employees  of the Company to purchase  shares of Common  Stock at
     semi-annual  intervals  through periodic payroll  deductions.  The purchase
     price per share,  in  general,  will be 85% of the lower of the fair market
     value of the Common Stock on the participant's entry date into the offering
     period or 85% of the fair market value on the semi-annual purchase date. As
     of March 31, 1999,  101,710  shares were  available for issuance  under the
     Purchase Plan.  Since the inception of the Purchase Plan,  3,306,000 shares
     of Common Stock have been reserved for issuance under the Purchase Plan. In
     April  1999,  subject  to  stockholder  approval,  the  Board  reserved  an
     additional  400,000  shares of Common Stock for issuance under the Purchase
     Plan.  During  fiscal  1995, a purchase  plan was adopted for  employees in
     non-U.S. locations. Such plan allows for the purchase price per share to be
     100% of the  lower of the fair  market  value  of the  Common  Stock on the
     beginning or end of the semi-annual purchase plan period.

     Effective  January 1, 1997, the Company  adopted a  non-qualified  deferred
     compensation arrangement. This plan is unfunded and is maintained primarily
     for the purpose of providing  deferred  compensation  for a select group of
     management  as defined in ERISA  Sections  201,  301 and 401.  There are no
     Company matching contributions with respect to this plan.

     Substantially all employees in foreign locations are covered by a statutory
     pension plan.  Contributions are accrued based on an actuarially determined
     percentage  of  compensation  and are funded in amounts  sufficient to meet
     statutory requirements.  Pension expense amounted to $1,037,000, $1,202,000
     and  $1,316,000  for the  years  ended  March  31,  1999,  1998  and  1997,
     respectively.

                                      F-10

     The Company has a management incentive compensation plan which provides for
     bonus  payments,  based on a percentage  of base salary,  from an incentive
     pool created from  operating  profits of the Company,  at the discretion of
     the Board of  Directors.  During the years ended March 31,  1999,  1998 and
     1997,  $2,220,000,  $1,851,000  and  $2,064,000  respectively,  was charged
     against operations for this plan.

     The  Company  also has a plan  which  provides  a cash  bonus  based on the
     operating  profits of the Company for all  employees,  at the discretion of
     the Board of  Directors.  During the years ended March 31,  1999,  1998 and
     1997,  $607,000,  $1,746,000  and  $1,373,000,  respectively,  was  charged
     against operations for this plan.

9.   STOCK OPTION PLANS

     Under the  Company's  stock  option  plans (the  "Plans"),  key  employees,
     non-employee  directors  and  consultants  may be granted  incentive  stock
     options or  non-statutory  stock options to purchase shares of Common Stock
     at a price not less than 100% of the fair value of the option shares on the
     grant date. Options granted under the Plans vest over the period determined
     by the Board of Directors at the date of grant, at periods ranging from one
     year to four years.

     At March 31, 1999,  there were 3,940,780  shares  available for grant under
     the Plans. In April 1999, the Board reserved an additional 1,500,000 shares
     of Common Stock for issuance under the 1997 Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan.
     The per share  weighted-average  fair value of stock options  granted under
     the Plans for the years  ended  March 31,  1999,  1998 and 1997 was $10.31,
     $15.61  and  $9.66,  respectively,  based on the date of  grant  using  the
     Black-Scholes  option-pricing  model with the  following  weighted  average
     assumptions:

                                               Years Ended March 31,
                                        1999          1998          1997
                                        ----          ----          ----
     Expected life (years)              3.96          3.64          3.50
     Risk-free interest rate            5.10%         5.75%         6.25%
     Volatility                           68%           62%           60%
     Dividend yield                        0%            0%            0%

     Under the Plans,  18,897,479  shares of Common Stock had been  reserved for
     issuance since the inception of the Plans.

     The stock option activity is as follows:

                                                         Options Outstanding
                                                                Weighted Average
                                                     Shares      Exercise Price
                                                     ------      --------------
             Outstanding at March 31, 1996         6,547,307         $10.88

             Granted                               2,092,952          17.74
             Exercised                            (1,314,977)          6.16
             Canceled                               (967,610)         21.28
                                                  ----------

             Outstanding at March 31, 1997         6,357,672         $12.50

             Granted                               1,631,821          27.80
             Exercised                              (778,418)          7.72
             Canceled                             (1,006,781)         25.99
                                                  ----------

             Outstanding at March 31, 1998         6,204,294         $14.84

             Granted                               1,323,606          22.79
             Exercised                              (944,349)         10.44
             Canceled                               (344,574)         28.94
                                                  ----------

             Outstanding at March 31, 1999         6,238,977         $16.83
                                                  ==========         ======

                                      F-11

     The  following  table  summarizes   information  about  the  stock  options
     outstanding at March 31, 1999:



     At March 31, 1999 and 1998, the number of options exercisable was 2,506,115
     and 2,625,827,  respectively,  and the  weighted-average  exercise price of
     those options was $10.46 and $8.94, respectively.

     On March 2, 1998, the Board of Directors of the Company  approved an option
     exchange  program  for  options  priced in excess of $25.00.  This  program
     excluded executive  officers,  corporate  officers and directors.  Eligible
     employees  who were issued stock  options in this  category  could elect to
     keep their options to buy Common Stock at the original grant price or elect
     to exchange such options for options  priced at $21.50 per share,  the fair
     market  value of the  Company's  Common  Stock on  March  9,  1998.  If the
     employee  elected to exchange the options for options  priced at $21.50 per
     share,  the  vesting  commencement  date was  extended  by 90 days from the
     original  vesting  date.  There were 534,522  shares  exchanged  under this
     option exchange program.

     For certain options granted, the Company recognized as compensation expense
     the excess of the deemed value for accounting  purposes of the Common Stock
     issuable  upon  exercise of such options  over the  exercise  price of such
     options.  This deferred  compensation expense is amortized ratably over the
     vesting  period of each option.  During the year ended March 31, 1997,  the
     Company recorded compensation expense of $30,000.

     The Company received a tax benefit of $4,915,000, $5,332,000 and $5,742,000
     for the years ended March 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997,  respectively,  from the
     exercise  of  non-qualified  stock  options  and the  disposition  of stock
     acquired with  incentive  stock options or through the Purchase  Plan.  For
     financial reporting purposes, the tax effect of this deduction is accounted
     for as a credit to additional paid-in capital rather than as a reduction of
     income tax expense.  The Company  applies APB Opinion No. 25 in  accounting
     for its various stock plans and, accordingly, no compensation cost has been
     recognized for the Plans or the Purchase Plan in the financial  statements.
     Had the Company  determined  compensation  cost in accordance with SFAS No.
     123, the  Company's net income per share would have been reduced to the pro
     forma amounts indicated below:

                                                Years Ended March 31,
                                             1999         1998         1997
                                           -------      -------      -------
     Net income           As reported      $50,088      $64,368      $51,132
                          Pro forma         43,183       58,461       48,202

     Basic net income     As reported      $  0.98      $  1.21      $  0.99
     per share            Pro forma           0.84         1.10         0.93

     Dilutednet income    As reported      $  0.94      $  1.14      $  0.94
     per share            Pro forma           0.81         1.04         0.88

     Pro forma net income  reflects only options granted during the fiscal years
     ended March 31, 1999,  1998, 1997 and 1996.  Therefore,  the full impact of
     calculating  compensation  cost for stock options under SFAS No. 123 is not
     reflected  in  pro  forma  net  income  amounts   presented  above  because
     compensation  cost is  reflected  over  the  options'  vesting  period  and
     compensation  cost for  options  granted  prior  to  April  1,  1995 is not
     considered.

                                      F-12

10.  LEASE COMMITMENTS

     The Company leases office space,  transportation  and other equipment under
     capital  and  operating  leases  which  expire  at  various  dates  through
     September,  2007. The future minimum lease  commitments  under these leases
     are payable as follows (amounts in thousands):

          Year ended                                       Capital     Operating
           March 31,                                       Leases        Leases
           ---------                                       ------        ------
            2000                                            $424         $1,432
            2001                                              --          1,130
            2002                                              --            925
            2003                                              --            777
            2004                                              --            564
            Thereafter                                                    1,278
                                                            ----         ------
            Total minimum lease payments                    $424         $6,106

            Less amount representing interest
            (at rates ranging from 6.7% to 8.5%)             (11)
                                                            ----
            Present value of net minimum lease payments      413
                                                            ====

     Rental expense under operating  leases totaled  $2,759,000,  $2,811,000 and
     $2,644,000 for the years ended March 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

11.  INCOME TAXES

     The provision for income taxes is as follows (amounts in thousands):

                                                 Years Ended March 31,
                                           1999          1998          1997
                                         --------      --------      --------
     Current expense:
         Federal                         $  8,405      $ 22,575      $ 13,814
         State                                934         2,508         3,454
         Foreign                            7,495         8,139         4,093
                                         --------      --------      --------

                                           16,834        33,222        21,361
                                         --------      --------      --------
     Deferred expense (benefit):
         Federal                            1,413        (6,315)       (1,322)
         State                                157          (702)         (331)
         Foreign                              119        (2,406)       (1,347)
                                         --------      --------      --------

                                            1,689        (9,423)       (3,000)
                                         --------      --------      --------

                                         $ 18,523      $ 23,799      $ 18,361
                                         ========      ========      ========

     The tax benefit  associated  with the  exercise of employee  stock  options
     reduced taxes currently payable by $4,915,000,  $5,332,000,  and $5,742,000
     for the years  ended March 31,  1999,  1998 and 1997,  respectively.  These
     amounts were  credited to  additional  paid in capital in each of the three
     fiscal years.

                                      F-13

     The provision for income taxes differs from the amount computed by applying
     the statutory  federal tax rate to income before income taxes.  The sources
     and tax effects of the differences are as follows (amounts in thousands):

                                                 Years Ended March 31,
                                           1999          1998          1997
                                         --------      --------      --------
     Computed expected provision         $24,014       $30,858        $24,323

     State income taxes, net
     of federal benefit                    1,289         1,630          2,245

     Foreign sales corporation benefit    (2,824)       (3,707)        (2,552)

     Foreign income taxed at
     lower than the federal rate          (3,956)       (4,982)        (5,655)
                                         -------       -------        -------

                                         $18,523       $23,799        $18,361
                                         =======       =======        =======

     Pretax income from foreign  operations  was  $29,787,000,  $39,554,000  and
     $32,172,000   for  the  years  ended  March  31,   1999,   1998  and  1997,
     respectively.  Unremitted  foreign  earnings  that  are  considered  to  be
     permanently  invested  outside  the United  States and on which no deferred
     taxes have been provided,  amounted to approximately  $177,661,000 at March
     31, 1999.

     The tax  effects of  temporary  differences  that give rise to  significant
     portions of the deferred tax assets and  deferred  tax  liabilities  are as
     follows (amounts in thousands):

                                                             March 31,
                                                       1999             1998
                                                     --------         --------
         Deferred tax assets:

            Intercompany profit in inventory         $ 15,474         $ 15,168
            Deferred income on shipments
            to distributors                             9,884            9,398
            Inventory reserves                          3,921            3,550
            Accrued expenses and other                  7,850           10,460
                                                     --------         --------
            Gross deferred tax assets                  37,129           38,576
                                                     --------         --------
         Deferred tax liabilities:

            Property, plant and equipment,
            principally due to differences in
            depreciation                              (11,313)         (11,071)
                                                     --------         --------
            Gross deferred tax liability              (11,313)         (11,071)
                                                     --------         --------
            Net deferred tax asset                   $ 25,816         $ 27,505
                                                     ========         ========

     Management  believes  that the results of future  operations  will generate
     sufficient taxable income to realize the deferred tax assets.

     The  Company  has  benefited  from a partial  tax  holiday  for its  Taiwan
     manufacturing  operations  over the past  several  years.  The  Company  is
     currently  benefiting  from a tax  holiday for its  Thailand  manufacturing
     operations.  The aggregate  dollar benefits derived from these tax holidays
     approximated  $5,121,000,  $5,614,000,  and  $5,415,000 for the years ended
     March 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997,  respectively.  The benefit the tax holidays
     had on net income  per share  approximated  $0.10,  $0.10 and $0.10 for the
     years ended March 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.  The Company's tax
     holiday status in Taiwan expired in March 1997 and will partially expire in
     Thailand in September 2003.

                                      F-14

12.  ACCRUED LIABILITIES

     Accrued liabilities consists of the following (amounts in thousands):

                                                           March 31,
                                                    1999               1998
                                                  -------            -------
            Accrued salaries and wages            $11,437            $ 7,468
            Income taxes                            5,654             22,396
            Keeloq acquisition                     10,250                 --
            Other accrued expenses                 21,873             23,588
                                                  -------            -------
                                                  $49,214            $53,452
                                                  =======            =======

13.  STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

     STOCKHOLDER  RIGHTS  PLAN.  On February 13, 1995,  the  Company's  Board of
     Directors adopted a Stockholder  Rights Plan (the "Plan").  Under the Plan,
     each share of the Company's  Common Stock has one right which  entitles the
     stockholder  to  buy  1/100th  of  a  share  of  the  Company's   Series  A
     Participating  Preferred Stock. The rights have an exercise price of $66.67
     and expire in February 2005. The rights become exercisable and transferable
     upon the occurrence of certain events.

     STOCK REPURCHASE  ACTIVITY.  In connection with a stock repurchase program,
     during the years  ended March 31,  1999 and 1998,  the Company  purchased a
     total of 2,847,500  and 1,277,500  shares of the Company's  Common Stock in
     open  market  activities  at a total cost of  $70,324,000  and  $31,481,000
     respectively.  During the year ended March 31,  1999 the  Company  received
     230,575 shares in conjunction with the net share settled forward  contract.
     Also, in connection with a stock repurchase program, during fiscal 1999 and
     fiscal  1998 the Company  sold put  options for 600,000  shares and 700,000
     shares of Common Stock, respectively.  Pricing per share ranged from $22.30
     to $27.50 in fiscal 1999 and from $29.50 to $38.81 in fiscal  1998.  During
     fiscal  1999 and 1998,  the  Company  purchased  put options for 50,000 and
     300,000 shares, respectively. The net proceeds from the sale and repurchase
     of these  options,  in the amount of $2,113,000  and  $2,215,000 for fiscal
     1999 and 1998 respectively has been credited to additional paid-in capital.
     During the year ended March 31,  1999 put  options for 250,000  shares were
     purchased  at the  settlement  dates at a total cost of  $9,188,000.  As of
     March 31, 1999, the Company had  outstanding put options for 700,000 shares
     which have  expiration  dates  ranging from July 29, 1999 to September  13,
     1999 at prices ranging from $22.30 to $28.81 per share.

     During  the  year  ended  March  31,  1999,   the  Company   completed  two
     transactions in connection with the stock repurchase program. In April 1998
     the  Company  completed a costless  collar  transaction  for 500,000  calls
     priced at $25.95 and 665,000 puts priced at $25.19.  The expiration date of
     the  transaction  was April 28, 1999,  resulting  in the Company  receiving
     $4,660,000  which will be credited to additional  paid in capital.  Also in
     connection with the stock repurchase  program,  the Company completed a net
     share settled forward  contract for 2,000,000 shares at an average price of
     $29.24.  The expiration date of this transaction is May 2000 with quarterly
     interim settlement dates.

     The Company expects from time to time to purchase shares of Common Stock in
     connection with its authorized Common Stock repurchase plan.

                                      F-15

14.  GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

     The Company operates in one industry  segment and engages  primarily in the
     design,  development,  manufacture and marketing of semiconductor products.
     The Company sells its products to system  manufacturers and distributors in
     a broad range of industries,  performs  on-going credit  evaluations of its
     customers and generally  requires no collateral.  The Company's  operations
     outside  the United  States  consist of  comprehensive  product  final test
     facilities  in Taiwan and  Thailand  and sales  offices in certain  foreign
     countries.  Domestic operations are responsible for the design, development
     and wafer  fabrication  of all  products,  as well as the  coordination  of
     production  planning and shipping to meet worldwide  customer  commitments.
     The Taiwan and Thailand test facilities are reimbursed in relation to value
     added with respect to test  operations and other functions  performed,  and
     certain  foreign sales offices  receive a commission on export sales within
     their territory.  Accordingly,  for financial statement purposes, it is not
     meaningful to segregate sales or operating profits for the test and foreign
     sales office  operations.  Identifiable  assets by  geographic  area are as
     follows (amounts in thousands):

                                                  March 31,
                                           1999                1998
                                         --------            --------
            United States                $284,496            $306,142
            Taiwan                        125,768             136,128
            Thailand                       66,532              57,374
            Other                          28,434              25,099
                                         --------            --------
                 Total Assets            $505,230            $524,743
                                         ========            ========

     Sales  to  unaffiliated   customers  located  outside  the  United  States,
     primarily in Asia and Europe,  aggregated approximately 69%, 68% and 66% of
     consolidated  net sales for the years ended March 31, 1999,  1998 and 1997,
     respectively.

15.  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The carrying  amount of cash  equivalents  approximates  fair value because
     their maturity is less than three months.  The carrying  amount of accounts
     receivable,  accounts  payable and accrued  liabilities  approximates  fair
     value due to the short  term  maturity  of the  amounts.  The fair value of
     capital lease  obligations,  long-term debt and lines of credit approximate
     their carrying  value as they are estimated by discounting  the future cash
     flows  at  rates  currently   offered  to  the  Company  for  similar  debt
     instruments.

     The Company is party to financial instruments with  off-balance-sheet  risk
     in the normal course of business to reduce its exposure to  fluctuations in
     foreign exchange rates. These financial instruments include standby letters
     of credit and foreign currency forward contracts.  When engaging in forward
     contracts,  risks arise from the possible  inability of  counterparties  to
     meet the terms of their contracts and from movements in securities  values,
     interest rates and foreign  exchange rates. At March 31, 1999 and 1998, the
     Company held contracts  totaling  $4,263,000 and $9,158,000,  respectively,
     which were entered into and hedged the Company's foreign currency risk. The
     contracts  matured  May 4, 1999 and April 28,  1998.  Unrealized  gains and
     losses as of the balance sheet dates and realized  gains and losses for the
     years ending March 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 were not material.

                                      F-16

16.  NET INCOME PER SHARE

     The  following  table sets forth the  computation  of basic and diluted net
     income per share (in thousands except per share amounts):

                                                     Years Ended March 31,
                                                1999        1998          1997
                                              -------      -------      -------
     Net income                               $50,088      $64,368      $51,132
                                              =======      =======      =======
     Weighted average common
     shares outstanding                        51,136       53,376       51,569

     Dilutive effect of stock options           2,392        2,937        3,114
                                              -------      -------      -------
     Weighted average common and common
     equivalent shares outstanding             53,528       56,313       54,683
                                              =======      =======      =======

     Basic net income per share               $  0.98      $  1.21      $  0.99
                                              =======      =======      =======
     Diluted net income per share             $  0.94      $  1.14      $  0.94
                                              =======      =======      =======

17.  QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED)

     The following  table presents the Company's  selected  unaudited  quarterly
     operating  results for eight  quarters  ended March 31,  1999.  The Company
     believes that all necessary  adjustments  have been made to present  fairly
     the related quarterly results (in thousands except per share amounts).



                                      F-17

18.  SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION

     Cash  paid for  income  taxes  amounted  to  $27,875,000,  $19,857,000  and
     $8,108,000   during  the  years  ended  March  31,  1999,  1998  and  1997,
     respectively.  Cash paid for interest amounted to $2,688,000,  $796,000 and
     $3,183,000   during  the  years  ended  March  31,  1999,  1998  and  1997,
     respectively.  Included in the special  charge for the year ended March 31,
     1999 was a non-cash amount of $8,920,000,  of which $1,700,000 pertained to
     the write off of products  obsoleted by the  introduction of newer products
     and  $7,220,000  pertained  to the write  down of fixed  assets  due to the
     restructuring of wafer fabrication facilities.

     A summary  of  additions  and  deductions  related  to the  allowances  for
     accounts  receivable  and  inventories  for the years ended March 31, 1999,
     1998 and 1997 follows:



                                      F-18

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.                     Description                             Page No.
- -----------                     -----------                             --------

   3.1        Restated    Certificate   of    Incorporation   of
              Registrant  [Incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
              3.1 to Registration Statement No. 33-70608]

   3.1.1      Certificate of Amendment to Registrant's  Restated
              Certificate  of  Incorporation   [Incorporated  by
              reference  to  Exhibit  3.3.1 to the  Registrant's
              Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
              ended March 31, 1994]

   3.1.2      Certificate of Designation of Rights,  Preferences
              and Privileges of Series A Participating Preferred
              Stock of Registrant  [Incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit No. 3.1.2 to Registrant's Annual Report on
              Form  10-K for the  fiscal  year  ended  March 31,
              1995]

   3.1.3      Certificate of Amendment to Registrant's  Restated
              Certificate  of  Incorporation   [Incorporated  by
              reference   to  Exhibit  No.  1  to   Registrant's
              Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q  for the  quarter
              ended September 30, 1995]

   3.1.4      Certificate    of   Amendment   to    Registrant's
              Certificate  of  Incorporation   [Incorporated  by
              reference  to  Exhibit  No.  3.1  to  Registrant's
              Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q  for the  quarter
              ended June 30, 1997]

   3.2        Amended and  Restated  By-Laws of  Registrant,  as
              amended through August 10, 1998  [Incorporated  by
              reference  to  Exhibit  No.  3.1  to  Registrant's
              Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q  for the  quarter
              ended September 30, 1998]

   4.1        Preferred  Share  Rights  Agreement  dated  as  of
              February 13, 1995 between Registrant and Bank One,
              Arizona,   N.A.,  including  the  form  of  Rights
              Certificate  and the Summary of Rights attached as
              exhibits  thereto  [Incorporated  by  reference to
              Exhibit   No.  1  to   Registrant's   Registration
              Statement on Form 8-A as filed with the Securities
              and Exchange Commission as of February 14, 1995]

   10.1       Form   of   Indemnification    Agreement   between
              Registrant  and its  directors  and certain of its
              officers [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
              10.1 to Registration Statement No. 33-57960]

   10.2       Land Lease  Contract dated January 1, 1989 between
              Registrant's   subsidiary  and  Kaohsiung   Export
              Processing Zone  Administration  Summary  (English
              Summary) [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
              10.10 to Registration Statement No. 33-57960]

   10.3       Land  Lease  Contract  dated   September  1,  1992
              between  Registrant's   subsidiary  and  Kaohsiung
              Export  Processing  Zone  Administration   Summary
              (English  Summary)  [Incorporated  by reference to
              Exhibit No. 10.11 to  Registration  Statement  No.
              33-57960]

   10.4       Amended  and  Restated   1989  Stock  Option  Plan
              [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.14 to
              Registration Statement No. 33-57960]

   10.5       1993 Stock Option Plan,  as amended  through April
              25, 1997  [Incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit
              10.11 to  Registrant's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
              for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1997]

                                       E-1

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.                     Description                             Page No.
- -----------                     -----------                             --------

   10.6           Form of  Notice  of Grant  For 1993  Stock  Option
                  Plan, with Exhibit A thereto, Form of Stock Option
                  Agreement;  and  Exhibit B thereto,  Form of Stock
                  Purchase  Agreement  [Incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit  No.  10.6   Registration   Statement  No.
                  333-872]

   10.7           Employee Stock  Purchase Plan, as amended  through
                  April  25,   1997[Incorporated   by  reference  to
                  Exhibit  10.13 to  Registrant's  Annual  Report on
                  Form  10-K for the  fiscal  year  ended  March 31,
                  1997]

   10.8           Form of  Stock  Purchase  Agreement  for  Employee
                  Stock Purchase Plan  [Incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit No.  10.2 to  Registration  Statement  No.
                  333-872]

   10.9           Form  of  Enrollment   Form  For  Employee   Stock
                  Purchase  Plan   [Incorporated   by  reference  to
                  Exhibit No.  10.3 to  Registration  Statement  No.
                  333-872]

   10.10          Form of Change Form For  Employee  Stock  Purchase
                  Plan  [Incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit No.
                  10.4 to Registration Statement No. 333-872]

   10.11          Form  of  Executive  Officer  Severance  Agreement
                  [Incorporated  by reference to Exhibit No. 10.7 to
                  Registration Statement No. 333-872]

   10.12          Credit  Agreement  dated as of  October  28,  1997
                  among  Registrant,  the Banks named therein,  Bank
                  One, Arizona,  NA as Administrative  Agent and The
                  First National Bank of Chicago,  as  Documentation
                  Agent  [Incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit No.
                  10.1 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                  for the Quarter Ended September 30, 1997]

   10.13          Modification  Agreement dated as of March 30, 1998
                  to the Credit  Agreement  dated as of October  28,
                  1997 among  Registrant,  the Banks named  therein,
                  Bank One, Arizona, NA, as Administrative Agent and
                  The   First   National   Bank   of   Chicago,   as
                  Documentation  Agent [Incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit No. 10.13 to Registrant's Annual Report on
                  Form  10-K for the  fiscal  year  ended  March 31,
                  1998]

   10.14          Modification  Agreement  dated as of  November  4,
                  1998 to the Credit  Agreement  dated as of October
                  28,  1997  among   Registrant,   the  Banks  named
                  therein,  Bank One, Arizona, NA, as Administrative
                  Agent and The First  National Bank of Chicago,  as
                  Documentation  Agent [Incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit No. 3.2 toRegistrant's Quarterly Report on
                  Form  10-Q for the  Quarter  Ended  September  30,
                  1998]

   10.15          Development  Agreement dated as of August 29, 1997
                  by  and  between   Registrant   and  the  City  of
                  Chandler,  Arizona  [Incorporated  by reference to
                  Exhibit No. 10.1 to Registrant's  Quarterly Report
                  on Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended  December  31,
                  1997]

   10.16          Development Agreement dated as of July 17, 1997 by
                  and  between  Registrant  and the  City of  Tempe,
                  Arizona  [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
                  10.2 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                  for the quarter ended December 31, 1997]

                                       E-2



                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.                     Description                             Page No.
- -----------                     -----------                             --------

   10.17          1997 Nonstatutory  Stock Option Plan [Incorporated
                  by reference to Exhibit No. 10.16 to  Registrant's
                  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
                  ended March 31, 1998]

   10.18          Form of  Notice  of Grant  For  1997  Nonstatutory
                  Stock Option Plan, with Exhibit A thereto, Form of
                  Stock Option Agreement  [Incorporated by reference
                  to Exhibit No. 10.17 to Registrant's Annual Report
                  on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year ended  March 31,
                  1998]

   10.19          International  Employee  Stock  Purchase  Plan  as
                  Amended  Through April 25, 1997  [Incorporated  by
                  reference to Exhibit 10 to Registration  Statement
                  No. 333-40791]

   18.1           Letter from KPMG Peat  Marwick  LLP re:  Change in
                  Accounting  Principles  [Incorporated by reference
                  to  Exhibit  No.  18.1 to  Registrant's  Quarterly
                  Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
                  1997]

   21.1           Subsidiaries   of  Registrant   [Incorporated   by
                  reference  to  Exhibit  No.  21.1 to  Registrant's
                  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
                  ended March 31, 1996]

   23.1           Consent of KPMG LLP

   24.1           Power  of  Attorney   Re:   Microchip   Technology
                  Incorporated,   the  Registrant  [Incorporated  by
                  reference  to  Exhibit  No.  24.1 to  Registrant's
                  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
                  ended March 31, 1998]

   27             Financial Data Schedule

                                      E-3

