
10-K
FORM 10-K


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

 (Mark One)

 X       Annual  report  pursuant  to  Section  13 or  15(d)  of the  Securities
- ---      Exchange Act of 1934 (No fee required, effective October 7, 1996)

         For the fiscal year ended March 31, 1997 or

___      Transition  report  pursuant  to Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
         Exchange Act of 1934 (No fee required)

         For the transition period from _________ to __________

         Commission File Number:    0-21184

                        MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED
             (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
              ----------------------------------------------------

        Delaware                                          86-0629024
(State of Incorporation)                    (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

                   2355 W. Chandler Blvd., Chandler, AZ 85224
          (Address of Principal Executive Offices, Including Zip Code)

                                 (602) 786-7200
              (Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code)

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                      None

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                     Common Stock, $.001 Par Value Per Share


         The  registrant  (1) has  filed  all  reports  required  to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing  requirements  for the past 90
days.

         Yes    X                No
               ---                  ---

         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,
to the best of  registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or  information
statements  incorporated  by reference in Part III of Form 10-K or any amendment
to this Form 10-K. (_)

         The  approximate  aggregate  market  value of the  voting  stock of the
registrant  beneficially owned by stockholders,  other than directors,  officers
and affiliates of the registrant, at April 27, 1997 was: $1,546,133,816.

         Number of shares of Common Stock,  $.001 par value,  outstanding  as of
April 27, 1997 was: 53,198,679.

                       Documents Incorporated by Reference
                       -----------------------------------

         Document                                      Part of Form 10-K
         --------                                      -----------------
         Proxy Statement for the 1997 Annual                   III
         Meeting of Stockholders

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                     PART I


Item 1.       BUSINESS

     Microchip Technology  Incorporated,  a Delaware corporation ("Microchip" or
the  "Company")  develops,  manufactures  and markets field  programmable  8-bit
microcontrollers,  application-specific  standard  products  (ASSPs) and related
memory products for high-volume  embedded control  applications in the consumer,
automotive,  office  automation,  communications  and  industrial  markets.  The
Company   provides   cost-effective   field   programmability   for  high-volume
applications and believes that its PIC(R) product family is a  price/performance
leader in the  worldwide  8-bit  microcontroller  market.  Microchip's  embedded
control  products also offer the advantages of a small footprint and low voltage
operation  along with ease of development,  enabling  timely and  cost-effective
product  integration  by its customers.  The Company's  ASSP products  include a
variety  of  specialized  integrated  circuits,   including  KEELOQ(R)  security
products and QuickASIC(TM) gate array devices. The Company's memory products are
primarily  comprised  of Serial  EEPROMs,  which are used  primarily  to provide
additional memory in embedded control systems.

     Except as noted below,  references  to the Company  include the Company and
its  subsidiaries.  The  Company's  executive  offices  are located at 2355 West
Chandler  Boulevard,  Chandler,  Arizona  85224-6199 and its telephone number is
(602) 786-7200.

     The following discussion of the Company's business contains certain factors
that may affect  future  operating  results.  For further  discussion on certain
factors  that  may  affect  the  Company's   future   operating   results,   see
"Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations," below.

Industry Background

     Competitive pressures  increasingly require manufacturers to expand product
functionality and provide differentiation while maintaining or reducing cost. To
address  these   requirements,   manufacturers   increasingly   use   integrated
circuit-based  embedded control systems which provide an integrated solution for
application-specific  control  requirements.  Embedded  control  systems  enable
manufacturers   to   differentiate   their  products,   replace  less  efficient
electromechanical  control devices, add product  functionality and significantly
reduce product  costs.  In addition,  embedded  control  systems  facilitate the
emergence  of complete new classes of products.  Embedded  control  systems have
been incorporated into thousands of products and subassemblies in a wide variety
of markets  worldwide,  including  automotive  air bag systems,  remote  control
devices, handheld tools, appliances,  portable computers,  cordless and cellular
telephones, motor controls and security systems.

     Embedded control systems  typically  incorporate a  microcontroller  as the
principal  active,  and  sometimes  sole,  component.  A  microcontroller  is  a
self-contained  computer-on-a-chip  consisting  of a  central  processing  unit,
non-volatile   program   memory,   RAM  memory  for  data  storage  and  various
input/output functions. In addition to the microcontroller,  a complete embedded
control  system  incorporates  application-specific  software  and  may  include
specialized  peripheral  device  controllers  and external  non-volatile  memory
components, such as EEPROMs, to store additional program software.

     The  increasing  demand  for  embedded  control  has  made the  market  for
microcontrollers  one of the largest segments of the semiconductor logic market.
Microcontrollers are currently available in 4-bit through 32-bit  architectures.
Although 4-bit  microcontrollers are relatively  inexpensive,  typically costing
under $1.00 each,  they  generally  lack the minimum  performance  and  features
required  by  today's  design  engineers  for  product  differentiation  and are
typically used only to provide basic  functionality  in products.  While 16- and
32-bit  architectures  provide  very high  performance,  they are  prohibitively
expensive for most high-volume embedded control applications,  typically costing
over $6.00 each. As a result, manufacturers of competitive, high-volume products
have  increasingly  found 8-bit  microcontrollers,  that typically cost $1.00 to
$8.00  each,  to be the  most  cost-effective  embedded  control  solution.  For
example,  a typical new  automobile may include one 32-bit  microcontroller  for
engine control,  three 16-bit  microcontrollers for transmission control,  audio
systems and anti-lock braking,  and up to 50 8-bit  microcontrollers  to provide
other embedded control functions,  such as door locking,  automatic windows, sun
roof, adjustable seats, electric mirrors, air bags, fuel pump, speedometer,  and
the security and climate control systems.

     Most microcontrollers  available today are ROM-based and must be programmed
by the semiconductor supplier during manufacturing,  resulting in six-to-20 week
lead times for delivery of such microcontrollers. In addition to delayed product
introduction,   these  long  lead  times  can  result  in  potential   inventory
obsolescence and factory shutdowns when changes to the firmware are required. To
address time-to-market constraints, some suppliers have made EPROM-, EEPROM-, or
Flash Memory-based programmable  microcontrollers  available for prototyping and
preproduction  runs.

However,   these   microcontrollers   have  been   relatively   expensive,   and
manufacturers have still been required to send program code to the semiconductor
factory for ROM programming as product  changes are made. As a result,  the long
lead times for production volume  microcontrollers  have not been  significantly
reduced by traditional approaches.

Products

     Microchip's  strategic  focus is on embedded  control  products,  primarily
including  microcontrollers,  ASSPs,  related  memory  products and  application
development systems.

     Microcontrollers

     Microchip  offers a broad family of  proprietary  8-bit field  programmable
microcontrollers  under the PIC(R)  name and has  shipped  more than 400 million
PIC(R)  microcontrollers to customers worldwide since 1990. The Company's PIC(R)
products  are  designed  for  applications  requiring  high  performance,   fast
time-to-market and user programmability.  They feature low cost, low voltage and
power,  small footprint and ease of use.  Microchip believes this product family
is   currently  a   price/performance   leader  in  the  8-bit   microcontroller
marketplace.  Microchip's  performance  results  from  an  exclusive  RISC-based
architecture  that provides  significant  speed  advantages  over the prevailing
8-bit CISC  architectures.  In addition to providing  up to 33 MHz  performance,
this  architecture  offers up to a 2:1 software  compaction  advantage,  thereby
significantly  reducing software  development time. RISC architectures also have
the  advantage of being more easily  scaled to higher  internal  clock speeds in
future products.  Microchip's field  programmable 8-bit  microcontroller  prices
range from approximately $.55 to $16.00 per unit.

     Microchip's  original  market  focus was in the lowest cost  segment of the
8-bit microcontroller marketplace. With its baseline 8-bit products, the Company
built its current market  position as a leading  supplier of field  programmable
microcontrollers.  Over the past three years, Microchip has introduced more than
60 new 8-bit microcontrollers targeted at the mid-range and high-end segments of
the 8-bit  microcontroller  marketplace,  as well as the lower end of the 16-bit
microcontroller  market.  In addition,  with its 8-pin,  8-bit  microcontroller,
introduced in the first quarter of fiscal 1997,  the Company has also targeted a
portion of the large 4-bit  microcontroller  marketplace.  The Company  believes
that these additional  segments  represent a significant  opportunity for future
sales growth.

     Microchip  has used its  manufacturing  experience  and design and  process
technology to bring additional  enhancements and  manufacturing  efficiencies to
the development and production of its PIC(R) family of microcontroller products.
This extensive  experience base has enabled the Company to develop its advanced,
low cost user  programmability  feature  by  incorporating  non-volatile  memory
(EPROM,  EEPROM and Flash Memory) into the microcontroller in addition to masked
ROM.

     Development Systems

     The  Company  offers a  comprehensive  set of low  cost  and  easy-to-learn
application  development  tools.  These tools enable system designers to quickly
and easily program a PIC(R)  microcontroller for specific applications and are a
key factor for obtaining design wins.  Microchip's  family of development  tools
operates  in  the  standard  Windows  environment  on  IBM-compatible  hardware.
Entry-level  systems,  which include an assembler and programmer  hardware,  are
priced  at less  than  $200.  A fully  configured  system  which  also  provides
in-circuit emulation hardware,  performance simulators and software debuggers is
priced at approximately  $3,700.  Customers  moving from entry-level  designs to
those  requiring  real-time  emulation are able to preserve their  investment in
software  tools as they migrate to future  PIC(R)  devices since all the product
families are assembly- and C- language compatible.

     Many independent companies also develop and market application  development
tools and systems which support  Microchip's  standard  microcontroller  product
architecture.  The Company  believes that  familiarity  with and adoption of the
Company's,  and  third-party,  development  systems by an  increasing  number of
product  designers  will be an  important  factor  in the  future  selection  of
Microchip's  embedded control  products.  These  development  tools allow design
engineers to develop thousands of application-specific products from Microchip's
standard field programmable microcontrollers. Currently, there are more than 100
third-party  tool  suppliers  world wide whose  products  support the  Company's
proprietary microcontroller architecture.

     ASSPs (Application-Specific Standard Products)

     Microchip's application-specific standard products are specialized products
designed to perform specific  end-user  applications as opposed to the Company's
other  products  which are more general  purpose in nature.  The Company's  ASSP

device families  currently include,  among other specialized  integrated circuit
devices,  KEELOQ(R)  security  products and  QuickASIC(TM)  gate array  devices.
KEELOQ(R) security products are designed for low cost,  secure,  uni-directional
communications and verification purposes. Applications include automotive remote
keyless entry systems, automotive immobilizer systems, automatic garage and gate
openers and smart cards.  QuickASIC(TM)  gate array products are targeted at the
growing FPGA conversion market opportunity.

     Memory Products

     Microchip's  memory  products  consist  primarily  of Serial  EEPROMs.  The
Company sells these devices  primarily  into the embedded  control market and is
the third  largest  supplier of such  devices  worldwide.  EEPROM  (electrically
erasable  programmable  read only  memory)  products  are used for  non-volatile
program and data storage in systems where such data must be modified frequently.
Serial  EEPROMs have a very low I/O pin  requirement,  permitting  production of
very small  devices.  As a result,  Serial  EEPROMs  are  widely  used to supply
non-volatile memory in space-sensitive  applications such as portable computers,
cellular and cordless telephones, pagers and remote control devices.

     Within this market,  Microchip has emphasized  providing  Serial EEPROMs to
customers that require features such as highly compact packaging,  low operating
voltage, reduced power consumption,  extended data retention and high endurance.
The Company  addresses these  requirements  by offering  products with extremely
small  package  sizes  and very low  operating  voltage  for both read and write
functions  (1.8 volts in  contrast  with the  industry  standard  of 3.3 volts),
together  with  a  wide  operating  voltage  range  (1.8  to  5.5  volts).  High
performance   circuitry  and  microcode  are  also  available  to  reduce  power
consumption  when a device is not in use, while permitting  immediate  operating
capability when required. The products also feature long data retention and high
erase/write endurance.

     Microchip  currently  offers a complete  Serial EEPROM family,  which meets
three  principal  industry bus  interface  standards  and are  available in most
standard density,  configuration and packaging alternatives. The Company's Smart
Serials(TM)   line  of  specialized   Serial   EEPROMs  with   user-configurable
architecture and other advanced  features targets  applications such as cellular
telephones and data communications.

     The Company's future operating results will depend to a significant  extent
on its ability to continue to develop  and  introduce  new  products on a timely
basis which compete  effectively on the basis of price and performance and which
address customer requirements. If the Company were unable to design, develop and
introduce  competitive  products on a timely basis, its future operating results
would be adversely affected.

Manufacturing

     Microchip's  ownership  of  its  manufacturing  resources  is an  important
component  of its  business  strategy,  enabling  it to maintain a high level of
manufacturing control and to be one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded
control  industry.  By owning its wafer fabrication and the majority of its test
operations, and by employing proprietary statistical process control techniques,
the Company has been able to achieve high production yields. Direct control over
wafer  fabrication  also allows  Microchip to shorten the  Company's  design and
production  cycles and to capture the manufacturing and a portion of the testing
profit  margin.  Wafer  fabrication  and wafer test  facilities  are  located in
Chandler and Tempe, Arizona. The Company performs product test at its facilities
in Kaohsiung, Taiwan and Chachoengsao, Thailand, located near Bangkok.

     Wafers are produced in Class 10  fabrication  modules in Chandler ("Fab 1")
and Tempe ("Fab 2") sites. Fab 1 currently contains  approximately 24,000 square
feet;  construction  is currently  underway to add additional  capacity of 3,000
square feet, which is presently anticipated to be completed in July, 1997. Fab 2
occupies approximately 25,000 square feet; construction is currently underway to
add additional capacity of 20,000 square feet, which is presently anticipated to
be completed in August, 1997. Fab 1 currently produces 5-inch and 6-inch wafers,
while Fab 2 currently produce 6-inch and 8-inch wafers.  Wafer sort is performed
in an 8,000 square foot, Class 10,000 clean room,  equipped with automated wafer
handlers and test equipment.  The two wafer fabrication sites are managed by the
same management team and utilize similar production techniques.

     The Company is continuing the process of transitioning  products to smaller
geometries and to larger wafer sizes.  Eight-inch wafer production  commenced at
Fab 2 in  early  fiscal  1998.  In  addition,  the  Company  will  continue  the
transition of products to its 0.7 micron  process and has commenced  development
of  its  next  generation  technology.  Other  companies  in the  industry  have
experienced  difficulty in effecting  transitions to smaller geometry  processes
and to larger wafers and,  consequently,  have experienced reduced manufacturing
yields or delays in product deliveries. The Company believes that its transition
to smaller  geometries and to larger wafers will be important for the Company to
remain  competitive  and operating  results  could be adversely  affected if the
Company's transition is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented.

     Microchip currently employs proprietary design and manufacturing  processes
in developing its microcontroller and memory products.  The Company believes its
processes  afford it both  cost-effective  designs in  existing  and  derivative
products and greater  functionality  in new product  designs.  While many of the
Company's  competitors  develop and optimize separate  processes for their logic
and memory  product lines,  Microchip uses a common process  technology for both
microcontroller and non-volatile memory products.  This allows Microchip to more
fully  absorb its  process  research  and  development  costs and to deliver new
products to market more rapidly.  Microchip engineers utilize advanced CAD tools
and software to perform  circuit  design,  simulation and layout.  The Company's
in-house photomask and wafer fabrication  facilities enable it to rapidly verify
design techniques by processing test wafers quickly and efficiently.

     Over the last several years, Microchip shifted its assembly operations from
Company-owned  facilities to third-party  contractors in order to meet increased
product shipment requirements.  At March 31, 1997, all assembly was conducted by
third-party  contractors.  During the third quarter of fiscal 1997,  the Company
commenced final test operations at its wholly-owned  Chachoengsao test facility.
Currently,  the Chachoengsao  test facility has the capacity to handle up to one
million units per day. If required,  the Chachoengsao facility could be expanded
in the  future to more than  double  its  current  capacity.  The  Company  will
continue to use  third-party  contractors  to provide a majority of its assembly
services.  Reliance on third parties  involves  some  reduction in the Company's
level of control over the assembly and test portion of its  business.  While the
Company reviews the quality,  delivery and cost performance of these third-party
contractors,  there can be no assurance that  increased  reliance on third-party
contractors will not adversely impact results in future reporting periods if any
third-party  contractor is unable to maintain assembly and test yields and costs
at approximately  their current levels.  See also  "Management's  Discussion and
Analysis of  Financial  Condition  and Results of  Operations  - Gross  Profit",
below.

     The  Company's  Taiwan and Thailand  subsidiaries  test the majority of the
products produced in Fab 1 and Fab 2. The 88,700 square foot Kaohsiung  facility
has a monthly capacity of 19 million plastic  packages;  the 150,000 square foot
Chachoengsao facility has a monthly capacity of 30 million units. Final test and
burn-in functions are handled by advanced automated equipment.  The Company uses
third-party  contractors in Bangkok,  Thailand to assemble a significant portion
of its products.  The balance of Microchip's  assembly and test requirements are
fulfilled by several third-party assembly and test contractors in Thailand,  the
Philippines, People's Republic of China, and several other countries in Asia and
the Pacific Rim.

     The Company's reliance on facilities in Taiwan,  Thailand,  the Philippines
and  other  foreign  countries,  and  maintenance  of  substantially  all of its
finished goods inventory overseas, entails certain political and economic risks,
including political instability and expropriation,  supply disruption,  currency
controls and exchange  fluctuations,  as well as changes in tax laws, tariff and
freight  rates.  Microchip  currently  employs the Alphatec  Electronics  Public
Company  Limited  group of  companies  ("Alphatec")  headquartered  in  Bangkok,
Thailand for a significant  portion of its product assembly volume and a portion
of  its  product  final  test  capacity.  While  Alphatec's  assembly  and  test
operations have performed  reliably for the Company for several years,  Alphatec
has recently  experienced  difficulty in obtaining  financing in connection with
some  of  its  unrelated  joint  ventures  involving  semiconductor  fabrication
facilities in Thailand. Such financing difficulties have not impacted Alphatec's
assembly  and test  facilities  nor its  provision  of services to the  Company.
However, there can be no assurance that assembly and test operations will not be
affected  in the  future.  Microchip  currently  has second  sources for product
assembly  and test for most of its package  types and can shift its wafer output
to other factories,  if necessary,  however, there can be no assurance that such
action would not result in short-term  disruption  including  possible temporary
product shortages. The Company has not experienced any significant interruptions
in its foreign business operations to date. Nonetheless,  the Company's business
and  operating  results  could be adversely  affected if foreign  operations  or
international air transportation were disrupted.

     Due to  the  high  fixed  cost  inherent  in  semiconductor  manufacturing,
increased  manufacturing  yields can have significant  positive effects on gross
profits and overall operating results. During fiscal 1997, the Company continued
to focus on manufacturing  productivity,  and maintained  average wafer fab line
yields in excess of 90%.  The yields  are  primarily  driven by a  comprehensive
implementation of statistical  process control,  extensive employee training and
selective  upgrading of the Company's  manufacturing  facilities  and equipment.
Maintenance of manufacturing  productivity  and yields are important  factors in
the  achievement  of the  Company's  operating  results.  As is  typical  in the
semiconductor industry, the Company has from time to time experienced lower than
anticipated  manufacturing  yields.  The  Company's  operating  results would be
adversely  affected if it were unable to maintain  yields at  approximately  the
current levels.

     The raw  materials and  equipment  used in the  production of the Company's
integrated circuits currently are available from a number of suppliers,  and the
Company is not materially dependent on any single source of supply. Although the
Company has not  experienced  any material  difficulty  to date in obtaining raw
materials or equipment, the interruption of certain components or ingredients of
certain raw materials could reduce the  availability or increase the cost of raw
materials  used by the  Company.  The  manufacture  and  assembly of  integrated
circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable CMOS

memory and logic  devices  such as those  produced by the  Company,  is a highly
complex process and sensitive to a wide variety of factors,  including the level
of contaminants in the  manufacturing  environment,  impurities in the materials
used and the performance of the fabrication equipment.

Research and Development

     The Company's  current  research and  development  activities  focus on the
design of new  microcontroller  and  memory  products,  ASSPs,  new  development
systems, and software and  application-specific  software libraries. The Company
is also  developing  new design and process  technology to achieve  further cost
reductions and performance  improvements in existing  products.  As of April 27,
1997,  243 employees were engaged in research and  development.  In fiscal 1997,
1996 and 1995,  the  Company's  research  and  development  expenses  were $32.1
million, $27.5 million and $20.7 million, respectively. The Company expects that
it will  continue  to  spend  substantial  funds  on  research  and  development
activities.

Sales and Distribution

     The  Company  markets  its  products   worldwide  through  a  direct  sales
organization  and through  distributors.  In fiscal  1997,  the Company  derived
approximately  40% of its net sales from direct sales to OEM  customers  and 60%
from sales through distributors.

     The  Company's  direct sales  force,  currently  consisting  of 159 people,
focuses on four geographical  markets:  the Americas,  Europe,  Asia/Pacific and
Japan. In the Americas,  the Company  currently has Technical Support Centers in
San Jose, Los Angeles,  Dallas, Dayton, Chicago,  Atlanta,  Boston, New York and
Toronto.  Microchip also maintains  Technical Support Centers in Tokyo,  London,
Munich,  Paris,  Milan,  Taipei,  Seoul,  Singapore,  Hong Kong,  Shanghai,  and
Bangalore,  India.  Microchip's  direct  sales force is augmented by a worldwide
network of national  distributors  and regional  distributors in North and South
America.   Microchip's   distribution   effort   also   includes  a  network  of
manufacturer's representatives in North America and Europe.

     Microchip believes that a strong technical service presence is essential to
the  continued  development  of the  embedded  control  market.  The majority of
Microchip's field sales engineers (FSEs), field application engineers (FAEs) and
sales management have technical degrees and have been previously  employed in an
engineering  environment.  The Company  believes the technical  knowledge of its
sales force is a key  competitive  advantage  in the sale of field  programmable
products.  Currently,  Microchip has at least one dedicated application engineer
in every  Technical  Support  Center.  The primary mission of the FAE team is to
provide  technical  assistance  to  OEM  customers,  conduct  periodic  training
sessions for FSEs,  manufacturer's  representatives and distributor sales teams.
The FAEs also conduct  frequent  technical  seminars in major cities  around the
world. FAEs also work closely with the Company's distributors and manufacturer's
representatives  to provide  technical  assistance  in  end-user  support and to
assist in the sales process.

     As is  common in the  semiconductor  industry,  the  Company  grants  price
protection to distributors. Under this policy, distributors receive a credit for
the difference,  at the time of a price  reduction,  between the price they were
originally  charged for  products in inventory  and the reduced  price which the
Company subsequently charges distributors.  From time to time, distributors also
receive credit on an individual basis for  Company-approved  price reductions on
specific transactions.  The Company also grants some distributors limited rights
to return  products.  The Company defers  recognition of net sales and profit on
sales to  distributors  that have  rights of return and price  protection  until
those distributors have resold the products to end-customers.

     Foreign sales,  primarily in  Asia/Pacific,  Japan and Europe,  represented
approximately  66%,  65% and 65% of  consolidated  net sales in the years  ended
March  31,  1997,  1996  and  1995,   respectively.   International   sales  are
predominately  billed in U.S.  Dollars.  Although  foreign  sales are subject to
certain  government  export  restrictions,  the Company has not  experienced any
material difficulties as a result of export restrictions to date.

     The Company's policy is to hedge its net foreign currency  positions in the
normal  course of business to reduce its  exposure  to  fluctuations  in foreign
exchange rates.  Foreign exchange gains and losses have not been material during
fiscal years 1995 through 1997.

Backlog

     As of April 27, 1997, the Company's backlog was approximately $93.7 million
as compared to $116.6 million as of April 26, 1996. The Company  includes in its
backlog all purchase  orders  scheduled  for delivery  within the  subsequent 12
months.

     Microchip  produces  standard  products that can be shipped from  inventory
within a short time after receipt of an order. The Company's  business and, to a
large extent,  that of the entire  semiconductor  industry is  characterized  by
short-term  orders and shipment  schedules.  Orders  constituting  the Company's
current backlog are subject to changes in delivery  schedules or to cancellation
at the  option  of  the  purchaser  without  significant  penalty.  Accordingly,
although useful for scheduling production, backlog as of any particular date may
not be a reliable  measure of sales for any future period.  Turns orders (orders
received in a quarter for shipment in that quarter) have become an  increasingly
important  component  of  the  Company's   quarterly   operating  results.   See
"Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations - Results of Operations - Net Sales," below.


Competition

     The   semiconductor   industry  is  intensely   competitive  and  has  been
characterized  by  price  erosion,   rapid  technological   change  and  foreign
competition  with  respect to many  products.  The Company  competes  with major
domestic and international  semiconductor companies,  many of which have greater
market recognition and substantially  greater financial,  technical,  marketing,
distribution  and  other  resources  than  the  Company  with  which  to  pursue
engineering,  manufacturing,  marketing  and  distribution  of  their  products.
Emerging  companies are also increasing  their  participation  in the market for
embedded control applications.  The Company's overall average selling prices for
its  microcontroller  products have remained  relatively  constant while average
selling prices of its non-volatile  products have declined  gradually over time.
During fiscal 1997, the Company  experienced  increased  pricing pressure on its
non-volatile  memory  products due primarily to a worldwide  industry  inventory
correction and the less  proprietary  nature of these products.  There can be no
assurance that average selling prices for the Company's microcontroller or other
products  will not  experience  increased  pricing  pressure in the  future.  An
increase in pricing  pressure  could  adversely  affect the Company's  operating
results. In addition, the Company's ability to compete successfully depends on a
number of factors  both within and outside its control,  including  the quality,
performance,  reliability,  features,  ease of use, pricing and diversity of its
products;  the  quality of its  customer  service and its ability to address the
needs of its customers;  its success in designing and manufacturing new products
including  those  implementing  new  technologies;   efficiency  of  production,
adequate  sources of raw  materials  and other  supplies at  acceptable  prices;
protection of the Company's  products and processes by effective  utilization of
intellectual  property  laws;  the  rate  at  which  customers  incorporate  the
Company's  products  into  their  own  products;  product  introductions  by the
Company's  competitors;  the number,  nature and success of its competitors in a
given market; and general market and economic conditions.  Furthermore, capacity
in the  semiconductor  industry  is  increasing  over  time and  such  increased
capacity or improved product  availability  could adversely affect the Company's
competitive position.

     The Company  currently  competes  principally on the basis of the technical
innovation and  performance of its embedded  control  products,  including their
speed,  functionality,  density,  power  consumption,  reliability and packaging
alternatives, as well as on price and product availability. The Company believes
that other important  competitive factors in the embedded control market include
ease of use,  functionality  of  application  development  systems and technical
service and support.  The Company believes that it competes favorably with other
companies  on all of these  factors,  although  there is no  assurance  that the
Company will continue to be able to compete successfully in the future.

Patents, Licenses and Trademarks

     The  Company's  success  depends in part on its ability to obtain  patents,
licenses  and other  intellectual  property  rights  covering  its  products and
manufacturing processes, and to protect its proprietary information. As of March
31, 1997, the Company owned 46 U.S. patents and eight foreign patents,  expiring
on various  dates between 1997 and 2015,  and had an  additional 49 U.S.  patent
applications and 44 foreign patent applications  pending. The Company intends to
continue  to  seek  patents  on  its   inventions   used  in  its  products  and
manufacturing  processes.  However,  the  Company  believes  that its  continued
success  depends  primarily  on such  factors  as the  technological  skills and
innovative  abilities of its personnel rather than on its patents.  There can be
no assurance the Company's  existing  patents or any new patents that are issued
will be of  sufficient  scope or strength to provide  meaningful  protection  or
other commercial advantage to the Company.

     The Company  acquired a  nonexclusive,  royalty-free  license under certain
semiconductor  patents  owned  by  General  Instrument  in  connection  with the
acquisition  and formation of the Company in 1989.  The license  extends for the
life of the licensed patents and is subject to early termination upon assignment
without General Instrument's consent, to any entity with annual revenues of more
than $100  million  that  acquires  control of the  Company.  The  Company  also
acquired   certain  cross  licenses   between   General   Instrument  and  other
semiconductor patent owners.

     In October,  1991,  the Company  acquired a  nonexclusive,  nontransferable
license for certain EPROM and EEPROM  patents owned by Intel  Corporation.  This
license  extends for the life of the licensed  patents.  The license may require
the payment of royalties under certain circumstances.

     As is typical in the semiconductor  industry,  the Company has from time to
time received, and may in the future receive,  communications  alleging possible
infringement of patents or other  intellectual  property  rights of others.  The
Company   investigates   all  such  notices  and  responds  as  it  believes  is
appropriate.  The  Company  is  currently  in  discussions  with  several  other
companies  regarding  intellectual  property  licenses of such other  companies'
semiconductor  patents and technology.  Based on industry practice,  the Company
believes  that in most cases it could  obtain any  necessary  licenses  or other
rights on commercially reasonable terms. However, no assurance can be given that
licenses would be on acceptable  terms,  that litigation would not ensue or that
damages for any past infringement would not be assessed. Litigation, which could
result in  substantial  cost to the Company and diversion of management  effort,
may be necessary to enforce patents or other intellectual property rights of the
Company or to defend the Company against  claimed  infringement of the rights of
others.  The failure to obtain necessary  licenses or other rights or litigation
arising out of infringement  claims, could have a material adverse effect on the
Company's business and results of operations.

     The Company is  currently  in  discussions  with Lucent  Technologies  Inc.
("Lucent") regarding alleged  infringement of certain of Lucent's  semiconductor
patents.  The Company has investigated  Lucent's claims and believes it does not
infringe any of the asserted patents.  Notwithstanding  the Company's  position,
the Company and Lucent have exchanged  various  proposals for a patent  license,
but, to date,  have been unable to reach an  agreement.  Although the outcome of
the discussions with Lucent is not presently determinable,  the Company believes
that,  should a  license  be  necessary,  the  Company  will be able to obtain a
license from Lucent on commercially reasonable terms. However, no assurances can
be given that a  mutually  satisfactory  conclusion  will be  achieved.  In such
event,  the  Company  may be  subject  to  litigation,  which  could  result  in
substantial  cost  to  the  Company  and  diversion  of  management  effort.  If
unsuccessful,  the Company  could be forced to pay  royalties on past and future
sales. Any such litigation and/or royalty payments could have a material adverse
impact on the Company's business and operating results.

Environmental Regulation

     The  Company  is  subject  to  a  variety  of  federal,   state  and  local
governmental regulations related to the use, storage,  discharge and disposal of
toxic,  volatile or  otherwise  hazardous  chemicals  used in its  manufacturing
processes,   including   the  Resource   Conservation   and  Recovery  Act,  the
Comprehensive  Environmental  Response,  Compensation  and  Liability  Act,  the
Superfund  Amendment  and  Reauthorization  Act, the Clean Air Act and the Water
Pollution  Control  Act.  The Company  believes it has  obtained  all  necessary
environmental  permits to conduct its  business.  Although the Company  believes
that its activities conform to presently applicable  environmental  regulations,
the failure to comply with present or future  regulations  could result in fines
being  imposed on the  Company,  suspension  of  production  or a  cessation  of
operations. While the Company has not experienced any materially adverse effects
on its operations from governmental regulations,  there can be no assurance that
changes in such  regulations  will not  require  the  Company to acquire  costly
equipment or to incur other  significant  expenses to comply with  environmental
regulations.  Any  failure by the  Company to control  the use of or  adequately
restrict  the  discharge  of  hazardous  substances  could  subject it to future
liabilities.  There can be no assurance  that  environmental  problems  will not
occur  in the  future  which  could  subject  the  Company  to  future  costs or
liabilities.

Employees

     As of April 27, 1997, the Company had 1,879  employees,  including 1,330 in
manufacturing,  243 in research and development,  190 in sales and marketing and
116 in finance and administration.  Approximately 42% of the Company's employees
work at the final test facilities located in Kaohsiung, Taiwan and Chachoengsao,
Thailand.  No  employees  in the U.S. or  Thailand  are  represented  by a labor
organization.  All  employees  in the  Kaohsiung  facility,  except for  certain
management employees,  are represented by a labor organization.  The Company has
never had a work stoppage and believes that its employee relations are good.

Executive Officers

     The  following  sets forth  certain  information  regarding  the  Company's
executive officers as of April 27, 1997:



     Mr. Sanghi is currently,  and has been since August, 1990, President of the
Company,  since October,  1991, Chief Executive Officer and since October, 1993,
Chairman of the Board of  Directors.  He has served as a director of the Company
since  August,  1990. He served as the Company's  Chief  Operating  Officer from
August,  1990 through  October,  1991 and as Senior Vice President of Operations
from February,  1990 through  August,  1990. Mr. Sanghi holds an M.S.  degree in
Electrical and Computer  Engineering from the University of Massachusetts  and a
B.S. degree in Electronics and Communication from Punjab University,  India. Mr.
Sanghi is also a director of ADFlex Solutions, Inc., a U.S. supplier of flexible
circuit-based interconnect solutions.

     Mr. Billington has served as Vice President, Manufacturing Operations since
October,  1994 and was Vice President,  Process  Development  and  Manufacturing
Operations  from April,  1991 until October,  1994.  Prior to his appointment as
Vice President,  Mr.  Billington  served as Director of Wafer  Fabrication  from
November,  1990 to April, 1991 and Wafer Fabrication  Manager from June, 1989 to
November,  1990. Mr.  Billington  holds a B.S.  degree in marketing from Abilene
Christian University.

     Mr. Chapman has served as the Company's Vice President and Chief  Financial
Officer  since  joining the Company in  September,  1992 and as Secretary of the
Company since  December,  1992.  Prior to joining the Company,  Mr.  Chapman was
employed by  Syntellect  Inc., a  telecommunication  systems  company,  where he
served as Executive Vice President,  Finance and Operations, and Chief Financial
Officer from 1988 to 1992. Mr. Chapman holds an M.B.A. from the Harvard Graduate
School of Business  Administration and B.A. degrees in Accounting and Managerial
Finance from the University of California.

     Mr. Lanford has served as Vice  President,  Worldwide Sales for the Company
since  April,  1991.  From  May,  1990 to  April,  1991,  Mr.  Lanford  was Vice
President,  Marketing for Specialty  Development  Corporation,  a distributor of
semiconductor  devices and other  computer  peripherals.  From 1987 to 1990, Mr.
Lanford  served as Vice  President of Sales and Marketing and a director for AIM
Technology,  a computer  software  company.  Mr. Lanford holds a B.S.  degree in
Electrical Engineering from Arizona State University.

     Mr.  Rigg  has  served  as Vice  President,  Advanced  Microcontroller  and
Technology Division since November,  1995. From June, 1989 to November, 1995, he
served as Vice President,  Logic Products Division.  From 1981 to 1989, Mr. Rigg
held a number of senior management positions with Advanced Micro Devices,  Inc.,
a semiconductor company, including Vice President,  Embedded Processor Division,
Managing Director of Programmable  Microprocessors  and Product Line Manager for
Interface  and LAN.  Mr.  Rigg holds a B.S.  degree in Physics  from  Manchester
University, England.

     Mr. Little has served as Vice President,  Standard Microcontroller and ASSP
Division since November, 1995. From September, 1993 to November, 1995, he served
as Vice President,  Memory Products and ASSP Division.  Prior to his appointment
as Vice  President,  Mr.  Little  served as Division  Director for the Company's
Memory Products Division from July, 1991 to September,  1993, and as Director of
Memory Marketing from November, 1989 to July, 1991. Immediately prior to joining
the Company, Mr. Little was employed by SGS-Thomson  Microelectronics  from 1982
to 1989 where he held various positions of increasing management  responsibility
for the marketing of microprocessors,  microcontrollers and memory products. Mr.
Little holds a BSET from United Electronics Institute.

Item 2.       PROPERTIES

     The Company's current headquarters, research and development center and one
of its wafer  fabrication  facilities  are located in three  buildings  totaling
approximately  242,000  square  feet  situated  on a  77-acre  parcel of land in
Chandler,  Arizona. A second wafer fabrication facility of approximately 170,000
square feet is located in Tempe,  Arizona. The Chandler and Tempe facilities are
owned by the Company.  Company-owned final test facilities are located in Taiwan
and Thailand.  The Taiwan operations are housed in a three-story,  88,700 square
foot building  located in the  Kaohsiung  Export  Processing  Zone in Kaohsiung,
Taiwan,  Republic of China. The Taiwan building is owned by the Company's Taiwan
subsidiary  and is located  on land that is leased to the  Company  pursuant  to
leases  from the Taiwan  government  expiring  in 1998 and 2002.  The  Company's
Thailand  final test  operations  are housed in a 150,000  square foot  facility
located in the

Alphatechnopolis  Industrial Park in Chachoengsao,  Thailand,  near Bangkok. The
Thailand facility,  owned by the Company's Thailand  subsidiary,  is situated on
land to which the Company expects to acquire title by the end of fiscal 1998, in
accordance with an agreement between the Company and the land owner. The Company
leases  space for 20  Technical  Support  Centers  in San Jose and Los  Angeles,
California;  Dallas, Texas; Dayton, Ohio; Chicago,  Illinois;  Atlanta, Georgia;
Boston, Massachusetts; New York, New York; as well as in Toronto, Tokyo, London,
Munich,  Paris,  Milan,  Taipei,  Seoul,  Singapore,  Hong  Kong,  Shanghai  and
Bangalore,  India.  The  Company's  aggregate  monthly  rental  payments for its
facilities are approximately $81,000.

     The Company is in the process of making capital  improvements  to Fab 1 and
Fab  2  to  add  additional  capacity.  See,  "Business  -  Manufacturing,"  and
"Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." The Company currently believes that
its existing  facilities,  together with the additional capacity presently under
construction, will be adequate to meet its requirements for the next 12 months.

     In fiscal 1996, the Company initiated  planning and design of an additional
wafer  fabrication  facility in  Chandler,  Arizona  ("Fab 3").  The Company has
determined  that  additional  capital  investment  in Fab 1 and Fab 2 will yield
sufficient  manufacturing  capacity for several  additional years and, thus, has
deferred the construction of Fab 3 for the present time.

Item 3.       LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     In the  ordinary  course of its  business,  the  Company is  involved  in a
limited  number of legal  actions,  both as plaintiff and  defendant,  and could
incur an uninsured liability in any one or more of them. Although the outcome of
these  actions is not  presently  determinable,  the Company  believes  that the
ultimate  resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on
the Company's  results of operations or financial  condition.  The Company could
also be  subject  to  future  litigation  if it is  unable  to  resolve  pending
intellectual  property and  technology  licensing  discussions.  See "Business -
Patents,   Licenses  and  Trademarks,"   above.   Litigation   relating  to  the
semiconductor  industry  is not  uncommon,  and the Company is, and from time to
time,  has been,  subject to such  litigation.  No assurances  can be given with
respect to the extent or outcome of any such litigation in the future.

     The  Securities  and  Exchange   Commission  is  presently   conducting  an
investigation into matters relating to the Company's  disclosure on February 26,
1996 that  revenues and  earnings for the quarter  ended March 31, 1996 would be
lower than previously estimated. While the outcome of the investigation, and its
effect on the Company,  if any,  cannot be predicted  at the present  time,  the
Company  does not  believe  that the  investigation  will  result in a  material
adverse effect on the Company.

Item 4.       SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY-HOLDERS

     No matters  were  submitted  to a vote of the  Company's  security  holders
during the fourth quarter of fiscal 1997.

                                     PART II

Item 5.       MARKET FOR  REGISTRANT'S  COMMON  EQUITY AND  RELATED  STOCKHOLDER
              MATTERS

     The Company's  Common Stock is traded on the Nasdaq  National  Market under
the symbol  "MCHP."  The  Company's  Common  Stock has been quoted on the Nasdaq
National  Market  since  March 19,  1993.  The  following  table  sets forth the
quarterly  high and low  closing  prices of the Common  Stock as reported by the
Nasdaq  National  Market for the last two years,  adjusted  to reflect a 3-for-2
stock split  effected in November,  1995,  and a 3-for-2 stock split effected in
January, 1997:

          Fiscal 1996   High     Low       Fiscal 1997       High      Low
          -----------   ----     ---       -----------       ----      ---

       First Quarter   $25.50   $17.08    First Quarter     $19.50    $14.67
       Second Quarter   27.50    23.167   Second Quarter     25.67     14.00
       Third Quarter    29.25    22.00    Third Quarter      34.84     23.34
       Fourth Quarter   25.67    16.00    Fourth Quarter     39.50     25.00

     On May 22, 1997, the closing sale price for the Company's  Common Stock was
$33.875  per share.  As of such date,  there were  approximately  547 holders of
record of the Company's  Common Stock.  This figure does not reflect  beneficial
ownership of shares held in nominee names.

     The Company has not paid cash dividends on its capital  stock.  The Company
currently  anticipates  that it will retain all  available  funds for use in the
operations of its business and  therefore  does not  anticipate  paying any cash
dividends in the foreseeable future.

     The trading price of the Company's Common Stock has been, and in the future
could be, subject to wide  fluctuations  in response to quarterly  variations in
operating results of the Company and other  semiconductor  companies,  actual or
anticipated  announcements  of  technical  innovations  or new  products  by the
Company or its  competitors,  changes in analysts'  estimates  of the  Company's
financial  performance,   general  conditions  in  the  semiconductor  industry,
worldwide  economic and  financial  conditions  and other events or factors.  In
addition,  the  stock  market  has  experienced  significant  price  and  volume
fluctuations  which have  particularly  affected the market prices for many high
technology  companies  and which  often  have been  unrelated  to the  operating
performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations and other factors
may adversely affect the market price of the Company's Common Stock.

Item 6.       SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The following selected consolidated financial data for the five-year period
ended  March  31,  1997  should  be  read  in  conjunction  with  the  Company's
Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto and "Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"  included in Item
7 of this report. The Company's  consolidated  statement of income data for each
of the years in the three year  period  ended  March 31,  1997,  and the balance
sheet data as of March 31, 1997 and 1996 are derived  from and are  qualified by
reference  to the audited  consolidated  financial  statements  of the  Company,
included in Item 8 of this report.



Item 7.       MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION  AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL  CONDITION AND
              RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Results of Operations

     The following table sets forth certain  operational data as a percentage of
net sales for the years indicated:

                                               Year Ended March 31,
                                            1997          1996        1995
                                        ----------------------------------

Net sales.............................     100.0%        100.0%      100.0%
Cost of sales.........................      50.1          48.2        48.6
                                        ---------    ----------    --------
Gross profit..........................      49.9          51.8        51.4
Research and development..............       9.6           9.6        10.0
Selling, general and administrative...      16.8          17.1        17.8
Restructuring cost....................       1.8           ---         ---
Write-off of in-process technology....       0.4           4.0         ---
Amortization of negative goodwill.....       ---           ---        (0.1)
                                        ---------    ----------    --------
Operating income......................      21.3%         21.1%       23.7%
                                        =========    ==========    ========

     Net Sales

     Microchip's  net sales of $334.3  million in fiscal 1997 increased by $48.4
million,  or 16.9%,  over fiscal 1996 and net sales of $285.9  million in fiscal
1996  increased  by $77.9  million,  or 37.5%,  over  fiscal  1995.  The Company
experienced growth in sales of 8-bit  microcontrollers  and EEPROM memories over
these periods and a moderate  decline in sales of its commodity memory and other
product categories.

     The  Company's  family of 8-bit  microcontrollers  represents  the  largest
component  of  Microchip's  total net  sales.  Microcontrollers  and  associated
application  development  systems  accounted  for 64%,  59% and 58% of total net
sales in fiscal 1997, 1996 and 1995,  respectively.  A related  component of the
Company's  product  sales  consist of serial and  parallel  EEPROM  memories and
high-speed and low-voltage EPROMs. These products accounted for 31%, 34% and 34%
of net  sales  in  fiscal  1997,  1996 and  1995,  respectively.  The  remaining
component of total net sales was the  Company's  lower  margin  memory and other
miscellaneous  products which accounted for 5%, 7% and 8% of net sales in fiscal
1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.  During the three year period ended March 31,
1997 the Company  increased the  percentage of net sales  attributable  to 8-bit
microcontrollers  as a  result  of the  Company's  focus  in  this  area.  It is
anticipated that this trend will continue for the foreseeable future.

     The  Company's  net  sales  in  any  given  quarter  are  dependent  upon a
combination  of orders  received in that  quarter for  shipment in that  quarter
("turns  orders") and shipments  from backlog.  The Company has  emphasized  its
ability  to  respond  quickly  to  customer  orders  as part of its  competitive
strategy. This strategy, combined with current industry conditions, is resulting
in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery  schedules.  This has
had the effect of increasing turns orders as a portion of the Company's business
in fiscal  1997 as  compared  to fiscal  1996,  and has  reduced  the  Company's
visibility  in  projecting  net sales  levels.  Because  turns  orders  are more
difficult to predict,  there can be no assurance  that the  combination of turns
orders and backlog in any quarter will be  sufficient  to achieve  growth in net
sales.  If the Company does not achieve a sufficient  level of turns orders in a
particular  quarter,  the  Company's  revenues and  operating  results  would be
materially adversely affected.

     In the  quarter  ended  March 31,  1997,  the  Company  was  unable to ship
approximately $4 million of product for which it had firm scheduled orders. This
shipment delinquency was a result of inventory mix issues which were exacerbated
by the rapid growth in the  Company's  product  offerings  and the low long-term
order  visibility.  It is anticipated  that low long-term order  visibility will
continue for the foreseeable future and, as a result, the Company expects it may
have shipment  delinquencies  at the end of each quarter  which could  adversely
affect quarterly operating results.

     The  Company's  overall  average  selling  prices  for its  microcontroller
products have remained  relatively  constant while average selling prices of its
non-volatile  memory products have declined  gradually over time.  During fiscal
1997, the Company  experienced  increased  pricing  pressure on its non-volatile
memory products due primarily to a worldwide industry  inventory  correction and
the less  proprietary  nature of these products.  There can be no assurance that
average selling prices

for  the  Company's  microcontroller  or  other  products  will  not  experience
increased  pricing pressure in the future. An increase in pricing pressure could
adversely affect the Company's operating results.

     The foregoing  statements  regarding  product mix,  turns orders,  shipment
delinquencies  and pricing  pressures are forward looking  statements within the
meaning of Section 27A of the  Securities  Act of 1933, as amended,  and Section
21E of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,  and are subject to the
safe harbors created thereby.  Actual results could differ materially because of
the following  factors,  among others: the level of orders that are received and
can be shipped  in a  quarter;  inventory  mix and  timing of  customer  orders;
competition  and  competitive  pressures  on pricing and  product  availability;
customers' inventory levels, order patterns and seasonality; the cyclical nature
of both the  semiconductor  industry and the markets  addressed by the Company's
products;  market  acceptance  of the  products  of  both  the  Company  and its
customers; demand for the Company's products; fluctuations in production yields,
production  efficiencies  and overall capacity  utilization;  changes in product
mix; and absorption of fixed costs, labor and other fixed manufacturing costs.

     Foreign  sales  represented  66%,  65% and 65% of net sales in fiscal 1997,
1996 and 1995, respectively. The Company's foreign sales have been predominantly
in Asia,  Europe and Japan which the  Company  attributes  to the  manufacturing
strength  in  those  areas  for   consumer,   automotive,   office   automation,
communications and industrial  products.  The majority of foreign sales are U.S.
Dollar  denominated.  The Company has entered into and, from time to time,  will
enter into hedging  transactions in order to minimize  exposure to currency rate
fluctuations.  Although  none of the  countries  in which the  Company  conducts
significant  foreign  operations have had a highly  inflationary  economy in the
last five years,  there is no assurance that inflation  rates or fluctuations in
foreign currency rates in countries where the Company  conducts  operations will
not adversely affect the Company's operating results in the future.

     Additional Factors Affecting Operating Results

     The Company believes that future growth in net sales of its 8-bit family of
microcontroller  products and related  memory  products will depend largely upon
the  Company's  success in having its current  and new  products  designed  into
high-volume customer  applications.  Design wins typically precede the Company's
volume  shipment of products  for such  applications  by 15 months or more.  The
Company  also  believes  that  shipment  levels of its  proprietary  application
development  systems  are an  indicator  of  potential  future  design  wins and
microcontroller  sales. The Company continued to achieve a high volume of design
wins and shipped increased numbers of application  development systems in fiscal
1997  compared to previous  fiscal  years.  There can be no  assurance  that any
particular  development  system  shipment will result in a product design win or
that any particular design win will result in future product sales.

     The  Company's  operating  results are  affected by a wide variety of other
factors that could  adversely  impact its net sales and  profitability,  many of
which are beyond the  Company's  control.  These  factors  include the Company's
ability  to  design  and  introduce  new  products  on a  timely  basis,  market
acceptance  of products of both the Company and its  customers,  customer  order
patterns  and  seasonality,  changes  in  product  mix,  whether  the  Company's
customers  buy  from  a  distributor  or  directly  from  the  Company,  product
performance and  reliability,  product  obsolescence,  the amount of any product
returns, availability and utilization of manufacturing capacity, fluctuations in
manufacturing  yield, the availability and cost of raw materials,  equipment and
other supplies,  the cyclical nature of both the semiconductor  industry and the
markets addressed by the Company's products,  technological changes, competition
and competitive pressures on prices, and economic, political or other conditions
in the United States,  and other  worldwide  markets served by the Company.  The
Company believes its ability to continue to increase its manufacturing  capacity
to meet customer demand and maintain  satisfactory delivery schedules will be an
important  competitive  factor.  As a result of the  increase in fixed costs and
operating  expenses  related  to  expanding  its  manufacturing   capacity,  the
Company's  operating  results  may be  adversely  affected  if net  sales do not
increase  sufficiently to offset the increased costs. The Company's products are
incorporated  into a wide variety of consumer,  automotive,  office  automation,
communications and industrial  products. A slowdown in demand for products which
utilize the  Company's  products as a result of economic or other  conditions in
the worldwide markets served by the Company could adversely affect the Company's
operating results.

     Gross Profit

     The Company's  gross profit was $166.9  million,  $148.2 million and $106.9
million in fiscal 1997, 1996 and 1995,  respectively.  Gross profit as a percent
of sales was 50%, 52% and 51% in fiscal 1997, 1996 and 1995,  respectively.  The
Company  anticipates  that its cost of sales will  fluctuate  over time,  driven
primarily  by the  product  mix of 8-bit  microcontroller  products  and related
memory products,  manufacturing yields, wafer fab loading levels and competitive
and economic conditions.  Gross profit percentage was down from the prior years'
levels,  primarily as a result of reduced 5-inch wafer  production at one of the
Company's wafer  fabrication  facilities and increased  pricing  pressure on its
non-volatile  memory  products.  The Company  anticipates  that its gross profit
percentage  will  fluctuate  over  time,   driven   primarily  by

product  mix,  manufacturing  costs and yields,  and  competitive  and  economic
conditions.  The Company is continuing the process of transitioning  products to
smaller  geometries  and to larger  wafer sizes to reduce  future  manufacturing
costs.  Eight-inch  wafer  production  commenced at the Tempe wafer  fabrication
facility in early fiscal  1998.  The Company will  continue  the  transition  of
products  to its 0.7  micron  process.  The  foregoing  statements  relating  to
anticipated gross margins,  cost of sales, and the transition to higher yielding
manufacturing  processes are  forward-looking  statements  within the meaning of
Section 27A of the  Securities  Act of 1933, as amended,  and Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are subject to the safe harbors
created thereby. Actual results could differ materially because of the following
factors, among others: fluctuations in production yields, production efficiencie
and  overall  capacity  utilization;  cost and  availability  of raw  materials;
absorption  of fixed costs,  labor and other  direct  manufacturing  costs;  the
timing and success of manufacturing process transition;  changes in product mix;
competitive  pressures on prices;  and other  economic  conditions in the United
States and other worldwide markets.

     The Company has  consistently  presented its results of operations  for all
periods  on the  last-in  first-out  (LIFO)  method  and  has  assessed  the net
realizable  value of  inventory  based on LIFO  costs.  LIFO has the  effect  of
matching  current  costs of  production  with  sales  generated  during the same
period.  Production  costs  have  decreased  over  time due to  improvements  in
manufacturing  productivity and yields, resulting in lower cost of sales for the
year  ended  March 31,  1995.  Due to  changes  in sales and  product  mix which
affected  production costs, cost of sales increased during the years ended March
31, 1997 and 1996.  The  difference  in cost of sales  between the LIFO and FIFO
inventory valuation methods for the reporting periods was immaterial.

     All of Microchip's  assembly  operations and a portion of its product final
test  requirements  are performed by  third-party  contractors  in order to meet
product shipment requirements. Reliance on third parties involves some reduction
in the Company's level of control over these portions of its business. While the
Company reviews the quality,  delivery and cost performance of these third-party
contractors,  there can be no assurance that reliance on third-party contractors
will not adversely impact results in future reporting periods if any third-party
contractor  is  unable  to  maintain  assembly  and  test  yields  and  costs at
approximately their current levels.

     The Company  owns  product  final test  facilities  in  Kaohsiung,  Taiwan,
Republic of China and  Chachoengsao,  Thailand.  The Company  also uses  various
third-party contractors in Thailand, Taiwan, the Philippines and other locations
in Asia for product  assembly and test. The Company's  reliance on facilities in
these  countries,  and  maintenance of  substantially  all of its finished goods
inventory  overseas,  entails certain  political and economic  risks,  including
political  instability and expropriation,  labor disruption,  supply disruption,
currency  controls  and exchange  fluctuations,  as well as changes in tax laws,
tariff and freight rates.  Microchip currently employs the Alphatec  Electronics
Public Company Limited group of companies ("Alphatec") headquartered in Bangkok,
Thailand for a significant  portion of its product assembly volume and a portion
of  its  product  final  test  capacity.  While  Alphatec's  assembly  and  test
operations have performed  reliably for the Company for several years,  Alphatec
has recently  experienced  difficulty in obtaining  financing in connection with
some  of  its  unrelated  joint  ventures  involving  semiconductor  fabrication
facilities in Thailand. Such financing difficulties have not impacted Alphatec's
assembly  and test  facilities  nor its  provision  of services to the  Company.
However, there can be no assurance that assembly and test operations will not be
affected  in the  future.  Microchip  currently  has second  sources for product
assembly  and test for most of its package  types and can shift its wafer output
to other factories,  if necessary,  however,  that can be no assurance that such
action would not result in short-term  disruption  including  possible temporary
product shortages. The Company has not experienced any significant interruptions
in its foreign business operations to date. Nonetheless,  the Company's business
and  operating  results  could be adversely  affected if foreign  operations  or
international air transportation were disrupted.

     During  the  fourth   quarter  of  fiscal  1997,   the  Company   commenced
construction  of an additional  20,000 square foot wafer  fabrication  module at
Tempe, Arizona. It is anticipated that the construction will be completed during
the second quarter of fiscal 1998 and that the new wafer fabrication module will
begin 8-inch wafer production in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1998. In addition,
the  Company  is also  expanding  capacity  at its  Chandler  wafer  fabrication
facility  and  expects  to have an  additional  3,000  square  feet of  capacity
available in Chandler  during the second  quarter of fiscal 1998.  The foregoing
statements   regarding  completion  of  construction  and  additional  available
capacity are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended,  and Section 21E of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended,  and are subject to the safe harbors  created  thereby.
Actual results could differ materially because of the following  factors,  among
others:  delays  in  facilitation  of the  expanded  Tempe  and  Chandler  wafer
fabrication facilities;  production yields and efficiencies;  factory absorption
rates; capacity loading; supply disruption;  operating cost levels; and the rate
of revenue growth.

     Research and Development

     The  Company is  committed  to  continued  investment  in new and  enhanced
products,  including  its  development  systems  software  and in its design and
manufacturing  process technology,  which are significant factors in maintaining
the  Company's  competitive  position.  The dollar  investment  in research  and
development  increased  17% in fiscal 1997 over fiscal  1996,  and 33% in fiscal
1996 over fiscal  1995.  The  Company  will  continue to invest in research  and
development  in the  future,  including  an  investment  in process  and product
development  associated with the capacity expansion of the Company's fabrication
facilities.

     The Company's future operating results will depend to a significant  extent
on its ability to continue to develop  and  introduce  new  products on a timely
basis which can compete  effectively on the basis of price and  performance  and
which address customer  requirements.  The success of new product  introductions
depends on various  factors,  including  proper new  product  selection,  timely
completion and introduction of new product designs, development of support tools
and collateral  literature  that make complex new products easy for engineers to
understand and use and market acceptance of customers' end products.  Because of
the complexity of its products,  the Company has experienced delays from time to
time in completing  development  of new products.  In addition,  there can be no
assurance  that any new  products  will receive or maintain  substantial  market
acceptance.  If the  Company  were  unable  to  design,  develop  and  introduce
competitive  products on a timely basis, its future  operating  results would be
adversely affected.

     The Company's  future  success will also depend upon its ability to develop
and  implement  new design and process  technologies.  Semiconductor  design and
process technologies are subject to rapid technological change,  requiring large
expenditures for research and development.  Other companies in the industry have
experienced  difficulty in effecting  transitions to smaller geometry  processes
and to larger  wafers and,  consequently,  have suffered  reduced  manufacturing
yields or delays in product deliveries. The Company believes that its transition
to smaller  geometries and to larger wafers will be important for the Company to
remain  competitive,  and operating  results could be adversely  affected if the
transition is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented.

     Selling, General and Administrative

     Through  expense  controls  and  operating  efficiencies,  the  Company has
reduced selling,  general and administrative expenses in fiscal 1997 to 16.8% of
sales,  as  compared  to 17.1%  and  17.8% of sales  in  fiscal  1996 and  1995,
respectively.  This has been achieved  while the Company has continued to invest
significantly in incremental  worldwide sales and technical support resources to
promote  the  Company's  embedded  control  products.  However,  there can be no
assurance  that revenue  growth in the future will be  sufficient to continue to
reduce the current level of selling,  general and  administrative  expenses as a
percentage of sales.

     Other Income (Expense)

     Interest  expense in fiscal 1997 increased over fiscal 1996 and fiscal 1995
due to increased  borrowings  associated  with the Company's  capital  equipment
additions and stock repurchase program. Interest income in fiscal 1997 decreased
from  fiscal  1996 but  increased  from fiscal  1995,  primarily  as a result of
changes in invested cash balances.  Other income represents  numerous immaterial
non-operating  items.  The Company's  interest  expense could increase in fiscal
1998 if the Company  increases  its  borrowings  and interest  expense  would be
adversely impacted by increased interest rates.

     Provision for Income Taxes

     Provisions for income taxes reflect tax on foreign earnings and federal and
state tax on U.S.  earnings.  The  Company had an  effective  tax rate of 26.4%,
27.0% and 26.1% for the years ended March 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively,
due primarily to lower tax rates at its foreign locations.  The Company believes
that its tax rate for the foreseeable  future will be approximately  27%. During
fiscal 1995, the Internal  Revenue Service  ("IRS")  completed an examination of
the Company's  federal income tax returns for fiscal 1993,  1992, 1991 and 1990.
As a result of the  completion of this  examination by the IRS and completion of
examinations  by certain  foreign  tax  authorities,  the Company  recognized  a
benefit  to its  effective  tax rate in fiscal  1995.  The  foregoing  statement
regarding  the  Company's  anticipated  future  tax  rate  is a  forward-looking
statement  within the meaning of Section 27A of the  Securities  Act of 1933, as
amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and
is subject to the safe harbors  created  thereby.  Actual  results  could differ
materially  because of the following  factors,  among others:  taxation rates in
geographic regions where the Company has significant operations; and current tax
holidays available in foreign locations.

     Liquidity and Capital Resources

     The Company  had $43.0  million in cash and cash  equivalents  at March 31,
1997, an increase of $11.9 million from the March 31, 1996 balance.  The Company
has an  unsecured  line of credit with a syndicate  of domestic  banks  totaling
$90.0 million.  There were no borrowings under the domestic line of credit as of
March 31,  1997.  The  domestic  line of credit  requires the Company to achieve
certain  financial ratios and operating  results.  The Company was in compliance
with these  covenants at March 31, 1997. The Company also has an unsecured short
term line of credit  totaling $14.9 million with certain  foreign  banks.  There
were no borrowings  under the foreign line of credit as of March 31, 1997. There
are no covenants related to the foreign line of credit.

     At March 31, 1997, an aggregate of $104.9  million of these  facilities was
available,  subject to financial covenants and ratios with which the Company was
in  compliance.  The  Company's  ability to fully  utilize  these  facilities is
dependent on the Company remaining in compliance with such covenants and ratios.

     During the year ended March 31, 1997, the Company  generated  $77.6 million
of cash from operating activities,  an improvement of $4.2 million from the year
ended March 31, 1996 and an  improvement  of $34.5  million  from the year ended
March 31, 1995. The  improvement in cash flow from  operations was primarily due
to  increased  profitability,  the  impact of changes in  accounts  payable  and
accrued expenses and an increase in depreciation expense.

     The Company's level of capital  expenditures  varies from time to time as a
result of actual and anticipated  business  conditions.  Capital expenditures in
the years ended March 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995 were $79.0 million, $115.8 million
and $70.8 million,  respectively.  Capital  expenditures  were primarily for the
expansion of  production  capacity and the addition of research and  development
equipment in each of these periods.  The Company also acquired  equipment  under
capital  leases of $3.7  million in the year ended March 31,  1995.  The Company
currently  intends  to spend  approximately  $135.0  million  during the next 12
months for  additional  capital  equipment to increase  capacity at its existing
wafer fabrication  facilities,  to construct additional facilities and to expand
product  test  operations.  The Company  expects  capital  expenditures  will be
financed by cash flow from  operations,  available debt  arrangements  and other
sources  of  financing.  The  Company  believes  that the  capital  expenditures
anticipated  to be  incurred  over the next 12 months  will  provide  sufficient
additional manufacturing capacity to meet its currently anticipated needs.

     Net cash provided by financing activities was $13.4 million,  $27.1 million
and  $31.5  million  for  the  years  ended  March  31,  1997,   1996  and  1995
respectively.  Proceeds  from sale of stock and put options were $59.5  million,
$9.6  million and $33.7  million for the years  ended March 31,  1997,  1996 and
1995,  respectively.  Proceeds from issuance of long term debt were $2.9 million
and $3.8  million for the years  ended  March 31,  1996 and 1995,  respectively.
Payments on long term debt and capital lease obligations were $5.7 million, $5.9
million and $5.9  million for the years  ended  March 31,  1997,  1996 and 1995,
respectively.  Proceeds  from lines of credit  were $20.5  million  for the year
ended March 31, 1996.  Repayments  on lines of credit were $21.0 million for the
year ended March 31,  1997.  Cash  expended  for the  purchase of the  Company's
Common Stock was $19.5 million for the year ended March 31, 1997.

     On July 26,  1996,  the  Company's  Board of  Directors  authorized a share
repurchase plan which permits the Company to purchase up to 1,500,000  shares of
its Common  Stock and to sell up to 750,000 put  options.  Based on the price of
Microchip's stock and other pertinent factors, the Company may from time to time
purchase  shares on the open market or sell put options.  See Footnote 14 to the
Company's Consolidated Financial Statements, below.

     The Company believes that its existing  sources of liquidity  combined with
cash  generated  from  operations  will  be  sufficient  to meet  the  Company's
currently  anticipated  cash  requirements  for at  least  the  next 12  months.
However,  the semiconductor  industry is capital  intensive.  In order to remain
competitive,  the Company  must  continue  to make  significant  investments  in
capital equipment, for both production and research and development. The Company
may seek additional  equity or debt financing  during the next 12 months for the
capital  expenditures  required  to  maintain  or  expand  the  Company's  wafer
fabrication  and  product  test  facilities.  The  timing and amount of any such
capital  requirements  will depend on a number of factors,  including demand for
the  Company's  products,  product  mix,  changes  in  industry  conditions  and
competitive  factors.  There can be no  assurance  that such  financing  will be
available on acceptable  terms, and any additional equity financing could result
in additional dilution to existing investors.

     Recent Accounting Pronouncements

     In  February,   1997,  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board  issued
Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standard  No. 128 ,  "Earnings  per Share"
("Statement  128").  Statement  128  establishes  standards  for  computing  and
presenting  earnings  per share  ("EPS"),  and  supersedes  APB  Opinion  No.15.
Statement 128 replaces primary EPS with basic EPS and requires

dual  presentation  of basic and diluted EPS.  Statement  128 is  effective  for
annual and interim periods ending after December 15, 1997.  Earlier  adoption is
not  permitted.  After  adoption  all prior period EPS data shall be restated to
conform to Statement 128. Basic and diluted EPS, as calculated  under  Statement
128 would have been $.99 and $.94 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1997.

Item 7A.      QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     Not applicable.

Item 8.       FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The  Consolidated  Financial  Statements of the Company listed in the index
appearing  under Item 14(a)(1) hereof are filed as part of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. See also Index to Financial Statements on page F-1 hereof.

Item 9.       CHANGES IN AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
              FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

              Not applicable.

                                    PART III

Item 10.      DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Information with respect to the Company's  directors is incorporated herein
by reference to the Company's  proxy  statement  for the 1997 annual  meeting of
stockholders under the caption "Election of Directors."

     See Item I,  Part I hereof  under  the  caption  "Executive  Officers"  for
information with respect to the Company's executive  officers.  Information with
respect to compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended, is incorporated herein by reference to the Company's proxy statement
for the 1997 annual  meeting of  stockholders  under the caption  "Section 16(a)
Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance."

Item 11.      EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     Information with respect to executive  compensation is incorporated  herein
by reference to the information  under the caption  "Executive  Compensation" in
the Company's proxy statement for the 1997 annual meeting of stockholders.

Item 12.      SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     Information with respect to security ownership of certain beneficial owners
and  management  of the  Company  is  incorporated  herein by  reference  to the
information  under the caption  "Security  Ownership of Principal  Stockholders,
Directors and Executive  Officers" in the Company's proxy statement for the 1997
annual meeting of stockholders.

Item 13.      CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

         Not applicable.

                                     PART IV

Item 14.      EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a) The following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form
10-K:



                                   SIGNATURES

         Pursuant to the  requirements  of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                  MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED
                                  (Registrant)


                                  By:  /s/ Steve Sanghi
                                       ----------------------------------------
                                       Steve Sanghi
                                       President and Chief Executive Officer

Date:    May 23,  1997

         Pursuant to the  requirements  of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,
this  report has been  signed  below by the  following  persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



                           Annual Report on Form 10-K

                   Item 8, Item 14(a)(1) and (2), (c) and (d)


                     --------------------------------------


                          INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                        CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                    EXHIBITS


                     --------------------------------------



                            YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1997

                        MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                CHANDLER, ARIZONA





               MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Index to Consolidated Financial Statements


                                                                Page Number
                                                                -----------

Independent Auditors' Report                                       F-1

Consolidated Balance Sheets                                        F-2
   as of March 31, 1997 and 1996

Consolidated Statements of Income                                  F-3
   for each of the years in the three-year
   period ended March 31, 1997

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows                              F-4
   for each of the years in the three-year
   period ended March 31, 1997

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity                    F-5
   for each of the years in the three-year
   period ended March 31, 1997

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                         F-6
                                        i

KPMG Peat Marwick LLP


                          Independent Auditors' Report




The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Microchip Technology Incorporated:

We have  audited  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets of  Microchip
Technology  Incorporated and subsidiaries as of March 31, 1997 and 1996, and the
related consolidated statements of income,  stockholders' equity, and cash flows
for each of the years in the  three-year  period  ended  March 31,  1997.  These
consolidated  financial  statements  are  the  responsibility  of the  Company's
management.  Our  responsibility is to express an opinion on these  consolidated
financial statements based on our audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally   accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated  financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Microchip Technology
Incorporated  and subsidiaries as of March 31, 1997 and 1996, and the results of
their  operations  and their cash flows for each of the years in the  three-year
period ended March 31, 1997, in conformity  with generally  accepted  accounting
principles.




KPMG Peat Marwick LLP
Phoenix, Arizona
April 18, 1997
                                      F-1

               MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                      (in thousands, except share amounts)

                                      F-2
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements

               MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

                      (in thousands, except share amounts)


                                              Year Ended March 31,
                                         -----------------------------------
                                            1997         1996        1995
                                         ---------    ---------    ---------

Net sales                                $ 334,252    $ 285,888    $ 207,961
Cost of sales                              167,330      137,708      101,039
                                         ---------    ---------    ---------
   Gross profit                            166,922      148,180      106,922


Operating expenses:
   Research and development                 32,073       27,517       20,746
   Selling, general and administrative      56,248       48,903       36,975
   Restructuring cost                        5,969         --           --
   Write-off of in-process technology        1,575       11,448         --
                                         ---------    ---------    ---------
                                            95,865       87,868       57,721

Operating income                            71,057       60,312       49,201

Other income (expense):
   Interest income                           1,419        2,034        1,108
   Interest expense                         (3,271)      (2,981)      (1,989)
   Other, net                                  288          569          808
                                         ---------    ---------    ---------

Income before income  taxes                 69,493       59,934       49,128

Income taxes                                18,361       16,182       12,829
                                         ---------    ---------    ---------

Net income                               $  51,132    $  43,752    $  36,299
                                         =========    =========    =========


Net income per common and
   common equivalent share               $    0.94    $    0.80    $    0.70
                                         =========    =========    =========


Shares used in per share calculation        54,683       54,533       51,641
                                         =========    =========    =========
                                      F-3
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements

               MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

                      (in thousands, except share amounts)

                                       F-4
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements

               MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

           See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
                                       F-5

MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.       SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
         -------------------------------

         Principles of Consolidation
         The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Microchip
         Technology   Incorporated  and  its  wholly  owned   subsidiaries  (the
         "Company"). All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have
         been eliminated in consolidation.

         Stock Split
         On  December  6, 1996,  the  Company's  Board of  Directors  approved a
         three-for-two  split of its Common Stock which became effective January
         6, 1997.  Accordingly,  all  references in the financial  statements to
         number of shares of Common Stock,  weighted average number of shares of
         Common Stock and stock option information have been restated to reflect
         this stock split.

         Cash and Cash Equivalents
         All highly liquid investments including marketable securities purchased
         with an original  maturity of three months or less are considered to be
         cash  equivalents.  As of March 31,  1997,  the Company has  classified
         marketable  securities  of  $25,964,000,  with a maturity  of less than
         three months as cash and cash equivalents.  The Company intends to hold
         these  securities to maturity.  There were no marketable  securities at
         March 31, 1996.

         Inventories
         Inventories  are  valued  at the  lower  of cost or  market  using  the
         last-in, first-out (LIFO) method.

         Property, Plant and Equipment
         Property,  plant and equipment are stated at cost.  Major  renewals and
         improvements  are  capitalized,   while  maintenance  and  repairs  are
         expensed when  incurred.  Depreciation  is provided on a  straight-line
         basis over the estimated useful lives of the related assets which range
         from three to twenty-five years.

         Assets acquired under capital lease  arrangements have been recorded at
         the present value of the future  minimum  lease  payments and are being
         amortized on a  straight-line  basis over the estimated  useful life of
         the asset or the lease term, whichever is shorter. Amortization of this
         equipment is included in depreciation and amortization expense.

         Foreign Currency Translation and Forward Contracts
         The Company's  foreign  subsidiaries are considered to be extensions of
         the U.S. company and any translation  gains and losses related to these
         subsidiaries are included in income.  As the U.S. Dollar is utilized as
         the  functional  currency,  gains and  losses  resulting  from  foreign
         currency  transactions  (transactions  denominated  in a currency other
         than  the  subsidiaries'  functional  currency)  are also  included  in
         income.  Gains and losses  associated  with  currency  rate  changes on
         forward contracts are recorded currently in income.

         Revenue Recognition
         Revenue  from product  sales to direct  customers  is  recognized  upon
         shipment.  The Company  defers  recognition of net sales and profits on
         sales to distributors  that have rights of return and price  protection
         until the distributors have resold the products.

         Income Taxes
         Deferred tax assets and  liabilities  are recognized for the future tax
         consequences   attributable   to  differences   between  the  financial
         statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their
         respective tax bases.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured
         using  enacted  tax rates  expected  to apply to taxable  income in the
         years in which these temporary differences are expected to be recovered
         or settled.

         Computation of Net Income per Share
         Net  income  per share is based  upon the  weighted  average  number of
         shares of Common Stock and common equivalent shares consisting of stock
         options (using the treasury stock method)  outstanding  for each of the
         periods  presented.  Common equivalent shares are not considered if the
         result would be anti-dilutive.
                                      F-6

         Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of
         The Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting
         Standards ("SFAS") No. 121, Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived
         Assets and for  Long-Lived  Assets to Be Disposed Of, on April 1, 1996.
         This Statement requires that long-lived assets and certain identifiable
         intangibles  be reviewed for impairment  whenever  events or changes in
         circumstances  indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be
         recoverable.  Recoverability  of assets to be held and used is measured
         by a comparison  of the carrying  amount of an asset to future net cash
         flows  expected  to be  generated  by the  asset.  If such  assets  are
         considered to be impaired,  the impairment to be recognized is measured
         by the amount by which the  carrying  amount of the assets  exceeds the
         fair value of the assets.  Assets to be disposed of are reported at the
         lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell. Adoption
         of this  Statement  did not have a  material  impact  on the  Company's
         financial position or results of operations.

         Stock Option Plan
         Prior to April 1, 1996,  the  Company  accounted  for its stock  option
         plans in accordance with the provisions of Accounting  Principles Board
         ("APB") Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,  and
         related  interpretations.   As  such,  compensation  expense  would  be
         recorded,  only if, on the date of grant,  the current  market price of
         the underlying stock exceeded the exercise price. On April 1, 1996, the
         Company adopted SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based  Compensation,
         which permits  entities to recognize as expense over the vesting period
         the  fair  value  of all  stock-based  awards  on the  date  of  grant.
         Alternatively,  SFAS No. 123 also allows  entities to continue to apply
         the  provisions  of APB Opinion No. 25 and provide pro forma net income
         and pro forma earnings per share  disclosures for employee stock option
         grants made in fiscal 1996 and future years as if the  fair-value-based
         method  defined  in SFAS No.  123 had been  applied.  The  Company  has
         elected to continue to apply the  provisions  of APB Opinion No. 25 and
         provide the pro forma disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 123.

         Use of Estimates
         The Company has made a number of estimates and assumptions  relating to
         the  reporting  of  assets  and   liabilities  and  the  disclosure  of
         contingent assets and liabilities to prepare these financial statements
         in conformity with generally  accepted  accounting  principles.  Actual
         results could differ from those estimates.

         Reclassifications
         Certain 1996 and 1995 fiscal year  balances have been  reclassified  to
         conform to the fiscal year 1997 presentation.

2.       ACQUISITIONS
         ------------

         Keeloq(R) Hopping Code
         On November 17, 1995, the Company  acquired the Keeloq(R)  hopping code
         technology  and patents  developed  by Nanoteq  Ltd. of the Republic of
         South Africa,  and the marketing  rights  related  thereto (the "Keeloq
         Acquisition").  The Keeloq Acquisition was treated as an asset purchase
         for accounting  purposes.  The amount paid for the Keeloq  Acquisition,
         including all related costs, was  $12,948,000.  The Company has written
         off a  substantial  portion  of the  purchase  price  that  relates  to
         in-process research and development costs, which is consistent with the
         Company's on-going treatment of research and development costs, as well
         as  all  Keeloq   Acquisition-related  costs.  The  one-time  write-off
         associated  with  the  Keeloq  Acquisition  was  $11,448,000,  with the
         balance  treated as purchased  technology  and  amortized on a straight
         line basis over five years. Under the terms of the Keeloq  Acquisition,
         the Company has agreed to a secondary  payment which will be determined
         by a formula  based on the net sales and gross  margin  results  of the
         division  for the six month period  ended  December 31, 1998.  Any such
         secondary  payment is based on future  performance  and it is currently
         not possible to determine the amount of such  payment.  It is currently
         anticipated  that any such payment would be expensed in the quarter the
         amount is  determined.  The  impact of the  Keeloq  Acquisition  to the
         Company's  reported  financial  position and results of  operations  is
         immaterial,  therefore, pro-forma information illustrating the combined
         results after the Keeloq Acquisition has not been provided.

         ASIC Technical Solutions
         On June 25, 1996 the Company acquired ASIC Technical Solutions, Inc., a
         fabless   provider  of  quick  turn  gate  array   devices  (the  "ASIC
         Acquisition").  The ASIC  Acquisition  was  treated as a  purchase  for
         accounting  purposes.  The  amount  paid for the ASIC  Acquisition  and
         related  costs was  $1,750,000.  As part of the ASIC  Acquisition,  the
         Company  allocated  a  substantial  portion  of the  purchase  price to
         in-process research and development costs, which is consistent with the
         Company's  on-going  treatment of research and development  costs.  The
         total  one-time  write-off  associated  with the ASIC  Acquisition  was
         $1,575,000, with the balance treated as purchased technology related to
         current products and amortized over five years.  Under the terms of the
         ASIC  Acquisition,  the Company has agreed to a secondary payment which
         will be determined by a formula based on the net sales and gross margin
                                      F-7

         results of the  division  for the two year period  ending  December 31,
         1999. Any such secondary payment is based on future  performance and it
         is currently not possible to determine  the amount of such payment.  It
         is currently anticipated that any such payment would be expensed in the
         quarter the amount is determined. The impact of the ASIC Acquisition to
         the Company's  reported financial position and results of operations is
         immaterial,  therefore, pro-forma information illustrating the combined
         results after the ASIC Acquisition has not been provided.

3.       RESTRUCTURING CHARGES
         ---------------------

         During the  quarter  ended June 30,  1996,  primarily  in  response  to
         inventory correction activities at the Company's customers, the Company
         implemented a series of actions to reduce production capacity,  curtail
         the growth of inventories and reduce operating expenses.  These actions
         included   delaying  capital  expansion  plans  and  deferring  capital
         spending,  a 15% production cutback in wafer  fabrication,  a headcount
         reduction in early April,  1996  representing  approximately  3% of the
         Company`s  worldwide  employees,  and a two-week wafer fab shut down in
         early July, 1996. As a result of these actions,  the Company recorded a
         pre-tax  restructuring  charge of  $5,969,000 in the quarter ended June
         30,  1996 to  cover  costs  primarily  related  to  idling  part of the
         Company's 5-inch wafer fab capacity,  paying continuing expenses during
         the wafer  fabrication  facility  shutdown and paying  severance  costs
         associated with the April, 1996 headcount reduction.

4.       CONTINGENCIES
         -------------

         The  Company is subject to  lawsuits  and other  claims  arising in the
         ordinary  course of its business.  In the Company's  opinion,  based on
         consultation  with legal  counsel,  as of March 31, 1997, the effect of
         such matters will not have a material  adverse  effect on the Company's
         financial position.

5.       ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE
         -------------------

         Accounts receivable consists of the following (amounts in thousands):


6.       INVENTORIES

         The components of inventories are as follows (amounts in thousands):

         The Company has  consistently  presented its results of operations  for
         all periods on the last-in first-out (LIFO) method and has assessed the
         net  realizable  value of inventory  based on LIFO costs.  LIFO has the
         effect of matching  current  costs of production  with sales  generated
         during the same period.  Production  costs have decreased over time due
         to improvements in manufacturing  productivity and yields, resulting in
         lower cost of sales for the year ended
                                      F-8

         March 31, 1995.  Due to changes in sales and product mix which affected
         production  costs, cost of sales increased during the years ended March
         31, 1997 and 1996. The difference in cost of sales between the LIFO and
         FIFO  inventory   valuation  methods  for  the  reporting  periods  was
         immaterial. The inventory has been valued at net realizable value after
         considering costs of disposition and the LIFO basis of the inventory.

7.       PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
         -----------------------------

         Property,  plant and equipment  consists of the  following  (amounts in
         thousands):



8.       LONG-TERM DEBT
         --------------

         Long-term  debt consists of borrowings  (denominated  in U.S.  Dollars)
         from three Taiwan financial institutions, secured by equipment financed
         thereby.  Interest  rates are at the  London  Interbank  Offering  Rate
         (LIBOR) (6.0% at March 31, 1997) plus 0.75%,  and  Singapore  Interbank
         Offering  Rate  (SIBOR)  (6.125%  at March 31,  1997) plus  0.75%.  The
         weighted  average interest rate on these borrowings was 6.824% at March
         31, 1997. Payments,  including interest,  are due semi-annually through
         September 15, 2000. The aggregate  annual  maturities of long term debt
         as of  March  31,  1997  are  $2,470,000,  $2,196,000,  $1,147,000  and
         $273,000  for the years ending  March 31,  1998,  1999,  2000 and 2001,
         respectively.

         The Company has an  unsecured  line of credit with a syndicate  of U.S.
         banks for up to $90,000,000,  bearing interest at the Prime Rate (8.50%
         at March 31, 1997) and expiring in October, 1998. At March 31, 1996 the
         Company had utilized  $21,000,000 of this line of credit.  At March 31,
         1997 there were no borrowings against the line of credit. The agreement
         between the Company and the syndicate of banks  requires the Company to
         achieve certain financial ratios and operating results. The Company was
         in compliance with these covenants as of March 31, 1997.

         The Company has an  additional  unsecured  line of credit with  various
         Taiwan  financial  institutions  for  up to  $14,890,000  (U.S.  Dollar
         equivalent).  These  borrowings  are  predominantly  denominated in New
         Taiwan Dollars, bearing interest at the Taiwan money market rate (6.10%
         at March 31, 1997) and  expiring on various  dates  through  September,
         1998. No borrowings were outstanding on this line of credit as of March
         31, 1997 and 1996.

9.       EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
         ----------------------

         The Company maintains a contributory profit-sharing plan for a majority
         of its domestic  employees  meeting certain service  requirements.  The
         plan qualifies  under Section 401(k) of the Internal  Revenue Code, and
         allows employees to contribute up to 15% of their compensation, subject
         to  maximum  annual  limitations  prescribed  by the  Internal  Revenue
         Service.  Company  contributions  to the plan were at the discretion of
         the Board of Directors  until January 1, 1997,  when the employer match
         was revised to provide  for a fixed and  discretionary  component.  The
         Company shall make a matching contribution of up to 25% of the first 4%
         of the  participant's  eligible  compensation  and may  award  up to an
         additional 25% under the discretionary  match. All matches are provided
         on a  quarterly  basis  and  require  the  participant  to be an active
         employee  at the end of each  quarter.  For the years  ended  March 31,
         1997,  1996 and 1995,  the Company  contributions  to the plan  totaled
         $452,000, $407,000, and $273,000, respectively.

         Effective January 1, 1997, the Company adopted a non-qualified deferred
         compensation  arrangement.  This  plan is  unfunded  and is  maintained
         primarily  for the purpose of  providing  deferred  compensation  for a
         select group of  management  as defined in ERISA  Sections 201, 301 and
         401. There are no Company matching  contributions  with respect to this
         plan.
                                      F-9

         Substantially  all  employees  in foreign  locations  are  covered by a
         statutory   pension  plan.   Contributions  are  accrued  based  on  an
         actuarially  determined  percentage of  compensation  and are funded in
         amounts  sufficient to meet  statutory  requirements.  Pension  expense
         amounted to $1,316,000,  $1,197,000, and $1,177,000 for the years ended
         March 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

         The Company  has an  incentive  compensation  plan which  provides  for
         awards,  based on a percentage of base salary,  from an incentive  pool
         created from operating profits of the Company, at the discretion of the
         Board of  Directors.  During the years ended March 31,  1997,  1996 and
         1995, $2,064,000, $1,357,000 and $2,105,000,  respectively, was charged
         against operations for this plan.

         The  Company  also has a plan which  provides a cash bonus based on the
         operating  profits of the Company for all employees,  at the discretion
         of the Board of Directors.  During the years ended March 31, 1997, 1996
         and 1995, $1,373,000,  $1,025,000,  and $1,025,000,  respectively,  was
         charged against operations for this plan.

10.      STOCK OPTION PLANS
         ------------------

         Under the Company's  1993 Stock Option Plan (the "Plan") key employees,
         non-employee  directors and consultants may be granted  incentive stock
         options or  non-statutory  stock  options to purchase  shares of Common
         Stock at a price  not less than  100% of the fair  market  value of the
         option  shares on the grant date.  Options  granted under the Plan vest
         over the period  determined  by the Board of  Directors  at the date of
         grant, at periods ranging from one year to four years.

         At March 31, 1997,  there were  1,508,370  shares  available  for grant
         under the  Plan.  The per share  weighted-average  fair  value of stock
         options  granted  under the Plan for the years ended March 31, 1997 and
         1996 was $9.66  and  $13.22,  respectively,  based on the date of grant
         using  the  Black-Scholes   option-pricing  model  with  the  following
         weighted-average assumptions for both years: expected dividend yield of
         0%, expected  volatility of 60%,  risk-free interest rate of 6.25%, and
         an expected life of 3.50 years.

         Under the Company's 1993 Stock Option Plan, 14,897,477 shares of Common
         Stock had been  reserved for issuance  since the inception of the Plan.
         In April, 1997, subject to stockholder approval, the Board of Directors
         reserved an  additional  2,000,000  shares of Common Stock for issuance
         under the Plan.

         The stock option activity is as follows:

                                                  Options Outstanding
                                                                Weighted Average
                                             Shares              Exercise Price
                                       -----------------------------------------

         Outstanding at March 31, 1994        5,963,625            $    4.69    
                                                                                
         Granted                              2,186,945                13.76    
         Exercised                             (901,656)                2.20    
         Canceled                              (138,242)                6.50    
                                       -----------------                        
                                                                                
         Outstanding at March 31, 1995        7,110,672                 7.76    
                                                                                
                                                                                
         Granted                                981,833                23.77    
         Exercised                           (1,367,832)                4.01    
         Canceled                              (177,366)               10.86    
                                       -----------------                        
                                                                                
                                                                                
         Outstanding at March 31, 1996        6,547,307                10.88    
                                                                                
         Granted                              2,092,952                17.74    
         Exercised                           (1,314,977)                6.16    
         Canceled                              (967,610)               21.28    
                                       -----------------                        
                                                                                
                                                                                
         Outstanding at March 31, 1997        6,357,672            $   12.50    
                                       =================                        
                                      F-10

       The following table summarizes information about the stock options
                         outstanding at March 31, 1997:



         At March 31,  1997 and 1996,  the  number of  options  exercisable  was
         2,208,808  and  2,115,404,   respectively,   and  the  weighted-average
         exercise price of those options was $6.60 and $6.21, respectively.

         On April 23, 1996,  the Board of  Directors of the Company  approved an
         option  exchange  program  for  options  priced in  excess  of  $20.00.
         Employees,  excluding executive  officers,  certain corporate officers,
         and directors,  who were issued stock options in this category, and who
         were  active  employees  on April 30,  1996,  could elect to keep their
         options to buy Common  Stock at the  original  grant  price or exchange
         their options for options  priced at $17.00 per share,  the fair market
         value of the Company's  Common Stock on April 30, 1996. If the employee
         elected to exchange  their  options  for  options  priced at $17.00 per
         share, the vesting  commencement  date was extended by 90 days from the
         original  vesting date.  There were 654,395 shares  exchanged under the
         option exchange program.

         For certain  options  granted,  the Company  recognizes as compensation
         expense the excess of the deemed value for  accounting  purposes of the
         Common Stock  issuable  upon exercise of such options over the exercise
         price of such options.  This deferred compensation expense is amortized
         ratably over the vesting period of each option.  During the years ended
         March  31,  1997,  1996 and 1995,  the  Company  recorded  compensation
         expense of $30,000, $60,000 and $60,000, respectively.

         Common stock received  through the exercise of incentive  stock options
         which are sold by the optionee within two years of grant or one year of
         exercise  result in a tax deduction  for the Company  equivalent to the
         taxable  gain  recognized  by the  optionee.  For  financial  reporting
         purposes, the tax effect of this deduction is accounted for as a credit
         to additional  paid-in capital rather than as a reduction of income tax
         expense.  Such optionee  sales resulted in a tax benefit to the Company
         of $5,742,000,  $4,130,000 and $4,120,000 for the years ended March 31,
         1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

         The Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "Purchase Plan") allows
         eligible employees of the Company to purchase shares of Common Stock at
         semi-annual intervals through periodic payroll deductions. The purchase
         price  per  share,  in  general,  will be 85% of the  lower of the fair
         market value of the Common Stock on the  participant's  entry date into
         the offering  period or 85% of the fair market value on the semi-annual
         purchase date. As of March 31, 1997,  179,086 shares were available for
         issuance under the Purchase  Plan.  Since the inception of the Purchase
         Plan,  3,006,000 shares of Common Stock have been reserved for issuance
         under  the  Purchase  Plan.  In April,  1997,  subject  to  stockholder
         approval,  the Board of Directors reserved an additional 300,000 shares
         of Common Stock for issuance  under the Purchase  Plan.  During  fiscal
         1995, a purchase plan was adopted for employees in non-U.S.  locations.
         The plan will allow for the purchase  price per share to be 100% of the
         lower of the fair market value of the Common Stock on the  beginning or
         end of the semi-annual  purchase plan period. In April, 1997, the Board
         of Directors  reserved an additional  10,000 shares of Common Stock for
         issuance under this plan.

         The Company  applies APB Opinion No. 25 in  accounting  for its various
         stock plans and, accordingly,  no compensation cost has been recognized
         for the Plan or the Purchase Plan in the financial statements.  Had the
         Company  determined  compensation cost in accordance with SFAS No. 123,
         the  Company's  net income  and net  income  per share  would have been
         reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below:
                                      F-11

                                                          Year Ended March 31,
                                                             1997        1996
                                                       -------------------------

         Net income                     As reported       $ 51,132     $ 43,752
                                        Pro forma           48,202       40,691

         Net income per common and      As reported       $   0.94     $   0.80
         common equivalent share        Pro-forma             0.88         0.75

         Pro forma net income  reflects only options  granted  during the fiscal
         years  ended  March 31,  1997 and 1996.  Therefore,  the full impact of
         calculating  compensation  cost for stock options under SFAS No. 123 is
         not  reflected  in the pro forma net  income  amounts  presented  above
         because compensation cost is reflected over the options' vesting period
         and compensation cost for options granted prior to April 1, 1995 is not
         considered.

11.      LEASE COMMITMENTS
         -----------------

         The Company  leases office space,  transportation  and other  equipment
         under  capital  and  operating  leases  which  expire at various  dates
         through March,  2003. The future minimum lease  commitments under these
         leases are payable as follows (amounts in thousands):



         Rental expense under operating  leases totaled  $2,644,000,  $1,675,000
         and  $1,646,000  for the years  ended  March 31,  1997,  1996 and 1995,
         respectively.
                                      F-12

12.      INCOME TAXES

                  The  provision  for  income  taxes is as follows  (amounts  in
                  thousands):

         The tax benefit  associated with the exercise of employee stock options
         reduced  taxes   currently   payable  by  $5,742,000,   $4,130,000  and
         $4,120,000  for  the  years  ended  March  31,  1997,  1996  and  1995,
         respectively.

         The  provision  for income taxes  differs  from the amount  computed by
         applying the statutory  federal tax rate to income before income taxes.
         The sources and tax effects of the differences are as follows  (amounts
         in thousands):

         Pretax income from foreign operations was $32,172,000,  $29,434,000 and
         $21,064,000  for the  years  ended  March  31,  1997,  1996  and  1995,
         respectively.  Unremitted  foreign  earnings that are  considered to be
         permanently invested outside the United States and on which no deferred
         taxes have been provided,  amounted to  approximately  $108,320,000  at
         March 31, 1997.

         The tax effects of temporary  differences that give rise to significant
         portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are as
         follows (amounts in thousands):
                                      F-13


         Management believes that it is more likely than not that the results of
         future operations will generate sufficient
         taxable income to realize the deferred tax assets.

         The Company  has enjoyed the  benefits of a partial tax holiday for its
         Taiwan  manufacturing  operations  over the  past  several  years.  The
         aggregate   dollar  benefits  derived  from  this  tax  holiday  status
         approximated $5,415,000, $5,003,000, and $3,707,000 for the years ended
         March  31,  1997,  1996 and 1995,  respectively.  The  benefit  the tax
         holiday status had on net income per share  approximated  $0.10,  $0.09
         and  $0.07  for  the  years  ended  March  31,  1997,  1996  and  1995,
         respectively.  The  Company's tax holiday  status in Taiwan  expired in
         March, 1997.

13.      ACCRUED LIABILITIES
         -------------------

         Accrued liabilities consists of the following (amounts in thousands):

                                                         March 31,
                                                    1997            1996
                                               ---------------------------
                  Accrued salaries and wages   $     6,344     $     4,728
                  Income taxes                      14,957           7,422
                  Other accrued expenses            15,091          16,057
                                               -----------     -----------
                                               $    36,392     $    28,207
                                               ===========     ===========

14.      STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
         --------------------

         Stockholder  Rights Plan. On February 13, 1995, the Company's  Board of
         Directors  adopted a Stockholder  Rights Plan (the  "Plan").  Under the
         Plan,  each share of the  Company's  Common  Stock has one right  which
         entitles  the  stockholder  to buy 1/100th of a share of the  Company's
         Series A  Participating  Preferred  Stock.  The rights have an exercise
         price of $66.67  and  expire  in  February,  2005.  The  rights  become
         exercisable and transferable upon the occurrence of certain events.

         Stock  Repurchase  Activity.  In  connection  with a  stock  repurchase
         program,  during the year ended March 31, 1997, the Company purchased a
         total of 1,326,477  shares of the Company's Common Stock in open market
         activities at a total cost of $19,463,000.  Through  December 31, 1996,
         the  Company  had  reissued  through  stock  option  exercises  and the
         Company's  employee stock purchase plan a total of 1,221,895  shares of
         the Company's Common Stock held in treasury. Also, in connection with a
         stock  repurchase  program,  during  fiscal  1997 and  fiscal  1996 the
         Company  sold put  options for  500,000  shares and  517,500  shares of
         Common  Stock,  respectively.  Pricing per share  ranged from $15.00 to
         $24.88 in fiscal 1997 and from $18.25 to $25.08 in fiscal 1996.  During
         fiscal 1997, the Company
                                      F-14

         repurchased  put options for 142,500  shares.  As of March 31, 1997 the
         Company held put options for 300,000 shares which have expiration dates
         ranging from April 1, 1997 to December 26, 1997 at prices  ranging from
         $15.00  to  $24.88  per  share.  The net  proceeds  from  the  sale and
         repurchase of these options, in the amount of $427,750 and $647,000 for
         fiscal  years  1997  and  1996  respectively,   has  been  credited  to
         additional paid-in capital.

         Proposed Increase to the Number of Authorized  Shares. In April,  1997,
         subject to  stockholder  approval,  the Board of Directors  approved an
         amendment to the Company's  Restated  Certificate of Incorporation,  as
         amended,  to increase the number of  authorized  shares of Common Stock
         from 65,000,000 to  100,000,000.  This matter will be voted upon by the
         stockholders at the 1997 annual stockholders' meeting.

15.      GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION
         ----------------------

         The Company operates in one industry  segment and engages  primarily in
         the design,  development,  manufacture  and marketing of  semiconductor
         products.  The Company sells its products to system  manufacturers  and
         distributors in a broad range of industries,  performs  on-going credit
         evaluations of its customers and generally requires no collateral.  The
         Company's operations outside the United States consist of comprehensive
         product final test  facilities in Taiwan and Thailand and sales offices
         in certain foreign countries.  Domestic  operations are responsible for
         the design,  development and wafer fabrication of all products, as well
         as the  coordination  of  production  planning  and  shipping  to  meet
         worldwide customer commitments.  The Taiwan test facility is reimbursed
         in relation to value added with  respect to test  operations  and other
         functions  performed,  and  certain  foreign  sales  offices  receive a
         commission  on export sales within their  territory.  The Thailand test
         facility  was  brought on line  during the fiscal  year ended March 31,
         1997 and has also been  reimbursed  in relation  to value added  during
         test operations.  Accordingly,  for financial statement purposes, it is
         not meaningful to segregate sales or operating profits for the test and
         foreign sales office operations. Identifiable assets by geographic area
         are as follows (in thousands):

                                                       March 31,
                                                 1997             1996
                                           -------------------------------

                      United States        $     254,477     $     192,726
                      Taiwan                     101,036           119,269
                      Thailand                    44,126            23,767
                      Other                       28,453            22,425
                                           -------------     -------------
                           Total Assets    $     428,092     $     358,187
                                           =============     =============

         Sales to  unaffiliated  customers  located  outside the United  States,
         primarily in Asia, Europe and Japan, aggregated approximately 66%, 65%,
         and 65% of  consolidated  net sales for the years ended March 31, 1997,
         1996 and 1995, respectively.

16.      FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
         -----------------------------------

         The carrying amount of cash equivalents approximates fair value because
         their  maturity  is less than  three  months.  The  carrying  amount of
         accounts   receivable,   accounts   payable  and  accrued   liabilities
         approximates  fair value due to the short term maturity of the amounts.
         The  fair  value  of  capital  lease  obligations  and  long-term  debt
         approximate  their  carrying value as they are estimated by discounting
         the future  cash flows at rates  currently  offered to the  Company for
         similar debt instruments.

         The Company is party to financial  instruments  with  off-balance-sheet
         risk in the  normal  course of  business  to  reduce  its  exposure  to
         fluctuations  in foreign  exchange rates.  These financial  instruments
         include  standby  letters  of  credit  and  foreign   currency  forward
         contracts.  When  engaging in forward  contracts,  risks arise from the
         possible  inability  of  counterparties  to meet  the  terms  of  their
         contracts and from movements in securities  values,  interest rates and
         foreign  exchange  rates.  At March 31, 1997 and 1996, the Company held
         contracts totaling $5,421,000 and $10,243,000, respectively, which were
         entered  into and hedged  the  Company's  foreign  currency  risk.  The
         contracts  matured  in  April  and  May  1997  and  1996  respectively.
         Unrealized  gains and losses as of the balance sheet dates and realized
         gains and losses for the years  ending  March 31,  1997,  1996 and 1995
         were not material.
                                      F-15

17.      QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED)
         -----------------------------

         The following table presents  selected  unaudited  quarterly  operating
         results for the  Company's  eight  quarters  ended March 31, 1997.  The
         Company  believes  that all  necessary  adjustments  have  been made to
         present fairly the related quarterly results.


18.      SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
         ----------------------------------

         The Company acquired  equipment and incurred capital lease  obligations
         of $3,656,000 during the year ended March 31, 1995.

         Cash paid for income  taxes  amounted to  $8,108,000,  $17,557,000  and
         $10,905,000  during  the years  ended  March 31,  1997,  1996 and 1995,
         respectively. Cash paid for interest amounted to $3,183,000, $2,643,000
         and  $2,081,000  during the years ended March 31, 1997,  1996 and 1995,
         respectively.

         A summary of additions and  deductions  related to the  allowances  for
         accounts receivable and inventories for the years ended March 31, 1997,
         1996 and 1995 follows:

                                Balance at   Charged to
                                beginning    costs and               Balance at
                                 of year     expenses    Deductions  end of year
                               -------------------------------------------------

         Allowance for doubtful accounts:

         1997                  $    1,834   $    452     $   (192)   $  2,094
         1996                       1,394        634         (194)      1,834
         1995                         885        649         (140)      1,394


         Allowance for inventory valuation:

         1997                  $   10,372   $  1,886     $  (3,927)  $  8,331
         1996                       4,373      7,639        (1,640)    10,372
         1995                       5,049      1,883        (2,559)     4,373
                                      F-16

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

                                      E-1




                                      E-3

