
10-K
ANNUAL REPORT


================================================================================
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

(Mark One)
  X  Annual report  pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange
 --- Act of 1934

     For the fiscal year ended March 31, 1998 or

     Transition  report  pursuant  to  Section  13 or  15(d)  of the  Securities
 --- Exchange Act of 1934

     For the transition period from            to
                                    ----------    ----------

     Commission File Number: 0-21184

                        MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED
             (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
                     ---------------------------------------

         Delaware                                         86-0629024
(State of Incorporation)                    (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

                   2355 W. Chandler Blvd., Chandler, AZ 85224
          (Address of Principal Executive Offices, Including Zip Code)

                                 (602) 786-7200
              (Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code)

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                      None

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                     Common Stock, $.001 Par Value Per Share
                         Preferred Share Purchase Rights

     The registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13
or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

     Yes    X                   No
           ---                     ---

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form
10-K. (X)

     The  approximate  aggregate  market  value  of  the  voting  stock  of  the
registrant  beneficially owned by stockholders,  other than directors,  officers
and affiliates of the registrant, at April 26, 1998 was $1,497,258,399.

     Number of shares of Common Stock, $.001 par value,  outstanding as of April
26, 1998 was: 52,870,389.

                       Documents Incorporated by Reference
                       -----------------------------------

     Document                                              Part of Form 10-K
     --------                                              -----------------
     Proxy Statement for the 1998 Annual                          III
     Meeting of Stockholders

================================================================================

                                     PART I

Item 1.   BUSINESS

     Microchip Technology  Incorporated,  a Delaware corporation ("Microchip" or
the  "Company"),  develops,  manufactures  and markets  8-bit  microcontrollers,
application-specific  standard  products (ASSPs) and related memory products for
high-volume  embedded control applications in the consumer,  automotive,  office
automation,  communications and industrial markets.  The Company provides highly
cost-effective  embedded control products for a wide variety of applications and
believes that its PIC(R)  product  family is a  price/performance  leader in the
worldwide 8-bit  microcontroller  market.  Microchip's embedded control products
also offer the advantages of a small  footprint and low voltage  operation along
with ease of development, enabling timely and cost-effective product integration
by its customers.  The Company's ASSP products  include a variety of specialized
integrated  circuits,  including its family of KEELOQ(R) security products.  The
Company's memory products are primarily  comprised of Serial EEPROMs,  which are
used  primarily  to provide  non-volatile  memory  storage in  embedded  control
systems.

     Except as noted below,  references  to the Company  include the Company and
its  subsidiaries.  The  Company's  executive  offices  are located at 2355 West
Chandler  Boulevard,  Chandler,  Arizona  85224-6199 and its telephone number is
(602) 786-7200.

     The following  discussion of the Company's  business  contains certain risk
factors that may affect  future  operating  results.  For further  discussion on
certain risk factors that may affect the Company's future operating results, see
"Item 7 -  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of  Financial  Condition  and
Results of Operation," below.

     This report contains certain forward-looking  statements within the meaning
of Section  27A of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 which involve risks and uncertainties, including
statements regarding the Company's strategy,  financial performance, and revenue
sources.  The Company's actual results could differ  materially from the results
anticipated in these  forward-looking  statements as a result of certain factors
including  those set forth under "Item 7 - Management's  Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and elsewhere in this report.

Industry Background

     Competitive pressures  increasingly require manufacturers to expand product
functionality and provide differentiation while maintaining or reducing cost. To
address  these   requirements,   manufacturers   increasingly   use   integrated
circuit-based  embedded control systems which provide an integrated solution for
application-specific  control  requirements.  Embedded  control  systems  enable
manufacturers   to   differentiate   their  products,   replace  less  efficient
electromechanical  control devices, add product  functionality and significantly
reduce product  costs.  In addition,  embedded  control  systems  facilitate the
emergence  of complete new classes of products.  Embedded  control  systems have
been incorporated into thousands of products and subassemblies in a wide variety
of markets  worldwide,  including  automotive  air bag systems,  remote  control
devices, handheld tools, appliances,  portable computers,  cordless and cellular
telephones, motor controls and security systems.

     Embedded control systems  typically  incorporate a  microcontroller  as the
principal  active,  and  sometimes  sole,  component.  A  microcontroller  is  a
self-contained  computer-on-a-chip  consisting  of a  central  processing  unit,
non-volatile   program   memory,   RAM  memory  for  data  storage  and  various
input/output functions. In addition to the microcontroller,  a complete embedded
control  system  incorporates  application-specific  software  and  may  include
specialized  peripheral  device  controllers  and external  non-volatile  memory
components, such as EEPROMs, to store additional program software.

     The  increasing  demand  for  embedded  control  has  made the  market  for
microcontrollers  one of the largest segments of the semiconductor logic market.
Microcontrollers are currently available in 4-bit through 32-bit  architectures.
Although 4-bit  microcontrollers are relatively  inexpensive,  typically costing
under $1.00 each,  they  generally  lack the minimum  performance  and  features
required  by  today's  design  engineers  for  product  differentiation  and are
typically used only to produce basic  functionality  in products.  While 16- and
32-bit  architectures  provide  very high  performance,  they are  prohibitively
expensive for most high-volume embedded control applications,  typically costing
over $5.00 each. As a result, manufacturers of competitive, high-volume products
have  increasingly  found 8-bit  microcontrollers,  that typically cost $1.00 to
$8.00  each,  to be the  most  cost-effective  embedded  control  solution.  For
example,  a typical new  automobile may include one 32-bit  microcontroller  for
engine control,  three 16-bit  microcontrollers for transmission control,  audio
systems and anti-lock braking,  and up to 50 8-bit  microcontrollers  to provide
other embedded control functions,  such as door locking,

automatic windows, sun roof,  adjustable seats, electric mirrors, air bags, fuel
pump, speedometer, and the security and climate control systems.

     Most microcontrollers  available today are ROM-based and must be programmed
by the semiconductor supplier during manufacturing,  resulting in six-to-20 week
lead times for delivery of such microcontrollers. In addition to delayed product
introduction,   these  long  lead  times  can  result  in  potential   inventory
obsolescence and factory shutdowns when changes to the firmware are required. To
address time-to-market constraints, some suppliers have made EPROM-, EEPROM-, or
Flash Memory-based programmable  microcontrollers  available for prototyping and
preproduction  runs.  However,   these  microcontrollers  have  been  relatively
expensive,  and  manufacturers  have still been required to send program code to
the semiconductor  factory for ROM programming as product changes are made. As a
result, the long lead times for production volume microcontrollers have not been
significantly reduced by traditional approaches.

Products

     Microchip's  strategic  focus is on embedded  control  products,  including
microcontrollers,  ASSPs,  related memory products and  application  development
systems.

     Microcontrollers

     Microchip offers a broad family of proprietary 8-bit microcontrollers under
the   PIC(R)   name  and  has   shipped   approximately   600   million   PIC(R)
microcontrollers  to  customers  worldwide  since  1990.  The  Company's  PIC(R)
products are designed for applications  requiring high performance and low cost.
They feature a variety of memory  configurations,  low voltage and power,  small
footprint and ease of use. Microchip believes this product family is currently a
price/performance leader in the 8-bit microcontroller  marketplace.  Microchip's
performance  results from an exclusive  RISC-based  architecture  that  provides
significant speed advantages over the alternative 8-bit CISC  architectures.  In
addition to providing up to 40 MHz performance, this architecture offers up to a
2:1 software  compaction  advantage,  thereby  significantly  reducing  software
development  time.  RISC  architectures  also have the  advantage  of being more
easily scaled to higher  internal  clock speeds in future  products.  Prices for
Microchip's 8-bit  microcontrollers  range from approximately $.49 to $12.00 per
unit.

     Microchip's  original  market  focus was in the lowest cost  segment of the
8-bit microcontroller marketplace. With its baseline 8-bit products, the Company
built its current market position as the leading supplier of field  programmable
microcontrollers.  Over the past three years, Microchip has introduced more than
100 new 8-bit  microcontrollers  targeted at  baseline,  mid-range  and high-end
segments of the 8-bit microcontroller  marketplace,  as well as the lower end of
the  16-bit  microcontroller   market.  In  addition,   with  its  8-pin,  8-bit
microcontroller, introduced in the first quarter of fiscal 1997, the Company has
also  targeted a portion of the large  4-bit  microcontroller  marketplace.  The
Company  believes  that  these  additional   segments  represent  a  significant
opportunity for future sales growth.

     Microchip  has used its  manufacturing  experience  and design and  process
technology to bring additional  enhancements and  manufacturing  efficiencies to
the development and production of its PIC(R) family of microcontroller products.
This extensive  experience base has enabled the Company to develop its advanced,
low cost user  programmability  feature  by  incorporating  non-volatile  memory
(EPROM,  EEPROM and Flash Memory) into the microcontroller in addition to masked
ROM program memory.

     Development Systems

     The  Company  offers a  comprehensive  set of low  cost  and  easy-to-learn
application  development  tools.  These tools enable system designers to quickly
and easily program a PIC(R)  microcontroller for specific applications and are a
key factor for obtaining design wins.  Microchip's  family of development  tools
operates  in  the  standard   Windows   environment  on  standard  PC  hardware.
Entry-level  systems,  which include an assembler and programmer  hardware,  are
priced at less  than  $200.  A fully  configured  system,  which  also  provides
in-circuit emulation hardware, performance simulators and software debuggers, is
priced at approximately  $3,700.  Customers  moving from entry-level  designs to
those  requiring  real-time  emulation are able to preserve their  investment in
software  tools as they migrate to future  PIC(R)  devices since all the product
families are assembly- and C- language compatible.

     Many independent companies also develop and market application  development
tools and systems which support  Microchip's  standard  microcontroller  product
architecture.  The Company  believes that  familiarity  with and adoption of the
Company's,  and  third-party,  development  systems by an  increasing  number of
product  designers  will be an  important  factor

in  the  future  selection  of  Microchip's  embedded  control  products.  These
development   tools   allow   design   engineers   to   develop   thousands   of
application-specific   products  from  Microchip's  standard   microcontrollers.
Currently,  there are more than 120 third-party  tool suppliers  worldwide whose
products support the Company's proprietary microcontroller architecture.

     ASSPs (Application-Specific Standard Products)

     Microchip's application-specific standard products are specialized products
designed to perform specific  end-user  applications as opposed to the Company's
other  products  which are more general  purpose in nature.  The Company's  ASSP
device  families   currently   include  the  KEELOQ(R)  family  of  secure  data
transmission  products, as well as other specialized integrated circuit devices.
KEELOQ(R) security products are designed for low cost,  secure,  uni-directional
communications and verification purposes. Applications include automotive remote
keyless entry systems, automotive immobilizer systems, automatic garage and gate
openers and smart cards.

     Memory Products

     Microchip's  memory  products  consist  primarily  of Serial  EEPROMs.  The
Company sells these devices  primarily  into the embedded  control market and is
the third  largest  supplier of such  devices  worldwide.  EEPROM  (electrically
erasable  programmable  read only  memory)  products  are used for  non-volatile
program and data storage in systems where such data must be modified frequently.
Serial  EEPROMs have a very low I/O pin  requirement,  permitting  production of
very small  devices.  As a result,  Serial  EEPROMs  are  widely  used to supply
non-volatile memory in space-sensitive  applications such as portable computers,
cellular and cordless telephones, pagers and remote control devices.

     Within this market,  Microchip has emphasized  providing  Serial EEPROMs to
customers that require features such as highly compact packaging,  low operating
voltage, reduced power consumption,  extended data retention and high endurance.
The Company  addresses these  requirements  by offering  products with extremely
small  package  sizes  and very low  operating  voltage  for both read and write
functions  (1.8 volts in  contrast  with the  industry  standard  of 3.3 volts),
together  with  a  wide  operating  voltage  range  (1.8  to  5.5  volts).  High
performance   circuitry  and  microcode  are  also  available  to  reduce  power
consumption  when a device is not in use, while permitting  immediate  operating
capability when required. The products also feature long data retention and high
erase/write endurance.

     Microchip  currently  offers a complete  Serial EEPROM family,  which meets
three  principal  industry  bus  interface  standards  and is  available in most
standard density,  configuration and packaging alternatives. The Company's Smart
Serials(TM)   line  of  specialized   Serial   EEPROMs  with   user-configurable
architecture and other advanced  features targets  applications such as cellular
telephones and data communications.

Manufacturing

     Microchip's  ownership  of  its  manufacturing  resources  is an  important
component  of its  business  strategy,  enabling  it to maintain a high level of
manufacturing control and to be one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded
control  industry.  By owning its wafer fabrication and the majority of its test
operations, and by employing proprietary statistical process control techniques,
the Company has been able to achieve high production yields. Direct control over
wafer  fabrication  also allows  Microchip to shorten the  Company's  design and
production  cycles and to capture the manufacturing and a portion of the testing
profit  margin.  Wafer  fabrication  and wafer test  facilities  are  located in
Chandler ("Fab 1") and Tempe ("Fab 2"),  Arizona.  The Company  performs product
test at its facilities in Kaohsiung, Taiwan and Chachoengsao,  Thailand, located
near Bangkok.

     Wafers are produced in Class 10 fabrication modules in Fab 1 and Fab 2. Fab
1 currently contains  approximately  27,000 square feet. Fab 2 has approximately
50,000  square feet of useable  clean room space of which  approximately  40,000
square feet are used to support current production requirements. Fab 1 currently
produces  5-inch and 6-inch wafers,  while Fab 2 currently  produces  6-inch and
8-inch  wafers.  Wafer sort is performed  in an 8,000 square foot,  Class 10,000
clean room,  equipped with automated wafer handlers and test equipment.  The two
wafer  fabrication  sites are  managed by the same  management  team and utilize
similar production techniques.

     The Company is continuing the process of transitioning  products to smaller
geometries and to larger wafer sizes.  The Company has transitioned a portion of
its products to a 0.7 micron  process and has commenced  development of its next
generation process technology.  Other companies in the industry have experienced
difficulty in effecting  transitions to 

smaller  geometry  processes  and  to  larger  wafers  and,  consequently,  have
experienced reduced  manufacturing  yields or delays in product deliveries.  The
Company believes that its transition to smaller  geometries and to larger wafers
will be important for the Company to remain  competitive and operating  results,
particularly gross profit margins,  could be adversely affected if the Company's
transition is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented.

     Microchip currently employs proprietary design and manufacturing  processes
in developing its microcontroller and memory products.  The Company believes its
processes  afford it both  cost-effective  designs in  existing  and  derivative
products and greater  functionality  in new product  designs.  While many of the
Company's  competitors  develop and optimize separate  processes for their logic
and memory  product lines,  Microchip uses a common process  technology for both
microcontroller and non-volatile memory products.  This allows Microchip to more
fully  absorb its  process  research  and  development  costs and to deliver new
products to market more rapidly.  Microchip engineers utilize advanced CAD tools
and software to perform  circuit  design,  simulation and layout.  The Company's
in-house photomask and wafer fabrication facilities enable it to rapidly verifiy
design techniques by processing test wafers quickly and efficiently.

     The  Company's  Taiwan and Thailand  subsidiaries  test the majority of the
products  produced  in Fab 1 and  Fab 2.  Currently,  the  150,000  square  foot
Chachoengsao test facility has the capacity to handle up to 30 million units per
month. If required, the Chachoengsao facility could be expanded in the future to
more than double its current capacity. The 88,700 square foot Kaohsiung facility
has a monthly  capacity of 19 million plastic  packages.  Final test and burn-in
functions  are  handled  by  advanced  automated  equipment.  The  Company  uses
third-party  contractors in Bangkok,  Thailand to assemble a significant portion
of its products.  The balance of Microchip's  assembly and test requirements are
fulfilled by several third-party assembly and test contractors in Thailand,  the
Philippines, People's Republic of China, and several other countries in Asia and
the Pacific Rim.

     Over the last several years, Microchip shifted its assembly operations from
Company-owned  facilities to third-party  contractors in order to meet increased
product shipment requirements.  At March 31, 1998, all assembly was conducted by
third-party   contractors.   The  Company  will  continue  to  use   third-party
contractors  to provide a majority of its assembly  services.  Reliance on third
parties  involves  some  reduction  in the  Company's  level of control over the
assembly  and test  portion  of its  business.  While the  Company  reviews  the
quality,  delivery and cost performance of these third-party contractors,  there
can be no assurance that increased reliance on third-party  contractors will not
adversely  impact  results  in  future  reporting  periods  if  any  third-party
contractor  is  unable  to  maintain  assembly  and  test  yields  and  costs at
approximately  their current levels. See also "Item 7 - Management's  Discussion
and Analysis of Financial  Condition and Results of Operations - Gross  Profit,"
below.

     The Company's reliance on facilities in Taiwan,  Thailand,  the Philippines
and  other  foreign  countries,  and  maintenance  of  substantially  all of its
finished goods in inventory  overseas,  entails  certain  political and economic
risks,  including  political  instability and expropriation,  supply disruption,
currency  controls  and exchange  fluctuations,  as well as changes in tax laws,
tariff and freight rates.  Microchip currently employs the Alphatec  Electronics
Public Company Limited group of companies ("Alphatec") headquartered in Bangkok,
Thailand  for a  significant  portion  of its  product  assembly  volume.  While
Alphatec's  assembly  operations  have  performed  reliably  for the Company for
several years, Alphatec has experienced financing issues in connection with some
of  its  joint  ventures  involving  semiconductor   fabrication  facilities  in
Thailand.  Such financing  difficulties  have not impacted  Alphatec's  assembly
facilities nor its provision of services to the Company.  However,  there can be
no  assurance  that  assembly  operations  will not be  affected  in the future.
Microchip  currently  has second  sources for product  assembly  for most of its
package  types and can shift  additional  wafer  output to other  factories,  if
necessary.  However, there can be no assurance that such action would not result
in short-term  disruption  including possible  temporary product shortages.  The
Company  has  not  experienced  any  significant  interruptions  in its  foreign
business operations to date.  Nonetheless,  the Company's business and operating
results could be adversely  affected if foreign  operations or international air
transportation were disrupted.

     Due to  the  high  fixed  cost  inherent  in  semiconductor  manufacturing,
increased  manufacturing  yields can have significant  positive effects on gross
profits and overall operating results. During fiscal 1998, the Company continued
to focus on manufacturing  productivity,  and maintained  average wafer fab line
yields in excess of 90%.  The yields  are  primarily  driven by a  comprehensive
implementation of statistical  process control,  extensive employee training and
selective  upgrading of the Company's  manufacturing  facilities  and equipment.
Maintenance of manufacturing  productivity  and yields are important  factors in
the  achievement  of the  Company's  operating  results.  As is  typical  in the
semiconductor industry, the Company has from time to time experienced lower than
anticipated  manufacturing  yields.  The  Company's  operating  results would be
adversely  affected if it were unable to maintain  yields at  approximately  the
current levels.

     The raw  materials and  equipment  used in the  production of the Company's
integrated circuits currently are available from a number of suppliers,  and the
Company is not materially dependent on any single source of supply. Although the
Company has not  experienced  any material  difficulty  to date in obtaining raw
materials or equipment, the interruption of certain components or ingredients of
certain raw materials could reduce the  availability or increase the cost of raw
materials  used by the  Company.  The  manufacture  and  assembly of  integrated
circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic devices such
as those produced by the Company, is a highly complex process and sensitive to a
wide  variety  of  factors,   including  the  level  of   contaminants   in  the
manufacturing environment,  impurities in the materials used and the performance
of the fabrication equipment.

Research and Development

     The Company's  current  research and  development  activities  focus on the
design of new  microcontroller  and  memory  products,  ASSPs,  new  development
systems, and software and  application-specific  software libraries. The Company
is also  developing  new design and process  technology to achieve  further cost
reductions and performance  improvements in existing  products.  As of April 26,
1998,  277 employees were engaged in research and  development.  In fiscal 1998,
1997 and 1996,  the  Company's  research  and  development  expenses  were $38.4
million, $32.1 million and $27.5 million, respectively. The Company expects that
it will  continue  to  spend  substantial  funds  on  research  and  development
activities.

     The Company's future operating results will depend to a significant  extent
on its ability to continue to develop  and  introduce  new  products on a timely
basis which compete  effectively on the basis of price and performance and which
address customer requirements. If the Company were unable to design, develop and
introduce  competitive  products on a timely basis, its future operating results
would be adversely affected.

Sales and Distribution

     The  Company  markets  its  products   worldwide  through  a  direct  sales
organization  and through  distributors.  In fiscal  1998,  the Company  derived
approximately  47% of its net sales from direct sales to OEM  customers  and 53%
from sales through distributors.

     The  Company's  direct sales  force,  currently  consisting  of 166 people,
focuses on three  geographical  markets:  the Americas,  Europe and Asia. In the
Americas,  the Company  currently has Technical Support Centers in San Jose, Los
Angeles,  Dallas,  Dayton,  Chicago,  Atlanta,  Boston,  New York  and  Toronto.
Microchip also maintains  Technical  Support Centers in Tokyo,  London,  Munich,
Paris, Milan, Taipei,  Seoul,  Singapore,  Hong Kong,  Shanghai,  and Bangalore,
India.  Microchip's  direct sales force is  augmented by a worldwide  network of
national  distributors  and regional  distributors  in North and South  America.
Microchip's  distribution  effort  also  includes  a network  of  manufacturer's
representatives in North America and Europe.

     Microchip believes that a strong technical service presence is essential to
the  continued  development  of the  embedded  control  market.  The majority of
Microchip's field sales engineers (FSEs), field application engineers (FAEs) and
sales management have technical degrees and have been previously  employed in an
engineering  environment.  The Company  believes the technical  knowledge of its
sales force is a key  competitive  advantage  in the sale of field  programmable
products.  Currently,  Microchip has at least one dedicated application engineer
in every  Technical  Support  Center.  The primary mission of the FAE team is to
provide  technical  assistance to OEM customers and to conduct periodic training
sessions for FSEs,  manufacturer's  representatives and distributor sales teams.
The FAEs also conduct  frequent  technical  seminars in major cities  around the
world. FAEs also work closely with the Company's distributors and manufacturer's
representatives  to provide  technical  assistance  in  end-user  support and to
assist in the sales process.

     As is  common in the  semiconductor  industry,  the  Company  grants  price
protection to distributors. Under this policy, distributors receive a credit for
the difference,  at the time of a price  reduction,  between the price they were
originally  charged for  products in inventory  and the reduced  price which the
Company subsequently charges distributors.  From time to time, distributors also
receive credit on an individual basis for  Company-approved  price reductions on
specific transactions.  The Company also grants some distributors limited rights
to return  products.  The Company defers  recognition of net sales and profit on
sales to  distributors  that have  rights of return and price  protection  until
those distributors have resold the products to end-customers.

     Foreign sales, primarily in Asia and Europe, represented approximately 68%,
66% and 65% of  consolidated  net sales in  fiscal  years  1998,  1997 and 1996,
respectively.  International  sales are  predominately  billed in U.S.  Dollars.
Although 

foreign sales are subject to certain government export restrictions, the Company
has not experienced any material difficulties as a result of export restrictions
to date.

     The Company's policy is to hedge its net foreign currency  positions in the
normal  course of business to reduce its  exposure  to  fluctuations  in foreign
exchange  rates.  Foreign  exchange  gains and losses were not  material  during
fiscal years 1996 through 1998.

Backlog

     As of April 26, 1998, the Company's backlog was approximately $76.7 million
as compared to $93.7 million as of April 27, 1997.  The Company  includes in its
backlog all purchase  orders  scheduled  for delivery  within the  subsequent 12
months.

     Microchip  produces  standard  products that can be shipped from  inventory
within a short time after receipt of an order. The Company's  business and, to a
large extent,  that of the entire  semiconductor  industry is  characterized  by
short-term  orders and shipment  schedules.  Orders  constituting  the Company's
current backlog are subject to changes in delivery  schedules or to cancellation
at the  option  of  the  purchaser  without  significant  penalty.  Accordingly,
although useful for scheduling production, backlog as of any particular date may
not be a reliable  measure of sales for any future period.  Turns orders (orders
received in a quarter for shipment in that quarter) have become an  increasingly
important component of the Company's quarterly operating results.  See "Item 7 -
Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of  Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations - Results of Operations - Net Sales," below.

Competition

     The   semiconductor   industry  is  intensely   competitive  and  has  been
characterized  by  price  erosion,   rapid  technological   change  and  foreign
competition  with  respect to many  products.  The Company  competes  with major
domestic and international  semiconductor companies,  many of which have greater
market recognition and substantially  greater financial,  technical,  marketing,
distribution  and  other  resources  than  the  Company  with  which  to  pursue
engineering,  manufacturing,  marketing  and  distribution  of  their  products.
Emerging  companies are also increasing  their  participation  in the market for
embedded control applications.  The Company's overall average selling prices for
its microcontroller  products have remained relatively  constant,  while average
selling  prices of its memory  products  have  declined  over time.  The Company
expects to continue to experience  increased  pricing  competition and declining
prices for memory  products.  While average selling prices for  microcontrollers
have remained relatively constant,  the Company has experienced,  and expects to
continue to experience,  increasing pricing pressure in certain  microcontroller
product  lines,  due primarily to competitive  conditions.  The Company has been
able to maintain  average selling prices by continuing to introduce new products
with more features and higher prices, thereby offsetting price declines in older
products.  There  can be no  assurance  that  average  selling  prices  for  the
Company's  microcontroller  or other products can be maintained due to increased
pricing pressure in the future.  An increase in pricing pressure could adversely
affect the Company's  operating results.  In addition,  the Company's ability to
compete  successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside its
control, including the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use,
pricing and diversity of its products;  the quality of its customer  service and
its ability to address the needs of its customers;  its success in designing and
manufacturing  new  products  including  those  implementing  new  technologies;
efficiency of production,  adequate  sources of raw materials and other supplies
at acceptable  prices;  protection  of the  Company's  products and processes by
effective utilization of intellectual property laws; the rate at which customers
incorporate   the  Company's   products   into  their  own   products;   product
introductions by the Company's  competitors;  the number,  nature and success of
its competitors in a given market;  and general market and economic  conditions.
Furthermore,  capacity in the semiconductor industry is increasing over time and
such increased capacity or improved product  availability could adversely affect
the Company's competitive position.

     The Company  currently  competes  principally on the basis of the technical
innovation and  performance of its embedded  control  products,  including their
speed,  functionality,  density,  power  consumption,  reliability and packaging
alternatives, as well as on price and product availability. The Company believes
that other important  competitive factors in the embedded control market include
ease of use,  functionality  of  application  development  systems and technical
service and support.  The Company believes that it competes favorably with other
companies  on all of these  factors,  although  there is no  assurance  that the
Company will continue to be able to compete successfully in the future.

Patents, Licenses and Trademarks

     The  Company's  success  depends in part on its ability to obtain  patents,
licenses  and other  intellectual  property  rights  covering  its  products and
manufacturing processes, and to protect its proprietary information. As of March
31, 1998, the Company owned 60 U.S. patents and 11 foreign patents,  expiring on
various  dates  between  1997 and 2015,  and had an  additional  78 U.S.  patent
applications and 55 foreign patent applications  pending. The Company intends to
continue  to  seek  patents  on  its   inventions   used  in  its  products  and
manufacturing  processes.  However,  the  Company  believes  that its  continued
success  depends  primarily  on such  factors  as the  technological  skills and
innovative  abilities of its personnel rather than on its patents.  There can be
no assurance the Company's  existing  patents or any new patents that are issued
will be of  sufficient  scope or strength to provide  meaningful  protection  or
other commercial advantage to the Company.

     The Company has entered into  certain  intellectual  property  licenses and
cross-licenses  with other  companies  related  to  semiconductor  products  and
manufacturing  processes.  As is  typical  in the  semiconductor  industry,  the
Company  has  from  time  to  time  received,  and  may in the  future  receive,
communications  alleging possible  infringement of patents or other intellectual
property  rights of  others.  The  Company  investigates  all such  notices  and
responds as it believes is appropriate.  The Company is currently in discussions
with several other companies  regarding  intellectual  property licenses of such
other  companies'  semiconductor  patents  and  technology.  Based  on  industry
practice,  the Company believes that in most cases it could obtain any necessary
licenses or other rights on commercially reasonable terms. However, no assurance
can be given that licenses would be on acceptable  terms,  that litigation would
not ensue, that damages for any past infringement  would not be assessed or that
the Company would not be forced to pay  royalties on future  sales.  Litigation,
which  could  result  in  substantial  cost  to the  Company  and  diversion  of
management  effort,  may be necessary to enforce  patents or other  intellectual
property  rights  of the  Company  or to  defend  the  Company  against  claimed
infringement of the rights of others. See "Item 3 - Legal Proceedings."

Environmental Regulation

     The  Company  is  subject  to  a  variety  of  federal,   state  and  local
governmental regulations related to the use, storage,  discharge and disposal of
toxic,  volatile or  otherwise  hazardous  chemicals  used in its  manufacturing
processes,   including   the  Resource   Conversation   and  Recovery  Act,  the
Comprehensive  Environmental  Response,  Compensation  and  Liability  Act,  the
Superfund  Amendment  and  Reauthorization  Act, the Clean Air Act and the Water
Pollution  Control  Act.  The Company  believes it has  obtained  all  necessary
environmental  permits to conduct its  business.  Although the Company  believes
that its activities conform to presently applicable  environmental  regulations,
the failure to comply with present or future  regulations  could result in fines
being  imposed on the  Company,  suspension  of  production  or a  cessation  of
operations. While the Company has not experienced any materially adverse effects
on its operations from governmental regulations,  there can be no assurance that
changes in such  regulations  will not  require  the  Company to acquire  costly
equipment or to incur other  significant  expenses to comply with  environmental
regulations.  Any  failure by the  Company to control  the use of or  adequately
restrict  the  discharge  of  hazardous  substances  could  subject it to future
liabilities.  There can be no assurance  that  environmental  problems  will not
occur  in the  future  which  could  subject  the  Company  to  future  costs or
liabilities.

Employees

     As of April 26, 1998, the Company had 2,153  employees,  including 1,555 in
manufacturing,  277 in research and development,  196 in sales and marketing and
125 in finance and administration.  Approximately 41% of the Company's employees
work at the final test facilities located in Kaohsiung, Taiwan and Chachoengsao,
Thailand.  No  employees  in the U.S. or  Thailand  are  represented  by a labor
organization.  All  employees  in the  Kaohsiung  facility,  except for  certain
management employees,  are represented by a labor organization.  The Company has
never had a work stoppage and believes that its employee relations are good.

Executive Officers

     The  following  sets forth  certain  information  regarding  the  Company's
executive officers as of April 26, 1998:
                           

     Mr. Sanghi is currently,  and has been since August, 1990, President of the
Company,  since October,  1991, Chief Executive Officer and since October, 1993,
Chairman of the Board of  Directors.  He has served as a director of the Company
since  August,  1990. He served as the Company's  Chief  Operating  Officer from
August,  1990 through  October,  1991 and as Senior Vice President of Operations
from February,  1990 through  August,  1990. Mr. Sanghi holds an M.S.  degree in
Electrical and Computer  Engineering from the University of Massachusetts  and a
B.S. degree in Electronics and Communication from Punjab University,  India. Mr.
Sanghi is also a director of ADFlex Solutions, Inc., a U.S. supplier of flexible
circuit-based interconnect solutions.

     Mr. Billington has served as Vice President, Manufacturing Operations since
October,  1994 and was Vice President,  Process  Development  and  Manufacturing
Operations  from April,  1991 until October,  1994.  Prior to his appointment as
Vice President,  Mr.  Billington  served as Director of Wafer  Fabrication  from
November,  1990 to April, 1991 and Wafer Fabrication  Manager from June, 1989 to
November,  1990. Mr.  Billington  holds a B.S.  degree in marketing from Abilene
Christian University.

     Mr. Chapman has served as the Company's Vice President and Chief  Financial
Officer  since  joining the Company in  September,  1992 and as Secretary of the
Company since  December,  1992.  Mr.  Chapman  holds an M.B.A.  from the Harvard
Graduate School of Business  Administration  and B.A.  degrees in Accounting and
Managerial Finance from the University of California.

     Mr. Rigg has served as Vice President, Advanced Microcontroller and Systems
Group since March,  1997. From November,  1995 to March,  1997 he served as Vice
President,  Advanced Microcontroller and Technology Division. From June, 1989 to
November,  1995, he served as Vice President,  Logic Products Division. Mr. Rigg
holds a B.S. degree in Physics from Manchester University, England.

     Mr. Little has served as Vice President,  Americas Sales since April, 1998.
From  November,  1995 to  April,  1998 he  served  as Vice  President,  Standard
Microcontroller and ASSP Division.  From September,  1993 to November,  1995, he
served  as Vice  President,  Memory  Products  and ASSP  Division.  Prior to his
appointment as Vice  President,  Mr. Little served as Division  Director for the
Company's  Memory Products  Division from July, 1991 to September,  1993, and as
Director of Memory Marketing from November, 1989 to July, 1991. Mr. Little holds
a BSET from United Electronics Institute.

Item 2.   PROPERTIES

     The Company's current headquarters, research and development center and one
of its U.S wafer fabrication  facilities are located in three buildings totaling
approximately  242,000  square  feet  situated  on a  77-acre  parcel of land in
Chandler,  Arizona.  A second  U.S.  manufacturing  site  consisting  of a wafer
fabrication facility,  office and warehouse facilities and a development systems
center,  totaling  approximately  253,000  square feet, is situated on a 22-acre
parcel of land in Tempe, Arizona. The Chandler and Tempe facilities are owned by
the  Company.  Company-owned  final test  facilities  are  located in Taiwan and
Thailand. The Taiwan operations are housed in a three-story,  88,700 square foot
building located in the Kaohsiung Export  Processing Zone in Kaohsiung,  Taiwan,
Republic  of  China.  The  Taiwan  building  is  owned by the  Company's  Taiwan
subsidiary  and is located  on land that is leased to the  Company  pursuant  to
leases from the Taiwan  government  expiring  in  December,  1998 and 2002.  The
Company intends to renew the lease that expires in December, 1998. The Company's
Thailand  final test  operations  are housed in a 150,000  square foot  facility
located in the Alphatechnopolis Industrial Park in Chachoengsao,  Thailand, near
Bangkok. The Thailand facility,  owned by the Company's Thailand subsidiary,  is
situated  on land to which the  Company  expects to acquire  title by the end of
fiscal 1999,  in accordance  with an agreement  between the Company and the land
owner. The Company leases space for 20 Technical Support Centers in San 8

Jose  and  Los  Angeles,  California;  Dallas,  Texas;  Dayton,  Ohio;  Chicago,
Illinois; Atlanta, Georgia; Boston,  Massachusetts;  New York, New York; as well
as Toronto, Tokyo, London, Munich, Paris, Milan, Taipei, Seoul, Singapore,  Hong
Kong,  Shanghai and Bangalore,  India.  The Company's  aggregate  monthly rental
payments for its facilities are approximately $107,000.

     The  Company  currently  believes  that  its  existing  facilities  will be
adequate to meet its requirements for the next 12 months.

Item 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     In the  ordinary  course of its  business,  the  Company is  involved  in a
limited  number of legal  actions,  both as plaintiff and  defendant,  and could
incur  uninsured  liability in any one or more of them.  Although the outcome of
these  actions is not  presently  determinable,  the Company  believes  that the
ultimate  resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on
the Company's results of operations or financial  conditions.  The Company could
also be  subject  to  future  litigation  if it is  unable  to  resolve  pending
intellectual  property  and  technology  licensing  discussions.  The Company is
currently  the  defendant in one case  regarding  intellectual  property and has
commenced  litigation  against other  companies for alleged  infringement of the
Company's  intellectual  property  rights.  The  Company  does not expect  these
matters  will have a  material  adverse  effect on its  business  or  results of
operation. However, the failure to obtain necessary licenses or other rights, or
litigation  arising out of infringement  claims,  could have a material  adverse
effect on the Company's business and results of operations.  Litigation relating
to the semiconductor industry is not uncommon, and the Company is, and from time
to time, has been,  subject to such litigation.  No assurances can be given with
respect to the extent or outcome of any such litigation in the future.

     The  Securities  and  Exchange   Commission  is  presently   conducting  an
investigation into matters relating to the Company's  disclosure on February 26,
1996 that  revenues and  earnings for the quarter  ended March 31, 1996 would be
lower than previously estimated. While the outcome of the investigation, and its
effect on the Company,  if any,  cannot be predicted  at the present  time,  the
Company  does not  believe  that the  investigation  will  result in a  material
adverse effect on the Company.

     Microchip Technology  Incorporated v. Lucent Technologies Inc. (District of
Arizona,  CIV97-1502  PHX EHC) On January  13,  1998,  the  Company  finalized a
settlement in its patent  litigation with Lucent  Technologies Inc. and the case
was  dismissed on January 30, 1998.  In  connection  with this  settlement,  the
Company recorded a $5 million charge during the quarter ended December 31, 1997.
See "Item 5 - Market For  Registrant's  Common  Equity and  Related  Stockholder
Matters," below, and Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Item 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matters  were  submitted  to a vote of the  Company's  security  holders
during the fourth quarter of fiscal 1998.

                                     PART II

Item 5.   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     The Company's  Common Stock is traded on the Nasdaq  National  Market under
the symbol  "MCHP."  The  Company's  Common  Stock has been quoted on the Nasdaq
National  Market  since  March 19,  1993.  The  following  table  sets forth the
quarterly  high and low  closing  prices of the Common  Stock as reported by the
Nasdaq  National  Market for the last two years,  adjusted  to reflect a 3-for-2
stock split effected in January, 1997:


     On May 22, 1998, the closing sale price for the Company's  Common Stock was
$27.125  per share.  As of such date,  there were  approximately  515 holders of
record of the Company's  Common Stock.  This figure does not reflect  beneficial
ownership of shares held in nominee names.

     The Company has not paid cash dividends on its capital  stock.  The Company
currently  anticipates  that it will retain all  available  funds for use in the
operations of its business and  therefore  does not  anticipate  paying any cash
dividends in the foreseeable future.

     The trading price of the Company's Common Stock has been, and in the future
could be, subject to wide  fluctuations  in response to quarterly  variations in
operating results of the Company and other  semiconductor  companies,  actual or
anticipated  announcements  of  technical  innovations  or new  products  by the
Company or its  competitors,  changes in analysts'  estimates  of the  Company's
financial  performance,   general  conditions  in  the  semiconductor  industry,
worldwide  economic and  financial  conditions  and other events or factors.  In
addition,  the  stock  market  has  experienced  significant  price  and  volume
fluctuations  which have  particularly  affected the market prices for many high
technology  companies  and which  often  have been  unrelated  to the  operating
performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations and other factors
may adversely affect the market price of the Company's Common Stock.

     As of January  13, 1998 and in  connection  with the  settlement  of patent
infringement litigation,  the Company issued a warrant to acquire 300,000 shares
of Common Stock at $25.25 per share. The warrant is currently fully  exercisable
and expires on June 30, 2001. The issuance of the warrant was deemed exempt from
registration  under the  Securities  Act of 1933,  as  amended,  in  reliance on
Section 4(2) of such Act. See "Item 3, Legal  Proceedings,"  above and Note 2 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Item 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The following selected consolidated financial data for the five-year period
ended  March  31,  1998  should  be  read  in  conjunction  with  the  Company's
Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto and "Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"  included in Item
7 of this report. The Company's  consolidated  income statement data for each of
the years in the three year period ended March 31, 1998,  and the balance  sheet
data as of March 31, 1998 and 1997,  are derived  from the audited  consolidated
financial statements of the Company, included in Item 8 of this report.


Item 7.   MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION  AND  ANALYSIS  OF  FINANCIAL  CONDITION  AND
          RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Results of Operations

     The following table sets forth certain  operational data as a percentage of
net sales for the years indicated:

                                                    Year Ended March 31,
                                                 1998      1997      1996
                                                 ------------------------

       Net sales .........................      100.0%    100.0%    100.0%
       Cost of sales .....................       50.3%     50.1%     48.2%
                                                 ----      ----      ---- 
       Gross profit ......................       49.7%     49.9%     51.8%
       Research and development ..........        9.7%      9.6%      9.6%
       Selling, general and administrative       17.0%     16.8%     17.0%
       Special charges ...................        1.2%      2.2%      4.0%
                                                 ----      ----      ---- 
       Operating income ..................       21.8%     21.3%     21.1%
                                                 ====      ====      ==== 

       Net Sales

    Microchip's  net sales of $396.9  million in fiscal 1998  increased by $62.6
million,  or 18.7%,  over fiscal 1997 and net sales of $334.3  million in fiscal
1997 increased by $48.4 million, or 16.9%, over fiscal 1996.

    The  Company's  family  of 8-bit  microcontrollers  represents  the  largest
component  of  Microchip's  total net  sales.  Microcontrollers  and  associated
application  development  systems  accounted  for 66%,  64% and 59% of total net
sales in fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996,  respectively.  A related  component of the
Company's  product  sales  consists  primarily of Serial EEPROM  memories  which
accounted  for 34%,  36% and 41% of net  sales in  fiscal  1998,  1997 and 1996,
respectively.

    The  Company's  net  sales  in  any  given  quarter  are  dependent  upon  a
combination  of orders  received in that  quarter for  shipment in that  quarter
("turns  orders") and shipments  from backlog.  The Company has emphasized its
ability  to  respond  quickly  to  customer  orders  as part of its  competitive
strategy. This strategy,  combined with current industry conditions,  results in
customers placing orders with short delivery schedules.  The Company experienced
increasing  turns orders as a portion of the Company's  business in fiscal 1998,
as compared to fiscal 1997, which reduced the Company's visibility in projecting
net sales levels. Because turns orders are difficult to predict, there can be no
assurance that the combination of turns orders and shipments from backlog in any
quarter will be sufficient to achieve  growth in net sales.  If the Company does
not achieve a  sufficient  level of turns orders in a  particular  quarter,  the
Company's revenues and operating results would be adversely affected.

     The  Company's  overall  average  selling  prices  for its  microcontroller
products have remained relatively constant,  while average selling prices of its
memory  products  have  declined  over time.  During  fiscal  1998,  the Company
continued  to  experience  increased  pricing  pressure  on its memory  products
primarily  due to the less  proprietary  nature of these  products and increased
competition,  and expects this to continue in the future.  While average selling
prices for microcontrollers  have remained relatively constant,  the Company has
experienced, and expects to continue to experience,  increasing pricing pressure
in  certain   microcontroller   product  lines,  due  primarily  to  competitive
conditions.  The  Company has been able to maintain  average  selling  prices by
continuing  to introduce  new  products  with more  features and higher  prices,
thereby  offsetting price declines in older products.  There can be no assurance
that average selling prices for the Company's  microcontroller or other products
can be maintained due to increased  pricing pressure in the future.  An increase
in pricing pressure could adversely affect the Company's operating results.

    The foregoing statements regarding turns orders,  average selling prices and
pricing  pressures are forward looking  statements within the meaning of Section
27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934,  as amended,  and are subject to the safe harbors  created
thereby.  Actual  results  could  differ  materially  because  of the  following
factors,  among others: the level of orders that are received and can be shipped
in a quarter;  inventory,  mix and timing of customer  orders;  competition  and
competitive pressures on pricing and product availability;  customers' inventory
levels,  order  patterns  and  seasonality;  the  cyclical  nature  of both  the
semiconductor  industry  and the markets  addressed by the  Company's  products;
market acceptance of the products of both the Company and

its customers;  demand for the Company's  products,  fluctuations  in production
yields,  production  efficiencies and overall capacity  utilization;  changes in
product mix; and absorption of fixed costs, labor and other fixed  manufacturing
costs.

    Several Asian  countries  have recently  experienced  economic  difficulties
including  high  rates  of  loan  defaults,   business   failures  and  currency
devaluations.  During the quarters  ended  December 31, 1997 and March 31, 1998,
the Company  experienced  weakness in the expected level of turns orders and net
sales  related to its  business  in Asia.  During the fourth  fiscal  quarter of
fiscal  1998,  shipments  to Asia  were  lower  than the  preceding  quarter  by
approximately  30%. The Company  derives a substantial  portion of its net sales
from  customers  in Asia  and  there  can be no  assurance  that  such  economic
difficulties  will not  continue to  adversely  affect the  Company's  operating
results in future periods.

    Foreign sales represented 68%, 66% and 65% of net sales in fiscal 1998, 1997
and 1996,  respectively.  The Company's foreign sales have been predominantly in
Asia and Europe which the Company  attributes to the  manufacturing  strength in
those areas for consumer,  automotive,  office  automation,  communications  and
industrial products.  The majority of foreign sales are U.S. Dollar denominated.
The Company has entered  into and,  from time to time,  will enter into  hedging
transactions  in order to  minimize  exposure  to  currency  rate  fluctuations.
Although none of the countries in which the Company conducts significant foreign
operations have had a highly inflationary  economy in the last five years, there
is no assurance that inflation rates or  fluctuations in foreign  currency rates
in countries where the Company conducts operations will not adversely affect the
Company's operating results in the future.

      Additional Factors Affecting Operating Results

    The Company  believes that future growth in net sales of its 8-bit family of
microcontroller  products and related  memory  products will depend largely upon
the  Company's  success in having its current  and new  products  designed  into
high-volume customer  applications.  Design wins typically precede the Company's
volume  shipment of products  for such  applications  by 15 months or more.  The
Company  also  believes  that  shipment  levels of its  proprietary  application
development  systems  are an  indicator  of  potential  future  design  wins and
microcontroller  sales. The Company continued to achieve a high volume of design
wins and shipped increased numbers of application  development systems in fiscal
1998  compared to previous  fiscal  years.  There can be no  assurance  that any
particular  development  system  shipment will result in a product design win or
that any particular design win will result in future product sales.

    The  Company's  operating  results are  affected by a wide  variety of other
factors that could  adversely  impact its net sales and  profitability,  many of
which are beyond the  Company's  control.  These  factors  include the Company's
ability  to  design  and  introduce  new  products  on a  timely  basis,  market
acceptance  of products of both the Company and its  customers,  customer  order
patterns  and  seasonality,  changes  in  product  mix,  whether  the  Company's
customers  buy  from  a  distributor  or  directly  from  the  Company,  product
performance and  reliability,  product  obsolescence,  the amount of any product
returns, availability and utilization of manufacturing capacity, fluctuations in
manufacturing  yield, the availability and cost of raw materials,  equipment and
other supplies,  the cyclical nature of both the semiconductor  industry and the
markets addressed by the Company's products,  technological changes, competition
and competitive pressures on prices, and economic, political or other conditions
in the United States,  and other  worldwide  markets served by the Company.  The
Company believes its ability to continue to increase its manufacturing  capacity
to meet customer demand and maintain  satisfactory delivery schedules will be an
important  competitive  factor.  As a result of the  increase in fixed costs and
operating  expenses  related  to  expanding  its  manufacturing   capacity,  the
Company's  operating  results  may be  adversely  affected  if net  sales do not
increase  sufficiently to offset the increased costs. The Company's products are
incorporated  into a wide variety of consumer,  automotive,  office  automation,
communications and industrial  products. A slowdown in demand for products which
utilize the  Company's  products as a result of economic or other  conditions in
the worldwide markets served by the Company could adversely affect the Company's
operating results.

      Gross Profit

    The Company's  gross profit was $197.3  million,  $166.9  million and $148.2
million in fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996,  respectively.  Gross profit as a percent
of sales was 49.7%, 49.9% and 51.8% in fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
The gross  profit  percentage  in fiscal  years  1998 and 1997 was down from the
fiscal 1996 level,  primarily as a result of reduced 5-inch wafer  production at
one of the Company's wafer fabrication facilities and increased pricing pressure
on its non-volatile  memory  products.  The Company is continuing the process of
transitioning products to smaller geometries and to larger wafer sizes to reduce
future manufacturing  costs.  Eight-inch wafer production commenced at the Tempe
wafer  fabrication  facility in early fiscal 1998 and the Company is  continuing
the  transitioning  of products to its 0.7 micron  process.  The Company expects
that 25% of its products will come from 8-inch wafers  during  fiscal 1999.  The
Company

anticipates that its cost of sales and gross product margins will fluctuate over
time, driven primarily by the product mix of 8-bit microcontroller  products and
related  memory  products,  manufacturing  yields,  wafer fab loading levels and
competitive and economic conditions.

    The foregoing  statements  relating to anticipated  gross  margins,  cost of
sales,   8-inch  wafer  production,   and  the  transition  to  higher  yielding
manufacturing  processes are  forward-looking  statements  within the meaning of
Section 27A of the  Securities  Act of 1933, as amended,  and Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are subject to the safe harbors
created thereby. Actual results could differ materially because of the following
factors,   among  others:   fluctuations   in  production   yields,   production
efficiencies  and overall  capacity  utilization;  cost and  availability of raw
materials;  absorption  of fixed  costs,  labor and other  direct  manufacturing
costs; the timing and success of manufacturing  process  transition;  changes in
product mix; competitive pressures on prices; and other economic conditions.

    In the  quarter  ended June 30,  1997,  the  Company  changed  its method of
accounting  for  inventories  from the last-in,  first-out  (LIFO) method to the
first-in,  first-out (FIFO) method. The change did not have a material effect on
the results of operations.  The FIFO method is the predominant accounting method
used  in the  semiconductor  industry.  Prior  to  this  change,  the  Company's
inventory costs did not differ significantly under the two methods. Prior period
results of  operations  have not been  restated for this change as the impact is
not material.

     All  of  Microchip's  assembly  operations  are  performed  by  third-party
contractors in order to meet product  shipment  requirements.  Reliance on third
parties  involves some  reduction in the  Company's  level of control over these
portions of its business.  While the Company  reviews the quality,  delivery and
cost  performance of these  third-party  contractors,  there can be no assurance
that reliance on third-party  contractors  will not adversely  impact results in
future  reporting  periods if any  third-party  contractor is unable to maintain
assembly yields and costs at approximately their current levels.

     The Company's reliance on facilities in Taiwan,  Thailand,  the Philippines
and  other  foreign  countries,  and  maintenance  of  substantially  all of its
finished goods in inventory  overseas,  entails  certain  political and economic
risks,  including  political  instability and expropriation,  supply disruption,
currency  controls  and exchange  fluctuations,  as well as changes in tax laws,
tariff and freight rates.  Microchip currently employs the Alphatec  Electronics
Public Company Limited group of companies ("Alphatec") headquartered in Bangkok,
Thailand  for a  significant  portion  of its  product  assembly  volume.  While
Alphatec's  assembly  operations  have  performed  reliably  for the Company for
several years, Alphatec has experienced financing issues in connection with some
of  its  joint  ventures  involving  semiconductor   fabrication  facilities  in
Thailand.  Such financing  difficulties  have not impacted  Alphatec's  assembly
facilities nor its provision of services to the Company.  However,  there can be
no  assurance  that  assembly  operations  will not be  affected  in the future.
Microchip  currently  has second  sources for product  assembly  for most of its
package  types and can shift  additional  wafer  output to other  factories,  if
necessary.  However, there can be no assurance that such action would not result
in short-term  disruption  including possible  temporary product shortages.  The
Company  has  not  experienced  any  significant  interruptions  in its  foreign
business operations to date.  Nonetheless,  the Company's business and operating
results could be adversely  affected if foreign  operations or international air
transportation were disrupted.

    Research and Development

    The  Company  is  committed  to  continued  investment  in new and  enhanced
products,  including  its  development  systems  software  and in its design and
manufacturing  process technology,  which are significant factors in maintaining
the  Company's  competitive  position.  The dollar  investment  in research  and
development  increased  20% in fiscal 1998 over fiscal  1997,  and 17% in fiscal
1997 over fiscal  1996.  The  Company  will  continue to invest in research  and
development  in the  future,  including  an  investment  in process  and product
development  associated with the capacity expansion of the Company's fabrication
facilities.

    The Company's future operating  results will depend to a significant  extent
on its ability to continue to develop  and  introduce  new  products on a timely
basis which can compete  effectively on the basis of price and  performance  and
which address customer  requirements.  The success of new product  introductions
depends on various  factors,  including  proper new  product  selection,  timely
completion and introduction of new product designs, development of support tools
and collateral  literature  that make complex new products easy for engineers to
understand and use and market acceptance of customers' end products.  Because of
the complexity of its products,  the Company has experienced delays from time to
time in completing  development  of new products.  In addition,  there can be no
assurance  that any new  products  will receive or maintain  substantial  market
acceptance.  If the  Company  were  unable  to  design,  develop  and  introduce
competitive  products on a timely basis, its future  operating  results would be
adversely affected.

    The  Company's  future  success will also depend upon its ability to develop
and  implement  new design and process  technologies.  Semiconductor  design and
process technologies are subject to rapid technological change,  requiring large
expenditures for research and development.  Other companies in the industry have
experienced  difficulty in effecting  transitions to smaller geometry  processes
and to larger  wafers and,  consequently,  have suffered  reduced  manufacturing
yields or delays in product deliveries. The Company believes that its transition
to smaller  geometries and to larger wafers will be important for the Company to
remain  competitive,  and operating  results could be adversely  affected if the
transition is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented.

      Selling, General and Administrative

      The Company  increased  its level of  investment  in selling,  general and
administrative  costs to $67.5  million,  $56.2  million  and $48.9  million for
fiscal years 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.  The increased costs reflect the
requirement  to invest in  incremental  worldwide  sales and  technical  support
resources to promote the Company's embedded control products.

      Other Income (Expense)

     Interest  income in fiscal  1998  increased  over fiscal 1997 and 1996 as a
result of increased  invested cash  balances,  resulting  from  completion of an
equity  offering in February,  1997.  Interest  expense in fiscal 1998 decreased
over fiscal 1997 and 1996 due to reductions in borrowing levels  associated with
the Company's capital  equipment  additions.  Other income  represents  numerous
immaterial non-operating items. The Company's interest expense could increase in
fiscal 1999 if the Company  increases its borrowings and interest  expense would
be adversely impacted by increased interest rates.

      Provision for Income Taxes

    Provisions for income taxes reflect tax on foreign  earnings and federal and
state tax on U.S.  earnings.  The  Company had an  effective  tax rate of 27.0%,
26.4% and 27.0% for the years ended March 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively,
due primarily to lower tax rates at its foreign locations.  The Company believes
that its tax rate for the  foreseeable  future will be  approximately  27%.  The
foregoing  statement  regarding the Company's  anticipated  future tax rate is a
forward-looking  statement  within the meaning of section 27A of the  Securities
Act of 1933, as amended, and section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended,  and is subject to the safe harbors created thereby.  Actual results
could differ materially because of the following factors,  among others: current
tax laws and regulations, taxation rates in geographic regions where the Company
has  significant  operations;  and current  tax  holidays  available  in foreign
locations.

    Year 2000 Conversion

    The Year 2000 issue is the result of computer  programs  being written using
two digits rather than four to define the year, thus rendering them incapable of
properly  managing and  manipulating  data that includes 21st century dates. The
Company  is  currently  installing  business  and  financial  systems to replace
existing software systems to address the Year 2000 compliance issue. The Company
is also currently  reviewing  other aspects of its computer  systems,  including
manufacturing and product development areas.  Microchip's products, for the most
part,  involve  hardware  integrated  circuit devices  manufactured by Microchip
which,  subsequent  to their sale,  are combined  with  proprietary  application
firmware by Microchip's  customers.  Thus,  Microchip believes that its products
have no inherent date sensitive features. At this time management is not able to
assess the cost of Year 2000  compliance.  The Company does not anticipate  that
the Year 2000 will pose significant operating problems.  However,  delays in the
implementation  of new information  systems,  or a failure to fully identify and
resolve  all Year  2000  deficiencies  in the  Company's  systems  could  have a
material adverse effect on the Company's future results of operations.

      Liquidity and Capital Resources

    The  Company  had $32.2  million in cash and cash  equivalents  at March 31,
1998, a decrease of $10.8 million from the March 31, 1997  balance.  The Company
has an  unsecured  line of credit with a syndicate  of domestic  banks  totaling
$90.0 million. Borrowings under the domestic line of credit as of March 31, 1998
were $7.0 million.  The domestic line of credit  requires the Company to achieve
certain  financial ratios and operating  results.  The Company was in compliance
with these  covenants at March 31, 1998. The Company also has an unsecured short
term  line  of  credit  totaling  $19.8  million  with  certain  foreign  banks.
Borrowings  under the  foreign  line of credit as of March 31,  1998 were  $16.0
million. There are no covenants related to the foreign line of credit.

    At March 31, 1998,  an aggregate of $86.8  million of these  facilities  was
available,  subject to financial covenants and ratios with which the Company was
in  compliance.  The  Company's  ability to fully  utilize  these  facilities is
dependent on the Company remaining in compliance with such covenants and ratios.

    During the year ended March 31, 1998, the Company  generated  $136.5 million
of cash from operating activities, an improvement of $59.0 million from the year
ended March 31, 1997 and an  improvement  of $63.1  million  from the year ended
March 31, 1996. The  improvement in cash flow from  operations was primarily due
to increased  profitability,  the impact of changes in accounts payable, accrued
expenses and accounts receivable and an increase in depreciation expense.

    The Company's  level of capital  expenditures  varies from time to time as a
result of actual and anticipated  business  conditions.  Capital expenditures in
the years ended March 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996 were $145.3 million, $79.0 million
and $115.8 million,  respectively.  Capital  expenditures were primarily for the
expansion of  production  capacity and the addition of research and  development
equipment  in each of these  periods.  The  Company  currently  intends to spend
approximately  $55.0 million  during the next 12 months for  additional  capital
equipment to increase capacity at its existing wafer fabrication  facilities and
to expand product test operations. The Company expects capital expenditures will
be financed by cash flow from operations,  available debt arrangements and other
sources  of  financing.  The  Company  believes  that the  capital  expenditures
anticipated  to be  incurred  over the next 12 months  will  provide  sufficient
additional manufacturing capacity to meet its currently anticipated needs.

    Net cash used in  financing  activities  was $2.1 million for the year ended
March 31, 1998. Net cash provided by financing  activities was $13.4 million and
$27.1 million for the years ended March 31, 1997 and 1996 respectively. Proceeds
from sale of stock and put options were $12.5  million,  $59.5  million and $9.6
million  for the years  ended  March  31,  1998,  1997 and  1996,  respectively.
Proceeds  from  issuance of long-term  debt were $2.9 million for the year ended
March 31, 1996.  Payments on long term debt and capital lease  obligations  were
$6.1 million,  $5.7 million and $5.9 million for the years ended March 31, 1998,
1997 and 1996,  respectively.  Proceeds  from lines of credit were $23.0 million
and $20.5  million for the years  ended  March 31,  1998 and 1996  respectively.
Repayments  on lines of credit  were $21.0  million for the year ended March 31,
1997.  Cash  expended for the purchase of the  Company's  Common Stock was $31.5
million  and  $19.5  million  for the  years  ended  March  31,  1998 and  1997,
respectively.

    On January 30, 1998 and July 26,  1997,  the  Company's  Board of  Directors
authorized   the   repurchase  of  2,500,000   shares  and   1,500,000   shares,
respectively,  in connection  with a Common Stock  repurchase  plan. On July 26,
1997, the Board of Directors  also  authorized the Company to sell up to 750,000
put options in  connection  with the same plan. As of March 31, 1998 the Company
has  purchased  1,277,500  shares  of  Common  Stock  at an  aggregate  cost  of
$31,481,000  and has  outstanding  400,000  put options at prices  ranging  from
$29.63 to $38.81.  Subsequent  to March 31, 1998 the Company  purchased  222,500
shares of Common Stock at an aggregate  price of $6,667,000 and sold put options
of 100,000 shares of Common Stock at a price of $27.50. 

    Subsequent  to March 31, 1998,  the Company  completed two  transactions  in
connection with the stock repurchase program.  April, 1998 the Company completed
a costless  collar  transaction  for 500,000  calls priced at $25.95 and 665,000
puts priced at $25.19. The expiration date of the transaction is April 23, 1999.
Also in connection with the stock repurchase  program,  the Company  completed a
net share settled forward  contract for 2,000,000  shares at an average price of
$29.24.  The  expiration  date of this  transaction  is May, 2000 with quarterly
interim settlement dates as determined by the Company.

    Also  subsequent  to  March  31,  1998  the  Company's  Board  of  Directors
authorized an additional  share  repurchase of Common Stock of 2,000,000  shares
and to sell up to 500,000 additional put options.  The Company expects from time
to time to purchase  shares of Common Stock in  connection  with its  authorized
Common Stock repurchase plan.

    The Company  believes that its existing  sources of liquidity  combined with
cash  generated  from  operations  will  be  sufficient  to meet  the  Company's
currently  anticipated  cash  requirements  for at  least  the  next 12  months.
However,  the semiconductor  industry is capital  intensive.  In order to remain
competitive,  the Company  must  continue  to make  significant  investments  in
capital equipment, for both production and research and development. The Company
may seek additional  equity or debt financing  during the next 12 months for the
capital  expenditures  required  to  maintain  or  expand  the  Company's  wafer
fabrication and product test facilities or other purposes. The timing and amount
of any such capital  requirements will depend on a number of factors,  including
demand for the Company's  products,  product mix, changes in industry conditions
and competitive  factors.  There can be no assurance that such financing will be
available on acceptable  terms, and any additional equity financing could result
in additional dilution to existing investors.

Item 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

    Not applicable.

Item 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

    The  Consolidated  Financial  Statements of the Company  listed in the index
appearing  under Item 14(a)(1) hereof are filed as part of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. See also Index to Financial Statements on page F- I hereof.

Item 9.   CHANGES  IN AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON  ACCOUNTING  AND
          FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     Not applicable.

                                    PART III

Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Information with respect to the Company's  directors is incorporated herein
by reference to the Company's  proxy  statement  for the 1998 annual  meeting of
stockholders under the caption "Election of Directors."

     See Item I,  Part I hereof  under  the  caption  "Executive  Officers"  for
information with respect to the Company's executive  officers.  Information with
respect to compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended, is incorporated herein by reference to the Company's proxy statement
for the 1998 annual  meeting of  stockholders  under the  caption  "Section16(a)
Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance."

Item 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     Information with respect to executive  compensation is incorporated  herein
by reference to the information  under the caption  "Executive  Compensation" in
the Company's proxy statement for the 1998 annual meeting of stockholders.

Item 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     Information with respect to security ownership of certain beneficial owners
and  management  of the  Company  is  incorporated  herein by  reference  to the
information  under the caption  "Security  Ownership of Principal  Stockholders,
Directors and Executive  Officers" in the Company's proxy statement for the 1998
annual meeting of stockholders.

Item 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     Not applicable.

                                     PART IV

Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a) The following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form
10-K:

                                                                        Page No.
           (1)    Financial Statements:

                  Independent Auditors' Report                            F-1

                  Consolidated Balance Sheets as of
                  March 31, 1998 and 1997                                 F-2

                  Consolidated Statements of Income for each
                  of the years in the three-year period ended
                  March 31, 1998                                          F-3

                  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for
                  each of the years in the three-year period
                  ended March 31, 1998                                    F-4

                  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders'
                  Equity for each of the years in the
                  three-year period ended March 31, 1998                  F-5

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements              F-6


           (2)    Financial Statement Schedules - Applicable
                  schedules have been omitted because informa-
                  tion is included in the footnotes to the Financial
                  Statements.

           (3)    The Exhibits which are filed with this report or
                  which are incorporated herein by reference are set
                  forth in the Exhibit Index which appears on page
                  E-1 hereof, which Exhibit Index is incorporated
                  herein by this reference.

     (b)   No current reports on Form 8-K were filed during the quarter
           ended March 31, 1998.

     (c)   See Item 14(a)(3) above.

     (d)   See "Index to Financial Statements" included under Item 8
           to this report.

                                   SIGNATURES

         Pursuant to the  requirements  of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                        MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED
                                        (Registrant)


                                        By:/s/ Steve Sanghi
                                           -------------------------------------
                                           Steve Sanghi
                                           President and Chief Executive Officer

Date:    May 26, 1998

         Pursuant to the  requirements  of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,
this  report has been  signed  below by the  following  persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Name and Signature                      Title                          Date
- ------------------                      -----                          ----


/s/ Steve Sanghi               Director, President and              May 26, 1998
- ---------------------------    Chief Executive Officer
Steve Sanghi                   

Albert J. Hugo-Martinez*       Director                             May 26, 1998

Jon H. Beedle*                 Director                             May 26, 1998

L. B. Day*                     Director                             May 26, 1998

Matthew W. Chapman*            Director                             May 26, 1998

/s/ C. Philip Chapman          Vice President, Chief Financial      May 26, 1998
- ---------------------------    Officer and Secretary (Principal
C. Philip Chapman              Financial and Accounting Officer)

*By:/s/ Steve Sanghi           Individually and as Attorney-in-fact May 26, 1998
    -----------------------
        Steve Sanghi

                           Annual Report on Form 10-K

                   Item 8, Item 14(a)(1) and (2), (c) and (d)

                        ---------------------------------


                          INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                        CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                    EXHIBITS

                        ---------------------------------


                            YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1998

                        MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                CHANDLER, ARIZONA

               MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Index to Consolidated Financial Statements



                                                                     Page Number
                                                                     -----------

Independent Auditors' Report                                             F-1

Consolidated Balance Sheets
     as of March 31, 1998 and 1997                                       F-2

Consolidated Statements of Income
     for each of the years in the three-year
     period ended March 31, 1998                                         F-3

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
     for each of the years in the three-year
     period ended March 31, 1998                                         F-4

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
     for each of the years in the three-year
     period ended March 31, 1998                                         F-5

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                               F-6
                                       i

KPMG Peat Marwick LLP






                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT



The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Microchip Technology Incorporated:


We have  audited  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets of  Microchip
Technology  Incorporated and subsidiaries as of March 31, 1998 and 1997, and the
related consolidated statements of income,  stockholders' equity, and cash flows
for each of the years in the  three-year  period  ended  March 31,  1998.  These
consolidated  financial  statements  are  the  responsibility  of the  Company's
management.  Our  responsibility is to express an opinion on these  consolidated
financial statements based on our audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally   accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated  financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Microchip Technology
Incorporated  and subsidiaries as of March 31, 1998 and 1997, and the results of
their  operations  and their cash flows for each of the years in the  three-year
period ended March 31, 1998, in conformity  with generally  accepted  accounting
principles.


                                        /s/ KPMG Peat Marwick LLP





Phoenix, Arizona
April 22, 1998, except as to the
   second and third paragraphs in
   note 13 which are as of May 18, 1998
                                      F-1

               MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                      (in thousands except share amounts)

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
                                      F-2

               MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

                    (in thousands except per share amounts)

                                                   Years Ended March 31,
                                            -----------------------------------
                                              1998         1997         1996
                                            ---------    ---------    ---------


Net sales                                   $ 396,894    $ 334,252    $ 285,888
Cost of sales                                 199,538      167,330      137,708
                                            ---------    ---------    ---------
   Gross profit                               197,356      166,922      148,180


Operating expenses:
   Research and development                    38,362       32,073       27,517
   Selling, general and administrative         67,549       56,248       48,903
   Special charges                              5,000        7,544       11,448
                                            ---------    ---------    ---------
                                              110,911       95,865       87,868

Operating income                               86,445       71,057       60,312

Other income (expense):
   Interest income                              2,635        1,419        2,034
   Interest expense                            (1,130)      (3,271)      (2,981)
   Other, net                                     217          288          569
                                            ---------    ---------    ---------

Income before income taxes                     88,167       69,493       59,934

Income taxes                                   23,799       18,361       16,182
                                            ---------    ---------    ---------

Net income                                  $  64,368    $  51,132    $  43,752
                                            =========    =========    =========


 Basic net income per share                 $    1.21    $    0.99    $    0.86
                                            =========    =========    =========


 Diluted net income per share               $    1.14    $    0.94    $    0.80
                                            =========    =========    =========

Weighted average common
   shares outstanding                          53,376       51,569       50,750
                                            =========    =========    =========

Weighted average common and common
   equivalent shares outstanding               56,313       54,683       54,533
                                            =========    =========    =========

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
                                      F-3

               MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

                                 (in thousands)

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
                                      F-4

               MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIAIRES
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

           See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
                                      F-5

MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.       SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
         -------------------------------

         Principles of Consolidation
         The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Microchip
         Technology   Incorporated  and  its  wholly  owned   subsidiaries  (the
         "Company"). All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have
         been eliminated in consolidation.

         Cash and Cash Equivalents
         All highly liquid investments including marketable securities purchased
         with an original  maturity of three months or less are considered to be
         cash  equivalents.  At March  31,  1997,  the  Company  had  classified
         marketable  securities  of  $25,964,000,  with a maturity  of less than
         three  months as cash and cash  equivalents.  There were no  marketable
         securities at March 31, 1998.

         Inventories
         Inventories  are  valued  at the  lower  of cost or  market  using  the
         first-in, first-out (FIFO) method.

         Property, Plant and Equipment
         Property,  plant and equipment are stated at cost.  Major  renewals and
         improvements  are  capitalized,   while  maintenance  and  repairs  are
         expensed when  incurred.  Depreciation  is provided on a  straight-line
         basis over the estimated useful lives of the related assets which range
         from three to twenty-five years.

         Assets acquired under capital lease  arrangements have been recorded at
         the present value of the future  minimum  lease  payments and are being
         amortized on a  straight-line  basis over the estimated  useful life of
         the asset or the lease term, whichever is shorter. Amortization of this
         equipment is included in depreciation and amortization expense.

         Foreign Currency Translation and Forward Contracts
         The Company's  foreign  subsidiaries are considered to be extensions of
         the U.S. company and any translation  gains and losses related to these
         subsidiaries are included in income.  As the U.S. Dollar is utilized as
         the  functional  currency,  gains and  losses  resulting  from  foreign
         currency  transactions  (transactions  denominated  in a currency other
         than  the  subsidiaries'  functional  currency)  are also  included  in
         income.  Gains and losses  associated  with  currency  rate  changes on
         forward contracts are recorded currently in income.

         Revenue Recognition
         Revenue  from product  sales to direct  customers  is  recognized  upon
         shipment.  The Company  defers  recognition of net sales and profits on
         sales to distributors  that have rights of return and price  protection
         until the distributors have resold the products.

         Income Taxes
         Deferred tax assets and  liabilities  are recognized for the future tax
         consequences   attributable   to  differences   between  the  financial
         statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their
         respective tax bases.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured
         using  enacted  tax rates  expected  to apply to taxable  income in the
         years in which these temporary differences are expected to be recovered
         or settled.

         Computation of Net Income per Share
         In 1997, the Financial  Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 128,
         Earnings  per  Share  ("SFAS  No.  128").  SFAS No.  128  replaced  the
         calculation of primary and fully diluted  earnings per share with basic
         and diluted  earnings  per share.  Unlike  primary  earnings per share,
         basic  earnings per share  excludes  any  dilutive  effects of options,
         warrants and convertible securities. Diluted earnings per share is very
         similar to the previously  reported  fully diluted  earnings per share.
         All earnings per share amounts for all periods have been presented, and
         where   appropriate   restated,   to   conform  to  the  SFAS  No.  128
         requirements.
                                      F-6

         Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
         The Company  records  impairment  losses on  long-lived  assets used in
         operations   when   indicators  of  impairment   are  present  and  the
         undiscounted  cash flows  estimated to be generated by those assets are
         less than the assets' carrying amount.

         Stock Option Plans
         Prior to April 1, 1996,  the  Company  accounted  for its stock  option
         plans in accordance with the provisions of Accounting  Principles Board
         ("APB") Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,  and
         related  interpretations.   As  such,  compensation  expense  would  be
         recorded,  only if, on the date of grant,  the current  market price of
         the underlying stock exceeded the exercise price. On April 1, 1996, the
         Company adopted SFAS No. I23, Accounting for Stock-Based  Compensation,
         which permits  entities to recognize as expense over the vesting period
         the  fair  value  of all  stock-based  awards  on the  date  of  grant.
         Alternatively,  SFAS No. 123 also allows  entities to continue to apply
         the  provisions  of APB Opinion No. 25 and provide pro forma net income
         and pro forma earnings per share  disclosures for employee stock option
         grants made in fiscal 1996 and future years as if the  fair-value-based
         method  defined  in SFAS No.  123 had been  applied.  The  Company  has
         elected to continue to apply the  provisions  of APB Opinion No. 25 and
         provide the pro forma disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 123.

         Use of Estimates
         The Company has made a number of estimates and assumptions  relating to
         the  reporting  of  assets  and   liabilities  and  the  disclosure  of
         contingent assets and liabilities to prepare these financial statements
         in conformity with generally  accepted  accounting  principles.  Actual
         results could differ from those estimates.

         Reclassifications
         Certain 1997 and 1996 fiscal year  balances have been  reclassified  to
         conform to the fiscal year 1998 presentation.

2.       SPECIAL CHARGES
         ---------------

         Legal Settlement With Lucent Technologies Inc. 
         On January 13, 1998,  the Company  finalized a settlement of its patent
         litigation  with  Lucent  Technologies  Inc.  resulting  in the Company
         recording a $5 million special charge during the quarter ended December
         31, 1997. Under the terms of the settlement,  Microchip made a one-time
         cash payment to Lucent and issued to Lucent warrants to acquire 300,000
         shares of Common Stock of the Company  priced at $25.25 per share.  The
         terms  of the  settlement  also  provide  for  the  Company  to  make a
         contingent  payment  to  Lucent  if the  Company's  earnings  per share
         performance for the three and one-half year period ending June 30, 2001
         does not meet certain targeted levels. It is currently anticipated that
         any contingent payment required under the terms of the settlement would
         be expensed in the period the amount is determined.

         Acquisitions
         ------------

         Keeloq(R) Hopping Code
         On November 17, 1995, the Company  acquired the Keeloq(R)  hopping code
         technology  and patents  developed  by Nanoteq  Ltd. of the Republic of
         South Africa,  and the marketing  rights  related  thereto (the "Keeloq
         Acquisition").  The Keeloq Acquisition was treated as an asset purchase
         for accounting  purposes.  The amount paid for the Keeloq  Acquisition,
         including all related costs, was  $12,948,000.  The Company has written
         off a  substantial  portion  of the  purchase  price  that  relates  to
         in-process research and development costs, which is consistent with the
         Company's ongoing treatment of research and development  costs, as well
         as all Keeloq  Acquisition-related costs. The special charge associated
         with the Keeloq  Acquisition was $11,448,000,  with the balance treated
         as purchased  technology  and  amortized on a straight  line basis over
         five  years.  Under the terms of the Keeloq  Acquisition,  the  Company
         agreed to a secondary  payment  which will be  determined  by a formula
         based on the net sales and gross margin results of the division for the
         six month period ended December 31, 1998. Any such secondary payment is
         based on future  performance and is currently not  determinable.  It is
         currently  anticipated  that any such payment  would be expensed in the
         quarter the amount is determined.  The impact of the Keeloq Acquisition
         to the Company's  reported financial position and results of operations
         is  immaterial,   therefore,  pro-forma  information  illustrating  the
         combined results after the Keeloq Acquisition has not been provided.
                                      F-7

         ASIC Technical Solutions
         On June 25, 1996, the Company acquired ASIC Technical Solutions,  Inc.,
         a  fabless  provider  of quick  turn  gate  array  devices  (the  "ASIC
         Acquisition").  The ASIC  Acquisition  was  treated as a  purchase  for
         accounting  purposes.  The  amount  paid for the ASIC  Acquisition  and
         related  costs was  $1,750,000.  As part of the ASIC  Acquisition,  the
         Company  allocated  a  substantial  portion  of the  purchase  price to
         in-process research and development costs, which is consistent with the
         Company's  on-going  treatment of research and development  costs.  The
         total  special  charge   associated  with  the  ASIC   Acquisition  was
         $1,575,000, with the balance treated as purchased technology related to
         current  products and amortized over five years. The impact of the ASIC
         Acquisition to the Company's reported financial position and results of
         operations is immaterial, therefore, pro-forma information illustrating
         the combined results after the ASIC Acquisition has not been provided.

         Restructuring Charges
         During the  quarter  ended June 30,  1996,  primarily  in  response  to
         inventory correction activities at the Company's customers, the Company
         implemented a series of actions to reduce production capacity,  curtail
         the growth of inventories and reduce operating expenses.  These actions
         included   delaying  capital  expansion  plans  and  deferring  capital
         spending,  a 15% production cutback in wafer  fabrication,  a headcount
         reduction in early April,  1996  representing  approximately  3% of the
         Company's  worldwide  employees,  and a two-week wafer fab shut down in
         early July, 1996. As a result of these actions,  the Company recorded a
         pre-tax special charge of $5,969,000 in the quarter ended June 30, 1996
         to cover costs primarily related to idling part of the Company's 5-inch
         wafer  fab  capacity,  paying  continuing  expenses  during  the  wafer
         fabrication  facility  shutdown and paying  severance costs  associated
         with the April, 1996 headcount reduction.

3.       CONTINGENCIES
         -------------

         The  Company is subject to  lawsuits  and other  claims  arising in the
         ordinary  course of its business.  In the Company's  opinion,  based on
         consultation  with legal  counsel,  as of March 31, 1998, the effect of
         such matters will not have a material  adverse  effect on the Company's
         financial position.

4.       ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE
         -------------------

         Accounts receivable consists of the following (amounts in thousands):

                                                        March 31,
                                                     1998      1997
                                                   -----------------
            Trade accounts receivable              $57,922   $62,165
            Other                                      790     1,031
                                                   -----------------

                                                    58,712    63,196

            Less allowance for doubtful accounts     2,392     2,094
                                                   -----------------

                                                   $56,320   $61,102
                                                   =================

5.       INVENTORIES
         -----------

         The components of inventories are as follows (amounts in thousands):

                                                         March 31,
                                                      1998      1997
                                                    -----------------
           Raw materials                            $ 5,795   $ 3,365
           Work in process                           40,000    44,813
           Finished goods                            30,021    16,966
                                                    -----------------

                                                     75,816    65,144

           Less allowance for inventory valuation     9,523     8,331
                                                    -----------------

                                                    $66,293   $56,813
                                                    =================
                                      F-8

         In the quarter ended June 30, 1997,  the Company  changed its method of
         accounting for inventories from the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method to
         the  first-in,  first-out  (FIFO)  method.  The  change  did not have a
         material  effect on the results of  operations.  The FIFO method is the
         predominant accounting method used in the semiconductor industry. Prior
         to  this  change,   the  Company's   inventory  costs  did  not  differ
         significantly under the two methods. Prior period results of operations
         have not been restated for this change as the impact is not material.

6.       PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
         -----------------------------

         Property,  plant and equipment  consists of the  following  (amounts in
         thousands):

                                                       March 31,
                                                    1998       1997
                                                 -------------------

            Land                                 $ 11,749   $ 10,837
            Building and building improvements     59,725     51,796
            Machinery and equipment               322,624    218,284
            Projects in process                    82,528     52,608
                                                 --------   --------

                                                  476,626    333,525
            Less accumulated depreciation
              and amortization                    150,734     99,467
                                                 --------   --------

                                                 $325,892   $234,058
                                                 ========   ========

7.       LONG-TERM DEBT
         --------------

         Long-term  debt consists of borrowings  (denominated  in U.S.  Dollars)
         from three Taiwan financial institutions, secured by equipment financed
         thereby.  Interest rates are at the Singapore  Interbank  Offering Rate
         (SIBOR)  (5.69%  at  March  31,  1998)  plus  0.75%  and at the  London
         Interbank  Offering  Rate (LIBOR)  (5.69% at March 31, 1998) plus .75%.
         The weighted  average  interest rate on these  borrowings  was 5.89% at
         March 31, 1998.  Payments,  including  interest,  are due semi-annually
         through  September 15, 2000.  The aggregate  annual  maturities of long
         term debt as of March 31, 1998 are $2,196,000,  $1,147,000 and $273,000
         for the years ending March 31, 1999, 2000 and 2001, respectively.

         The Company has an  unsecured  line of credit with a syndicate  of U.S.
         banks for up to $90,000,000,  bearing  interest at the LIBOR plus .325%
         expiring in October,  2000.  At March 31, 1998 the Company had utilized
         $7,000,000  of this line of  credit.  At March 31,  1997  there were no
         borrowings  against  the line of  credit.  The  agreement  between  the
         Company  and the  syndicate  of banks  requires  the Company to achieve
         certain  financial  ratios and  operating  results.  The Company was in
         compliance with these covenants as of March 31, 1998.

         The Company has an  additional  unsecured  line of credit with  various
         Taiwan  financial  institutions  for  up to  $19,750,000  (U.S.  Dollar
         equivalent).  These  borrowings  are  predominantly  denominated in New
         Taiwan  Dollars,  bearing  interest at SIBOR plus .75% and  expiring on
         various dates through November, 1998. At March 31, 1998 the Company had
         utilized $16,000,000 of this line of credit.

8.       EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
         ----------------------

         The Company maintains a contributory profit-sharing plan for a majority
         of its domestic  employees  meeting certain service  requirements.  The
         plan qualifies  under Section 401(k) of the Internal  Revenue Code, and
         allows employees to contribute up to 15% of their compensation, subject
         to  maximum  annual  limitations  prescribed  by the  Internal  Revenue
         Service.  Company  contributions  to the plan were at the discretion of
         the Board of Directors  until January 1, 1997,  when the employer match
         was revised to provide  for a fixed and  discretionary  component.  The
         Company shall make a matching contribution of up to 25% of the first 4%
         of the  participant's  eligible  compensation  and may  award  up to an
         additional 25% under the discretionary  match. All matches are provided
         on a  quarterly  basis  and  require  the  participant  to be an active
         employee at the end of each  quarter.  For the fiscal years ended March
         31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, the Company  contributions to the plan totaled
         $525,000, $452,000 and $407,000, respectively.
                                      F-9

         The Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "Purchase Plan") allows
         eligible employees of the Company to purchase shares of Common Stock at
         semi-annual intervals through periodic payroll deductions. The purchase
         price  per  share,  in  general,  will be 85% of the  lower of the fair
         market value of the Common Stock on the  participant's  entry date into
         the offering  period or 85% of the fair market value on the semi-annual
         purchase date. As of March 31, 1998,  312,772 shares were available for
         issuance under the Purchase  Plan.  Since the inception of the Purchase
         Plan,  3,306,000 shares of Common Stock have been reserved for issuance
         under the  Purchase  Plan.  During  fiscal  1995,  a purchase  plan was
         adopted for  employees in non-U.S.  locations.  The plan allows for the
         purchase  price per  share to be 100% of the  lower of the fair  market
         value of the Common Stock on the  beginning  or end of the  semi-annual
         purchase plan period.

         Effective January 1, 1997, the Company adopted a non-qualified deferred
         compensation  arrangement.  This  plan is  unfunded  and is  maintained
         primarily  for the purpose of  providing  deferred  compensation  for a
         select group of  management  as defined in ERISA  Sections 201, 301 and
         401. There are no Company matching  contributions  with respect to this
         plan.

         Substantially  all  employees  in foreign  locations  are  covered by a
         statutory   pension  plan.   Contributions  are  accrued  based  on  an
         actuarially  determined  percentage of  compensation  and are funded in
         amounts  sufficient to meet  statutory  requirements.  Pension  expense
         amounted to  $1,202,000,  $1,316,000 and $1,197,000 for the years ended
         March 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

         The Company  has an  incentive  compensation  plan which  provides  for
         awards,  based on a percentage of base salary,  from an incentive  pool
         created from operating profits of the Company, at the discretion of the
         Board of  Directors.  During the years ended March 31,  1998,  1997 and
         1996, $1,851,000, $2,064,000 and $1,357,000,  respectively, was charged
         against operations for this plan.

         The  Company  also has a plan which  provides a cash bonus based on the
         operating  profits of the Company for all employees,  at the discretion
         of the Board of Directors.  During the years ended March 31, 1998, 1997
         and 1996,  $1,746,000,  $1,373,000 and  $1,025,000,  respectively,  was
         charged against operations for this plan.

9.       STOCK OPTION PLANS
         ------------------

         Under the Company's  stock option plans (the  "Plans"),  key employees,
         non-employee  directors and consultants may be granted  incentive stock
         options or  non-statutory  stock  options to purchase  shares of Common
         Stock at a price  not less than  100% of the fair  value of the  option
         shares on the grant date. Options granted under the Plans vest over the
         period  determined  by the Board of Directors at the date of grant,  at
         periods ranging from one year to four years.

         At March 31, 1998 there were 4,887,709 shares available for grant under
         the Plans. The per share  weighted-average  fair value of stock options
         granted  under the Plans for the years ended March 31,  1998,  1997 and
         1996 was $15.61, $9.66 and $13.22,  respectively,  based on the date of
         grant using the Black-Scholes  option-pricing  model with the following
         weighted average assumptions:

                                               Years Ended March 31,
                                             1998      1997       1996
                                             -------------------------

            Expected life (years)           3.64       3.50       3.50
            Risk-free interest rate         5.75%      6.25%      6.25%
            Volatility                        62%        60%        60%
            Dividend yield                     0%         0%         0%


         Under the Plans,  18,897,476  shares of Common Stock had been  reserved
         for issuance since the inception of the Plans.
                                      F-10

         The stock option activity is as follows:


                                                Options Outstanding
                                    Shares       Weighted Average Exercise Price
                                 -----------------------------------------------
  Outstanding at March 31, 1995   7,110,672                $    7.76

  Granted                           981,833                    23.77
  Exercised                      (1,367,832)                    4.01
  Canceled                         (177,366)                   10.86
                                 ----------

  Outstanding at March 31, 1996   6,547,307                    10.88

  Granted                         2,092,952                    17.74
  Exercised                      (1,314,977)                    6.16
  Canceled                         (967,610)                   21.28
                                 ----------

  Outstanding at March 31, 1997   6,357,672                $   12.50

  Granted                         1,631,821                    27.80
  Exercised                        (778,418)                    7.72
  Canceled                       (1,006,781)                   25.99
                                 ----------

  Outstanding at March 31, 1998   6,204,294                $   14.84
                                 ==========

         The  following  table  summarizes  information  about the stock options
         outstanding at March 31, 1998:


         At March 31,  1998 and 1997,  the  number of  options  exercisable  was
         2,625,827  and  2,208,808,   respectively,   and  the  weighted-average
         exercise price of those options was $8.94 and $6.60, respectively.

         On March 2, 1998,  the Board of  Directors  of the Company  approved an
         option  exchange  program  for  options  priced in  excess  of  $25.00.
         Excluding  executive   officers,   corporate  officers  and  directors,
         employees  who were issued stock  options in this category and who were
         active employees on March 2, 1998, could elect to keep their options to
         buy Common Stock at the original  grant price or elect to exchange such
         options for options  priced at $21.50 per share,  the fair market value
         of the Company's Common Stock on March 9, 1998. If the employee elected
         to exchange  the options  for options  priced at $21.50 per share,  the
         vesting  commencement  date was  extended by 90 days from the  original
         vesting  date.  There were 534,522  shares  exchanged  under the option
         exchange program.

         For certain  options  granted,  the Company  recognized as compensation
         expense the excess of the deemed value for  accounting  purposes of the
         Common Stock  issuable  upon exercise of such options over the exercise
         price of such options.  This deferred compensation expense is amortized
         ratably over the vesting period of each option.  During the years ended
         March 31, 1997 and 1996, the Company recorded  compensation  expense of
         $30,000 and $60,000, respectively.

         The  Company  received a tax  benefit  of  $5,332,000,  $5,742,000  and
         $4,130,000  for  the  years  ended  March  31,  1998,  1997  and  1996,
         respectively,  on the exercise of  non-qualified  stock options and the
         disposition of stock  acquired 
                                      F-11

         with  incentive  stock  options  or  through  the  Purchase  Plan.  For
         financial  reporting  purposes,  the tax  effect of this  deduction  is
         accounted for as a credit to additional  paid-in capital rather than as
         a reduction of income tax expense.

         The Company  applies APB Opinion No. 25 in  accounting  for its various
         stock plans and, accordingly,  no compensation cost has been recognized
         for the Plans or the Purchase Plan in the financial statements. Had the
         Company  determined  compensation cost in accordance with SFAS No. 123,
         the  Company's  net income per share would have been reduced to the pro
         forma amounts indicated below:

                                                    Years Ended March 31,     
                                                1998         1997         1996
                                            ------------------------------------

         Net income           As reported   $   64,368   $   51,132   $   43,752
                              Pro forma         58,063       48,202       40,691

         Basic net income     As reported   $     1.21   $     0.99   $     0.86
         per share            Pro forma           1.09         0.93         0.80

         Diluted  net income  As reported   $     1.14   $     0.94   $     0.80
         per share            Pro forma           1.03         0.88         0.75

         Pro forma net income  reflects only options  granted  during the fiscal
         years ended March 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996.  Therefore,  the full impact
         of calculating  compensation  cost for stock options under SFAS No. 123
         is not  reflected  in pro  forma net  income  amounts  presented  above
         because  compensation cost is reflected over the options' vested period
         and compensation cost for options granted prior to April 1, 1995 is not
         considered.

10.      LEASE COMMITMENTS
         -----------------

         The Company  leases office space,  transportation  and other  equipment
         under  capital  and  operating  leases  which  expire at various  dates
         through March,  2007. The future minimum lease  commitments under these
         leases are payable as follows (amounts in thousands):

         Year ended                                     Capital        Operating
         March 31,                                      Leases          Leases
         ---------                                      ------          ------
                                                                      
         1999                                          $ 2,319          $ 1,288
         2000                                              363            1,099
         2001                                             --                806
         2002                                             --                591
         2003                                             --                476
         Thereafter                                       --              1,707
                                                       ------------------------
         Total minimum lease payments                  $ 2,682          $ 5,967
                                                                        =======
                                                                
         Less amount representing interest
         (at rates ranging from 6.7% to 8.5%)             (128)
                                                       -------
         
         Present value of net minimum lease payments     2,554
         
         Less current maturities                         2,206
                                                       -------
         
         Capital lease obligations                     $   348
                                                       =======


         Rental expense under operating  leases totaled  $2,811,000,  $2,644,000
         and  $1,675,000  for the years  ended  March 31,  1998,  1997 and 1996,
         respectively.
                                      F-12

11.      INCOME TAXES
         ------------

         The provision for income taxes is as follows (amounts in thousands):

                                            Years Ended March 31,
                                        1998        1997        1996
                                       --------------------------------
      
         Current expense:
                  Federal              $ 22,575    $ 13,814    $ 15,923
                  State                   2,508       3,454       4,122
                  Foreign                 8,139       4,093       3,539
                                       --------    --------    --------
      
                                         33,222      21,361      23,584
                                       --------    --------    --------
      
         Deferred expense (benefit):
                  Federal                (6,315)     (1,322)     (5,922)
                  State                    (702)       (331)     (1,480)
                  Foreign                (2,406)     (1,347)       --
                                       --------    --------    --------
      
                                         (9,423)     (3,000)     (7,402)
                                       --------    --------    --------
      
                                       $ 23,799    $ 18,361    $ 16,182
                                       ========    ========    ========
      
     
         The tax benefit  associated with the exercise of employee stock options
         reduced  taxes   currently   payable  by  $5,332,000,   $5,742,000  and
         $4,130,000  for  the  years  ended  March  31,  1998,  1997  and  1996,
         respectively.

         The  provision  for income taxes  differs  from the amount  computed by
         applying the statutory  federal tax rate to income before income taxes.
         The sources and tax effects of the differences are as follows  (amounts
         in thousands):

                                                   Years Ended March 31,
                                               1998        1997        1996
                                             --------------------------------
     
         Computed expected provision         $ 30,858    $ 24,323    $ 20,977
         State income taxes, net
         of federal benefit                     1,630       2,245       1,669
         Foreign sales corporation benefit     (3,707)     (2,552)     (2,123)
         Foreign income taxed at
         lower than the federal rate           (4,982)     (5,655)     (4,341)
                                             --------    --------    --------
     
                                             $ 23,799    $ 18,361    $ 16,182
                                             ========    ========    ========


         Pretax income from foreign operations was $39,554,000,  $32,172,000 and
         $29,434,000  for the  years  ended  March  31,  1998,  1997  and  1996,
         respectively.  Unremitted  foreign  earnings that are  considered to be
         permanently invested outside the United States and on which no deferred
         taxes have been provided,  amounted to  approximately  $147,874,000  at
         March 31, 1998.
                                      F-13

         The tax effects of temporary  differences that give rise to significant
         portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are as
         follows (amounts in thousands):



                                                             March 31,
                                                         1998        1997
                                                       --------------------
         Deferred tax assets:
     
                Intercompany profit in inventory       $ 15,168    $ 10,408
                Deferred income on shipments
                to distributors                           9,398       6,475
                Inventory reserves                        3,550       2,392
                Technology assets                         2,798       2,934
                Accrued expenses and other                7,662       4,976
                                                       --------    --------
                Gross deferred tax assets                38,576      27,185
                                                       --------    --------
     
         Deferred tax liabilities:
     
                Property, plant and equipment,
                principally due to differences in
                depreciation                            (11,071)     (8,479)
                Other deferred liabilities                 --          (624)
                                                       --------    --------
                Gross deferred tax liability            (11,071)     (9,103)
                                                       --------    --------
                Net deferred tax asset                 $ 27,505    $ 18,082
                                                       ========    ========
  
         Management believes that it is more likely than not that the results of
         future  operations will generate  sufficient  taxable income to realize
         the deferred tax assets.

         The  Company  has  benefited  from a partial tax holiday for its Taiwan
         manufacturing  operations  over the past several years.  The Company is
         currently benefiting from a tax holiday for its Thailand  manufacturing
         operations. The aggregate dollar benefits derived from this tax holiday
         status approximated $5,614,000, $5,415,000 and $5,003,000 for the years
         ended March 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.  The benefit the tax
         holiday status had on net income per share  approximated  $0.10,  $0.10
         and  $0.09  for  the  years  ended  March  31,  1998,  1997  and  1996,
         respectively.  The  Company's tax holiday  status in Taiwan  expired in
         March, 1997, and expires in Thailand in March, 2005.

12.      ACCRUED LIABILITIES
         -------------------

         Accrued liabilities consists of the following (amounts in thousands):

                                                  March 31,
                                               1998      1997
                                              -----------------
                 Accrued salaries and wages   $ 7,468   $ 6,344
                 Income taxes                  22,396    14,957
                 Other accrued expenses        23,588    15,091
                                              -------   -------
                                              $53,452   $36,392
                                              =======   =======


13.      STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
         --------------------

         Stockholder  Rights Plan. On February 13, 1995, the Company's  Board of
         Directors  adopted a Stockholder  Rights Plan (the  "Plan").  Under the
         Plan,  each share of the  Company's  Common  Stock has one right  which
         entitles  the  stockholder  to buy 1/100th of a share of the  Company's
         Series A  Participating  Preferred  Stock.  The rights have an exercise
         price of $66.67  and  expire  in  February,  2005.  The  rights  become
         exercisable and transferable upon the occurrence of certain events.

         Stock  Repurchase  Activity.  In  connection  with a  stock  repurchase
         program,  during the years ended  March 31, 1998 and 1997,  the Company
         purchased a total of 1,277,500  and  1,326,477  shares of the Company's
         Common Stock in open market  activities at a total cost of  $31,481,000
         and $19,463,000 respectively.  Subsequent to March 31, 1998 the Company
         purchased  222,500  additional  shares  of  Common  Stock  at a cost of
         $6,667,000. Also, in connection 
                                      F-14

         with a stock repurchase program, during fiscal 1998 and fiscal 1997 the
         Company  sold put  options for  700,000  shares and  500,000  shares of
         Common  Stock,  respectively.  Pricing per share  ranged from $29.50 to
         $38.81 in  fiscal  1998 and from  $15.00  to  $24.88  in  fiscal  1997.
         Subsequent  to March 31, 1998 the Company  sold put options for 100,000
         shares of Common  Stock.  Pricing per share was $27.50.  During  fiscal
         1998 and 1997,  the  Company  repurchased  put  options for 300,000 and
         142,500  shares,  respectively.  As of March 31, 1998,  the Company had
         outstanding put options for 400,000 shares which have expiration  dates
         ranging  from June 16,  1998 to March 3, 1999 at  prices  ranging  from
         $29.63  to  $38.81  per  share.  The net  proceeds  from  the  sale and
         repurchase of these  options,  in the amount of $2,215,330 and $427,750
         for fiscal  years 1998 and 1997,  respectively,  has been  credited  to
         additional paid-in capital.

         Subsequent to March 31, 1998, the Company completed two transactions in
         connection with the stock repurchase  program.  April, 1998 the Company
         completed a costless  collar  transaction  for 500,000  calls priced at
         $25.95 and 665,000 puts priced at $25.19.  The  expiration  date of the
         transaction  is April  23,  1999.  Also in  connection  with the  stock
         repurchase  program,  the Company completed a net share settled forward
         contract  for  2,000,000  shares at an  average  price of  $29.24.  The
         expiration date of this transaction is May, 2000 with quarterly interim
         settlement dates as determined by the Company.

         Also  subsequent  to March 31, 1998 the  Company's  Board of  Directors
         authorized an additional  share repurchase of Common Stock of 2,000,000
         shares and to sell up to 500,000  additional  put options.  The Company
         expects  from  time to time to  purchase  shares  of  Common  Stock  in
         connection with its authorized Common Stock repurchase plan.

14.      GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION
         ----------------------

         The Company operates in one industry  segment and engages  primarily in
         the design,  development,  manufacture  and marketing of  semiconductor
         products.  The Company sells its products to system  manufacturers  and
         distributors in a broad range of industries,  performs  on-going credit
         evaluations of its customers and generally requires no collateral.  The
         Company's operations outside the United States consist of comprehensive
         product final test  facilities in Taiwan and Thailand and sales offices
         in certain foreign countries.  Domestic  operations are responsible for
         the design,  development and wafer fabrication of all products, as well
         as the  coordination  of  production  planning  and  shipping  to  meet
         worldwide customer commitments. The Taiwan and Thailand test facilities
         are  reimbursed  in  relation  to  value  added  with  respect  to test
         operations and other  functions  performed,  and certain  foreign sales
         offices  receive a commission  on export sales within their  territory.
         Accordingly,  for financial statement purposes, it is not meaningful to
         segregate  sales or  operating  profits for the test and foreign  sales
         office  operations.  Identifiable  assets  by  geographic  area  are as
         follows (amounts in thousands):

                                             March 31,
                                          1998       1997
                                        -------------------

                    United States       $306,142   $254,477
                    Taiwan               136,128    101,036
                    Thailand              57,374     44,126
                    Other                 25,099     28,453
                                        --------   --------

                         Total Assets   $524,743   $428,092
                                        ========   ========


         Sales to  unaffiliated  customers  located  outside the United  States,
         primarily in Asia and Europe, aggregated approximately 68%, 66% and 65%
         of consolidated  net sales for the years ended March 31, 1998, 1997 and
         1996, respectively.

15.      FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
         -----------------------------------

         The carrying amount of cash equivalents approximates fair value because
         their  maturity  is less than  three  months.  The  carrying  amount of
         accounts   receivable,   accounts   payable  and  accrued   liabilities
         approximates  fair value due to the short term maturity of the amounts.
         The fair value of capital lease  obligations,  long-term debt and lines
         of credit  approximate  their  carrying  value as they are estimated by
         discounting  the future  cash flows at rates  currently  offered to the
         Company for similar debt instruments.
                                      F-15

         The Company is party to financial  instruments  with  off-balance-sheet
         risk in the  normal  course of  business  to  reduce  its  exposure  to
         fluctuations  in foreign  exchange rates.  These financial  instruments
         include  standby  letters  of  credit  and  foreign   currency  forward
         contracts.  When  engaging in forward  contracts,  risks arise from the
         possible  inability  of  counterparties  to meet  the  terms  of  their
         contracts and from movements in securities  values,  interest rates and
         foreign  exchange  rates.  At March 31, 1998 and 1997, the Company held
         contracts totaling $9,158,000 and $5,421,000,  respectively, which were
         entered  into and hedged  the  Company's  foreign  currency  risk.  The
         contracts  matured  in April  and May of 1998 and  1997,  respectively.
         Unrealized  gains and losses as of the balance sheet dates and realized
         gains and losses for the years  ending  March 31,  1998,  1997 and 1996
         were not material.

16.      NET INCOME PER SHARE
         --------------------

         The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net
         income per share (in thousands except per share amounts):

                                                  Years Ended March 31,
                                                1998      1997      1996
                                              ---------------------------
         Net income                           $64,368   $51,132   $43,752
                                              =======   =======   =======
        
         Weighted average common
         shares outstanding                    53,376    51,569    50,750
        
         Dilutive effect of stock options       2,937     3,114     3,783
                                              -------   -------   -------
        
         Weighted average common and common    56,313    54,683    54,533
         equivalent shares outstanding        =======   =======   =======
        
         Basic net income per share           $  1.21   $  0.99   $  0.86
                                              =======   =======   =======
         Diluted net income per share         $  1.14   $  0.94   $  0.80
                                              =======   =======   =======
       
17.      QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED)
         -----------------------------

         The following table presents the Company's selected unaudited quarterly
         operating  results for eight quarters ended March 31, 1998. The Company
         believes  that all  necessary  adjustments  have been  made to  present
         fairly the related  quarterly  results (in  thousands  except per share
         amounts).

                                      F-16

18.      SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
         ----------------------------------

         Cash paid for income  taxes  amounted to  $19,857,000,  $8,108,000  and
         $17,557,000  during  the years  ended  March 31,  1998,  1997 and 1996,
         respectively.  Cash paid for interest amounted to $796,000,  $3,183,000
         and  $2,643,000  during the years ended March 31, 1998,  1997 and 1996,
         respectively.

         A summary of additions and  deductions  related to the  allowances  for
         accounts receivable and inventories for the years ended March 31, 1998,
         1997 and 1996 follows:

                        Balance at    Charged to
                        beginning     costs and                    Balance at
                        of year       expenses      Deductions     end of year
                        ------------------------------------------------------
    
         Allowance for doubtful accounts:
    
             1998       $ 2,094       $   638       $  (340)       $ 2,392
             1997         1,834           452          (192)         2,094
             1996         1,394           634          (194)         1,834
    
         Allowance for inventory valuation:
    
             1998       $ 8,331       $ 2,126       $  (934)       $ 9,523
             1997        10,372         1,886        (3,927)         8,331
             1996         4,373         7,639        (1,640)        10,372
                                          F-17

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
                                  -------------

                                      E-1

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
                                  -------------

                                      E-2

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
                                  -------------

                                      E-3

