
10-K
10-K



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

(MARK ONE)



COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-4448

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                     [LOGO]
                           Baxter International Inc.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



                 ONE BAXTER PARKWAY, DEERFIELD, ILLINOIS 60015
                                 (708) 948-2000
               --------------------------------------------------
               Address, including zip code, and telephone number,
              including area code, of principal executive offices
          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

                              -------------------

    Indicate  by check  mark whether  the registrant  (1) has  filed all reports
required to be filed by  Section 13 or 15(d) of  the Securities Exchange Act  of
1934  during  the preceding  12  months (or  for  such shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to  such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.

                               Yes _X_    No ____

    Indicate  by check mark if disclosure  of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein and will not be contained, to  the
best  of registrant's knowledge, in  the definitive proxy statement incorporated
by reference  in Part  III of  this  Form 10-K  or any  amendment to  this  Form
10-K.  / /

    The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant  (based on  the per share  closing sale  price of $22.38  on March 1,
1994, and for  the purpose  of this computation  only, the  assumption that  all
registrant's  directors and executive officers are affiliates) was approximately
$6.1 billion.

    The number  of  shares of  the  registrant's  common stock,  $1  par  value,
outstanding as of March 1, 1994, was 276,729,809.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

    Those  sections  or  portions  of the  registrant's  1993  annual  report to
stockholders and of the registrant's proxy statement for use in connection  with
its  annual meeting of stockholders  to be held on  April 29, 1994, described in
the cross reference sheet and table of contents attached hereto are incorporated
by reference in this report.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                             CROSS REFERENCE SHEET
                                      AND
                               - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                     [LOGO]

    Baxter International Inc., One Baxter Parkway, Deerfield, Illinois 60015
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                     PART I
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

(a) GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS.

    Baxter  International Inc. was  incorporated under Delaware  law in 1931. As
used in this report, except  as otherwise indicated in information  incorporated
by  reference, "Baxter" means Baxter International  Inc. and the "Company" means
Baxter and its subsidiaries.

    The Company  is  engaged  in the  worldwide  development,  distribution  and
manufacture  of  a  diversified  line of  products,  systems  and  services used
primarily in the health care field. Products are manufactured by the Company  in
21  countries and sold in approximately  100 countries. Health care is concerned
with the preservation  of health and  with the diagnosis,  cure, mitigation  and
treatment  of disease and body defects and deficiencies. The Company's more than
200,000 products are used primarily by hospitals, clinical and medical  research
laboratories, blood and dialysis centers, rehabilitation centers, nursing homes,
doctors'  offices  and at  home under  physician  supervision. The  Company also
distributes  and  manufactures  a  wide  range  of  products  for  research  and
development facilities and manufacturing facilities.

    For  information  regarding  acquisitions,  investments  in  affiliates  and
divestitures, see the Company's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 1993  (the "Annual Report"),  page 54, section  entitled "Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial Statements  -- Acquisitions,  Investments in Affiliates,
Divestitures and Discontinued Operations," which is incorporated by reference.

(b) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS.

    Incorporated by  reference  from the  Annual  Report, pages  65-66,  section
entitled "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements -- Segment Information."

(c) NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS.

Recent Developments

    In November 1993, the Company announced that its board of directors approved
a  series of strategic actions to improve shareholder value, to extend positions
of leadership in  health-care markets  and to  reduce costs.  These actions  are
designed   to  make  the  Company's  domestic  medical/laboratory  products  and
distribution segment  more  efficient  and more  responsive  in  addressing  the
sweeping   changes  occurring  in  the  United  States  health-care  system  and
accelerate growth of its medical  specialties businesses worldwide. The  Company
recorded  a $700 million pre-tax provision  to cover costs associated with these
restructuring initiatives.

    The  actions   include  realigning   the  Company's   United  States   sales
organization;  restructuring the distribution organization  and investing in new
systems  to  improve  manufacturing  and  distribution  efficiencies  worldwide;
seeking  to divest its diagnostics-products manufacturing businesses and exiting
selected non-strategic product lines  in other businesses,  as well as  reducing
corporate staff and layers of management to give business units more autonomy.

    These  actions  are  expected to  result  in  a reduction  of  the Company's
worldwide work force by approximately 7 percent, or 4,500 positions, most of  of
which will occur over the next two to three years.

    The pre-tax restructuring charge of $700 million includes approximately $300
million for non-cash valuation adjustments as a result of the Company's decision
to  close  facilities  or  exit non-strategic  businesses  and  investments. The
Company expects  to spend  approximately $400  million in  cash related  to  the
restructuring programs described above, with most of that expended over the next
two to three years. In return, the


Company expects to generate annual pre-tax savings of approximately $100 million
in  1994, $200 million in  1995, $275 million in 1996,  $325 million in 1997 and
exceeding $350 million in 1998.  Management anticipates that these savings  will
be  partially invested  in increased research  and development  spending and the
Company's expansion into growing international markets.

    There is  fundamental  change occurring  in  the United  States  health-care
system   and  significant   change  occurring  in   the  Company's  marketplace.
Competition among all  health-care providers  is becoming much  more intense  as
they  attempt to gain patients on the  basis of price, quality and service. Each
is under  pressure to  decrease  the total  cost  of health-care  delivery,  and
therefore,  is looking  for ways  to reduce  materials handling  costs, decrease
supply utilization,  increase  product  standardization per  procedure,  and  to
closely  control capital expenditures. There has been increased consolidation in
the Company's customer base and by its competitors and these trends are expected
to continue. In recent  years, the Company's overall  price increases have  been
below  the increases in the Consumer Price  Index, and these industry trends may
inhibit the Company's ability to increase its supply prices in the future.

    On November 30, 1992, Baxter paid  a dividend to its common stockholders  of
all  the common  stock of Caremark  International Inc.,  formerly a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company.

Industry Segments

    The Company is a  world leader in global  manufacturing and distribution  of
health-care products and services for use in hospitals and other health-care and
industrial  settings.  It offers  a broad  array of  products and  services. The
Company announced  a significant  restructuring in  the fourth  quarter of  1993
designed   to  make  the  Company's  domestic  medical/laboratory  products  and
distribution segment  more  efficient  and more  responsive  in  addressing  the
sweeping  changes  occurring  in the  United  States health-care  system  and to
accelerate growth of its medical  specialties businesses worldwide. See  "Recent
Developments." As a consequence, the Company has redefined its industry segments
to  be  consistent  with its  strategic  direction and  management  process. The
Company's operations are reported in the following two industry segments.

Medical Specialties

    The Company  develops, manufactures  and markets  on a  global basis  highly
specialized  medical products  for treating kidney  and heart  disease and blood
disorders and  for  collecting  and processing  blood.  These  products  include
dialysis  equipment and supplies; prosthetic heart valves and cardiac catheters;
blood-clotting therapies; and machines  and supplies for collecting,  separating
and storing blood. These products require extensive research and development and
investment    in   worldwide   distribution,   marketing,   and   administrative
infrastructure. The Company's  International Hospital  unit, which  manufactures
and  distributes intravenous  solutions and  other medical  products outside the
United States is  also included in  this segment because  it shares  facilities,
resources  and customers with the other  medical specialty businesses in several
locations worldwide.

Medical/Laboratory Products and Distribution

    The Company  manufactures medical  and  laboratory supplies  and  equipment,
including   intravenous  fluids  and  pumps,  diagnostic-testing  equipment  and
reagents, surgical instruments and procedure kits, and a range of disposable and
reusable medical  products.  These  self-manufactured products,  as  well  as  a
significant  volume of third party  manufactured medical products, are primarily
distributed through the Company's extensive distribution system to United States
hospitals, alternate-site care facilities, medical laboratories, and  industrial
and educational facilities.

    Information  about operating results by segment is incorporated by reference
from the Annual  Report, pages  35-46, section entitled  "Financial Review"  and
pages  65-66, section  entitled "Notes  to Consolidated  Financial Statements --
Segment Information."

Joint Ventures

    The Company  conducts a  portion  of its  business through  joint  ventures,
including  a joint venture  with Nestle, S.A. to  develop, market and distribute
clinical nutrition products worldwide. The Company also conducts a joint venture
with International Business  Machines Corporation to  provide computer  software


and  services to hospitals and other health-care providers. These joint ventures
are accounted  for under  the equity  method of  accounting and  therefore,  are
excluded from the two industry segments in which the Company operates.

Health Care Environment

    A  decade ago,  significant changes  began taking  place in  the funding and
delivery of  health-care  throughout  the  world.  Continuing  cost  containment
efforts  by national governments and  other health-care payors are restructuring
health-care delivery systems; and accelerating  cost pressures on hospitals  are
resulting  in  increased  out-patient  and  alternate-site  health-care  service
delivery  and  a   focus  on  cost-effectiveness   and  quality.  These   forces
increasingly shape the demand for, and supply of medical care.

    The  changes  in  the  United  States  market  began  when  Congress adopted
legislation to  limit  reimbursement for  treatment  of Medicare  patients.  The
previous system reimbursed hospitals for the reasonable costs of services. Under
the  prospective reimbursement system, hospitals are  reimbursed at a fixed rate
based  on  the  patient's  particular  diagnosis,  regardless  of  actual  costs
incurred.

    Many private health-care payors have adopted similar reimbursement plans and
are providing other incentives for consumers to seek lower cost care outside the
hospital.  Many corporations'  employee health  plans have  been restructured to
provide financial incentives  for patients  to utilize  the most  cost-effective
forms   of  treatment  (managed  care   programs,  such  as  health  maintenance
organizations, have become more common); and physicians have been encouraged  to
provide more cost-effective treatments.

    With  the change of administrations in Washington, and continuing throughout
1993,  significant  national  attention  is  being  focused  on  the  costs  and
shortcomings  of the United  States' health-care financing  and delivery system.
Specifically, and as a  result of this attention,  the administration is in  the
process  of proposing legislation aimed  at restructuring health-care funding in
the United  States. Based  on information  presently available  to the  Company,
there  will  be  no  material  adverse impact  upon  the  Company's  business or
financial condition  if these  measures are  enacted. The  Company continues  to
believe  that its  strategy of  providing unmatched  service to  its health-care
customers and achieving  the best overall  cost in its  delivery of  health-care
products  and services is compatible with any restructuring of the United States
health-care system which may ultimately occur.

    The future financial success of suppliers, such as the Company, will  depend
on   their  ability  to   work  with  hospitals  to   help  them  enhance  their
competitiveness. The Company believes it  can help hospitals achieve savings  in
the  total supply  system by  automating supply-ordering  procedures, optimizing
distribution networks, improving materials management and achieving economies of
scale associated with aggregating supply purchases.

Methods of Distribution

    The Company  conducts  its  selling efforts  through  its  subsidiaries  and
divisions.  Many  subsidiaries and  divisions have  their  own sales  forces and
direct their  own sales  efforts. In  addition, sales  are made  to  independent
distributors,  dealers and sales  agents. Distribution centers,  which may serve
more than  one division,  are stocked  with adequate  inventories to  facilitate
prompt customer service. Sales and distribution methods include frequent contact
by  sales representatives, automated hospital communications via versions of the
ASAP-R- automated purchasing system,  circulation of catalogs and  merchandising
bulletins, direct mail campaigns, trade publications and advertising.

    The  Company is  expanding the  use of  versions of  the ASAP  system. These
versions allow customers  to order  supplies directly  using a  telephone-linked
terminal.  The system  can be  tailored to  individual customer  needs, enabling
hospitals, laboratories and other customers  to order products in  predetermined
groupings,  as  well  as individually.  The  ASAP  system can  also  provide the
customer with computerized price information and order confirmation.

    The Company's Corporate program provides large hospitals and  multi-hospital
systems  with  a single  point of  contact  for all  of the  Company's products,
services and  special value-added  programs. The  Company is  allied with  other
companies  through  its ACCESS-TM-  program. Through  this program,  the Company
provides its  Corporate  customers  with  products  and  services  from  leading
companies  in  related  industries  which  go  beyond  the  Company's  scope  of
proprietary product offerings.  The Company  maintains ACCESS  alliances with  a
subsidiary  of  WMX Technologies,  Inc. (formerly  Waste Management  of America,
Inc.) for


handling and disposal of medical waste; with Comdisco, Inc. for high  technology
asset  management  and  contingency  services; with  Kraft  Foodservice  Inc., a
subsidiary of Kraft General Foods, Inc., to distribute and market a broad  array
of  hospital food  service products; with  the Graphics and  Technology Group, a
division of North American Paper Company; and with various divisions of Trammell
Crow Company for facilities management and real estate planning services.

    The Company's ValueLink-R- hospital inventory management service is designed
to deliver health-care products in ready-to-use packaging directly to individual
hospital departments  on a  "just-in-time" basis.  As  of the  end of  1993,  53
hospitals  were participating in the Company's ValueLink program. With ValueLink
services, hospitals reduce their inventories  and the related warehousing  costs
for medical-surgical supplies and rely on the Company for frequent, standardized
deliveries  and improved service levels. The Company has distribution facilities
across the United States to serve the nation's hospitals.

    In late  1991,  the  Company developed  the  Quality  Enhanced  Distribution
Services-TM-  program, reducing the time it takes  for a hospital to receive and
store supplies and to process accounts payable. Based on each customer's  unique
requirements, the Company's products are delivered in a manner which facilitates
efficient  processing  of  products  and  related  documents  by  the hospital's
personnel. As a  result, many hospital  customers have been  able to reduce  the
amount  of labor associated with the receipt  and storage of supplies. As of the
end of 1993, 724 Enhanced Distribution Services initiatives were serving  United
States hospital customers.

    International sales and distribution are made in approximately 100 countries
either   on  a   direct  basis   or  through   independent  local  distributors.
International subsidiaries employ  their own  field sales  forces in  Australia,
Austria,  Belgium,  Brazil, Canada,  China,  Colombia, Czech  Republic, Denmark,
Finland, France,  Germany,  Greece,  Hong Kong,  Hungary  Italy,  Japan,  Korea,
Malaysia,  Mexico,  the  Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Norway,  Poland, Portugal,
Republic of Ireland,  Singapore, Spain, Sweden,  Switzerland, Taiwan,  Thailand,
Turkey,  the United Kingdom,  Venezuela and Zimbabwe.  In other countries, sales
are made through independent distributors or sales agents.

Raw Materials

    Raw materials essential to the Company's business are purchased worldwide in
the ordinary course of  business from numerous suppliers.  The vast majority  of
these materials are generally available, and no serious shortages or delays have
been  encountered. Certain raw materials used in producing some of the Company's
products can be obtained only from a small number of suppliers.

    In some of these situations, the Company has long-term supply contracts with
such suppliers,  although  it  does  not consider  its  obligations  under  such
contracts  to be  material. The Company  does not always  recover cost increases
through customer pricing due to contractual limits on such price increases.  See
"Contractual Arrangements."

Patents and Trademarks

    The Company owns a number of patents and trademarks throughout the world and
is  licensed  under patents  owned  by others.  While  it seeks  patents  on new
developments whenever feasible, the Company does not consider any one or more of
its patents,  or the  licenses granted  to  or by  it, to  be essential  to  its
business.

    Products  manufactured  by  the Company  are  sold primarily  under  its own
trademarks and trade names.  Some products purchased and  resold by the  Company
are sold under the Company's trade names while others are sold under trade names
owned by its suppliers.

Competition

    The  Company  is  a major  factor  in  the distribution  and  manufacture of
hospital and laboratory products and services and medical specialties.  Although
no single company competes with the Company in all of its industry segments, the
Company is faced with substantial competition in all of its markets.

    Historically, competition in the health-care industry has been characterized
by  the search for technological and  therapeutic innovations in the prevention,
diagnosis and treatment of disease. The  Company believes that it has  benefited
from  the technological advantages of certain of its products. While others will


continue to introduce new products which compete with those sold by the Company,
the Company believes that its research and development effort will permit it  to
remain competitive in all presently material product areas.

    The changing health-care environment in recent years has led to increasingly
intense  competition  among  health-care suppliers.  Competition  is  focused on
price, service and product performance. Pressure  in these areas is expected  to
continue.  See "Health Care Environment." In part through the 1993 restructuring
program, the Company  continues to increase  its efforts to  minimize costs  and
better  meet accelerating price competition. The  Company believes that its cost
position will continue to benefit from improvements in manufacturing  technology
and  increased  economies  of  scale. The  Company  continues  to  emphasize its
investments in  innovative technologies  and  the quality  of its  products  and
services.

Credit and Working Capital Practices

    The  Company's debt ratings of A3 on senior debt by Moody's, A-by Standard &
Poor's and A by Duff  & Phelps were reaffirmed by  each rating agency after  the
1993  restructuring  announcement.  Standard  & Poors  and  Duff  &  Phelps have
indicated that continuation of these ratings  in the future is dependent on  the
Company's  successful implementation  of the restructuring  program announced in
November 1993, and the reduction of its financial leverage which is expected  to
result  from the  planned divestiture of  its diagnostics-products manufacturing
businesses.

    Although the Company's  credit practices and  related working capital  needs
vary  across industry  segments, they  are comparable  to those  of other market
participants. Collection periods tend to be longer for sales outside the  United
States.

    Customers  may return  defective merchandise  for credit  or replacement. In
recent years, such returns have been insignificant.

Quality Control

    The Company places great emphasis on providing quality products and services
to its customers. An  integrated network of  quality systems, including  control
procedures   that  are   developed  and   implemented  by   technically  trained
professionals, result  in  rigid  specifications for  raw  materials,  packaging
materials,  labels, sterilization  procedures and  overall manufacturing process
control. The quality systems integrate the efforts of raw material and  finished
goods  suppliers to  provide the  highest value  to customers.  On a statistical
sampling basis, a quality assurance  organization tests components and  finished
goods  at different stages in the  manufacturing process to assure that exacting
standards are met.

Research and Development

    The Company  is actively  engaged in  research and  development programs  to
develop   and  improve  products,  systems   and  manufacturing  methods.  These
activities are performed at 35  research and development centers located  around
the  world and include facilities in  Australia, Belgium, Germany, Italy, Japan,
Malaysia, Malta, the Netherlands, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United
States. Expenditures for Company-sponsored  research and development  activities
were $337 million in 1993, $317 million in 1992 and $288 million in 1991.

    The   Company's   research  efforts   emphasize   self-manufactured  product
development, and portions of that research relate to multiple product lines. For
example, many product categories benefit  from the Company's research effort  as
applied  to the human body's circulatory systems. In addition, research relating
to the performance and purity of plastic materials has resulted in advances that
are applicable to a large number  of the Company's products. Principal areas  of
strategic  focus for research are treatments for kidney failure, blood disorders
and cardiovascular disease.

Government Regulation

    Most products manufactured or sold by  the Company in the United States  are
subject to regulation by the Food and Drug Administration ("FDA"), as well as by
other  federal  and  state  agencies. The  FDA  regulates  the  introduction and
advertising of  new  drugs and  devices  as well  as  manufacturing  procedures,
labeling  and record keeping with respect to  drugs and devices. The FDA has the
power to seize  adulterated or misbranded  drugs and devices  or to require  the
manufacturer to remove them from the market and the


power  to publicize relevant facts.  From time to time,  the Company has removed
products from the market that were found not to meet acceptable standards.  This
may occur in the future. Similar product regulatory laws are found in most other
countries where the Company does business.

    Environmental policies of the Company mandate compliance with all applicable
regulatory  requirements concerning environmental quality and contemplate, among
other things,  appropriate capital  expenditures for  environmental  protection.
Various non-material capital expenditures for environmental protection were made
by  the Company during 1993  and similar expenditures are  planned for 1994. See
Item 3. -- "Legal Proceedings."

Employees

    As of December 31, 1993,  the Company employed approximately 60,400  people,
including approximately 35,500 in the United States and Puerto Rico.

Contractual Arrangements

    A  substantial portion of the Company's  products are sold through contracts
with purchasers, both international  and domestic. Some  of these contracts  are
for  terms of more than  one year and include limits  on price increases. In the
case of hospitals, clinical laboratories  and other facilities, these  contracts
may specify minimum quantities of a particular product or categories of products
to be purchased by the customer.

(d)  FINANCIAL  INFORMATION ABOUT  FOREIGN  AND DOMESTIC  OPERATIONS  AND EXPORT
SALES.

    International operations are subject to certain additional risks inherent in
conducting business  outside the  United  States, such  as changes  in  currency
exchange  rates,  price  and currency  exchange  controls,  import restrictions,
nationalization, expropriation and other governmental action.

    Financial information is incorporated by  reference from the Annual  Report,
pages  65-66, section  entitled "Notes  to Consolidated  Financial Statements --
Segment Information."

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.

    The Company owns or has long-term  leases on substantially all of its  major
manufacturing  facilities. The Company maintains  48 manufacturing facilities in
the United  States, including  nine in  Puerto Rico,  and also  manufactures  in
Australia,   Belgium,  Brazil,  Canada,  Colombia,  Costa  Rica,  the  Dominican
Republic,  France,  Germany,   Italy,  Japan,  Malaysia,   Malta,  Mexico,   the
Netherlands,  Republic of Ireland, Singapore,  Spain, Switzerland and the United
Kingdom. Many  of  the  major manufacturing  facilities  are  multi-product  and
manufacture items for both of the Company's industry segments.

    The  Company owns or  operates 98 distribution centers  in the United States
and Puerto Rico and 55 located in 22 foreign countries. Many of these facilities
handle products for both of the Company's industry segments.

    The Company maintains  a continuing  program for  improving its  properties,
including the retirement or improvement of older facilities and the construction
of new facilities. This program includes improvement of manufacturing facilities
to  enable production and  quality control programs to  conform with the current
state of technology and government  regulations. Capital expenditures were  $516
million in 1993, $537 million in 1992 and $503 million in 1991. In addition, the
Company  added to the pool of equipment  leased or rented to customers, spending
$89 million in 1993, $103 million in 1992 and $89 million in 1991.

    The Company's  facilities are  suitable for  their respective  uses and,  in
general, are adequate for the Company's current needs.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

    As  of December 31, 1993,  the Company was a  defendant, together with other
defendants, in 3,445 lawsuits and had 1,425 pending claims from individuals, all
of which  seek  damages  for  injuries  allegedly  caused  by  silicone  mammary
prostheses   ("mammary   implants")   manufactured   by   the   American  Heyer-


Schulte division  of  American  Hospital Supply  Corporation  ("American").  The
Company's   responsibility  for  mammary  implants  results  from  the  American
Heyer-Schulte division of American which  manufactured these products from  1974
until  1984, at which time  the products and related  assets were sold to Mentor
Corporation. American retained the product liability responsibility for products
sold before the divestiture, and that responsibility was assumed by a subsidiary
of the Company as part of its 1985 acquisition of American. The Company has  not
manufactured or sold this product since 1984 nor does it have any of the product
in its inventory.

    The  typical case  or claim alleges  that the  individual's mammary implants
caused one  or  more  of  a  wide  range  of  ailments,  including  non-specific
autoimmune  disease,  scleroderma,  lupus,  rheumatoid  arthritis, fibromyalgia,
mixed  connective   tissue   disease,   Sjogren's   Syndrome,   dermatomyositis,
polymyositis, and chronic fatigue. The comparable number of cases and claims was
137 as of December 31, 1991 and 1,612 as of December 31, 1992. In 1991, 76 cases
and claims were disposed of; in 1992, 309 cases and claims were disposed of; and
in 1993, 634 cases and claims were disposed of.

    Continuing   publicity  and  action   taken  by  the   U.S.  Food  and  Drug
Administration limiting  the use  of gel-filled  silicone mammary  implants  has
caused  a  significant  increase  in  the  number  of  product  liability  cases
concerning these  products  brought against  the  Company. In  addition  to  the
individual suits against the Company, a class action on behalf of all women with
mammary  implants  filed against  all manufacturers  of  such implants  has been
conditionally certified and is pending in  the United States District Court  for
the  Northern  District of  Alabama  (DANTE, ET  AL.,  V. DOW  CORNING,  ET AL.,
U.S.D.C., N. Dist., Ala.,  92-2589; part of IN  RE: SILICONE GEL BREAST  IMPLANT
PRODUCT  LIABILITY LITIGATION, U.S.D.C.,  N. Dist. Ala.,  MDL 926, (U.S.D.C., N.
Dist. Ala., CV 92-P-10000-S)).  Another class action has  been certified and  is
pending  in state court in Louisiana (SPITZFADDEN, ET AL., V. DOW CORNING CORP.,
ET AL., Dist. Ct., Parish  of Orleans, 92-2589). Baxter  also has been named  in
three  purported additional class actions, none of which is currently certified.
(BARCELLONA, ET AL., V. DOW CORNING, ET AL., U.S.D.C., Mich., 9300 72045 DT  and
MOSS,  ET AL., V.  DOW CORNING, ET  AL., U.S.D.C., Minn.,  92-P-10560-S, both of
which have  been transferred  to and  are part  of IN  RE: SILICONE  GEL  BREAST
IMPLANT  PRODUCT  LIABILITY LITIGATION,  U.S.D.C.,  N. Dist.  Ala.,  MDL-926 for
discovery purposes, and DOE, ET AL., V. INAMED CORPORATION, ET AL., Circuit Ct.,
Dade County, Fla, 92-07034.) A suit seeking class certification on behalf of all
residents of  the  Province  of  Ontario,  Canada,  who  received  Heyer-Schulte
implants  has also been filed (BURKE, V. AMERICAN HEYER-SCHULTE, ET AL., Ontario
Prov. Court, Gen. Div., 15981/93.)

    Additionally, the  Company has  been served  with a  purported class  action
brought on behalf of children allegedly exposed to silicone in utero and through
breast  milk.  (FEUER, ET  AL.,  V. MCGHAN,  ET  AL., U.S.D.C.,  E.  Dist. N.Y.,
93-0146.) The suit  names all  mammary implant manufacturers  as defendants  and
seeks to establish a medical monitoring fund.

    These implant cases and claims generally raise difficult and complex factual
and  legal  issues  and  are subject  to  many  uncertainties  and complexities,
including, but not limited  to, the facts and  circumstances of each  particular
case  or claim, the jurisdiction in which  each suit is brought, and differences
in applicable law. Many of the cases and claims are at very preliminary  stages,
and  the Company has not been able  to obtain information sufficient to evaluate
each case and claim.

    There also  are  issues  concerning  which  of  the  Company's  insurers  is
responsible  for covering each matter and the extent of the Company's claims for
contribution against  third parties.  The Company  believes that  a  substantial
portion  of the liability and defense costs related to mammary implant cases and
claims will  be  covered by  insurance,  subject to  self-insurance  retentions,
exclusions,  conditions, coverage gaps, policy limits and insurer solvency. Most
of the Company's insurers have reserved (i.e., neither admitted nor denied), and
may attempt to reserve in the future, the right to deny coverage, in whole or in
part, due to differing theories regarding, among other things, the applicability
of coverage  and  when coverage  may  attach. The  Company  has been,  and  will
continue  to be,  engaged in  active negotiations  with its  insurers concerning
coverages and  the  potential settlement  described  below. Also,  some  of  the
mammary  implant cases  pending against  the Company  seek punitive  damages and
compensatory damages  arising out  of alleged  intentional torts.  Depending  on
policy  language,  applicable  law  and agreements  with  insurers,  the damages
awarded pursuant to such claims may or may not be covered, in whole or in  part,
by  insurance. On February  7, 1994, the  Company filed suit  against all of the
insurance companies which issued product liability


policies to  American,  American  Heyer-Schulte and  Baxter  for  a  declaratory
judgment  that: the policies cover each year of injury or claim, the Company may
choose among multiple coverages; coverage begins  with the date of implant;  and
legal fees and punitive damages are covered.

    Representatives  of  the  plaintiffs  and  defendants  in  these  cases have
negotiated a global settlement of the issues under the jurisdiction of the Court
in the DANTE, ET AL. V. DOW CORNING, ET AL. case. The monetary provisions of the
settlement proposal providing compensation for all present and future plaintiffs
and claimants  based  on  a  series of  specific  funds  and  scheduled  medical
conditions  have  been agreed  upon by  most of  the significant  defendants and
representatives of the plaintiffs. Under the  proposal, the total of all of  the
specific  funds, which  would be paid-in  and made  available over approximately
thirty years following final approval of the settlement by the Courts, is capped
at $4.75 billion. The settling defendants have agreed to fund $4 billion of this
amount. The  Company's share  of this  settlement has  been established  by  the
settlement  negotiations at $556 million. This settlement is subject to a series
of court  proceedings,  including  a  court review  of  its  fairness,  and  the
opportunity   for  individual  plaintiffs  and  claimants  to  elect  to  remove
themselves from the settlement ("opt-out"). At present, the Company is not  able
to estimate the nature and extent of its potential future liability with respect
to opt-outs.

    In  the fourth  quarter of  1993, the Company  accrued $556  million for its
estimated liability resulting from a potential global settlement of the  mammary
implant  class action and recorded a receivable for estimated insurance recovery
of $426 million, resulting in a net charge of $130 million. The reserves for the
settlement do not include any provisions for opt-outs and are in addition to the
general reserves for the mammary implant cases discussed below.

    In connection with its acquisition of American, the Company had  established
reserves  at the  time of  the merger  for product  liability, including mammary
implant cases and claims. At December 31, 1993, the reserve allocated to mammary
implant cases  and  claims  was  approximately $42  million.  Based  on  current
information,  management  believes that  this  reserve represents  the Company's
minimum net exposure in connection with future mammary implant cases and  claims
beyond the effect of the global settlement described above.

    Upon  resolution of  any of  the uncertainties  concerning these  cases, the
Company  may  ultimately  incur  charges  in  excess  of  presently  established
reserves. While such a future charge could have a material adverse impact on the
Company's  net income in the period in which it is recorded, management believes
that any outcome of this litigation will  not have a material adverse effect  on
the Company's consolidated financial position.

    As  of December 31, 1993,  the Company was a  defendant, together with other
defendants, in 121 lawsuits, and has one pending claim, in the United States and
Canada involving  individuals who  have  hemophilia, or  their  representatives.
Those   cases  and  claim   seek  damages  for   injuries  allegedly  caused  by
anti-hemophilic factor concentrates VIII and IX derived from human blood  plasma
processed  and sold  by the  Company. Furthermore,  58 lawsuits  seeking damages
based on similar allegations are pending in Ireland and Japan.

    The typical case or  claim alleges that the  individual with hemophilia  was
infected  with HIV  by infusing Factor  VIII or Factor  IX concentrates ("Factor
Concentrates") containing HIV.  The total  number of cases  and claims  asserted
against  the Company  as of December  31, 1991, was  16, and as  of December 31,
1992, was 52. In 1991,  11 cases and claims were  disposed of; in 1992, 9  cases
and claims were disposed of; and in 1993, 11 cases and claims were disposed of.

    In  addition to the individual suits  against the Company, a purported class
action was filed on  September 30, 1993,  on behalf of  all U.S. residents  with
hemophilia  (and their families)  who were treated  with Factor Concentrates and
who allegedly  are infected  with HIV  as a  result of  the use  of such  Factor
Concentrates. This lawsuit was filed in the United States District Court for the
Northern District of Illinois (WADLEIGH, ET AL., V. RHONE-POULENC RORER, ET AL.,
U.S.D.C.,  N. Dist.,  Ill. 93C  5969). A state-wide  class action  also has been
filed on behalf of all New Jersey  residents with hemophilia and HIV. (D.K.,  ET
AL., V. ARMOUR PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANY, ET AL., Sup. Ct., Middlesex County, N.J.,
L8134-93.) Neither class action has yet been certified.

    Many of the cases and claims are at very preliminary stages, and the Company
has  not been able  to obtain information  sufficient to evaluate  each case and
claim. In most states, the Company's potential


liability is limited  by laws  which provide  that the  sale of  blood or  blood
derivatives,  including Factor  Concentrates, is not  the sale of  a "good," and
thus is not  covered by  the doctrine  of strict  liability. As  a result,  each
claimant  will  have  to prove  that  his or  her  injuries were  caused  by the
Company's negligence. The WADLEIGH case  alleges that the Company was  negligent
in  failing: to use  available purification technology;  to promote research and
development for product safety; to withdraw Factor Concentrates once it knew  or
should  have known of viral contamination of such concentrates; to screen plasma
donors properly;  to recall  contaminated Factor  Concentrates; and  to warn  of
risks  known  at  the  time  the product  was  used.  The  Company  denies these
allegations and will file  a challenge to the  class proceedings later in  1994.
The  Company is not able  to estimate the nature and  extent of its potential or
ultimate future  liability with  respect to  these cases  and claims,  but as  a
result  of  settlement  discussions  and  opinions  of  litigation  counsel, has
established the reserve described below.

    The Company believes that a substantial portion of the liability and defense
costs related to anti-hemophilic  factor concentrates cases  and claims will  be
covered   by  insurance,  subject   to  self-insurance  retentions,  exclusions,
conditions, coverage  gaps, policy  limits  and insurer  solvency. Most  of  the
Company's  insurers have reserved  (i.e., neither admitted  nor denied), and may
attempt to reserve in  the future, the  right to deny coverage,  in whole or  in
part, due to differing theories regarding, among other things, the applicability
of  coverage and  when coverage  may attach.  Zurich Insurance  Co., one  of the
Company's comprehensive  general liability  insurance carriers,  on February  1,
1994,  filed a suit against the Company  seeking a declaratory judgment that the
policies it had issued do not cover the losses that the Company has notified  it
of for a number of reasons, including that Factor Concentrates are products, not
services,  and are, therefore,  excluded from the policy  coverage, and that the
Company has failed to comply with various obligations of tender, notice, and the
like under the policies. On February 8, 1994, the Company filed suit against all
of the  insurance companies  which issued  comprehensive general  liability  and
product  liability policies to  the Company for a  declaratory judgment that the
policies for all of the excess  carriers covered both products and services.  In
that  suit, the Company also sued Zurich for failure to defend it and Zurich and
Columbia Casualty Company for failure to indemnify it.

    The Company is engaged  in notifying its  insurers concerning coverages  and
the  potential  settlement discussed  below. Also,  some of  the anti-hemophilic
factor concentrates cases pending against the Company seek punitive damages  and
compensatory  damages  arising out  of alleged  intentional torts.  Depending on
policy language,  applicable  law  and agreements  with  insurers,  the  damages
awarded  pursuant to such claims may or may not be covered, in whole or in part,
by insurance.  Accordingly,  the Company  is  not  currently in  a  position  to
estimate  the amount of  its potential future recoveries  from its insurers, but
has estimated its recovery with respect to the reserves it has established.

    The  National  Hemophilia  Foundation  ("NHF")  asked  the  U.S.  commercial
producers  of  anti-hemophilic factor  concentrates (Alpha  Therapeutics, Armour
Pharmaceuticals,  Baxter  Healthcare  Corporation  and  Miles  Laboratories)  to
provide  $1.5  billion as  part of  a  fund for  HIV positive  hemophiliacs. The
Company and some  of the other  producers made a  counter-proposal that the  NHF
rejected.  The  Company is  vigorously defending  each of  the cases  and claims
against it. At the  same time, it  is likely that the  Company will continue  to
seek  ways to resolve pending and  threatened litigation concerning these issues
through a negotiated resolution.

    In Canada, the provincial governments created a settlement fund to which all
of the fractionators,  including the  Company, have  contributed. The  Company's
contribution  to the fund was approximately $3 million. Those Canadian claimants
who avail themselves of  this fund must  sign releases in  favor of the  Company
against further litigation. The period in which to file a claim against the fund
expired on March 15, 1994.

    In  the fourth  quarter of  1993, the Company  accrued $131  million for its
estimated worldwide liability for  litigation and settlement expenses  involving
anti-hemophilic   Factor  Concentrate  cases,  and  recorded  a  receivable  for
insurance coverage of $83 million, resulting in a net charge of $48 million. The
expense of the Canadian settlement is covered by this reserve.

    Upon resolution of any  of the uncertainties concerning  these cases, or  if
the  Company,  along  with the  other  defendants, enters  into  a comprehensive
settlement of the class actions described  above, the Company may incur  charges
in  excess of presently  established reserves. While such  a future charge could
have a


material adverse impact on the Company's net income in the period in which it is
recorded, management believes that any outcome of this litigation will not  have
a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial position.

    Most  of  the  individuals who  served  as  directors of  American  in 1985,
including Mr.  Cathcart  and Ms.  Evans,  who  currently are  directors  of  the
Company, are defendants in a pending lawsuit filed as a derivative action. LEWIS
V.  BAYS, ET  AL. was  filed on  March 23,  1990, in  the Circuit  Court of Cook
County, Illinois. The plaintiffs allege breach of fiduciary duty claims relating
to American's  buyout  of an  agreement  with Hospital  Corporation  of  America
("HCA")  in  connection with  the  Company's merger  with  American in  1985. In
November 1992, the Board of  Directors appointed a special litigation  committee
consisting  of three current directors of the Company who were neither directors
of the Company nor American at the time of the merger.

    The special  litigation  committee  was  appointed  to  determine  the  best
interests  of the Company relating to this  lawsuit, which seeks $200 million in
damages from  the individual  defendants and  HCA as  well as  other relief.  On
August 9, 1993, counsel for the special litigation committee filed a motion with
the Court to dismiss this case on the basis that there is no merit to the claims
against  any defendant  and that  pursuing this  litigation is  not in  the best
interests of the  Company or its  stockholders. The proceedings  on this  motion
have been stayed while the parties discuss the possibility of resolving the case
without further court proceedings.

    On  January  14, 1994,  the  parties in  this case  filed  with the  court a
Memorandum of Understanding which provides a  basis for resolving the case.  The
parties have undertaken proceedings necessary to demonstrate the fairness of the
proposed  settlement. It is anticipated that  these actions will be completed by
April 1994, following which  the parties expect to  sign a settlement  agreement
and  present it to the court for approval. Management believes that the terms of
any possible resolution  will have  not have a  material adverse  effect on  the
Company's results of operations or consolidated financial position.

    At  the start  of 1993,  the Company  was a  defendant in  patent litigation
brought by Scripps Clinic and Research Foundation ("Scripps") and  Rhone-Poulenc
Rorer,  Inc.  (formerly Rorer  Group, Inc.)  ("Rorer")  in which  the plaintiffs
alleged that  the  Company's  monoclonal anti-hemophilic  Factor  VIII  and  its
recombinant  Factor  VIII infringed  a patent  originally  owned by  Scripps and
subsequently licensed to Rorer. Trial of this litigation before a judge  without
a  jury was concluded  in 1992. Before a  ruling on the  trial was received, the
Company entered into a worldwide settlement  of the litigation with Scripps  and
Rorer.  The settlement agreement required Baxter to pay $105 million to Rorer to
settle  claims  relating  to   certain  anti-hemophilic  Factor  VIII   products
manufactured  and sold  prior to  January 1,  1993. As  part of  this agreement,
Baxter was  also granted  a  non-exclusive sub-license  for  future use  of  the
related  patents.  This  license  agreement  is  royalty-bearing  when  used  in
conjunction with the Company's monoclonally purified and Recombinant Factor VIII
products.

    Baxter Healthcare Corporation  ("BHC") has been  named as a  defendant in  a
purported  class action  on behalf  of all medical  and dental  personnel in the
State of  California who  suffered allergic  reactions to  natural rubber  latex
gloves and other protective equipment or who have been exposed to natural rubber
latex products. (KENNEDY, ET AL., V. BAXTER HEALTHCARE CORPORATION, ET AL., Sup.
Ct.,  Sacramento Co., Cal., #535632.) The case,  which was filed in August 1993,
alleges that users of various  natural rubber latex products, including  medical
gloves made and sold by BHC and other manufacturers, suffered allergic reactions
to  the products ranging from skin irritation to systemic anaphylaxis. BHC filed
a demurrer to the compliant, which was granted, and the Complaint was  dismissed
with  leave to  file an  amended complaint. The  amended complaint  was filed in
December 1993, and BHC has filed a demurrer to the Amended Complaint. Management
believes that the outcome of this matter will not have a material adverse effect
on the Company's results of operations or consolidated financial position.

    On August 13,  1993, the Company  received a notice  from the Department  of
Veterans  Affairs ("DVA")  suspending it from  competing for,  or receiving, new
contracts with any agency within the Executive Branch of the Federal  Government
on the basis of the Company's guilty plea to an information charging it with one
count  of violating  the Anti-boycott Statute  by providing  information to Arab
League Boycott  Officials.  On the  same  day, the  Company's  subsidiary,  BHC,
received a notice from the DVA suspending it on the basis of the Company's plea,
its  commonality of management with, and its  ownership by, the Company, and its
alleged misrepresentation  concerning  the status  of  products on  its  Federal
Supply Schedule Contracts with the government.


    On  the same day, Vernon R. Loucks Jr., chairman and chief executive officer
of the Company,  and James R.  Tobin, the former  president and chief  operating
officer  of  the Company,  each received  notices from  the DVA  proposing their
individual debarments from competing for,  or receiving, contracts on the  basis
of  the Company's plea and on the assertion  that each knew or should have known
of the actions of the Company  and its former senior vice president,  secretary,
and general counsel, G. Marshall Abbey, recited in the plea agreement. Mr. Abbey
also received a notice of proposed debarment from the DVA.

    On December 21, 1993, the Company and the DVA reached an agreement to settle
these  proceedings. As a result, the Company and BHC were immediately reinstated
as federal contractors by the DVA,  and the suspensions imposed in August  1993,
were  lifted. The settlement  agreement between Baxter,  BHC, Messrs. Loucks and
Tobin, and the DVA  resolved all civil and  administrative disputes involved  in
the suspension proceeding. The DVA also terminated debarment proceedings against
Loucks  and Tobin. As a part of the settlement, BHC agreed to provide the agency
with $2.8 million in financial consideration over three years for past,  present
and  future costs  associated with the  suspension proceedings,  and establish a
service  center  dedicated  exclusively  to  federal  accounts  and  staffed  by
customer-service   representatives   who  will   receive   training  emphasizing
government-contracting regulations  and  federal procurement  requirements.  The
payment  and actions agreed to by Baxter, BHC, Messrs. Loucks and Tobin, and the
DVA did not constitute an admission of liability or wrongdoing.

    All of  the  individuals  who served  as  directors  of the  Company  as  of
September  1, 1993, as well as Lester B. Knight, executive vice president of the
Company, are named  as defendants  in a pending  lawsuit ostensibly  filed as  a
"demand  excused"  derivative  action.  SEIGEL  V.  LOUCKS,  ET  AL.,  was filed
September 15, 1993, in the Court of Chancery in New Castle County, Delaware Cir.
Ct., New Castle Co., Del., Cir. Act #13130. On October 24, 1993, a substantially
identical complaint was filed in the  same court by Bartholomew J. Millano.  The
two  complaints  have  been  consolidated. The  plaintiffs  allege,  among other
things, that  the directors  failed  to oversee  management in  connection  with
actions  which are  the basis for  the dispute  between the Company  and the DVA
which are described above, failed to prevent such actions, and failed to  create
a  compliance program to prevent or detect  such actions. The complaint seeks to
recover alleged damages incurred by the Company as the result of lost sales  due
to  the proposed debarment discussed above, as  well as the compensation paid to
Messrs. Gantz,  Knight,  Loucks  and  Tobin since  1991.  The  Company  and  its
directors  have filed motions  to dismiss the suit,  have answered the complaint
and have  filed  a  counterclaim  seeking to  permanently  bar  and  enjoin  the
plaintiff  from prosecuting this  case because her claims  have been disposed of
and barred in a prior suit against the Company.

    The Company has been named as a potentially responsible party for  unsettled
claims  for  cleanup  costs at  18  hazardous  waste sites.  The  Company  was a
significant contributor  to waste  disposed  on only  one  of these  sites,  the
Thermo-Chem  site  in Muskegon,  Michigan. The  company  expects that  the total
cleanup costs for  this site will  be between  $37 million and  $82 million,  of
which the Company's share will be approximately $5 million. This amount has been
reserved and reflected in the Company's financial statements.

    In  all  of  the other  sites,  the  Company was  a  minor  contributor and,
therefore, does not  have information on  the total cleanup  costs. The  Company
has, however, in most of these cases been advised by the potentially responsible
party  of  its  roughly  estimated  exposure  at  these  sites.  Those estimated
exposures total approximately $5 million.

    The Company is a defendant in  a number of other claims, investigations  and
lawsuits.  Based on the advice of counsel,  management does not believe that the
other claims, investigations and lawsuits individually or in the aggregate, will
have a material adverse effect on  the Company's operations or its  consolidated
financial condition.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

    None.


                                    PART II
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS.

    Incorporated  by reference from the Annual Report, page 67, section entitled
"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  -- Quarterly Financial Results  and
Market for the Company's Stock."

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

    Incorporated by reference from the Annual Report, inside back cover, section
entitled "Six-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data."

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS.

    Incorporated  by  reference from  the  Annual Report,  pages  35-46, section
entitled "Financial Review." Also  incorporated by reference  is the section  of
this   Form  10-K,  Part   I  captioned  "Recent   Developments,"  "Health  Care
Environment" and  "Legal  Proceedings"  on  pages  3  to  4,  5  and  9  to  13,
respectively.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

    Incorporated  by  reference from  the Annual  Report, pages  48-67, sections
entitled "Report  of Independent  Accountants," "Consolidated  Balance  Sheets,"
"Consolidated  Statements of  Income," "Consolidated Statements  of Cash Flows,"
"Consolidated Statements of  Stockholders' Equity," and  "Notes to  Consolidated
Financial Statements."

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

    None.


                                    PART III

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

a)  IDENTIFICATION OF DIRECTORS

    Incorporated  by reference from the board  of directors' proxy statement for
use in connection  with Baxter's annual  meeting of stockholders  to be held  on
April  29, 1994 (the "Proxy Statement"),  pages X-X, sections entitled "Board of
Directors" and "Election of Directors."

b)  IDENTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

    Following are  the  names and  ages  of  the executive  officers  of  Baxter
International  Inc.  as  of  February  28, 1994,  their  positions  with  it and
summaries of their backgrounds and  business experience. All executive  officers
are  elected or appointed  by the board  of directors and  hold office until the
next annual  meeting of  directors  and until  their respective  successors  are
elected  and qualified. The annual meeting of directors is held after the annual
meeting of stockholders.

    WILLIAM B.  GRAHAM,  age  82, has  been  senior  chairman of  the  board  of
directors  since 1985. Mr.  Graham became president  of the Company  in 1953 and
chief executive officer  in 1960 and  continued in these  positions until  1971.
From  1971 to 1980 he was chairman of the board and chief executive officer, and
thereafter he served as chairman until he became senior chairman.

    VERNON R. LOUCKS JR., age  59, has been chairman  of the board of  directors
since  1987 and  chief executive  officer of Baxter  since 1980.  Mr. Loucks was
first elected an officer of Baxter in 1971.

    LESTER B. KNIGHT,  age 35, has  been an executive  vice president of  Baxter
since 1992, and a vice president since 1990. Mr. Knight previously was president
of  a division  of a  subsidiary of Baxter,  and prior  to that  was employed in
various management capacities with the same subsidiary. Mr. Knight is the son of
Charles F. Knight, a director of Baxter.

    TONY L. WHITE, age 47, has been an executive vice president of Baxter  since
1992, and a vice president since 1986, when he was first elected an officer.

    HENRY   R.  AUTRY,  age  45,  has  been  senior  vice  president  and  chief
administrative officer of Baxter since 1993. Mr. Autry previously was  president
of  a division of a subsidiary of  Baxter. Before joining the Company, Mr. Autry
was vice president of international sales at Federal Express Corporation.

    HARRY M. JANSEN  KRAEMER, JR., age  39, has been  senior vice president  and
chief  financial officer  of Baxter since  1993. Mr. Kraemer  previously was the
vice president of finance  and operations for a  subsidiary of Baxter. Prior  to
that  he was employed as controller,  group controller, and president of various
divisions of subsidiaries of Baxter.

    ARTHUR F. STAUBITZ, age  54, has been senior  vice president, secretary  and
general   counsel  of  Baxter  since  1993.  Mr.  Saubitz  previously  was  vice
president/general manager of the ventures group of a subsidiary of Baxter. Prior
to that he was  senior vice president, secretary  and general counsel of  Amgen,
Inc.  Prior to that he was a vice president of a Baxter subsidiary, and prior to
that he was a vice president and deputy general counsel of Baxter.

    BARBARA Y. MORRIS, age 48, has been a senior vice president of Baxter  since
1992. Ms. Morris was first elected an officer of Baxter in 1986.

    HERBERT  E. WALKER, age 59,  has been senior vice  president of Baxter since
1993. Mr. Walker previously was vice president of human resources of a  division
of a subsidiary of Baxter.

    DALE A. SMITH, age 62, has been a group vice president of Baxter since 1979,
when he was first elected an officer.

    RONALD  H. ABRAHAMS, age 51, has been a vice president of Baxter since 1990.
Mr. Abrahams previously was vice  president -- quality assurance and  regulatory
affairs of a subsidiary of Baxter.


    DAVID  J. AHO, age 44,  has been a vice president  of Baxter since 1989. Mr.
Aho previously  was vice  president of  government affairs  of a  subsidiary  of
Baxter.

    JAMES  H. TAYLOR,  JR., age 55,  has been  a vice president  of Baxter since
1992. Mr. Taylor previously was the general manager of operations of a  division
of a subsidiary of Baxter, and prior to that was vice president of manufacturing
of that division.

    BRIAN P. ANDERSON, age 43, has been the controller of Baxter since 1993. Mr.
Anderson previously was the vice president of corporate audit of a subsidiary of
Baxter,  and prior to that was a partner in the international accounting firm of
Deloitte & Touche.

    LAWRENCE D. DAMRON,  age 47, has  been treasurer of  Baxter since 1992.  Mr.
Damron  previously  was a  vice  president and  controller  of a  division  of a
subsidiary of Baxter,  and prior to  that was the  corporate auditor of  another
subsidiary. Prior to that, he was vice president and controller of a division of
that subsidiary.

c)  COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 16(A) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934.

    Incorporated  by reference from  Proxy Statement, page  17, section entitled
"Section 16 Reporting."


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                    PART IV

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

    The following documents are filed as a part of this report:




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Board of Directors
BAXTER INTERNATIONAL INC.

    Our  audits  of the  consolidated financial  statements  referred to  in our
report dated February 10, 1994 appearing on page 48 of the 1993 Annual Report to
Stockholders  of  Baxter  International  Inc.  (which  report  and  consolidated
financial statements are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form
10-K) also included an audit of the Financial Statement Schedules listed in Item
14(a)  of this  Form 10-K. In  our opinion, these  Financial Statement Schedules
present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when
read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.

PRICE WATERHOUSE
Chicago, Illinois
February 10, 1994


                                                                     SCHEDULE II
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

AMOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM RELATED PARTIES AND UNDERWRITERS,
PROMOTERS, AND EMPLOYEES OTHER THAN RELATED PARTIES

(In thousands of dollars)

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                                                      SCHEDULE V
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

(In millions of dollars)

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                                                     SCHEDULE VI
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION OF
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

(In millions of dollars)

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



The estimated lives used in determining depreciation and amortization are as
follows:




                                                                   SCHEDULE VIII
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

(In millions of dollars)

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                                                     SCHEDULE IX
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS

(In millions of dollars)

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                                                      SCHEDULE X
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION

(In millions of dollars)

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Amounts charged to (1) taxes other than payroll and income taxes, (2) royalties,
and  (3) advertising costs, have been omitted since  each is less than 1% of net
sales.


                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant  to  the requirements  of  section 13  or  15(d) of  the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                          BAXTER INTERNATIONAL INC.

                                          By:      /S/  VERNON R. LOUCKS JR.
                                          --------------------------------------
                                                      Vernon R. Loucks Jr.
                                                   CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND
                                                    CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Date: March 21, 1994

    Pursuant to the requirements  of the Securities Exchange  Act of 1934,  this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.

   

    


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                   APPENDICES



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

             EXHIBITS FILED WITH SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION












                     (All other exhibits are inapplicable.)

                  Copies  of the above exhibits are available at a
              charge of 35 cents per page upon written request  to
              the    Stockholder   Services   Department,   Baxter
              International Inc., One  Baxter Parkway,  Deerfield,
              Illinois,  60015.  Copies  are also  available  at a
              charge of at least 25 cents per page from the Public
              Reference Section  of  the Securities  and  Exchange
              Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.
              20549.


                                     [LOGO]

    Baxter International Inc., One Baxter Parkway, Deerfield, Illinois 60015

