ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

SVB Financial Group ("SVB Financial") is a diversified financial services company, as well as a bank holding company and a financial holding company. SVB Financial was incorporated in the state of Delaware in March 1999. Through our various subsidiaries and divisions, we offer a variety of banking and financial products and services to clients across the United States, as well as in key international entrepreneurial markets.  For 30 years, we have been dedicated to helping entrepreneurs succeed, primarily in the technology, life science, venture capital/private equity and premium wine industries. We provide our clients of all sizes and stages with a diverse set of products and services to support them throughout their life cycles.

We offer commercial and private banking products and services through our principal subsidiary, Silicon Valley Bank (the“Bank”), which is a California state-chartered bank founded in 1983 and a member of the Federal Reserve System. Through its subsidiaries, the Bank also offers investment advisory, asset management, private wealth management, and brokerage services. Through our other subsidiaries and divisions, we also offer non-banking products and services, such as funds management and business valuation services. Additionally, we focus on cultivating strong relationships with firms within the venture capital and private equity community worldwide, many of which are also our clients and may invest in our corporate clients.

As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had, on a consolidated basis, total assets of$26.4 billion, total investment securities of$13.6 billion, total loans, net of unearned income, of$10.9 billion, total deposits of$22.5 billionand total SVB Financial Group (“SVBFG”) stockholders' equity of$2.0 billion.

We operate through 28 offices in the United States, as well as offices internationally in China, Hong Kong, India, Israel and the United Kingdom. Our corporate headquarters is located at 3003 Tasman Drive, Santa Clara, California 95054, and our telephone number is 408.654.7400.

When we refer to “SVB Financial Group,” “SVBFG,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” “us” or use similar words, we mean SVB Financial Group and all of its subsidiaries collectively, including the Bank. When we refer to “SVB Financial” or the “Parent” we are referring only to the parent company, SVB Financial Group.

Business Overview

For reporting purposes, SVB Financial Group has three operating segments for which we report financial information in this report: Global Commercial Bank, SVB Private Bank and SVB Capital.

Global Commercial Bank

Our Global Commercial Bank segment is comprised of results primarily from our Commercial Bank, and to a lesser extent, from SVB Specialty Lending, SVB Analytics and our Debt Fund Investments, each as further described below.

Commercial Bank.  Our Commercial Bank products and services are provided by the Bank and its subsidiaries to commercial clients in the technology, venture capital/private equity, life science and cleantech industries. The Bank provides solutions to the financial needs of commercial clients through credit, global treasury management, foreign exchange, global trade finance, and other services. We broadly serve clients within the U.S., as well as non-U.S. clients in key international entrepreneurial markets.

Through our credit products and services, the Bank extends loans and other credit facilities to commercial clients. These loans may be secured by clients' assets or based on clients' cash flows. In some cases, loans may be unsecured. Credit products and services include traditional term loans, equipment loans, asset-based loans, revolving lines of credit, accounts-receivable-based lines of credit, capital call lines of credit and credit cards.

The Bank's global treasury management products and services include a wide range of deposit, receivables, payments and cash management solutions. Deposit products include business and analysis checking accounts, money market accounts, multi-currency, and sweep accounts. In connection with deposit services, the Bank provides receivables services, which include lockbox, electronic deposit capture, and merchant services that facilitate timely depositing of checks and other payments to clients' accounts. Payment and cash management products and services include wire transfer and automated clearing house payment services to enable clients to transfer funds quickly, as well as bill pay, account analysis,  and disbursement services. Client accounts and our services may be accessed through our online and mobile banking platforms.

The Bank's foreign exchange and global trade products and services facilitate clients' global finance and business needs. These products and services include foreign exchange services that allow commercial clients to manage their foreign currency needs and risks through the purchase and sale of currencies, swaps and hedges on the global inter-bank market. To facilitate clients' international trade, the Bank offers a variety of loan and credit facilities guaranteed by the Export-Import Bank of the









United States. The Bank also offers letters of credit, including export, import, and standby letters of credit, to enable clients to ship and receive goods globally.

The Bank and its subsidiaries offer a variety of investment services and solutions to its clients that enable them to effectively manage their assets. Through its registered investment advisory subsidiary, SVB Asset Management, the Bank offers discretionary investment advisory services based on its clients investment policies, strategies and objectives.  Through its broker-dealer subsidiary, SVB Securities, the Bank offers clients access to investments in third party money market mutual funds and fixed-income securities or through our repurchase agreement program.

SVB Specialty Lending.  SVB Specialty Lending provides banking products and services to our premium wine industry clients, including vineyard development loans, as well as community development loans made as part of our responsibilities under the Community Reinvestment Act.

SVB Analytics.  SVB Analytics provides equity valuation services to companies and venture capital/private equity firms.

Debt Fund Investments.  Debt Fund Investments include our investments in debt funds in which we are a strategic investor: (i) Gold Hill funds, which provide secured debt to private companies of all stages, and (ii) Partners for Growth funds, which provide secured debt primarily to mid-stage and late-stage companies.

SVB Private Bank

SVB Private Bank is the private banking division of the Bank, which provides a range of personal financial solutions for consumers. Our clients are primarily venture capital/private equity professionals and executive leaders of the innovation companies they support. We offer a customized suite of private banking services, including mortgages, home equity lines of credit, restricted stock purchase loans, capital call lines of credit, and other secured and unsecured lending.  We also help our private banking clients meet their cash management needs by providing deposit account products and services, including checking, money market, certificates of deposit accounts, online banking, credit cards and other personalized banking services.  We also launched, in late 2013, a new subsidiary of the Bank, SVB Wealth Advisory, which provides private wealth management services to individual clients.

SVB Capital

SVB Capital is the venture capital investment arm of SVB Financial Group, which focuses primarily on funds management. SVB Capital manages approximately $1.9 billion of funds on behalf of third-party limited partner investors, and on a more limited basis, SVBFinancial Group. The SVB Capital family of funds is comprised of direct venture funds that invest in companies and funds of funds that invest in other venture capital funds. SVB Capital generates income for the Company primarily through investment returns (including carried interest) and management fees. Most of the funds managed by SVB Capital are consolidated into our financial statements. See Note 2-“Summary of Significant Accounting Policies-Principles of Consolidation and Presentation”of the“Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements”under Part II, Item8 in this report.

For more information about our three operating segments, including financial information and results of operations, see“Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Operating Segment Results”under Part II, Item7 in this report, and Note 20-“Segment Reporting”of the“Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements”under Part II, Item8 in this report.

Revenue Sources

Our total revenue is comprised of our net interest income and noninterest income. Net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis and noninterest income for the year ended December31, 2013 were$699.1 millionand$673.2 million, respectively.

Net interest income is primarily income generated from interest rate differentials. The difference between the interest rates received on interest-earning assets, such as loans extended to clients and securities held in our available-for-sale securities portfolio, and the interest rates paid by us on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings, accounts for the major portion of our earnings. Our deposits are largely obtained from commercial clients within our technology, life science, venture capital and private equity industry sectors. Deposits are also obtained from the premium wine industry commercial clients and from our Private Bank clients. We do not obtain deposits from conventional retail sources.

Noninterest income is primarily income generated from our fee-based services and gains on our investments and derivative securities. We offer a wide range of fee-based financial services to our clients, including global commercial banking, private banking and other business services. Our ability to integrate and cross-sell our diverse financial services to our clients is a strength of our business model. Additionally, we hold available-for-sale, non-marketable and marketable investment securities.  Subject to applicable regulatory requirements, we manage and invest in venture capital/private equity funds that invest directly in privately-held companies, as well as funds that invest in other venture capital/private equity funds. Gains on these investments









are reported in our consolidated statements of income and include noncontrolling interest. See “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Noninterest Income-Gains on Investment Securities, Net” under Part II, Item 7 in this report. We also recognize gains from warrants to acquire stock in client companies, which we obtain in connection with negotiating credit facilities and certain other services.

We derive substantially all of our revenue from U.S. clients.We derived less than 10 percent of our total revenues from foreign clients for each of 2013, 2012 and 2011.

Industry Niches

In each of the industry niches we serve, we provide services to meet the needs of our clients throughout their life cycles, beginning with the emerging, start-up stage.

Technology and Life Sciences

We serve a variety of clients in the technology and life science industries. Our technology clients tend to be in the industries of hardware (semiconductors, communications and electronics), software, cleantech (energy and resource innovation) and related services. Because of the diverse nature of clean technology products and services, for our loan-related reporting purposes , cleantech-related loans are reported under our hardware, software, life science and other commercial loan categories, as applicable. Our life science clients primarily tend to be in the industries of biotechnology and medical devices. A key component of our technology and life science business strategy is to develop relationships with clients at an early stage and offer them banking services that will continue to meet their needs as they mature and expand. We serve these clients primarily through three practices:

•OurSVB Acceleratorpractice focuses on serving our“emerging”or“early stage”clients. These clients are generally in the start-up or early stages of their life cycles. They are typically privately-held and funded by friends and family,“seed”or“angel”investors, or have gone through an initial round of venture capital financing. They are typically engaged in research and development, have little or no revenue and may have only brought a few products or services to market. SVB Accelerator clients tend to have annual revenues below $5 million, with many being pre-revenue companies.



•OurSVB Growthpractice serves our“mid-stage”and“late-stage”clients. These clients are in the intermediate or later stages of their life cycles and are generally privately-held, and many are dependent on venture capital for funding. Some of these clients are in the more advanced stages of their life cycles and may be publicly held or poised to become publicly held. Our SVB Growth clients generally have a solid or more established product or service offering in the market, with more meaningful or considerable revenue. They also may be expanding globally. SVB Growth clients tend to have annual revenues between $5 million and $75 million.



•OurSVB Corporate Financepractice serves primarily our large corporate clients, which are more mature and established companies. These clients are generally publicly-held or large privately-held companies, have a more sophisticated product or service offering in the market, and significant revenue. They also may be expanding globally. SVB Corporate Finance clients tend to have annual revenues over $75 million.



Venture Capital/Private Equity

We provide financial services to clients in the venture capital/private equity community. Since our founding, we have cultivated strong relationships within the venture capital/private equity community, particularly with venture capital firms worldwide, many of which are also clients, facilitating deal flow to and from these firms.

Premium Wine

We are one of the leading providers of financial services to premium wine producers across the Western United States, primarily in California's Napa Valley, Sonoma County and Central Coast regions, and the Pacific Northwest. We focus on vineyards and wineries that produce grapes and premium wines.

Competition

The banking and financial services industry is highly competitive, and continues to evolve as a result of changes in regulation, technology, product delivery systems, and the general market and economic climate. Our current competitors include other banks, debt funds and specialty and diversified financial services intermediaries that offer lending, leasing, payments, investment, advisory and other financial products and services to our target client base. The principal competitive factors in our markets include product offerings, service, pricing, and transaction size and structure. Given our established market position within the









client segments that we serve, and our ability to integrate and cross-sell our diverse financial services to extend the length of our relationships with our clients, we believe we compete favorably in all our markets in these areas.

Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2013, we employed1,704full-time equivalent employees.

Supervision and Regulation

Our bank and bank holding company operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state regulatory agencies.  This regulation is intended primarily for the stability of the US banking system as well as the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund (

“

DIF

”

). This regulation is not intended for the benefit of our security holders. As a bank holding company and a financial holding company, SVB Financial is subject to primary inspection, supervision, regulation, and examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (

“

BHC Act

”

).  The Bank, as a California state-chartered bank and a member of the Federal Reserve System, is subject to primary supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board, as well as the California Department of Business Oversight---Division of Financial Institutions (

“

DBO

”

). In addition, and to the extent provided by law, the Bank's deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (

“

FDIC

”

) and the DIF.  Our consumer banking activities are also subject to regulation by the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau (the

“

CFPB

”

). SVB Financial's other nonbank subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve Board and other applicable federal and state regulatory agencies, including the  SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (

“

FINRA

”

). In addition, we are subject to regulation by certain foreign regulatory agencies in international jurisdictions where we may conduct business, including the U.K., Israel, India, Hong Kong and China. (See

“

International Regulation

”

below.)

The following discussion of statutes and regulations is a summary and does not purport to be complete. This discussion is qualified in its entirety by reference to the statutes and regulations referred to in this discussion.  Regulators, Congress, state legislatures and international consultative bodies continue to enact rules, laws and policies to regulate the financial services industry and public companies and to protect consumers and investors.  The nature of these laws and regulations and the effect of such policies on the Company's business cannot be predicted and in some cases, may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations.



Regulation of Parent: SVB Financial



Under the BHC Act, SVB Financial, as a bank holding company, is subject to the Federal Reserve's regulation and its authority to, among other things:

•Require periodic reports and such additional information as the Federal Reserve may require in its discretion;

•Require the maintenance of certain levels of capital;

•Restrict the ability of bank holding companies to service debt or to receive dividends or other distributions from their subsidiary banks;

•Require prior approval for senior executive officer and director changes under certain circumstances;

•Require that bank holding companies serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to subsidiary banks and commit resources as necessary to support each subsidiary bank. A bank holding company's failure to meet its obligations to serve as a source of strength to its subsidiary banks will generally be considered by the Federal Reserve to be an unsafe and unsound banking practice or a violation of Federal Reserve regulations or both under current law, and will be a statutory violation under the Dodd-Frank Act, as described below;

•Terminate an activity or terminate control of or liquidate or divest certain subsidiaries, affiliates or investments if the Federal Reserve believes the activity or the control of the subsidiary or affiliate constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of any bank subsidiary;

•Regulate provisions of certain bank holding company debt, including the authority to impose interest ceilings and reserve requirements on such debt and require prior approval to purchase or redeem our securities in certain situations; and

•Approve acquisitions and mergers with banks and consider certain competitive, management, financial, financial stability and other factors in granting these approvals.  Similar California and other state banking agency approvals may also be required.



Bank holding companies are generally prohibited, except in certain statutorily prescribed instances including exceptions for financial holding companies, from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the outstanding voting shares of any company that is not a bank or bank holding company and from engaging directly or indirectly in activities other than those of banking, managing or controlling banks, or furnishing services to its subsidiaries. However, subject to prior notice or Federal Reserve Board approval, bank holding companies may engage in, or acquire shares of companies engaged in, activities determined by the Federal Reserve Board to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper









incident thereto. As a financial holding company, SVB Financial may engage in these nonbanking activities and certain other broader securities, insurance, merchant banking and other activities that are determined to be“financial in nature”or are incidental or complementary to activities that are financial in nature without prior Federal Reserve approval, subject to the requirement imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act that SVB Financial will be required to obtain prior Federal Reserve approval in order to acquire a nonbanking company with more than $10billion in consolidated assets.

Pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (“GLBA”), in order to elect and retain financial holding company status, all depository institution subsidiaries of a bank holding company must be well capitalized, well managed, and, except in limited circumstances, in satisfactory compliance with the Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”). In addition, a financial holding company is also required to be well capitalized and well managed. Failure to sustain compliance with these requirements or correct any non-compliance within a fixed time could lead to divestiture of subsidiary banks or require all activities to conform to those permissible for a bank holding company.

Because we are a holding company, our rights and the rights of our creditors and security holders to participate in the assets of any of our subsidiaries upon the subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization will be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors, except to the extent we may ourselves be a creditor with recognized claims against the subsidiary. In addition, there are various statutory and regulatory limitations on the extent to which the Bank can finance or otherwise transfer funds to us or to our non-bank subsidiaries, including certain investment funds to which the Bank serves as an investment adviser, whether in the form of loans or other extensions of credit, including a purchase of assets subject to an agreement to repurchase, securities investments, the borrowing or lending of securities to the extent that the transaction causes the Bank or a subsidiary to have credit exposure to the affiliate, or certain other specified types of transactions, as discussed in further detail below. Furthermore, loans and other extensions of credit by the Bank to us or any of our non-bank subsidiaries are required to be secured by specified amounts of collateral and are required to be on terms and conditions consistent with safe and sound banking practices.

SVB Financial is also treated as a bank holding company under the California Financial Code. As such, SVB Financial and its subsidiaries are subject to periodic examination by and may be required to file reports with the DBO.



Securities Registration and Listing

SVB Financial's securities are registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the“Exchange Act”), and listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. As such, SVB Financial is subject to the information, proxy solicitation, insider trading, corporate governance, and other requirements and restrictions of the Exchange Act, as well as the Marketplace Rules and other requirements promulgated by the Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc.

As a public company, SVB Financial is also subject to the accounting oversight and corporate governance requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including, among other things, required executive certification of financial presentations, increased requirements for board audit committees and their members, and enhanced requirements relating to  disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting.



The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act

The events of the past several years led to numerous new laws and regulatory pronouncements in the United States and internationally for financial institutions. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”), enacted in 2010, is one of the most far reaching legislative actions affecting the financial services industry in decades and significantly restructures the financial regulatory regime in the United States.  The Dodd-Frank Act broadly affects the financial services industry by creating new resolution authorities, requiring ongoing stress testing of capital, mandating higher capital and liquidity requirements, increasing regulation of executive and incentive-based compensation and requiring numerous other provisions aimed at strengthening the sound operation of the financial services sector depending, in part, on the size of the financial institution. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act provides for:

•Capital standards applicable to bank holding companies may be no less stringent than those applied to insured depository institutions;

•Annual stress tests for entities, including the Bank, and early remediation or so-called living wills are required for larger banks with more than $50 billion in assets, as well as risk committees of its board of directors that include a risk expert, and such requirements may have the effect of establishing new best practices standards for banks below $50 billion in assets, such as SVB Financial Group;

•Restrictions on a bank's ability to sponsor or invest in certain funds, including hedge or private equity funds;

•Repeal of the federal prohibition (Regulation Q) on the payment of interest on demand deposits, including business checking accounts, and made permanent the $250,000 limit for federal deposit insurance;

•The establishment of the CFPB with responsibility for promulgating and enforcing regulations designed to protect consumers' financial interests and prohibit unfair, deceptive and abusive acts and practices by financial institutions;









•The CFPB to directly examine those financial institutions with $10 billion or more in assets, such as SVBFG, for compliance with the regulations promulgated by the CFPB;

•Limits, or places significant burdens and compliance and other costs, on activities traditionally conducted by banking organizations, such as originating and securitizing mortgage loans and other financial assets, arranging and participating in swap and derivative transactions, proprietary trading and investing in private equity and other funds and restrictions on debit charge interchange fees; and

•The establishment of new compensation restrictions and standards regarding the time, manner and form of compensation given to key executives and other personnel receiving incentive compensation, including documentation and governance, proxy access by stockholders, deferral and claw-back requirements.



Many of the regulations to implement the Dodd-Frank Act have not yet been published for comment or adopted in final form and/or will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on SVB Financial, our customers or the financial industry more generally.  Individually and collectively, both proposed and final regulations resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial conditions and results of operations.



Regulation of Silicon Valley Bank

•Require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice;

•Require prior approval for senior executive officer and director changes;

•Direct an increase in capital and the maintenance of specific minimum capital ratios which may preclude the Bank from being deemed well capitalized for regulatory purposes;

•Restrict the Bank's growth geographically, by products and services, or by mergers and acquisitions;

•Enter into informal or formal enforcement orders, including memoranda of understanding, written agreements and consent or cease and desist orders to take corrective action and enjoin unsafe and unsound practices;

•Restrict or prohibit the Bank from paying dividends or making other distributions to SVB Financial;

•Remove officers and directors and assess civil monetary penalties; and

•Take possession of and close and liquidate the Bank.



California law permits state chartered commercial banks to engage in any activity permissible for national banks. Therefore, the Bank may form subsidiaries to engage in the many so-called“closely related to banking”or“nonbanking”activities commonly conducted by national banks in operating subsidiaries, and further, the Bank may conduct certain“financial”activities in a subsidiary to the same extent as may a national bank, provided the Bank is and remains“well-capitalized,”“well-managed”and in satisfactory compliance with the CRA.  The Bank continues to be in satisfactory compliance with the CRA.



Regulatory Capital

The federal banking agencies have adopted guidelines governing risk-based capital and allowable leverage capital levels for bank holding companies and banks that are expected to provide a measure of capital that reflects the degree of risk associated with a banking organization's operations for both transactions reported on the balance sheet as assets, such as loans, and those recorded as off-balance sheet items, such as commitments, letters of credit and recourse arrangements.

Under current capital guidelines, banking organizations are required to maintain certain minimum risk-based capital ratios, which are calculated by dividing a banking organization's qualifying capital by its risk-weighted assets (including both on- and off-balance sheet assets). Risk-weighted assets are calculated by assigning assets and off-balance sheet items to broad risk categories.  Qualifying capital is classified depending on the type of capital. For SVB Financial:









•“Tier 1 capital”consists of common equity, retained earnings, qualifying non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, a limited amount of qualifying cumulative perpetual preferred stock issued prior to May 19, 2010 and noncontrolling interests in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries (including trust-preferred securities), less goodwill and certain other intangible assets. Qualifying Tier 1 capital may consist of trust-preferred securities issued prior to May 19, 2010, subject to certain criteria and quantitative limits for inclusion of restricted core capital elements in Tier 1 capital.

•“Tier 2 capital”includes, among other things, hybrid capital instruments, perpetual debt, mandatory convertible debt securities, qualifying term subordinated debt, preferred stock that does not qualify as Tier 1 capital, and a limited amount of allowance for loan and lease losses.



As a bank holding company, SVB Financial is subject to three capital ratios: a total risk-based capital ratio, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio and a Tier 1 leverage ratio. To be classified as“adequately capitalized”, the minimum required ratios for bank holding companies and banks are eight percent, four percent and four percent, respectively. Additionally, for SVB Financial to remain a financial holding company, the Bank must at all times be“well-capitalized,”which requires the Bank to have a total risk-based capital ratio, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least ten percent, six percent and five percent, respectively. Moreover, maintaining SVB Financial at“well-capitalized”status provides certain benefits to SVB Financial, such as the ability to repurchase stock without prior regulatory approval (where otherwise regulatory approval would be required). To be“well-capitalized,”SVB Financial must at all times have a total risk-based and Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least ten percent and six percent, respectively. There is no current Tier 1 leverage requirement for SVB Financial to be deemed“well-capitalized”.   As of December 31, 2013, both SVB Financial and the Bank were considered“well-capitalized”for regulatory purposes under existing capital guidelines.  New capital guidelines which will affect SVB Financial and the Bank in the future are discussed immediately below under the heading“New Capital Rules.”

SVB Financial is also currently subject to rules that govern the regulatory capital treatment of equity investments in non-financial companies made on or after March 13, 2000 and held under certain specified legal authorities by a bank or bank holding company. Under the rules, these equity investments are subject to a separate capital charge that reduces SVB Financial's Tier 1 capital and, as a result, removes these assets from being taken into consideration in establishing  SVB Financial's required capital ratios discussed above.

Banking organizations must have appropriate capital planning processes, with proper oversight from the Board of Directors. Accordingly, pursuant to a separate supervisory letter from the Federal Reserve, bank holding companies are expected to conduct and document comprehensive capital adequacy analyses prior to the declaration of any dividends (on common stock, preferred stock, trust preferred securities or other Tier 1 capital instruments), capital redemptions or capital repurchases. Moreover, the federal banking agencies have adopted a joint agency policy statement, stating that the adequacy and effectiveness of a bank's interest rate risk management process and the level of its interest rate exposures are critical factors in the evaluation of the bank's capital adequacy. A bank with material weaknesses in its interest rate risk management process or high levels of interest rate exposure relative to its capital will be directed by the federal banking agencies to take corrective actions.



New Capital Rules

Under the new capital rules, CET1 is defined as common stock, plus related surplus, and retained earnings plus limited amounts of minority interest in the form of common stock, less the majority of the regulatory deductions.  The new capital rules, like the current capital rules, specify that total capital consists of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital.  Tier 1 capital for SVB Financial and the Bank consists of common stock, plus related surplus and retained earnings.  Tier 2 capital for SVB Financial









and the Bank currently includes the entire amount of our allowance for loan and lease losses (“ALLL”); however, the includable amount of ALLL could be limited in the future if the ALLL amount exceeds 1.25% of risk-weighted assets.

The new capital rules require a number of changes to regulatory capital deductions and adjustments, subject to a two-year transition period.  One such change relates to accumulated other comprehensive income.  Under current capital rules, the effects of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss items included in shareholders’ equity are reversed for the purposes of determining regulatory capital ratios.  Under the new capital rules, the effects of certain accumulated other comprehensive items are not excluded; however, non-advanced approaches banking organizations, including SVB Financial and the Bank, may make a one-time permanent election to continue to exclude these items.  Management is considering the merits of this opt-out provision  to reduce the impact of market volatility on its regulatory capital levels.

The new capital rules also include changes in the risk-weighting of assets to better reflect credit risk and other risk exposure and requires higher tangible common equity components of capital.  These include a 150% risk weight (up from 100%) for certain high volatility commercial real estate acquisition, development and construction loans and for non-residential mortgage loans that are 90 days past due or otherwise in nonaccrual status and a 20% (up from 0%) credit conversion factor for the unused portion of a commitment with an original maturity of one year or less that is not unconditionally cancellable (currently set at 0%).

Under the new capital rules, the minimum capital ratios as of January 1, 2015 will be as follows:



▪4.5% CET1 to risk-weighted assets

▪6.0% Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets

▪8.0% Total capital to risk-weighted assets

▪4% Tier 1 capital to average consolidated assets as reported on consolidated financial statements (known as the “leverage ratio”)

The new capital rules will require SVB Financial and the Bank to meet a capital conservation buffer requirement in order to avoid constraints on capital distributions, such as dividends and equity repurchases, and certain bonus compensation for executive officers.  To meet the requirement when it is fully phased in, the organization must maintain an amount of CET1 capital that exceeds the buffer level of 2.5% above each of the minimum risk-weighted asset ratios.  The requirement will be phased in over a four year period, starting January 1, 2016, when the amount of such capital must exceed the buffer level of 0.625%.  The buffer level will increase by 0.625% each year until it reaches 2.5% on January 1, 2019.  When the capital conservation buffer requirement is fully phased in, to avoid constraints, a banking organization must maintain the following capital ratios: (1) CET1 to risk-weighted assets more than 7.0%, (ii) Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets more than 8.5%, and (iii) total capital (Tier 1 plus Tier 2) to risk-weighted assets more than 10.5%.

With respect to the Bank, the new capital rules also revise the “prompt corrective action” regulations effective January 1, 2015, by (i) introducing a CET1 ratio requirement at each level (other than critically undercapitalized), with the required CET1 ratio being 6.5% for well-capitalized status; (ii) increasing the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio requirement for each category, with the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio for well-capitalized status being 8% (as compared to the current 6%); and (iii) eliminating the current provision that provides that a bank with a composite supervisory rating of 1 may have a 3% leverage ratio and still be adequately capitalized.  The new capital rules do not change the total risk-based capital requirement for any “prompt corrective action” category.    See “Prompt Corrective Action and Other General Enforcement Authority” below.

Although we continue to evaluate the impact that the new capital rules will have on SVB Financial and the Bank, we currently anticipate the Bank will remain well-capitalized under the new capital rules, and that SVB Financial and the Bank will meet the capital conservation buffer requirement.



Proprietary Trading and Certain Relationships with Hedge Funds and Private Equity Funds

The“Volcker Rule”under the Dodd-Frank Act restricts, among other things, a bank's proprietary trading activities and a bank's ability to sponsor or invest in certain funds, including hedge or private equity funds. On December 10, 2013, the federal banking regulatory agencies adopted final rules Implementing the Volcker Rule.  The final rules will become effective on April 1, 2014, and include a schedule for affected entities to bring their activities and investments into conformance with the prohibitions and restrictions of the Volcker Rule.

Subject to certain exceptions, the Volcker Rule prohibits a banking entity from engaging in“proprietary trading,”which is defined as engaging as principal for the“trading account”of the banking entity in securities or other instruments.  Certain forms of proprietary trading may qualify as“permitted activities,”and thus not be subject to the ban on proprietary trading, such as trading in U.S. government or agency obligations, or certain other U.S. state or municipal obligations, and the obligations of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae. Based on this definition and the exceptions provided under the recently-issued regulations, we do not believe that we engage in any proprietary trading that would be prohibited under the Volcker Rule.









Additionally, subject to certain exceptions, the rule prohibits a banking entity from sponsoring or investing in “covered funds,” which includes private equity or hedge funds.  One such exception permits a banking entity to sponsor and invest in a covered fund that it organizes on behalf of its customers, provided that additional requirements are met.  These investments, along with investments in covered funds that are not sponsored by the banking entity, are limited to three percent of each covered fund and in no case may the aggregate investments of a banking entity in all such funds comprise more than three percent of the institution's Tier 1 capital.

Under the final rules, the Volcker Rule prohibitions and restrictions will apply to SVB Financial, the Bank and any affiliate of SVB Financial or the Bank (including the SVB Capital funds).  SVB Financial maintains investments in certain venture capital and private equity funds that it did not organize; maintains investments in funds that exceed three percent of each such fund’s total commitments; and its aggregate investments in covered funds may exceed three percent of its Tier 1 capital.  SVB Financial (including its affiliates) expects, therefore, that it will be required to reduce the level of its investments in covered funds and to forego investment opportunities in certain funds in the future.  SVB Financial is generally required by the final rules to come into conformance with all these requirements by July 2015.  The time period to divest an investment that is not permitted by the final rule may be extended by the Federal Reserve Board, on a case-by-case basis, for up to two one-year extensions, and up to one additional five-year extension for investments that are considered illiquid.  We intend to seek the maximum extensions (up to July 2022) available to us.  However, there is no guaranty that the Federal Reserve Board will grant any of these extensions.

We currently estimate that our total venture capital and private equity fund investments deemed to be prohibited covered fund interests and therefore subject to the Volcker Rule restrictions, have, as of December 31, 2013, an aggregate carrying value of approximately $282 million (and an aggregate fair value of $348 million).  These covered fund interests are comprised of  interests attributable, solely, to the Company in our consolidated managed funds and certain of our non-marketable securities.

We continue to assess the financial impact of these rules on our fund investments, as well as the impact of other Volcker restrictions on other areas of our business.  (See “Risk Factors” under Item 1A of Part I above.)



Prompt Corrective Action and Other General Enforcement Authority

State and federal banking agencies possess broad powers to take corrective and other supervisory action against an insured bank and its holding company. Federal laws require each federal banking agency to take prompt corrective action to resolve the problems of insured banks.

Each federal banking agency has issued regulations defining five categories in which an insured depository institution will be placed, based on the level of its capital ratios: well-capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, and critically undercapitalized. At each successive lower capital category, an insured bank is subject to more restrictions, including restrictions on the bank's activities, operational practices or the ability to pay dividends. Based upon its capital levels, a bank that is classified as well-capitalized, adequately capitalized, or undercapitalized may be treated as though it were in the next lower capital category if the appropriate federal banking agency, after notice and opportunity for hearing, determines that an unsafe or unsound condition, or an unsafe or unsound practice, warrants such treatment.

In addition to measures taken under the prompt corrective action provisions, bank holding companies and insured banks may be subject to potential enforcement actions by the federal regulators for unsafe or unsound practices in conducting their business, or for violation of any law, rule, regulation, condition imposed in writing by the agency or term of a written agreement with the agency. In more serious cases, enforcement actions may include the appointment of a conservator or receiver for the bank; the issuance of a cease and desist order that can be judicially enforced; the termination of the bank's deposit insurance; the imposition of civil monetary penalties; the issuance of directives to increase capital; the issuance of formal and informal agreements; the issuance of removal and prohibition orders against officers, directors, and other institution-affiliated parties; and the enforcement of such actions through injunctions or restraining orders based upon a judicial determination that the agency would be harmed if such equitable relief was not granted.

The FDIC may terminate a depository institution's deposit insurance upon a finding that the institution's financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices that pose a risk to the DIF or that may prejudice the interest of a bank's depositors. The termination of deposit insurance for a bank would also result in the revocation of the Bank's charter by the DBO.



Safety and Soundness Guidelines

Banking regulatory agencies have adopted guidelines to assist in identifying and addressing potential safety and soundness concerns before capital becomes impaired. The guidelines establish operational and managerial standards generally relating to: (1) internal controls, information systems, and internal audit systems; (2) loan documentation; (3) credit underwriting; (4) interest-rate exposure; (5) asset growth and asset quality; and (6) compensation, fees and benefits. In addition, the banking regulatory agencies have adopted safety and soundness guidelines for asset quality and for evaluating and monitoring earnings to ensure that earnings are sufficient for the maintenance of adequate capital and reserves.









Restrictions on Dividends

Dividends from the Bank constitute one of the primary sources of cash for SVB Financial. The Bank is subject to various federal and state statutory and regulatory restrictions on its ability to pay dividends, including applicable provisions of the California Financial Code and the prompt corrective action regulations. In addition, the banking agencies have the authority to prohibit the Bank from paying dividends, depending upon the Bank's financial condition, if such payment is deemed to constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Furthermore, under the federal prompt corrective action regulations, the Federal Reserve Board may prohibit a bank holding company from paying any dividends if the holding company's bank subsidiary is classified as“undercapitalized.”

It is the Federal Reserve's policy that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of income available over the past year, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization's expected future needs and financial condition. It is also the Federal Reserve's policy that bank holding companies should not maintain dividend levels that undermine their ability to be a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries. Additionally, in consideration of the current financial and economic environment, the Federal Reserve has indicated that bank holding companies should carefully review their dividend policy and has discouraged payment ratios that are at maximum allowable levels unless both asset quality and capital are very strong.



Transactions with Affiliates

Transactions between the Bank and its operating subsidiaries (such as SVB Securities and SVB Asset Management) on the one hand, and the Bank's affiliates (such as SVB Financial, SVB Analytics, or an entity affiliated with SVB Capital) on the other, are subject to restrictions imposed by federal and state law, designed to protect the Bank and its subsidiaries from engaging in unfavorable behavior with their affiliates. The Dodd-Frank Act further extended the definition of an

“

affiliate

”

to include any investment fund to which the Bank or an affiliate serves as an investment adviser. More specifically, these restrictions, contained in the Federal Reserve's Regulation W, prevent SVB Financial and other affiliates from borrowing from, or entering into other credit transactions with, the Bank or its operating subsidiaries unless the loans or other credit transactions are secured by specified amounts of collateral. All loans and credit transactions and other

“

covered transactions

”

by the Bank and its operating subsidiaries with any one affiliate are limited, in the aggregate, to 10% of the Bank's capital and surplus; and all loans and credit transactions and other

“

covered transactions

”

by the Bank and its operating subsidiaries with all affiliates are limited, in the aggregate, to 20% of the Bank's capital and surplus. For this purpose, a

“

covered transaction

”

generally includes, among other things, a loan or extension of credit to an affiliate, including a purchase of assets subject to an agreement to repurchase; a purchase of or investment in securities issued by an affiliate; the acceptance of a security issued by an affiliate as collateral for an extension of credit to any borrower; the borrowing or lending of securities where the Bank has credit exposure to the affiliate; the acceptance of

“

other debt obligations

”

of an affiliate as collateral for a loan to a third party; any derivative transaction that causes the Bank to have credit exposure to an affiliate; and the issuance of a guarantee, acceptance, or letter of credit on behalf of an affiliate. After a transition period, the Dodd-Frank Act treats credit exposure from derivative transactions as a covered transaction.  It expands the transactions for which collateral is required to be maintained, and for all such transactions, it requires collateral to be maintained at all times.  In addition, the Volcker Rule under the Dodd-Frank Act establishes certain restrictions and requirements (known as

“

Super 23A

”

and

“

Super 23B

”

) on transactions between a covered fund and a banking entity that serves as an investment manager, investment adviser, organizer and offeror, or sponsor with respect to that covered fund, regardless whether the banking entity has an ownership interest in the fund.



Loans to Insiders

Extensions of credit by the Bank to insiders of both the Bank and SVB Financial are subject to prohibitions and other restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve's Regulation O. For purposes of these limits,“insiders”include directors, executive officers and principal stockholders of the Bank or SVB Financial and their related interests. The term“related interest”means a company controlled by a director, executive officer or principal stockholder of the Bank or SVB Financial. The Bank may not extend credit to an insider of the Bank or SVB Financial unless the loan is made on substantially the same terms as, and subject to credit underwriting procedures that are no less stringent than, those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with non-insiders. Under federal banking regulations, the Bank may not extend credit to insiders in an amount, when aggregated with all other extensions of credit, is greater than $500,000 without prior approval from the Bank’s Board of Directors approval (with any interested person abstaining from participating directly or indirectly in the voting). California law, the federal regulations and the Dodd-Frank Act place additional restrictions on loans to insiders, and generally prohibit loans to executive officers other than for certain specified purposes. The Bank is required to maintain records regarding insiders and extensions of credit to them.



Premiums for Deposit Insurance

The FDIC insures our customer deposits through the DIF up to prescribed limits for each depositor. In recent years, due to higher levels of bank failures, the FDIC's resolution costs increased, which depleted the DIF.   In order to restore the DIF to its









statutorily mandated minimum of 1.35% of total deposits, the FDIC has increased deposit insurance premium rates. The FDIC must seek to achieve the 1.35% ratio by September 30, 2020.  Insured institutions with assets of $10 billion or more, such as the Bank, are responsible for funding the increase.  The Bank bases its assessment rate on a risk-based scorecard calculation provided by the FDIC.  In addition, the FDIC retains the authority to further increase the Bank’s assessment rates and the FDIC has established a higher reserve ratio of 2% as a long-term goal which goes beyond what is required by statute.  Continued increases in our FDIC insurance premiums could have an adverse effect on the Bank’s results of operations.  In 2013, we paid $12.8 million in assessments to the FDIC.



Other Regulations

The Bank is subject to many federal consumer protection statutes and regulations, such as the CRA, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Truth in Lending Act,  the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, the National Flood Insurance Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, as amended by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transaction Act and various federal and state privacy protection laws.  In addition, the CFPB has the authority to conduct examinations for all depository institutions with total assets of $10 billion, which includes the Bank.  The CFPB’s mandate is to ensure that consumer financial practices at large banks, such as the Bank, confirm with consumer financial protection legal requirements.  The CFPB’s authority includes the ability to examine all subsidiaries and affiliates of the Bank as well.Penalties for violating these laws could subject the Bank to lawsuits and could also result in administrative penalties, including, fines and reimbursements and orders to halt expansion/existing activities.  The CFPB has broad authority to institute various enforcement actions, including investigations, civil actions, cease and desist proceedings and the ability to refer criminal findings to the Department of Justice.  The Bank and SVB Financial are also subject to federal and state laws prohibiting unfair, corrupt or fraudulent business practices, untrue or misleading advertising and unfair competition.

Regulations have also significantly expanded the anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws, including the Bank Secrecy Act. Material deficiencies in anti-money laundering compliance can result in public enforcement actions by the banking agencies, including the imposition of civil money penalties and supervisory restrictions on growth and expansion. Such enforcement actions could also have serious reputation consequences for SVB Financial and the Bank.

In recent years, examination and enforcement by the state and federal banking agencies for non-compliance with consumer protection laws and their implementing regulations have increased and become more intense. The advent of the CFPB further heightens oversight and review of compliance with consumer protection laws and regulations. Due to these heightened regulatory concerns and new powers and authority of the CFPB, the Bank and its affiliates may incur additional compliance costs or be required to expend additional funds for investments in their local community.



Regulation of Certain Subsidiaries

SVB Asset Management is registered with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and is subject to its rules and regulations.  SVB Securities is registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC and is subject to regulation by the SEC and FINRA. SVB Securities is also a member of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation. As a broker-dealer, it is subject to Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which is designed to measure the general financial condition and liquidity of a broker-dealer. Under this rule, SVB Securities is required to maintain the minimum net capital deemed necessary to meet its continuing commitments to customers and others. Under certain circumstances, this rule could limit the ability of the Bank to withdraw capital from SVB Securities. In addition, following completion ofvarious studies on investment advisers and broker-dealers required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC has, among other things, recommended to Congress that it consider various means to enhance the SEC's examination authority over investment advisers, which may have an impact on SVB Asset Management that we cannot currently assess.



International Regulation

Our international-based subsidiaries and global activities, including our banking branch in the United Kingdom, our joint venture bank in China and our non-bank financial company in India, are subject to the respective laws and regulations of those countries and the regions in which they operate. This includes laws and regulations promulgated by, but not limited to, the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority in the United Kingdom, the China Banking Regulatory Commission, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and the Reserve Bank of India.



Available Information

We make available free of charge through our Internet website, http://www.svb.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The contents of our website are not incorporated herein by reference and the website address provided is intended to be an inactive textual reference only.











