ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

SVB Financial Group is a diversified financial services company, as well as a bank holding company and financial holding company. The
Company was incorporated in the state of Delaware in March 1999. Through our various subsidiaries and divisions, we offer a variety of banking and financial products and services. For over 25 years, we have been dedicated to helping
entrepreneurs succeed, especially in the technology, life science, venture capital/private equity and premium wine industries. We provide our clients of all sizes and stages with a diverse set of products and services to support them throughout
their life cycles.

We offer commercial banking products and services through our principal subsidiary, Silicon Valley Bank
(the “Bank”), which is a California state-chartered bank founded in 1983 and a member of the Federal Reserve System. Through its subsidiaries, the Bank also offers brokerage, investment advisory and asset management services. We also offer
non-banking products and services, such as funds management, private equity investment and equity valuation services, through our subsidiaries and divisions. Additionally, we focus on cultivating strong relationships with firms within the venture
capital and private equity community worldwide, many of which are also our clients and may invest in our corporate clients.

As of December 31, 2009, we had total assets of $12.8 billion, total loans, net of unearned income of $4.5 billion, total deposits of $10.3 billion and total SVBFG stockholders’ equity of $1.1 billion.

We operate through 27 offices in the United States, as well as offices internationally in China, India, Israel and the United Kingdom. Our
corporate headquarters is located at 3003 Tasman Drive, Santa Clara, California 95054, and our telephone number is 408.654.7400.

When we refer to “SVB Financial Group,” “SVBFG”, the “Company”, “we”, “our”, “us” or use similar words, we mean SVB Financial Group and all of its subsidiaries collectively,
including the Bank. When we refer to “SVB Financial” or the “Parent” we are referring only to the parent company, SVB Financial Group.

Business Overview

For reporting purposes, SVB Financial Group has four
operating segments for which we report financial information in this report: Global Commercial Bank, Relationship Management, SVB Capital and Other Business Services. Financial information, results of operations and a description of the services
provided by our operating segments are set forth in Note 21—“Segment Reporting” of the “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” under Part II, Item 8 in this report, and in “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Operating Segment Results” under Part II, Item 7 in this report.

In July 2007, we reached a decision to cease operations at SVB Alliant, our investment banking subsidiary, which provided advisory services in the areas of mergers and acquisitions, corporate finance,
strategic alliances and private placements. After completion of the remaining client transactions, operations at SVB Alliant were ceased as of March 31, 2008. Accordingly, SVB Alliant was no longer reported as an operating segment as of the
second quarter of 2008. We have not presented the results of operations of SVB Alliant in discontinued operations for any period presented based on our assessment of the immateriality of SVB Alliant’s results to our consolidated results of
operations.

Global Commercial Bank

Our Global Commercial Bank products and services are provided by the Bank and its subsidiaries. The Bank provides solutions to the financial needs of commercial clients through lending, deposit products,
cash







management services, and global banking and trade products and services. It also serves the needs of our non-U.S. clients with global banking products, including loans, deposits and/or global
finance, in key international entrepreneurial markets, where applicable.

Through lending products and services, the Bank
extends loans and other credit facilities to commercial clients. These loans are often secured by clients’ assets. Lending products and services include traditional term loans, equipment loans, asset-based loans, revolving lines of credit,
accounts-receivable-based lines of credits and capital call lines of credits.

The Bank’s deposit and cash management
products and services provide commercial clients with short- and long-term cash management solutions. Deposit products include traditional deposit and checking accounts, certificates of deposit, money market accounts and sweep accounts. In
connection with deposit services, the Bank provides lockbox and merchant services that facilitate timely depositing of checks and other payments to clients’ accounts. Cash management products and services include wire transfer and automated
clearing house (“ACH”) payment services to enable clients to transfer funds quickly from their deposit accounts. Additionally, the cash management services unit provides collection services, disbursement services, electronic funds
transfers, and online banking through SVBeConnect.

The Bank’s global banking and trade products and services facilitate
clients’ global finance and business needs. These products and services include foreign exchange services that allow commercial clients to manage their foreign currency needs and risks through the purchase and sale of currencies, swaps and
hedges on the global inter-bank market. To facilitate clients’ international trade, the Bank offers a variety of loans and credit facilities guaranteed by the Export-Import Bank of the United States. It also offers letters of credit, including
export, import, and standby letters of credit, to enable clients to ship and receive goods globally.

The Bank and its
subsidiaries offer a variety of investment services and solutions to its clients that enable companies to effectively manage their assets. Through its broker-dealer subsidiary, SVB Securities, the Bank offers money market mutual funds and
fixed-income securities. Through its registered investment advisory subsidiary, SVB Asset Management, the Bank offers investment advisory services, including outsourced treasury services, with customized cash portfolio management and reporting.

Relationship Management

Relationship Management provides banking products and services through the Bank to our premium wine industry clients, including vineyard development loans, as well as a range of private banking services
to targeted high-net-worth individuals.

SVB Wine is a division of the Bank that provides banking products and services to our
premium wine industry clients, including vineyard development loans. We offer a variety of financial solutions focused specifically on the needs of our clients’ premium wineries and vineyards.

SVB Private Client Services is the private banking division of the Bank, which provides a range of credit services to targeted
high-net-worth individuals using both long-term secured and short-term unsecured lines of credit. These products and services include mortgages, home equity lines of credit, restricted stock purchase loans, airplane loans, capital call lines of
credit, and other secured and unsecured lines of credit. We also help our private clients meet their cash management needs by providing deposit account products and services, including checking accounts, money market accounts and certificates of
deposit, and other personalized banking services.

SVB Capital

SVB Capital is the private equity arm of SVB Financial Group, which focuses primarily on funds management. SVB Capital manages venture
capital and private equity funds on behalf of SVB Financial Group







and other third party limited partners. The SVB Capital family of funds is comprised of funds of funds and co-investment funds. SVB Capital generates income for the Company primarily through
management fees, carried interest arrangements and returns through the Company’s direct investments in the funds. Most of the SVB Capital managed funds are consolidated into our financial statements. See Note 2—“Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies” of the “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” under Part II, Item 8 in this report.

Other Business Services

The Other Business Services segment is primarily comprised of our Sponsored
Debt Funds & Strategic Investments segment, which is comprised of: (i) our sponsored debt funds, Gold Hill Venture Lending funds, which provide secured debt to private companies of all stages, and Partners for Growth funds, which
provide secured debt primarily to mid-stage and late-stage clients, and (ii) certain strategic investments held by SVB Financial. Other Business Services also includes the results of SVB Analytics, which provides equity valuation and equity
management services to private companies and venture capital firms.

Our Sponsored Debt Funds & Strategic Investments
segment and SVB Analytics do not individually meet the separate reporting thresholds as defined in Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 280 (formerly known as SFAS No. 131) and, as a result, we have aggregated them together as
Other Business Services for segment reporting purposes. Previously, our global operations (SVB Global) were aggregated as a part of our Other Business Services segment, but is now included in our Global Commercial Bank segment. The operations of SVB
Wine and SVB Private Client Services were previously aggregated as part of our Other Business Services segment, but is now included in our Relationship Management segment. In addition, our sponsored debt funds and certain strategic investments held
by SVB Financial were previously included in our SVB Capital segment, but are now included in our Other Business Services segment.

Income
Sources

Our total revenue is comprised of our net interest income and noninterest income. Net interest income on a fully
taxable equivalent basis and noninterest income for the year ended December 31, 2009 were $384.4 million and $97.7 million, respectively.

Net interest income is primarily income generated from interest rate differentials. The difference between the interest rates received on interest-earning assets, such as loans extended to clients and
securities held in our investment portfolio, and the interest rates paid by us on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings, accounts for the major portion of our earnings. Our deposits are largely obtained from commercial
clients within our technology, life science, venture capital and private equity industry sectors. Deposits are also obtained from the premium wine industry commercial clients and from high-net-worth individuals. We do not obtain deposits from
conventional retail sources.

Noninterest income is primarily income generated from our fee-based services and returns on our
investments. We market our full range of fee-based financial services to our commercial and venture capital/private equity firm clients, including global commercial banking, private client, investment advisory, asset management and equity valuation
services. Our ability to integrate and cross-sell our diverse financial services to our clients is a strength of our business model.

We also seek to obtain returns by making investments. We manage and invest in venture capital/private equity funds that generally invest directly in privately held companies, as well as funds that invest in other private equity funds. We
also invest directly in privately held companies. Additionally, in connection with negotiating credit facilities and certain other services, we frequently obtain rights to acquire stock in the form of equity warrant assets in certain client
companies.







Industry Niches

In each of the industry niches we serve, we provide services to meet the needs of our clients throughout their life cycles, beginning with the emerging, start-up stage.

Technology and Life Sciences

We serve a variety of clients in the technology and life science industries. Our technology clients generally tend to be in the industries of hardware (semiconductors, communications and electronics), software and related services, and
cleantech. Our life science clients generally tend to be in the industries of biotechnology and medical devices. A key component of our technology and life science business strategy is to develop relationships with clients at an early stage and
offer them banking services that will continue to meet their needs as they mature and expand. We serve the following technology and life science clients primarily through three practices:



•OurSVB Acceleratorpractice focuses on serving our “emerging” or “early stage” clients. These clients are generally in the
start-up or early stages of their life cycles. They are typically privately-held and funded by friends and family, “seed” or “angel” investors, or have gone through an initial round of venture capital financing. Typically, they
are primarily engaged in the research and development, have little or no revenue and may have brought a few products or services to market.

•OurSVB Growthpractice serves our growing companies, which includes our “mid-stage,” “late-stage” and “corporate
technology” clients. These clients are in the intermediate or later stages of their life cycles and are generally privately held, many of which are dependent on venture capital for funding. Some of our “corporate technology” clients
that are in the more advanced stages of their life cycles may be publicly held or poised to become publicly held. Our SVB Growth clients may generally have a solid or more established product or service offering in the market, with more meaningful
or considerable revenue. They also may be expanding globally.

•OurSVB Corporate Financepractice serves primarily our “large corporate” clients, which are more mature and established companies.
These clients are generally publicly-held, have a more sophisticated product or service offering in the market, and significant revenue. They also may be expanding globally.

Venture Capital/Private Equity

We provide financial services to clients in the venture capital/private equity community. Since our founding, we have cultivated strong relationships with the venture capital/private equity community, particularly with venture capital firms
worldwide, many of which are also clients. We serve more than 600 venture capital firms worldwide, as well as other private equity firms, facilitating deal flow to and from these private equity firms and participating in direct investments in their
portfolio companies. Unless the context requires otherwise, when we refer to our “private equity” clients, we mean our clients in the venture capital/private equity community.

Premium Wine

We are one of the leading providers of financial services to
premium wine producers in the Western United States, with almost 300 winery and vineyard clients. We focus on vineyards and wineries that produce grapes and wines of high quality.

Competition

The banking and financial services industry is highly
competitive, and evolves as a result of changes in regulation, technology, product delivery systems, and the general market and economic climate. Our current competitors include other banks, debt funds and specialty and diversified financial
services companies that offer







lending, leasing, other financial products, and advisory services to our target client base. The principal competitive factors in our markets include product offerings, service, and pricing.
Given our established market position with the client segments that we serve, and our ability to integrate and cross-sell our diverse financial services to extend the length of our relationships with our clients, we believe we compete favorably in
all our markets in these areas.

Employees

As of December 31, 2009, we employed 1,258 full-time equivalent employees.

Supervision
and Regulation

Recent Developments

In response to the recent economic downturn and financial industry instability, legislative and other governmental initiatives have been, and will likely continue to be, introduced and implemented, which
could substantially intensify the regulation of the financial services industry (including a possible comprehensive overhaul of the financial institutions regulatory system and enhanced supervisory attention and potential new limitations on
compensation arrangements with executives and employees of financial institutions). SVB Financial cannot predict whether or when potential legislation or regulations will be enacted, and if enacted, the effect that it, or any implemented regulations
and supervisory policies, would have on our financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, especially in the current economic environment, bank regulatory agencies have been very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in
examinations, and this has resulted in the increased issuance of enforcement orders to other financial institutions requiring action to address credit quality, liquidity and risk management and capital adequacy, as well as other safety and soundness
concerns. See “Risks Relating to Market and Economic Environment” in the “Risk Factors” section under Item 1A of Part I of this report.

General

Our bank and holding company operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state regulatory agencies. This regulation is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the deposit
insurance fund, and secondarily for the stability of the U.S. banking system. It is not intended for the benefit of stockholders of financial institutions. As a bank holding company that elected to become a financial holding company in November
2000, SVB Financial is subject to inspection, supervision, regulation, and examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve Board”) under the Bank Holding Company







Act of 1956 (the “BHC Act”). The Bank, as a California state-chartered bank and a member of the Federal Reserve System, is subject to primary supervision and examination by the Federal
Reserve Board, as well as the California Department of Financial Institutions (the “DFI”). In addition, the Bank’s deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”). SVB Financial’s other
nonbank subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve Board and other applicable federal, state and foreign regulatory agencies. SVB Financial, the Bank and their subsidiaries are required to file periodic reports with these
regulators and provide any additional information that they may require.

The following summary describes some of the more
significant laws, regulations, and policies that affect our operations; it is not intended to be a complete listing of all laws that apply to us and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the applicable laws and regulations. From time to time,
federal, state and foreign legislation is enacted and regulations are adopted which may have the effect of materially increasing the cost of doing business, limiting or expanding permissible activities, or affecting the competitive balance between
banks and other financial services providers. We cannot predict whether or when potential legislation or regulations will be enacted, and if enacted, the effect that such legislation or regulations would have on our financial condition or results of
operations.

Regulation of Holding Company

Under the BHC Act, SVB Financial is subject to the Federal Reserve’s regulations and its authority to:



•Require periodic reports and such additional information as the Federal Reserve may require;

•Require SVB Financial to maintain certain levels of capital (See “Regulatory Capital” below);

•Restrict the ability of bank holding companies to obtain dividends or other distributions from their subsidiary banks;

•Require prior approval for senior executive officer and director changes;

•Require that bank holding companies serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to subsidiary banks and commit resources as necessary to
support each subsidiary bank. A bank holding company’s failure to meet its obligations to serve as a source of strength to its subsidiary banks will generally be considered by the Federal Reserve to be an unsafe and unsound banking practice or
a violation of Federal Reserve regulations or both;

•Terminate an activity or terminate control of or liquidate or divest certain subsidiaries, affiliates or investments if the Federal Reserve believes
the activity or the control of the subsidiary or affiliate constitutes a significant risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of any bank subsidiary;

•Regulate provisions of certain bank holding company debt, including the authority to impose interest ceilings and reserve requirements on such debt and
require prior approval to purchase or redeem our securities in certain situations;

•Approve acquisitions and mergers with banks and consider certain competitive, management, financial and other factors in granting these approvals.
Similar California and other state banking agency approvals may also be required.

Bank holding companies
are generally prohibited, except in certain statutorily prescribed instances including exceptions for financial holding companies, from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the outstanding voting shares of any company
that is not a bank or bank holding company and from engaging directly or indirectly in activities other than those of banking, managing or controlling banks, or furnishing services to its subsidiaries. However, subject to prior notice or Federal
Reserve Board approval, bank holding companies may engage in, or acquire shares of companies engaged in, activities determined by the Federal Reserve Board to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper
incident thereto. SVB Financial may engage in these nonbanking activities and broader securities, insurance, merchant banking and other activities that are determined to be “financial in nature” or are incidental or complementary to
activities that are financial in nature without prior Federal Reserve approval pursuant to our election to become a financial holding company in November, 2000. Pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of







1999 (“GLBA”), in order to elect and retain financial holding company status, all depository institution subsidiaries of a bank holding company must be well capitalized, well managed,
and, except in limited circumstances, be in satisfactory compliance with the Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”). Failure to sustain compliance with these requirements or correct any non-compliance within a fixed time period could lead to
divestiture of subsidiary banks or require all activities to conform to those permissible for a bank holding company.

SVB
Financial is also treated as a bank holding company under the California Financial Code. As such, SVB Financial and its subsidiaries are subject to periodic examination by, and may be required to file reports with, the DFI.

Securities Registration and Listing

SVB Financial’s securities are registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and
listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. As such, SVB Financial is subject to the information, proxy solicitation, insider trading, corporate governance, and other requirements and restrictions of the Exchange Act, as well as the Marketplace Rules
and other requirements promulgated by the Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc.

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act

SVB Financial is subject to the accounting oversight and corporate governance requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including,
among other things, required executive certification of financial presentations, increased requirements for board audit committees and their members, and enhanced disclosure of controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting.

Regulation of Silicon Valley Bank



•Require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice;

•Require prior approval for senior executive officer and director changes;

•Direct an increase in capital and the maintenance of specific minimum capital ratios which may preclude the Bank from being deemed well capitalized;

•Restrict the Bank’s growth geographically, by products and services, or by mergers and acquisitions;

•Enter into informal or formal enforcement orders, including memoranda of understanding, written agreements and consent or cease and desist orders to
take corrective action and enjoin unsafe and unsound practices;







•Remove officers and directors and assess civil monetary penalties; and

•Take possession of and close and liquidate the Bank.

California law permits state chartered commercial banks to engage in any activity permissible for national banks. Therefore, the Bank may form subsidiaries to engage in the many so-called “closely
related to banking” or “nonbanking” activities commonly conducted by national banks in operating subsidiaries, and further, pursuant to GLBA, the Bank may conduct certain “financial” activities in a subsidiary to the same
extent as may a national bank, provided the Bank is and remains “well-capitalized,” “well-managed” and in satisfactory compliance with the CRA. SVB Asset Management and SVB Securities are financial subsidiaries of the Bank.

Federal Home Loan Bank System

The Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of San Francisco. Among other benefits, each FHLB serves as a reserve or central bank for its members within its assigned region and
makes available loans or advances to its members. Each FHLB is financed primarily from the sale of consolidated obligations of the FHLB system. As an FHLB member, the Bank is required to own a certain amount of capital stock in the FHLB. At
December 31, 2009, the Bank was in compliance with the FHLB’s stock ownership requirement and our investment in FHLB capital stock totaled $25.8 million.

Regulatory Capital

The federal banking agencies have adopted risk-based
capital guidelines for bank holding companies and banks that are expected to provide a measure of capital that reflects the degree of risk associated with a banking organization’s operations for both transactions reported on the balance sheet
as assets, such as loans, and those recorded as off-balance sheet items, such as commitments, letters of credit and recourse arrangements. Under these capital guidelines, banking organizations are required to maintain certain minimum capital ratios,
which are obtained by dividing its qualifying capital by its total risk-adjusted assets and off-balance sheet items. In general, the dollar amounts of assets and certain off-balance sheet items are “risk-adjusted” and assigned to various
risk categories. Qualifying capital is classified depending on the type of capital:



•“Tier 1 capital” consists of common equity, retained earnings, qualifying non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, a limited amount of
qualifying cumulative perpetual preferred stock and minority interests in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries (including trust-preferred securities), less goodwill and certain other intangible assets. Qualifying Tier 1 capital may
consist of trust-preferred securities, subject to certain criteria and quantitative limits for inclusion of restricted core capital elements in Tier 1 capital.

•“Tier 2 capital” includes, among other things, hybrid capital instruments, perpetual debt, mandatory convertible debt securities, qualifying
term subordinated debt, preferred stock that does not qualify as Tier 1 capital, and a limited amount of allowance for loan and lease losses.

•“Tier 3 capital” consists of qualifying unsecured subordinated debt.

Under the capital guidelines, there are three fundamental capital ratios: a total risk-based capital ratio, a Tier 1 risk-based capital
ratio and a Tier 1 leverage ratio. The minimum required ratios for bank holding companies and banks are eight percent, four percent and four percent, respectively. Additionally, for SVB Financial to remain a financial holding company, the Bank
must at all times be “well-capitalized,” which requires the Bank to have a total risk-based capital ratio, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least ten percent, six percent and five percent, respectively.
Moreover, although not a requirement to maintain financial holding company status, maintaining the financial holding company at “well-capitalized” status provides certain benefits to the company, such as the ability to repurchase stock
without prior regulatory approval. To be “well-capitalized,” the holding company must at all times have a total risk-based and Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least ten percent and six percent, respectively. There is no Tier 1
leverage requirement for a holding company to be deemed well-capitalized. At December 31, 2009, the respective capital ratios of







SVB Financial and the Bank exceeded these minimum percentage requirements for “well-capitalized” institutions. See Note 20—“Regulatory Matters” of the “Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements” under Part II, Item 8 in this report. The federal banking agencies may change existing capital guidelines or adopt new capital guidelines in the future.

SVB Financial is also subject to rules that govern the regulatory capital treatment of equity investments in non-financial companies made on
or after March 13, 2000 and held under certain specified legal authorities by a bank or bank holding company. Under the rules, these equity investments will be subject to a separate capital charge that will reduce a bank holding company’s
Tier 1 capital and, as a result, will remove these assets from being taken into consideration in establishing a bank holding company’s required capital ratios discussed above. The rules provide for the following incremental Tier 1 capital
charges: 8% of the adjusted carrying value of the portion of aggregate investments that are up to 15% of Tier 1 capital; 12% of the adjusted carrying value of the portion of aggregate investments that are between 15% and 25% of Tier 1 capital; and
25% of the adjusted carrying value of the portion of aggregate investments that exceed 25% of Tier 1 capital.

Further, the
federal banking agencies have also adopted a joint agency policy statement, which states that the adequacy and effectiveness of a bank’s interest rate risk management process and the level of its interest rate exposures are critical factors in
the evaluation of the bank’s capital adequacy. A bank with material weaknesses in its interest rate risk management process or high levels of interest rate exposure relative to its capital will be directed by the federal banking agencies to
take corrective actions.

Basel and Basel II Accords

The current risk-based capital guidelines which apply to SVB Financial and the Bank are based upon the 1988 capital accord of the International Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, a committee of
central banks and bank supervisors and regulators from the major industrialized countries that develops broad policy guidelines for use by each country’s supervisors in determining the supervisory policies they apply. A new international
accord, referred to as Basel II, became mandatory for large or “core” international banks outside the U.S. in 2008 (total assets of $250 billion or more or consolidated foreign exposures of $10 billion or more). Basel II emphasizes
internal assessment of credit, market and operational risk, as well as supervisory assessment and market discipline in determining minimum capital requirements. It is optional for other banks. The Basel Committee is currently reconsidering
regulatory-capital standards, supervisory and risk-management requirements and additional disclosures to further strengthen the Basel II framework in response to recent worldwide developments. It is expected that the Basel Committee may reinstitute
a minimum leverage ratio requirement.

The U.S. banking agencies have indicated that they will retain the minimum leverage
requirement for all U.S. banks, yet it is also possible that higher percentages may be required for each capital category and that a new tangible common equity ratio standard may be added.

Prompt Correction Action and Other General Enforcement Authority

State and federal banking agencies possess broad powers to take corrective and other supervisory action against an insured bank and its holding company. Federal laws require each federal banking agency to
take prompt corrective action to resolve the problems of insured banks.

Each federal banking agency has issued regulations
defining five categories in which an insured depository institution will be placed, based on the level of its capital ratios: well-capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, and critically
undercapitalized. Based upon its capital levels, a bank that is classified as well-capitalized, adequately capitalized, or undercapitalized may be treated as though it were in the next lower capital category if the appropriate federal banking
agency, after notice and opportunity for hearing, determines that an unsafe or unsound condition, or an unsafe or unsound practice, warrants such







treatment. At each successive lower-capital category, an insured bank is subject to more restrictions, including restrictions on the bank’s activities, operational practices or the ability
to pay dividends.

In addition to measures taken under the prompt corrective action provisions, bank holding companies and
insured banks may be subject to potential enforcement actions by the federal regulators for unsafe or unsound practices in conducting their business, or for violation of any law, rule, regulation, condition imposed in writing by the agency or term
of a written agreement with the agency. In more serious cases, enforcement actions may include the appointment of a conservator or receiver for the bank; the issuance of a cease and desist order that can be judicially enforced; the termination of
the bank’s deposit insurance; the imposition of civil monetary penalties; the issuance of directives to increase capital; the issuance of formal and informal agreements; the issuance of removal and prohibition orders against officers,
directors, and other institution-affiliated parties; and the enforcement of such actions through injunctions or restraining orders based upon a judicial determination that the agency would be harmed if such equitable relief was not granted.

Safety and Soundness Guidelines

Banking regulatory agencies have adopted guidelines to assist in identifying and addressing potential safety and soundness concerns before capital becomes impaired. The guidelines establish operational
and managerial standards generally relating to: (1) internal controls, information systems, and internal audit systems; (2) loan documentation; (3) credit underwriting; (4) interest-rate exposure; (5) asset growth and asset
quality; and (6) compensation, fees, and benefits. In addition, the banking regulatory agencies have adopted safety and soundness guidelines for asset quality and for evaluating and monitoring earnings to ensure that earnings are sufficient for
the maintenance of adequate capital and reserves.

Restrictions on Dividends

Dividends from the Bank constitute a primary source of cash for SVB Financial. The Bank is subject to various federal and state statutory
and regulatory restrictions on its ability to pay dividends, including the prompt corrective action regulations. In addition, the banking agencies have the authority to prohibit the Bank from paying dividends, depending upon the Bank’s
financial condition, if such payment is deemed to constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Furthermore, under the federal prompt corrective action regulations, the Federal Reserve Board may prohibit a bank holding company from paying any dividends
if the holding company’s bank subsidiary is classified as “undercapitalized.”

It is the Federal Reserve’s
policy that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of income available over the past year, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and
financial condition. It is also the Federal Reserve’s policy that bank holding companies should not maintain dividend levels that undermine their ability to be a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries. Additionally, in consideration of
the current financial and economic environment, the Federal Reserve has indicated that bank holding companies should carefully review their dividend policy and has discouraged payment ratios that are at maximum allowable levels unless both asset
quality and capital are very strong.

Transactions with Affiliates

Transactions between the Bank and its operating subsidiaries (such as SVB Securities or SVB Asset Management) on the one hand, and the
Bank’s affiliates (such as SVB Financial, SVB Analytics, or an entity affiliated with SVB Capital) are subject to restrictions imposed by federal and state law, designed to protect the Bank and its subsidiaries from engaging in unfavorable
behavior with their affiliates. More specifically, these restrictions, contained in Federal Reserve Board Regulation W, prevent SVB Financial and other affiliates from borrowing from, or entering into other credit transactions with, the Bank or its
operating subsidiaries unless the loans or other credit transactions are secured by specified amounts of collateral. All loans and credit transactions and other “covered transactions” by the Bank and its operating subsidiaries with any one
affiliate are limited, in the aggregate, to 10% of the Bank’s capital and surplus; and all loans and credit transactions and other “covered







transactions” by the Bank and its operating subsidiaries with all affiliates are limited, in the aggregate, to 20% of the Bank’s capital and surplus. For this purpose, a “covered
transaction” generally includes, among other things, a loan or extension of credit to an affiliate; a purchase of or investment in securities issued by an affiliate; a purchase of assets from an affiliate; the acceptance of a security issued by
an affiliate as collateral for an extension of credit to any borrower; and the issuance of a guarantee, acceptance, or letter of credit on behalf of an affiliate. In addition, the Bank and its operating subsidiaries generally may not purchase a
low-quality asset from an affiliate. Moreover, covered transactions and other specified transactions by the Bank and its operating subsidiaries with an affiliate must be on terms and conditions, including credit standards, that are substantially the
same, or at least as favorable to the Bank or its subsidiaries, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with nonaffiliated companies. An entity that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of the Bank would not be considered to be an
“affiliate” of the Bank or its operating subsidiaries for these purposes unless it fell into one of certain categories, such as a “financial subsidiary” authorized under the GLBA.

Loans to Insiders

Extensions of credit by the Bank to insiders of both the Bank and SVB Financial are subject to prohibitions and other restrictions imposed by federal regulations. For purposes of these limits, “insiders” include directors,
executive officers and principal shareholders of the Bank or SVB Financial and their related interests. The term “related interest” means a company controlled by a director, executive officer or principal shareholder of the Bank or SVB
Financial. The Bank may not extend credit to an insider of the Bank or SVB Financial unless the loan is made on substantially the same terms as, and subject to credit underwriting procedures that are no less stringent than, those prevailing at the
time for comparable transactions with non-insiders. Under federal banking regulations, the Bank may not extend a loan to insiders in an amount greater than $500,000 without prior board approval (with any interested person abstaining from
participating directly or indirectly in the voting). The federal regulations place additional restrictions on loans to executive officers, and generally prohibit loans to executive officers other than for certain specified purposes. The Bank is
required to maintain records regarding insiders and extensions of credit to them.

Premiums for Deposit Insurance







The FDIC implemented two temporary programs under the Temporary Liquidity Guaranty Program
(“TLGP”) to provide deposit insurance for the full amount of most noninterest-bearing transaction accounts through June 30, 2010 and to guarantee certain unsecured debt of financial institutions and their holding companies through
June 2012. The Bank is participating in the deposit insurance program. On October 20, 2009, the FDIC established a limited, six-month emergency guarantee facility whereby, certain participating entities, including the Bank, can apply to the
FDIC for permission to issue FDIC-guaranteed debt during the period starting October 31, 2009 through April 30, 2010. The FDIC charges “systemic risk special assessments” to depository institutions that participate in the TLGP.
The FDIC has recently proposed that Congress give the FDIC expanded authority to charge fees to the holding companies which benefit directly and indirectly from the FDIC guarantees. As of December 31, 2009, the Bank has not issued FDIC-guaranteed
debt under the TLGP.

We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC
insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures or if the FDIC otherwise determines, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. These announced increases and any future increases
in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material and adverse affect on our earnings.

All FDIC-insured institutions are required
to pay assessments to the FDIC to fund interest payments on bonds issued by the Financing Corporation (“FICO”), an agency of the Federal government established to recapitalize the predecessor to the DIF. The FICO assessment rates, which
are determined quarterly, averaged 0.0113% of insured deposits in fiscal 2008. These assessments will continue until the FICO bonds mature in 2017.

The FDIC may terminate a depository institution’s deposit insurance upon a finding that the institution’s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe
or unsound practices that pose a risk to the DIF or that may prejudice the interest of the bank’s depositors. The termination of deposit insurance for a bank would also result in the revocation of the bank’s charter by the DFI.

USA PATRIOT Act of 2001

The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 and its implementing regulations significantly expanded the anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws, including the Bank Secrecy Act. The Bank has adopted
comprehensive policies and procedures to address the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act. Material deficiencies in anti-money laundering compliance can result in public enforcement actions by the banking agencies, including the imposition of civil
money penalties and supervisory restrictions on growth and expansion. Such enforcement actions could also have serious reputation consequences for SVB Financial and the Bank.

Consumer Protection Laws and Regulations

The Bank is subject to many
federal consumer protection statutes and regulations, such as the Community Reinvestment Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the National Flood Insurance Act and various federal and state privacy protection laws.
Penalties for violating these laws could subject the Bank to lawsuits and could also result in administrative penalties, including, fines and reimbursements. The Bank and SVB Financial are also subject to federal and state laws prohibiting unfair or
fraudulent business practices, untrue or misleading advertising and unfair competition.

In recent years, examination and
enforcement by the state and federal banking agencies for non-compliance with consumer protection laws and their implementing regulations have become more intense. Due to these heightened regulatory concerns, the Bank may incur additional compliance
costs or be required to expend additional funds for investments in its local community.







Securities Activities

Federal Reserve’s Regulation R implements exceptions provided in the GLBA for securities activities which banks may conduct without registering with the SEC as securities broker or moving such
activities to a broker-dealer affiliate. Regulation R provides exceptions for networking arrangements with third-party broker-dealers and authorizes compensation for bank employees who refer and assist institutional and high net worth bank customers
with their securities, including sweep accounts to money market funds, and with related trust, fiduciary, custodial and safekeeping needs. The current securities activities which the Bank and its subsidiaries provide customers are conducted in
conformance with these rules and regulations.

Regulation of Certain Subsidiaries

SVB Asset Management is registered with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and is subject to its rules and
regulations. SVB Securities is registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC and is subject to regulation by the SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”). SVB Securities is also a member of the Securities Investor
Protection Corporation. As a broker-dealer, it is subject to Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which is designed to measure the general financial condition and liquidity of a broker-dealer. Under this rule, SVB
Securities is required to maintain the minimum net capital deemed necessary to meet its continuing commitments to customers and others. Under certain circumstances, this rule could limit the ability of the Bank to withdraw capital from SVB
Securities.

Additionally, our international-based subsidiaries are also subject to international laws and regulations, such
as those promulgated by the Financial Services Authority in the United Kingdom, the Reserve Bank of India and the China Banking Regulatory Commission.

Available Information

We make available free of charge through our Internet website,http://www.svb.com,our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The contents of our website are not incorporated herein by reference and the website address provided is intended to be an
inactive textual reference only.



