ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

SVB Financial Group ("SVB Financial") is a diversified financial services company, as well as a bank holding company and a financial holding company. SVB Financial was incorporated in the state of Delaware in March 1999. Through our various subsidiaries and divisions, we offer a diverse set of banking and financial products and services to clients across the United States, as well as in key international innovation markets. For more than 35 years, we have been dedicated to helping support entrepreneurs and clients of all sizes and stages throughout their life cycles, primarily in the technology, life science/healthcare, private equity/venture capital and premium wine industries.

We offer commercial and private banking products and services through our principal subsidiary, Silicon Valley Bank (the “Bank”), which is a California state-chartered bank founded in 1983 and a member of the Federal Reserve System. The Bank and its subsidiaries also offer asset management, private wealth management and other investment services. In addition, through SVB Financial's other subsidiaries and divisions, we offer investment banking services and non-banking products and services, such as funds management, M&A advisory services, venture capital and private equity investment. In addition, we focus on cultivating strong relationships with firms within the private equity and venture capital community worldwide, many of which are also our clients and may invest in our corporate clients.

As ofDecember 31, 2018, on a consolidated basis, we had total assets of$56.9 billion, total investment securities of$24.2 billion, total loans, net of unearned income, of$28.3 billion, total deposits of$49.3 billionand total SVB Financial stockholders' equity of$5.1 billion.

Headquartered in Santa Clara, CA, we operate in key innovation markets in the United States and around the world. Our corporate office is located at 3003 Tasman Drive, Santa Clara, California 95054, and our telephone number is (408) 654-7400.

When we refer to “SVB Financial Group,”"SVBFG,"the “Company,” “we,” “our,” “us” or use similar words, we mean SVB Financial Group and all of its subsidiaries collectively, including the Bank. When we refer to “SVB Financial” or the “Parent” we are referring only to our parent company entity, SVB Financial Group (not including subsidiaries).

Business Overview

For reporting purposes, SVB Financial Group has three operating segments for which we report financial information in this report: Global Commercial Bank, SVB Private Bank and SVB Capital. As the SVB Leerink deal did not close until after December 31, 2018, results for SVB Leerink are not included in this report.

Global Commercial Bank

Our Global Commercial Bank segment is comprised of results primarily from our Commercial Bank, our Private Equity Division, SVB Wine, SVB Analytics and our Debt Fund Investments, each as further described below.

Commercial Bank.  Our Commercial Bank products and services are provided by the Bank and its subsidiaries to commercial clients primarily in the technology, life science/healthcare, and private equity/venture capital industries. The Bank provides solutions to the financial needs of commercial clients through credit, treasury management, foreign exchange, trade finance, and other services. We broadly serve clients within the U.S., as well as non-U.S. clients in key international innovation markets.

Through our credit products and services, the Bank extends loans and other credit facilities to commercial clients. In particular, credit products and services include traditional term loans, equipment loans, asset-based loans, revolving lines of credit, accounts-receivable-based lines of credit, capital call lines of credit and credit cards. These loans may be secured by clients' assets or future cash flows or may be unsecured.

The Bank's treasury management products and services include a wide range of deposits and receivables, payments, and cash management solutions accessible through our expanding online and mobile banking platforms. Deposit products include business and analysis checking accounts, money market accounts, multi-currency accounts, in-country bank accounts and sweep accounts. In connection with deposit services, the Bank provides receivables services, which include merchant services, remote capture, lockbox, electronic deposit capture, and fraud control services. Payment and cash management products and services include wire transfer and automated clearing house payment services to enable clients to transfer funds more quickly, as well as business bill pay, business credit and debit cards, account analysis, and disbursement services.

The Bank's foreign exchange and trade products and services help to facilitate clients' global finance and business needs. These products and services include foreign exchange services that help commercial clients to manage their foreign currency









needs and risks through the purchase and sale of currencies, swaps and hedges on the global inter-bank market. The Bank also offers letters of credit, including export, import, and standby letters of credit, to enable clients to ship and receive goods globally.

The Bank and its subsidiaries also offer a variety of investment services and solutions to its clients that enable them to more effectively manage their assets. For example, through its registered investment advisory subsidiary, SVB Asset Management, the Bank offers discretionary investment advisory services based on its clients' investment policies, strategies and objectives. The Bank also offers investment solutions through our repurchase agreement program.

Private Equity Division.Our Private Equity Division provides banking products and services primarily to our private equity and venture capital clients.

SVB Wine. SVB Wine provides banking products and services to our premium wine industry clients, including vineyard development loans.

SVB Analytics. SVB Analytics, Inc. ("SVB Analytics") previously provided equity valuation services and currently provides research for investors and companies in the innovation economy. In September 2017, SVB Analytics sold its equity valuation services business.

Debt Fund Investments. Debt Fund Investments is comprised of our investments in debt funds in which we are a strategic investor: (i) funds managed by Gold Hill Capital, which provide secured debt to private companies of all stages, and (ii) funds managed by Partners for Growth LLC, which provide secured debt primarily to mid-stage and late-stage companies.

SVB Private Bank

SVB Private Bank is the private banking division of the Bank, which provides a range of personal financial solutions for consumers. Our clients are primarily private equity/venture capital professionals and executive leaders of the innovation companies they support. We offer a customized suite of private banking services, including mortgages, home equity lines of credit, restricted stock purchase loans, capital call lines of credit, and other secured and unsecured lending products. We also help our private banking clients meet their cash management needs by providing deposit account products and services, including checking, money market, certificates of deposit accounts, online banking, credit cards and other personalized banking services. SVB Private Bank also includes SVB Wealth Advisory, an investment advisory subsidiary of the Bank, which provides private wealth management services to individual clients.

SVB Capital

SVB Capital is the venture capital investment arm of SVB Financial Group, which focuses primarily on funds management. SVB Capital manages over $4.5 billion of fundson behalf of third party limited partner investors and, on a more limited basis, SVB Financial Group. The SVB Capital family of funds is comprised of direct venture funds that invest in companies and funds of funds that invest in other venture capital funds. SVB Capital generates income for the Company primarily through investment returns (including carried interest) and management fees. See Note 2-“Summary of Significant Accounting Policies-Principles of Consolidation and Presentation” of the “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” under Part II, Item 8 of this report.

For more information about our three operating segments, including financial information and results of operations, see “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Operating Segment Results” under Part II, Item 7 of this report, andNote 22—“Segment Reporting” of the “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” under Part II, Item 8 of this report.

SVB Leerink

On January 4, 2019, we acquired Leerink Holdings LLC, the Boston-based parent company of healthcare and life science investment bank Leerink Partners LLC, now SVB Leerink Holdings LLC ("SVB Leerink"). SVB Leerink is an investment bank specializing in the Equity & Convertible Capital Markets, Mergers & Acquisitions, Equity Research and Sales & Trading for growth and innovation-minded healthcare and life science companies and operates as a wholly-owned subsidiary of SVB Financial. SVB Leerink provides investment banking services across all subsectors of healthcare including: biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, diagnostic and life science tools, healthcare services and digital health. SVB Leerink focuses on two primary lines of business: (i) investment banking focused on providing companies with capital-raising services, financial advice on mergers and acquisitions, sales and trading services and equity research, and (ii) sponsorship of private investment funds.

For more information about the SVB Leerink acquisition, see Note 26 - "Subsequent Events" of the "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" under Part II, Item 8 of this report.

Revenue Sources

Our total revenue is comprised of our net interest income and noninterest income. Net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis and noninterest income for the year endedDecember 31, 2018were$1.9 billionand$0.7 billion, respectively.









Net interest income accounts for the major portion of our earnings. It is comprised primarily of income generated from interest rate spread differences between the interest rates received on interest-earning assets, such as loans extended to clients and securities held in our fixed income securities portfolio, and the interest rates paid by us on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Our deposits are largely obtained from commercial clients within our technology, life science/healthcare and private equity/venture capital industry sectors. We also obtain deposits from the premium wine industry commercial clients and from our SVB Private Bank clients. Other than our Private Bank clients, we do not obtain deposits from retail or consumer banking sources.

We derive substantially all of our revenue from U.S. clients. We derived less than 10 percent of our total revenues from foreign clients for each of2018,2017and 2016.

Client Niches

We provide products and services to serve the needs of our clients in each of the niches described below. We serve our commercial company clients throughout their life cycles, beginning with the emerging, start-up stage and progressing through later stages as their needs mature and expand, primarily in the technology and life science/healthcare industries. We also serve other targeted client niches --- private equity and venture capital firms, premium wine and private banking/wealth management.

Technology and Life Science/Healthcare

We serve a variety of clients in the technology and life science/healthcare industries. Our technology clients tend to be in the industries of: hardware (such as semiconductors, communications, data, storage, and electronics); software/internet (such as infrastructure software, applications, software services, digital content and advertising technology), and energy and resource innovation ("ERI"). Because of the diverse nature of ERI products and services, ERI-related loans are reported under our hardware, software/internet, life science/healthcare and other commercial loan categories, as applicable, for loan-related reporting. Our life science/healthcare clients primarily tend to be in the industries of biotechnology, medical devices, healthcare information technology and healthcare services. A key component of our technology and life science/healthcare business strategy is to develop relationships with clients at an early stage and offer them banking services that will continue to meet their needs as they mature and expand. We serve these clients primarily through three practices:

•OurSVB Acceleratorpractice focuses on serving our “emerging” or “early-stage” clients. These clients are generally privately-held companies in the start-up or early stages of their life cycles and funded by friends and family,“seed”or“angel”investors, or have gone through an initial round of venture capital financing. They are typically engaged primarily in research and development activities and may have brought only a few products or services to market, if any. SVB Accelerator clients tend to have annual revenues below $5 million, and many are pre-revenue companies.

•OurSVB Growthpractice serves our “mid-stage” and “late-stage” clients. These clients are generally privately-held companies in the intermediate or later stages of their life cycles, and are often dependent on venture capital for funding. However, some of these clients are in the more advanced stages of their life cycles and may be publicly-held or poised to become publicly-held. Our SVB Growth clients generally have a more established product or service offering in the market and may be in a period of expansion. SVB Growth clients tend to have annual revenues between $5 million and $75 million.

•OurSVB Corporate Financepractice primarily serves our large corporate clients, which are more mature and established companies. These clients are generally publicly-held or large privately-held companies and have a more sophisticated product or service offering in the market. SVB Corporate Finance clients tend to have annual revenues over $75 million.











In addition, ourSponsored Financegroup provides debt financing in support of private equity sponsored company acquisitions, primarily technology and life science/healthcare companies.



Private Equity/Venture Capital

We serve clients in the private equity/venture capital community, many of whom are investors in the portfolio company clients to whom we provide banking services. In particular, we provide credit facilities to our private equity/venture capital clients, including capital call lines of credit, the repayment of which is dependent on the payment of capital calls or management fees by the underlying limited partner investors in the funds managed by the firms.

Since our founding, we have cultivated strong relationships within the venture capital community, which has over time expanded into the private equity community. We believe our network helps to facilitate deal flow opportunities between these private equity/venture capital firms and the companies within the markets we serve.

Premium Wine

We are one of the leading providers of financial services to premium wine producers across the Western United States, primarily in California’s Napa Valley, Sonoma County and Central Coast regions, as well as the Pacific Northwest. We focus on vineyards and wineries that produce grapes and premium wines.

Private Bank/Wealth Management

We provide private banking and wealth management services to consumer clients, including private equity/venture capital professionals and executive leaders of the innovation companies we support. We offer private banking, cash management and wealth management services to meet their personal banking and financial needs.



Competition

The banking and financial services industry is highly competitive and continues to evolve as a result of changes in regulation, technology, product delivery systems, and the general market and economic climate. Our competitors include other banks, debt funds, specialty and diversified financial services intermediaries and other “Fintech” disruptors that offer lending, leasing, payments, investment, foreign currency exchange, advisory and other financial products and services to our target client base. For example, we compete with alternative lenders, such as “marketplace” lenders, peer-to-peer lenders and other non-traditional lenders that have emerged in recent years. We also compete with non-financial service providers, particularly payment facilitators and processors, as well as other nonbanking technology providers in the payments industry which may offer specialized services to our client base.  In addition, we compete with hedge funds and private equity funds, as well as investment banks. The principal competitive factors in our markets include product offerings, service, pricing, and transaction size and structure. Given our established market position within the client segments that we serve, our continued efforts to develop products and services, and our ability to integrate and cross-sell our diverse financial services to extend the length of our relationships with our clients, we believe we compete favorably in the markets in our core business areas.

Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2018, we employed2,900full-time equivalent employees.

Supervision and Regulation

Our bank and bank holding company operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state regulatory agencies.  This regulation is intended primarily for the stability of the U.S. banking system as well as the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”). This regulation is not intended for the benefit of our security holders. As a bank holding company that has elected financial holding company status, SVB Financial is subject to primary inspection, supervision, regulation, and examination by the Federal Reserve under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHC Act”). The Bank, as a California state-chartered bank and a member of the Federal Reserve System, is subject to primary supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve, as well as the California Department of Business Oversight (the “DBO”) - Division of Financial Institutions. In addition, the Bank must comply with certain requirements of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”), as to the extent provided by law, the Bank's deposits are insured by the FDIC. Our consumer banking activities also are subject to regulation and supervision by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”). Many of these banking regulations are designed primarily to protect our customers, counterparties and the stability of the U.S. and international banking systems.









SVB Financial and its other non-bank subsidiaries are also subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve and other applicable federal and state regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations, including the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”).  In addition, we are subject to regulation by certain foreign regulatory agencies in international jurisdictions where we conduct, or may in the future wish to conduct, business, including the United Kingdom, Israel, Hong Kong, China, Germany and Canada. (See “-International Regulation” below.)

The following discussion of statutes and regulations is a summary and does not purport to be complete. This discussion is qualified in its entirety by reference to the statutes and regulations referred to in this discussion. Regulators, the U.S. Congress, state legislatures and international consultative and standard setting bodies continue to enact rules, laws and policies to regulate the financial services industry and public companies in an effort to protect consumers and investors, and may have differing interpretations in the implementation of such rules. As a result, the precise nature of these laws and regulations and the effect of such policies on the Company’s business cannot be predicted and in some cases, may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations. For more information, see "Risk Factors - Legal and Regulatory Risks" under Part I, Item IA of this report.

Regulation and Supervision of SVB Financial

Under the BHC Act, SVB Financial, as a bank holding company, is subject to the Federal Reserve’s regulation and supervision and its authority to, among other things:

•Require periodic reports and such other additional information as the Federal Reserve may require in its discretion;

•Require the maintenance of certain minimum levels of capital and adherence to capital adequacy standards;

•Restrict the ability of bank holding companies to service debt, pay dividends or receive dividends or other distributions from their subsidiary banks;

•Require prior approval for senior executive officer and director changes under certain circumstances;

•Require that bank holding companies serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to their banks and commit resources as necessary to support their banks.  The determination of a bank holding company’s failure to meet its obligations to serve as a source of strength to its subsidiary banks will generally be considered by the Federal Reserve to be an unsafe and unsound banking practice, a violation of Federal Reserve regulations or otherwise inconsistent with applicable statutory standards, or all of the foregoing;

•Terminate an activity or terminate control of or liquidate or divest certain subsidiaries, affiliates or investments if the Federal Reserve believes the activity or the control of the subsidiary or affiliate constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of any bank subsidiary, or if there is a failure to maintain certain capital and management standards;

•Regulate provisions of certain bank holding company debt, including the authority to impose interest ceilings and reserve requirements on such debt and require prior approval to purchase or redeem our securities in certain situations; and

•Require approval of acquisitions and mergers with banks and large financial companies and consider certain competitive, management, financial, financial stability and other factors in granting these approvals.  Similar California and other state banking agency approvals may also be required.

Pursuant to the GLBA, in order to elect and retain financial holding company status, all depository institution subsidiaries of a bank holding company must be well-capitalized, well-managed, and, except in limited circumstances, in satisfactory compliance with the Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”). In addition, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, a financial holding company, and no longer just bank subsidiaries thereof, is required to be well-capitalized and well-managed. Failure to maintain









compliance with these requirements or correct any non-compliance within a specified time could lead to divestiture of subsidiary banks, require all activities to conform to those permissible for a bank holding company (as opposed to the greater range of activities permissible for a financial holding company), or subject the financial holding company to other regulatory restrictions.

Because SVB Financial is a holding company, our rights and the rights of our creditors and security holders to participate in the assets of any of our subsidiaries upon the subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization will be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors, except to the extent we may ourselves be a creditor with recognized claims against the subsidiary. In addition, there are various statutory and regulatory limitations on the extent to which the Bank can finance or otherwise transfer funds to us or to our non−bank subsidiaries, including certain investment funds to which the Bank serves as an investment adviser, whether in the form of loans or other extensions of credit, including a purchase of assets subject to an agreement to repurchase, securities investments, the borrowing or lending of securities to the extent that the transaction causes the Bank or a subsidiary to have credit exposure to the affiliate, or certain other specified types of transactions, as discussed in further detail below. Further, loans and other extensions of credit by the Bank to us or any of our non-bank subsidiaries are required to be secured by specified amounts of collateral and are required to be on terms and conditions consistent with safe and sound banking practices.

In addition to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve as a bank holding company and financial holding company, SVB Financial is also treated as a bank holding company under the California Financial Code. As such, SVB Financial and its subsidiaries are subject to periodic examination by and may be required to file reports with the DBO.



The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act

The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in 2010, was intended to make significant structural reforms to the financial services industry.  The Dodd-Frank Act broadly affects the financial services industry by creating new resolution authorities, requiring ongoing stress testing of capital, mandating higher capital levels and more stringent liquidity management requirements, increasing regulation of executive and incentive-based compensation and requiring numerous other provisions aimed at strengthening the sound operation of the financial services sector, many of which vary depending on the asset size of the financial institution. Various aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act apply based on the asset size of the financial institution. On May 24, 2018, President Trump signed into law the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act (the “EGRRCPA”), which increased these thresholds and modified certain of the Dodd-Frank Act’s requirements.Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act (as amended by the EGRRCPA) provides for:



•Capital standards applicable to bank holding companies that may be no less stringent than those generally applicable to insured depository institutions;

•Periodic stress tests for financial entities with $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets;

•Additional risk management and other enhanced prudential standards for larger bank holding companies with $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets (See "-Enhanced Prudential Standards" below);

•Risk committee requirements for publicly traded bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets;

•Restrictions on a banking institution’s ability to engage in proprietary trading and to sponsor, invest in or lend to certain funds, including venture capital, hedge and private equity funds;

•Repeal of the federal prohibition (Regulation Q) on the payment of interest on demand deposits, including business checking accounts, and establishment of the $250,000 limit for federal deposit insurance;

•The establishment of the CFPB with responsibility for promulgating and enforcing regulations designed to protect consumers’ financial interests and prohibit unfair, deceptive and abusive acts and practices by financial institutions;

•The authority of the CFPB to directly examine those financial institutions with $10 billion or more in assets, such as SVB Financial, for compliance with the regulations promulgated by the CFPB;

•Limits, or the imposition of significant burdens and compliance and other costs on, certain activities previously conducted by banking organizations, such as originating and securitizing mortgage loans and other financial assets, arranging and participating in swap and derivative transactions, proprietary trading and investing in private equity and other funds and restrictions on debit charge interchange fees; and

•The establishment of new compensation restrictions and standards regarding the time, manner and form of compensation given to key executives and other personnel receiving incentive compensation, including documentation and governance, proxy access by stockholders, deferral and claw-back requirements.



The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the issuance of numerous implementing regulations, some of which have not yet been finalized. Individually and collectively, both the proposed and final regulations resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial conditions and results of operations. Further, the Dodd-Frank Act (as amended by the EGRRCPA) imposes enhanced prudential standards on bank holding companies with average total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more, and provides the Federal Reserve with the authority to apply enhanced prudential standards to bank holding companies with between $100 billion and $250 billion in total consolidated assets. Pursuant to this mandate, the Federal Reserve









proposed regulations in late 2018 that would introduce a tiered system of applicability that applies periodic stress test requirements and other enhanced prudential standards to bank holding companies with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets (the “Tailoring Proposal”).In addition, under the Federal Reserve's implementing regulations, certain additional capital and liquidity standards apply to bank holding companies with average total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more or $10 billion or more in on-balance sheet foreign exposures (the "Advanced Approaches Thresholds"). Notably, the federal banking agencies proposed changes to certain capital and liquidity regulations (the "Capital and Liquidity Thresholds Proposal") in late 2018 that would modify the Advanced Approaches Thresholds by introducing a tiered system of applicability that would mirror the tiers used in the Tailoring Proposal. See "-Enhanced Prudential Standards" and "-Regulatory Capital" below.



Enhanced Prudential Standards

Under the Dodd-Frank Act (as amended by the EGRRCPA), bank holding companies with $250 billion or more in average total consolidated assets, and potentially those with $100 billion or more in average total consolidated assets, are subject to more stringent prudential requirements, including requirements for risk-based and leverage capital, liquidity management, risk management, resolution planning, company-run and supervisory capital stress testing and capital planning, and single counterparty credit exposure limits. Certain requirements, including separate early remediation standards, have not yet been finalized and implemented. As noted above, the Tailoring Proposal would implement the EGRRCPA’s revisions to the Dodd-Frank Act.

Pursuant to the Federal Reserve’s regulations, a bank holding company becomes subject to the more stringent prudential standards at the end of a four-quarter period over the course of which the bank holding company averages the relevant asset threshold (currently $50 billion under the Federal Reserve’s regulations and $100 billion under the Tailoring Proposal). We refer to the conclusion of that four-quarter period as the time at which a bank holding company becomes “subject to enhanced prudential standards.”



Once a bank holding company becomes subject to enhanced prudential standards, certain of the standards include a transition period that provides a timeline for the bank holding company to comply. Below we describe several of the enhanced prudential standards’ requirements under the current regulations and under the Tailoring Proposal and the associated transition periods that apply once a bank holding company becomes subject to the requirements.



•Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (“CCAR”).Current regulations require bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets to submit an annual capital plan to the Federal Reserve. Following the passage of the EGRRCPA, the Federal Reserve issued a statement that it would not require firms with less than $100 billion in total consolidated assets to comply with that requirement. The Tailoring Proposal would revise the Federal Reserve’s regulations to reflect this new $100 billion threshold. For firms subject to CCAR, failure to submit a satisfactory plan can result in restrictions on the payment of dividends as well as other restrictions.



•Stress Testing. Currently, Federal Reserve regulations require bank holding companies to submit to the Federal Reserve the results of a mid-year and annual company-run stress test and make summaries of such results available to the public. Bank holding companies with $10 billion or more, but less than $50 billion, in average total consolidated assets are subject to annual company run stress test requirements. In addition, bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets currently are subject to semi-annual company-run stress test requirements and an annual supervisory stress test conducted by the Federal Reserve, which publicly discloses summaries of the results of the supervisory stress tests. Following passage of the EGRRCPA, the Federal Reserve issued a statement that it would not require bank holding companies with less than $100 billion in total consolidated assets to comply with these requirements. Further, under the Tailoring Proposal, these stress testing requirements only would apply to bank holding companies with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets.



•Resolution Planning. Bank holding companies are required to annually submit to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC a plan for rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure. Separately, the FDIC requires insured depository institutions (“IDI”) that have average total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, based on a four-quarter average, to annually submit to the FDIC a plan that enables the FDIC as receiver to resolve the bank under Sections 11 and 13 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (the “FDIA”). Following passage of the EGRRCPA, the Federal Reserve and FDIC issued a statement that they would not require bank holding companies with less than $100 billion to comply with these requirements. The EGRRCPA did not change the threshold for the FDIC’s IDI resolution planning requirement, but the FDIC has said that it will evaluate whether to revise the applicability threshold for that rule. For those depository institutions subject to the FDIC's IDI resolution planning requirement, the FDIC also announced in August 2018 the extension of the deadline for submitting IDI resolution plans to no sooner than July 1, 2020.











•Liquidity Coverage Ratio. Pursuant to the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (“LCR”) requirement, bank holding companies are required to maintain high-quality liquid assets in accordance with specific quantitative requirements. A modified, less stringent version of the Federal Reserve’s LCR rule applies to bank holding companies with greater than $50 billion in average total consolidated assets, but less than $250 billion in average total consolidated assets and $10 billion in on-balance sheet foreign exposures (so-called “advanced approaches” banking organizations). Following passage of the EGRRCPA, the Federal Reserve issued a statement that they would not require bank holding companies with less than $100 billion to comply with the modified LCR. Further, under the Capital and Liquidity Thresholds Proposal, only bank holding companies with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets would be subject to any form of LCR requirement.



•Risk Management. Bank holding companies must comply with enhanced risk management requirements. These requirements impose standards on the Board of Directors’ risk committee and for a chief risk officer. The enhanced prudential requirements also impose liquidity risk management standards and require subject bank holding companies to conduct regular liquidity stress testing over various time horizons and maintain a buffer of liquid assets based on the results of such stress testing. Bank holding companies are required to comply with such risk management and liquidity risk management requirements on the first day of the fifth quarter after becoming subject to the enhanced prudential standards. Following passage of the EGRRCPA, the Federal Reserve issued a statement that it would not seek to require bank holding companies with less than $100 billion in total consolidated assets to satisfy these requirements, other than the risk-management and risk committee requirements. The Tailoring Proposal would revise the Federal Reserve’s regulations to reflect this new $100 billion threshold.



•Pillar III Disclosure. Bank holding companies are required to make timely qualitative and quantitative disclosures about their regulatory capital, referred to as “Pillar III disclosures.” Quantitative disclosures must be made quarterly, and qualitative disclosures that do not change each quarter may be disclosed annually. Bank holding companies are required to make Pillar III disclosures after reporting $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets in their year-end financial reports to the Federal Reserve. Because the disclosures are backward-looking, a bank holding company makes its first disclosures with respect to data from prior quarters.



Regulation and Supervision of Silicon Valley Bank



•Require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice;

•Require prior approval for senior executive officer and director changes;

•Direct an increase in capital and the maintenance of specific minimum capital ratios which may preclude the Bank from being deemed well capitalized for regulatory purposes;

•Restrict the Bank’s growth geographically, by products and services, or by mergers and acquisitions;

•Enter into informal or formal enforcement orders, including memoranda of understanding, written agreements and consent or cease and desist orders to take corrective action and enjoin unsafe and unsound practices;

•Restrict or prohibit the Bank from paying dividends or making other distributions to SVB Financial;

•Remove officers and directors and assess civil monetary penalties; and

•Take possession of and close and liquidate the Bank.



Pursuant to applicable California and federal law, state chartered commercial banks are permitted to engage in any activity permissible for national banks. Therefore, the Bank may form subsidiaries to engage in the many so-called “closely related to banking” or “nonbanking” activities commonly conducted by national banks in operating subsidiaries, and further, the Bank may conduct certain “financial” activities in a subsidiary that would be impermissible for the Bank itself to the same extent as may a









national bank, provided the Bank remains “well-capitalized,” “well-managed” and in satisfactory compliance with the CRA. The Bank continues to be in satisfactory compliance with the CRA.



Regulatory Capital

$56.9 billion

and approximately

$7.5 billion

in on-balance sheet foreign exposures. Our level of foreign exposures is determined based on our current understanding of applicable regulatory standards, guidance, interpretations, expectations and assumptions, and may be subject to change based on any modifications, clarifications or evolution of these standards, guidance, interpretations, expectations or assumptions. In addition to being required to use internal models to calculate capital requirements, crossing the Advanced Approaches Thresholds, currently triggers a number of additional requirements, including the following:



•Application of a Standardized Capital Floor. Section 171 of the Dodd-Frank Act, commonly referred to as the Collins Amendment, provides that a banking organization’s capital requirements calculated under the “advanced approaches” capital rules may not be lower than the capital requirements calculated using the prescriptive “standardized approach” that otherwise generally applies to banking organizations.



•Supplementary Leverage Ratio of 3%.The supplementary leverage ratio (“SLR”) is more stringent than the otherwise applicable Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%, which is discussed below. Under the Capital and Liquidity Thresholds Proposal, the SLR would apply to banking organizations with $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets, or $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets and $75 billion or more in any one or more of (1) nonbank assets; (2) weighted short-term wholesale funding (“wSTWF”); and (3) off-balance-sheet exposures.



•Unavailability of the Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Opt-Out Election under the Risk-Based Capital Rules.  Banking organizations subject to the advanced approaches capital rules are not permitted to opt-out from having accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) included in regulatory capital.



•Countercyclical Capital Buffer. This standard requires a banking organization to hold an additional buffer amount, designed to counteract systemic vulnerabilities. The buffer amount is currently set by the Federal Reserve at zero percent, but could change in the future. If the buffer is not met, the banking organization is subject to limitations on dividends and other payouts.Under the Capital and Liquidity Thresholds Proposal, this requirement would apply to banking organizations with $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets, or $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets and $75 billion or more in any one or more of (1) nonbank assets; (2) wSTWF; and (3) off-balance-sheet exposures.











•Full Liquidity Coverage Ratio. The full LCR requires LCR calculation on a daily (compared to the modified LCR’s monthly standard) basis, uses the banking organization’s full net cash outflow amount (compared to 70% under the modified LCR), and includes an “add-on” to net cash outflows for certain maturity mismatch during the 30-day LCR period. Under the Capital and Liquidity Thresholds Proposal, the full LCR also would apply to banking organizations with $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets or $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets and $75 billion or more in wSTWF.

On December 7, 2017, the Basel Committee published a set of revisions to its Basel III framework to address perceived weaknesses in the current methodology for calculating risk weighted assets, in particular to increase the risk-sensitivity of the standardized approach and to constrain banking organizations’ discretion in modeling their capital requirements under models-based approaches (such as the advanced approaches in the United States). Following the adoption of the final standards, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the OCC announced, also on December 7, 2017, that they support the conclusion of efforts to reform the international bank capital standards in response to the global financial crisis, and that they would consider how to appropriately apply these revisions to the Basel III reform package in the United States through the standard notice-and-comment rulemaking process.

Under the new capital rules, CET1 is defined as common stock, plus related surplus, and retained earnings plus limited amounts of minority interest in the form of common stock, less the majority of the regulatory deductions and adjustments. The new capital rules, like the prior capital rules, specify that total capital consists of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. Tier 1 capital for SVB Financial and the Bank consists of common stock, plus related surplus and retained earnings. Under the new capital rules, for most banking organizations, the most common form of Additional Tier 1 capital is noncumulative perpetual preferred stock and the most common form of Tier 2 capital is subordinated debt and a portion of the allowance for loan and lease losses (“ALLL”), in each case, subject to the new capital rules’ specific requirements.

The new capital rules require several changes to regulatory capital deductions and adjustments, subject to a transition period. These changes include, for example, the requirement that deferred tax assets (“DTAs”) arising from temporary differences that could not be realized through net operating loss carrybacks and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such items, in the aggregate, exceed 15% of CET1. In addition, under the previous capital rules, certain effects of AOCI or loss items included in shareholders’ equity were reversed for the purposes of determining regulatory capital ratios. Under the new capital rules, the effects of certain AOCI are not excluded; however, non-advanced approaches banking organizations, including SVB Financial and the Bank, may make a one-time permanent election to continue to exclude these items. We made this election in April 2015 to reduce the potential impact on SVB Financial’s and the Bank’s regulatory capital levels due to periodic volatile changes in long-term interest rates. Implementation of the deductions and other adjustments to CET1 began on January 1, 2015 and is being phased-in over a four-year period (begun at 40% on January 1, 2015 and increasing by a 20% percentage points per year until 100%).

The new capital rules also include changes in the risk-weighting of assets to better reflect perceived credit risk and other risk exposure and require higher tangible common equity components of capital. These include a 150% risk weight (up from 100%) for certain high volatility commercial real estate acquisitions, development and construction loans and for non-residential mortgage loans that are 90 days past due or otherwise in nonaccrual status and a 20% (up from 0%) credit conversion factor for the unused portion of a commitment with an original maturity of one year or less that is not unconditionally cancellable. Under the new capital rules, the minimum capital ratios are as follows:

•4.5% CET1 to risk-weighted assets

•6.0% Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets

•8.0% Total capital to risk-weighted assets

•4.0% Tier 1 capital to average consolidated assets as reported on consolidated financial statements (known as the “leverage ratio”)

The new capital rules require SVB Financial and the Bank to meet a capital conservation buffer requirement in order to avoid constraints on capital distributions, such as dividends and equity repurchases, and certain bonus compensation for executive officers. To meet the requirement when it is fully phased in, the organization must maintain an amount of CET1 capital that exceeds the buffer level of 2.5% above each of the minimum risk-weighted capital ratios. The requirement is being phased in over a four year period, which began on January 1, 2016, at which time the amount of such capital must have exceeded the buffer level of 0.625%. The buffer level will continue to increase by 0.625 percentage points each year until reaching 2.5% on January 1, 2019. When the capital conservation buffer requirement is fully phased in, to avoid constraints, a banking organization must maintain the following capital ratios (after any distribution): (i) CET1 to risk-weighted assets more than 7.0%, (ii) Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets more than 8.5%, and (iii) total capital (Tier 1 plus Tier 2) to risk-weighted assets more than 10.5%.



With respect to the Bank, the new capital rules also revised the “prompt corrective action” regulations, by (i) introducing a CET1 ratio requirement at each level (other than critically undercapitalized), with the required CET1 ratio being 6.5% for well-









capitalized status; (ii) increasing the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio requirement for each category, with the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio for well-capitalized status being 8% (as compared to the current 6%); and (iii) eliminating the provision that provides that a bank with a composite supervisory rating of 1 may have a 3% leverage ratio and still be adequately capitalized. The new capital rules do not change the total risk-based capital requirement for any “prompt corrective action” category. See “-Prompt Corrective Action and Other General Enforcement Authority” below.



Although we continue to evaluate the impact that the new capital rules have on SVB Financial and the Bank and monitor developments from the federal banking agencies and the Basel Committee, we believe that SVB Financial and the Bank meet all capital requirements under the new capital rules on a fully phased-in basis as if such requirements were effective as of December 31, 2017. The estimate is based on management’s current interpretation, expectations, and understanding of the new capital rules. We anticipate that the Bank will continue to exceed the well-capitalized minimum capital requirements, and that SVB Financial will thus continue to qualify as a financial holding company.



Capital Planning



Proprietary Trading and Certain Relationships with Hedge Funds and Private Equity Funds

The “Volcker Rule” under the Dodd-Frank Act restricts, among other things, proprietary trading activities of banking holding companies as well as the ability of such entities to sponsor or invest in certain privately offered funds, including certain venture capital, hedge and private equity funds. On December 10, 2013, the federal bank regulatory agencies, the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) adopted final regulations implementing the Volcker Rule. The final regulations became effective on April 1, 2014, subject to a conformance timeline pursuant to which affected entities (referred to as “banking entities”) are required to bring their activities and investments into conformance with the prohibitions and restrictions of the Volcker Rule and the final regulations thereunder.

Subject to certain exceptions, the Volcker Rule prohibits a banking entity from engaging in “proprietary trading,” which is defined as engaging in purchases or sales of securities or certain other financial instruments, as principal, for the “trading account” of the banking entity. Certain forms of proprietary trading may qualify as “permitted activities,” and thus not be subject to the ban on proprietary trading, such as market-making related activities, risk-mitigating hedging activities, trading in U.S. government or agency obligations, or certain other U.S. state or municipal obligations, and the obligations of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae. Based on this definition and the exceptions provided under the final regulations, we do not believe that compliance with the Volcker Rule's proprietary trading prohibition is likely to have a material effect on our business or operations.

Additionally, subject to certain exceptions, the rule prohibits a banking entity from sponsoring or investing in “covered funds,” which includes many venture capital, private equity and hedge funds. One such exception permits a banking entity to sponsor and invest in a covered fund that it organizes and offers to customers, provided that additional requirements are met.  These permitted investments generally are limited to 3% of the total amount or number of ownership interests in each covered fund. In addition, the aggregate investments a banking entity makes in all covered funds generally are limited to 3% of the institution’s Tier 1 capital.

On June 6, 2017, we received notice that the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve approved the Company’s application for an extension of the permitted conformance period for the Company’s investments in certain “illiquid” covered funds. The approval extends the deadline by which the Company must sell, divest, restructure or otherwise conform such investments to the provisions of the Volcker Rule until the earlier of (i) July 21, 2022 or (ii) the date by which each fund matures by its terms or is otherwise conformed to the Volcker Rule.









On July 17, 2018, the Volcker Rule implementing agencies, including the Federal Reserve, jointly issued a notice of proposed rulemaking to amend the regulations implementing the Volcker Rule. The proposal includes provisions to tailor compliance requirements based on the size of a firm's trading assets and liabilities, and would eliminate or adjust certain requirements in order to clarify permitted and prohibited activities. SVB cannot predict whether, or in what form, the proposal may be finalized.

As ofDecember 31, 2018, we estimate that our total venture capital and private equity fund investments deemed to be prohibited covered fund interests and therefore subject to the Volcker Rule’s restrictions, had an aggregate carrying value and fair value of approximately$247 million.These covered fund interests are comprised of interests attributable solely to the Company in our consolidated managed funds and certain of our non-marketable securities.

We continue to assess the financial impact of these rules on our fund investments, as well as the impact of other Volcker Rule restrictions on other areas of our business.

The Volcker Rule also requires banking entities to design and implement a compliance program reasonably designed to ensure and monitor compliance with the Volcker Rule. Banking entities that have total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more as of the previous calendar year-end become subject to the Volcker Rule’s enhanced compliance program requirements, which, among other things, require an annual attestation from the chief executive officer regarding the design and effectiveness of the compliance program. We had more than $50 billion in total consolidated assets as of December 31, 2017. Therefore, we became subject to these enhanced compliance requirements as of January 1, 2018.

Prompt Corrective Action and Other General Enforcement Authority



Bank holding companies and insured banks also may be subject to potential enforcement actions of varying levels of severity by the federal regulators for unsafe or unsound practices in conducting their business, or for violation of any law, rule, regulation or condition imposed in writing by any applicable agency or term of a written agreement with that agency.  In more serious cases, enforcement actions may include the issuance of directives to increase capital; the issuance of formal and informal agreements; the imposition of civil monetary penalties; the issuance of a cease and desist order that can be judicially enforced; the issuance of removal and prohibition orders against officers, directors, and other institution-affiliated parties; the termination of the bank’s deposit insurance; the appointment of a conservator or receiver for the bank; and the enforcement of such actions through injunctions or restraining orders based upon a judicial determination that the agency would be harmed if such equitable relief was not granted.



Safety and Soundness Guidelines

Banking regulatory agencies have adopted guidelines to assist in identifying and addressing potential safety and soundness concerns before capital becomes impaired. The guidelines establish operational and managerial standards generally relating to: (i) internal controls, information systems and internal audit systems; (ii) loan documentation; (iii) credit underwriting; (iv) interest-rate exposure; (v) asset growth and asset quality; and (vi) compensation, fees and benefits. In addition, the bank regulatory agencies have adopted safety and soundness guidelines for asset quality and for evaluating and monitoring earnings to ensure that earnings are sufficient for the maintenance of adequate capital and reserves. The Federal Reserve’s enhanced prudential standards require publicly traded bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more to establish and maintain risk management committees for their boards of directors to oversee the bank holding companies’ risk management frameworks. The Tailoring Proposal would increase this threshold to $50 billion. In January 2015, we formed a risk committee of our Board of Directors. Bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion and greater currently also are subject to more stringent board risk committee and risk management requirements, including liquidity risk requirements. The Tailoring Proposal would increase the threshold for these requirements to $100 billion.











Restrictions on Dividends

Dividends from the Bank constitute one of the primary sources of cash for SVB Financial. The Bank is subject to various federal and state statutory and regulatory restrictions on its ability to pay dividends, including applicable provisions of the California Financial Code and the prompt corrective action regulations. In addition, the banking agencies have the authority to prohibit the Bank from paying dividends, depending upon the Bank’s financial condition, if such payment is deemed to constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Further, under the federal prompt corrective action regulations, the Federal Reserve may prohibit a bank holding company from paying any dividends if the holding company’s bank subsidiary is classified as “undercapitalized.”



It is the Federal Reserve’s policy that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of income available over the past year, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition. It is also the Federal Reserve’s policy that bank holding companies should not maintain dividend levels that undermine their ability to be a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries. Additionally, in consideration of the recent financial and economic environment, the Federal Reserve has indicated that bank holding companies should carefully review their dividend policy and has discouraged payment ratios that are at maximum allowable levels unless both asset quality and capital are very strong.



Transactions with Affiliates

Loans to Insiders

Extensions of credit by the Bank to insiders of both the Bank and SVB Financial are subject to prohibitions and other restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve’s Regulation O. For purposes of these limits, “insiders” include directors, executive officers and principal stockholders of the Bank or SVB Financial and their related interests. The term “related interest” means a company controlled by a director, executive officer or principal stockholder of the Bank or SVB Financial. The Bank may not extend credit to an insider of the Bank or SVB Financial unless the loan is made on substantially the same terms as, and subject to credit underwriting procedures that are no less stringent than, those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with non-insiders. In addition, the Bank may not extend credit to insiders in an amount, when aggregated with all other extensions of credit, that is greater than $500,000 without prior approval from the Bank’s Board of Directors (with any interested person abstaining from participating directly or indirectly in the voting). California law, the federal regulations and the Dodd-Frank Act place additional restrictions on loans to insiders, and generally prohibit loans to executive officers other than for certain specified purposes. The Bank is required to maintain records regarding insiders and extensions of credit to them.











Premiums for Deposit Insurance

The FDIC insures our customer deposits through the Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”) up to prescribed limits for each depositor.  Due to higher levels of bank failures during the 2008 economic recession, the FDIC’s resolution costs increased, which depleted the DIF. In order to restore the DIF to its statutorily mandated minimum of 1.35% of total deposits by September 30, 2020, the FDIC has increased deposit insurance premium rates. Insured institutions with assets of $10 billion or more ("large banks"), such as the Bank, were responsible for funding the increase, with assessment rates based on a risk-based scorecard calculation provided by the FDIC.  As of September 30, 2018, the DIF reserve ratio reached 1.36% and per FDIC regulations, increased premiums on large banks ceased for periods after September 30, 2018.  However, the FDIC has established a higher reserve ratio of 2% as a long-term goal which goes beyond what is required by statute, and may increase assessment rates in the future accordingly. Future increases in our FDIC insurance premiums could have an adverse effect on the Bank’s results of operations. For the years endedDecember 31, 2018and2017, we recorded$34.3 millionand $35.1 million, respectively, in FDIC assessments expense.



Consumer Regulations



State and federal banking agencies and other such enforcement authorities have increased efforts to aggressively enforce consumer protection laws, implement regulations and take action against non-compliant parties. The advent of the CFPB further heightens oversight and review of compliance with consumer protection laws and regulations. Due to these heightened regulatory concerns, including increased enforcement of the CRA by the federal banking agencies, and broad consumer protection powers and authority of the CFPB, the Bank and its affiliates may incur additional compliance costs or be required to expend additional funds for investments in their local community.



Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Corruption Regulations

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act  of 2001 (“USA PATRIOT Act”) and its corresponding regulations substantially broadened the scope of U.S. anti-money laundering laws and regulations as set forth in the U.S. Bank Secrecy Act ("BSA"), by requiring insured depository institutions, broker-dealers, and certain other financial institutions to have policies, procedures, and controls to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist financing. The USA PATRIOT Act and its regulations also provide for information sharing, subject to certain conditions, between federal law enforcement agencies and financial institutions, as well as among financial institutions, for counter-terrorism purposes. Federal banking regulators are required, when reviewing bank holding company acquisition and bank merger applications, to consider the effectiveness of the anti-money laundering activities of the applicants. Material deficiencies in anti-money laundering compliance, and non-compliance with related requirements such as the U.S. economic and trade sanctions regimes, can result in public enforcement actions by the bank regulatory agencies and other government agencies, including the imposition of civil money penalties and supervisory restrictions on growth and expansion. Such enforcement actions could also have serious reputational consequences for SVB Financial and the Bank.



In addition to the anti-money laundering provisions of the BSA and USA PATRIOT Act, we are also subject to anti-corruption laws and regulations both in the United States and internationally, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, which impose strict prohibitions on payments and hiring practices with regard to government officials and employees.



Regulation of Certain Subsidiaries

SVB Leerink LLC, a subsidiary of SVB Leerink and SVB Securities are registered as broker-dealers with the SEC and are members of FINRA, and accordingly, are subject to regulation by both agencies. They are also members of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation. As broker-dealers, SVB Leerink LLC and SVB Securities must comply with a variety of regulations associated









with their business lines, including (i) rules that govern the registration and examination of the businesses and their employees, (ii) substantive requirements and prohibitions concerning their relationships with their customers and counterparties, (iii) anti-fraud provisions and (iv) requirements to develop and maintain internal compliance and supervisory programs. SVB Leerink LLC and SVB Securities also must comply with the financial responsibility rules governing broker-dealers, including Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), which is designed to measure the general financial condition and liquidity of a broker-dealer and seek to ensure its financial stability in light of its activities. Under this rule, the broker-dealer entities are required to maintain minimum net capital calculated in accordance with a specified formula in order to help meet its continuing commitments to customers and others. Under certain circumstances, this rule could limit the ability for capital to be withdrawn from either SVB Leerink LLC or SVB Securities or require a capital infusion to support growth in the business or new or ongoing activities. SVB Asset Management, SVB Wealth Advisory and funds management entities associated with SVB Leerink Capital LLC, a subsidiary of SVB Leerink, are registered with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and are subject to its rules and regulations.

Securities Registration and Listing

SVB Financial’s common stock is registered under the Securities Act of 1933 and listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market.  As such, SVB Financial is subject to the information, proxy solicitation, insider trading, corporate governance, and other public company requirements and restrictions promulgated by the SEC, as well as the Marketplace Rules and other requirements promulgated by Nasdaq Stock Market, LLC.

As a public company, SVB Financial is also subject to the accounting oversight and corporate governance requirements of the Sarbanes−Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), including, among other things, required executive certification of financial presentations, increased requirements for board audit committees and their members, and enhanced requirements relating to disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting.

International Regulation

Our international-based subsidiaries and offices and global activities, including our banking branches in the United Kingdom and Germany and our joint venture bank in China are subject to the respective laws and regulations of those countries and the regions in which they operate. This includes laws and regulations promulgated by, but not limited to, the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority in the United Kingdom, the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin), the China Banking Regulatory Commission and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority. To the extent we are able to commence operations as anticipated in Canada or in any other international market, we will also become subject to the regulatory regimes of those jurisdictions. Moreover, promulgation by standard-setting bodies that are charged with the development of international regulatory frameworks, such as the Basel Committee, can affect the Bank and SVB Financial globally as national regulators implement the frameworks in local jurisdictions.

Available Information

We make available free of charge through our Internet website, http://www.svb.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The contents of our website are not incorporated herein by reference and the website address provided is intended to be an inactive textual reference only.



