ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

SVB Financial Group ("SVB Financial") is a diversified financial services company, as well as a bank holding company and a financial holding company. SVB Financial was incorporated in the state of Delaware in March 1999. Through our various subsidiaries and divisions, we offer a variety of banking and financial products and services to clients across the United States, as well as in key international entrepreneurial markets.  For over 30 years, we have been dedicated to helping entrepreneurs succeed, primarily in the technology, life science & healthcare, private equity/venture capital and premium wine industries. We provide our clients of all sizes and stages with a diverse set of products and services to support them throughout their life cycles.

We offer commercial and private banking products and services through our principal subsidiary, Silicon Valley Bank (the“Bank”), which is a California state-chartered bank founded in 1983 and a member of the Federal Reserve System. The Bank and its subsidiaries, also offer asset management, private wealth management, brokerage and other investment services. Through SVB Financial's other subsidiaries and divisions, we also offer non-banking products and services, such as funds management and business valuation services. Additionally, we focus on cultivating strong relationships with firms within the private equity and venture capital community worldwide, many of which are also our clients and may invest in our corporate clients.

As ofDecember 31, 2014, we had, on a consolidated basis, total assets of$39.3 billion, total investment securities of$22.7 billion, total loans, net of unearned income, of$14.4 billion, total deposits of$34.3 billionand total SVB Financial Group (“SVBFG”) stockholders' equity of$2.8 billion.

Headquartered in Santa Clara, CA, we operate in key innovation markets in the United States and around the world. Our corporate office is located at 3003 Tasman Drive, Santa Clara, California 95054, and our telephone number is (408) 654-7400.

When we refer to “SVB Financial Group,” “SVBFG,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” “us” or use similar words, we mean SVB Financial Group and all of its subsidiaries collectively, including the Bank. When we refer to “SVB Financial” or the “Parent” we are referring only to the parent company, SVB Financial Group.

Business Overview

For reporting purposes, SVB Financial Group has three operating segments for which we report financial information in this report: Global Commercial Bank, SVB Private Bank and SVB Capital.

Global Commercial Bank

Our Global Commercial Bank segment is comprised of results primarily from our Commercial Bank, and to a lesser extent, from SVB Specialty Lending, SVB Analytics and our Debt Fund Investments, each as further described below.

Commercial Bank.  Our Commercial Bank products and services are provided by the Bank and its subsidiaries to commercial clients in the technology, life science & healthcare, and private equity/venture capital industries. The Bank provides solutions to the financial needs of commercial clients through credit, global treasury management, foreign exchange, global trade finance, and other services. We broadly serve clients within the U.S., as well as non-U.S. clients in key international innovation markets.

Through our credit products and services, the Bank extends loans and other credit facilities to commercial clients. These loans may be secured by clients' assets or based on clients' cash flows. In some cases, loans may be unsecured. Credit products and services include traditional term loans, equipment loans, asset-based loans, revolving lines of credit, accounts-receivable-based lines of credit, capital call lines of credit and credit cards.

The Bank's global treasury management products and services include a wide range of deposit, receivables, payments and cash management solutions. Deposit products include business and analysis checking accounts, money market accounts, multi-currency, and sweep accounts. In connection with deposit services, the Bank provides receivables services, which include lockbox, electronic deposit capture, and merchant services that facilitate timely depositing of checks and other payments to clients' accounts. Payment and cash management products and services include wire transfer and automated clearing house payment services to enable clients to transfer funds quickly, as well as bill pay, account analysis, and disbursement services. Client accounts and our services may be accessed through our online and mobile banking platforms.

The Bank's foreign exchange and global trade products and services facilitate clients' global finance and business needs. These products and services include foreign exchange services that allow commercial clients to manage their foreign currency needs and risks through the purchase and sale of currencies, swaps and hedges on the global inter-bank market. To facilitate clients' international trade, the Bank offers a variety of loan and credit facilities guaranteed by the Export-Import Bank of the









United States. The Bank also offers letters of credit, including export, import, and standby letters of credit, to enable clients to ship and receive goods globally.

The Bank and its subsidiaries offer a variety of investment services and solutions to its clients that enable them to effectively manage their assets. Through its registered investment advisory subsidiary, SVB Asset Management, the Bank offers discretionary investment advisory services based on its clients investment policies, strategies and objectives.  Through its broker-dealer subsidiary, SVB Securities, the Bank offers clients access to investments in third party money market mutual funds and fixed-income securities.  The Bank also offers investment solutions through our repurchase agreement program.

Private Equity Division.Our Private Equity Division provides banking products and services primarily to our private equity and venture capital clients.

SVB Wine.  SVB Wine provides banking products and services to our premium wine industry clients, including vineyard development loans.

SVB Analytics.  SVB Analytics provides equity valuation services to companies and private equity/venture capital firms.

Debt Fund Investments.  Debt Fund Investments is comprised of our investments in debt funds in which we are a strategic investor: (i) Gold Hill funds, which provide secured debt to private companies of all stages, and (ii) Partners for Growth funds, which provide secured debt primarily to mid-stage and late-stage companies.

SVB Private Bank

SVB Private Bank is the private banking division of the Bank, which provides a range of personal financial solutions for consumers. Our clients are primarily private equity/venture capital professionals and executive leaders of the innovation companies they support. We offer a customized suite of private banking services, including mortgages, home equity lines of credit, restricted stock purchase loans, capital call lines of credit, and other secured and unsecured lending.  We also help our private banking clients meet their cash management needs by providing deposit account products and services, including checking, money market, certificates of deposit accounts, online banking, credit cards and other personalized banking services. SVB Private Bank also includes SVB Wealth Advisory, an investment advisory subsidiary of the Bank, which provides private wealth management services to individual clients.

SVB Capital

SVB Capital is the venture capital investment arm of SVB Financial Group, which focuses primarily on funds management. SVB Capital manages over $2.3 billion of funds on behalf of third-party limited partner investors, and on a more limited basis, SVBFinancial Group. The SVB Capital family of funds is comprised of direct venture funds that invest in companies and funds of funds that invest in other venture capital funds. SVB Capital generates income for the Company primarily through investment returns (including carried interest) and management fees. Most of the funds managed by SVB Capital are consolidated into our financial statements. See Note 2-“Summary of Significant Accounting Policies-Principles of Consolidation and Presentation”of the“Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements”under Part II, Item8 in this report.

For more information about our three operating segments, including financial information and results of operations, see“Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Operating Segment Results”under Part II, Item7 in this report, and Note 21-“Segment Reporting”of the“Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements”under Part II, Item8 in this report.

Revenue Sources

Our total revenue is comprised of our net interest income and noninterest income. Net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis and noninterest income for the year ended December31, 2014 were$858.3 millionand$572.2 million, respectively.

Net interest income is primarily income generated from interest rate differentials. The difference between the interest rates received on interest-earning assets, such as loans extended to clients and securities held in our available-for-sale securities portfolio, and the interest rates paid by us on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings, accounts for the major portion of our earnings. Our deposits are largely obtained from commercial clients within our technology, life science & healthcare and private equity/venture capital industry sectors. Deposits are also obtained from the premium wine industry commercial clients and from our Private Bank clients. We do not obtain deposits from conventional retail sources.

Noninterest income is primarily income generated from our fee-based services and gains on our investments and derivative securities. We offer a wide range of fee-based financial services to our clients, including global commercial banking, private banking and other business services. Our ability to integrate and cross-sell our diverse financial services to our clients is a strength of our business model. Additionally, we hold available-for-sale, held-to-maturity, non-marketable and marketable investment









securities.  Subject to applicable regulatory requirements, we manage and invest in private equity/venture capital funds that invest directly in privately-held companies, as well as funds that invest in other private equity/venture capital funds. Gains on these investments are reported in our consolidated statements of income and include noncontrolling interest.  We also recognize gains from warrants to acquire stock in client companies, which we obtain in connection with negotiating credit facilities and certain other services. See “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Noninterest Income-Gains on Investment Securities, Net” - and "-Gains on Derivative Instruments, Net" under Part II, Item 7 in this report.

We derive substantially all of our revenue from U.S. clients.We derived less than 10 percent of our total revenues from foreign clients for each of 2014, 2013 and 2012.

Industry Niches

In each of the industry niches we serve, we provide services to meet the needs of our clients throughout their life cycles, beginning with the emerging, start-up stage.

Technology and Life Science & Healthcare

We serve a variety of clients in the technology and life science & healthcare industries. Our technology clients tend to be in the industries of: hardware (such as semiconductors, communications, data storage, and electronics); software and internet (such as infrastructure software, applications, software services, digital content and advertising technology), and energy and resource innovation ("ERI"). Because of the diverse nature of ERI products and services, for our loan-related reporting purposes, ERI-related loans are reported under our hardware and software, as applicable. Our life science & healthcare clients primarily tend to be in the industries of biotechnology, medical devices, healthcare information technology and healthcare services. A key component of our technology and life science & healthcare business strategy is to develop relationships with clients at an early stage and offer them banking services that will continue to meet their needs as they mature and expand. We serve these clients primarily through three practices:

•OurSVB Acceleratorpractice focuses on serving our“emerging”or“early stage”clients. These clients are generally in the start-up or early stages of their life cycles. They are typically privately-held and funded by friends and family,“seed”or“angel”investors, or have gone through an initial round of venture capital financing. They are typically engaged in research and development, have little or no revenue and may have only brought a few products or services to market. SVB Accelerator clients tend to have annual revenues below $5 million, with many being pre-revenue companies.

•OurSVB Growthpractice serves our“mid-stage”and“late-stage”clients. These clients are in the intermediate or later stages of their life cycles and are generally privately-held, and many are dependent on venture capital for funding. Some of these clients are in the more advanced stages of their life cycles and may be publicly held or poised to become publicly held. Our SVB Growth clients generally have a solid or more established product or service offering in the market, with more meaningful or considerable revenue. They also may be expanding globally. SVB Growth clients tend to have annual revenues between $5 million and $75 million.

•OurSVB Corporate Financepractice serves primarily our large corporate clients, which are more mature and established companies. These clients are generally publicly-held or large privately-held companies, have a more sophisticated product or service offering in the market, with significant revenue. They also may be expanding globally. SVB Corporate Finance clients tend to have annual revenues over $75 million.



Private Equity/Venture Capital

We provide financial services to clients in the private equity/venture capital community. Since our founding, we have cultivated strong relationships within the private equity/venture capital community, particularly with venture capital firms worldwide, many of which are also clients, facilitating deal flow to and from these firms.

Premium Wine

We are one of the leading providers of financial services to premium wine producers across the Western United States, primarily in California's Napa Valley, Sonoma County and Central Coast regions, and the Pacific Northwest. We focus on vineyards and wineries that produce grapes and premium wines.

Competition

The banking and financial services industry is highly competitive, and continues to evolve as a result of changes in regulation, technology, product delivery systems, and the general market and economic climate. Our competitors include other banks, debt funds and specialty and diversified financial services intermediaries that offer lending, leasing, payments, investment, foreign currency exchange, advisory and other financial products and services to our target client base. We also compete with other









alternative lenders, such as “marketplace” lenders, peer-to-peer lenders and other non-traditional lenders that have merged in recent years.  Moreover, we compete with non-financial services, particularly payment facilitators/processors or other nonbanking technology providers in the payments industry, which may offer specialized services to our client base.  In addition, we compete with hedge funds and private equity funds. The principal competitive factors in our markets include product offerings, service, pricing, and transaction size and structure. Given our established market position within the client segments that we serve, our continued efforts to develop products and services, and our ability to integrate and cross-sell our diverse financial services to extend the length of our relationships with our clients, we believe we compete favorably in all our markets in these areas.

Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2014, we employed1,914full-time equivalent employees.

Supervision and Regulation

The following discussion of statutes and regulations is a summary and does not purport to be complete.  This discussion is qualified in its entirety by reference to the statutes and regulations referred to in this discussion.  Regulators, Congress, state legislatures and international consultative bodies continue to enact rules, laws and policies to regulate the financial services industry and public companies and to protect consumers and investors, and regulators also have substantial discretion in the interpretation of their authority.  The nature of these laws and regulations and the effect of such policies on the Company’s business cannot be predicted and in some cases, may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations.



Regulation of Parent: SVB Financial

Under the BHC Act, SVB Financial, as a bank holding company, is subject to the Federal Reserve’s regulation and its authority to, among other things:

•Require periodic reports and such additional information as the Federal Reserve may require in its discretion;

•Require the maintenance of certain levels of capital and, under the Dodd-Frank Act, limit the ability of bank holding companies to pay dividends or bonuses unless their capital levels exceed the capital conservation buffer;

•Restrict the ability of bank holding companies to service debt or to receive dividends or other distributions from their subsidiary banks;

•Require prior approval for senior executive officer and director changes under certain circumstances;

•Require that bank holding companies serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to their banks and commit resources as necessary to support their banks.  A bank holding company’s failure to meet its obligations to serve as a source of strength to its subsidiary banks will generally be considered by the Federal Reserve to be an unsafe and unsound banking practice or a violation of Federal Reserve regulations or inconsistent with applicable statutory standards, or all of the foregoing;

•Terminate an activity or terminate control of or liquidate or divest certain subsidiaries, affiliates or investments if the Federal Reserve believes the activity or the control of the subsidiary or affiliate constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of any bank subsidiary;

•Regulate provisions of certain bank holding company debt, including the authority to impose interest ceilings and reserve requirements on such debt and require prior approval to purchase or redeem our securities in certain situations; and









•Approve acquisitions and mergers with banks and consider certain competitive, management, financial, financial stability and other factors in granting these approvals.  Similar California and other state banking agency approvals may also be required.

Bank holding companies are generally prohibited, except in certain statutorily prescribed instances including exceptions for financial holding companies, from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the outstanding voting shares of any company that is not a bank or bank holding company and from engaging directly or indirectly in activities other than those of banking, managing or controlling banks, or furnishing services to its subsidiaries.  However, subject to prior notice or Federal Reserve Board approval, bank holding companies may engage in, or acquire shares of companies engaged in, activities determined by the Federal Reserve Board to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto.  As a financial holding company, SVB Financial generally may engage in these nonbanking activities and certain other broader securities, insurance, merchant banking and other activities that the Federal Reserve has determined to be “financial in nature” or are incidental or complementary to activities that are financial in nature without prior Federal Reserve approval, subject to the requirement imposed by the Dodd‑Frank Act that SVB Financial must obtain prior Federal Reserve approval in order to acquire a nonbanking company engaged in financial activities with more than $10 billion in consolidated assets.

Pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (“GLBA”), in order to elect and retain financial holding company status, all depository institution subsidiaries of a bank holding company must be well-capitalized, well-managed, and, except in limited circumstances, in satisfactory compliance with the Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”).  In addition, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, a financial holding company, and no longer just its bank, is required to be well-capitalized and well-managed.  Failure to sustain compliance with these requirements or correct any non-compliance within a fixed time could lead to divestiture of subsidiary banks, require all activities to conform to those permissible for a bank holding company, or subject the financial holding company to other regulatory restrictions.

Because we are a holding company, our rights and the rights of our creditors and security holders to participate in the assets of any of our subsidiaries upon the subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization will be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors, except to the extent we may ourselves be a creditor with recognized claims against the subsidiary.  In addition, there are various statutory and regulatory limitations on the extent to which the Bank can finance or otherwise transfer funds to us or to our non−bank subsidiaries, including certain investment funds to which the Bank serves as an investment adviser, whether in the form of loans or other extensions of credit, including a purchase of assets subject to an agreement to repurchase, securities investments, the borrowing or lending of securities to the extent that the transaction causes the Bank or a subsidiary to have credit exposure to the affiliate, or certain other specified types of transactions, as discussed in further detail below. Furthermore, loans and other extensions of credit by the Bank to us or any of our non−bank subsidiaries are required to be secured by specified amounts of collateral and are required to be on terms and conditions consistent with safe and sound banking practices.

SVB Financial is also treated as a bank holding company under the California Financial Code.  As such, SVB Financial and its subsidiaries are subject to periodic examination by and may be required to file reports with the DBO.



Securities Registration and Listing

SVB Financial’s securities are registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market.  As such, SVB Financial is subject to the information, proxy solicitation, insider trading, corporate governance, and other requirements and restrictions of the Exchange Act, as well as the Marketplace Rules and other requirements promulgated by the Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc.

As a public company, SVB Financial is also subject to the accounting oversight and corporate governance requirements of the Sarbanes−Oxley Act of 2002, including, among other things, required executive certification of financial presentations, increased requirements for board audit committees and their members, and enhanced requirements relating to disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting.



The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act

On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law.  The Dodd-Frank Act was intended to make significant structural reforms to the financial services industry.  The Dodd-Frank Act broadly affects the financial services industry by creating new resolution authorities, requiring ongoing stress testing of capital, mandating higher capital and liquidity requirements, increasing regulation of executive and incentive-based compensation and requiring numerous other provisions aimed at strengthening the sound operation of the financial services sector depending, in part, on the asset size of the financial institution.  Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act provides for:









•Capital standards applicable to bank holding companies may be no less stringent than those generally applied to insured depository institutions;

•Restrictions on dividends and other discretionary payments if capital levels do not exceed the capital conservation buffer;

•Annual stress tests for financial entities, including the Bank;

•Additional risk management and other prudential requirements for larger bank holding companies with $50 billion or greater in total consolidated assets (such requirements may have the effect of establishing new best practices standards for bank holding companies below $50 billion in total consolidated assets, such as SVB Financial);

•Restrictions on a banking institution’s ability to sponsor, invest in or lend to certain funds, including venture capital, hedge and private equity funds;

•Repeal of the federal prohibition (Regulation Q) on the payment of interest on demand deposits, including business checking accounts, and made permanent the $250,000 limit for federal deposit insurance;

•The establishment of the CFPB with responsibility for promulgating and enforcing regulations designed to protect consumers’ financial interests and prohibit unfair, deceptive and abusive acts and practices by financial institutions;

•The CFPB to directly examine those financial institutions with $10 billion or more in assets, such as SVB Financial, for compliance with the regulations promulgated by the CFPB;

•Limits, or imposes significant burdens and compliance and other costs on, certain activities traditionally conducted by banking organizations, such as originating and securitizing mortgage loans and other financial assets, arranging and participating in swap and derivative transactions, proprietary trading and investing in private equity and other funds and restrictions on debit charge interchange fees; and

•The establishment of new compensation restrictions and standards regarding the time, manner and form of compensation given to key executives and other personnel receiving incentive compensation, including documentation and governance, proxy access by stockholders, deferral and claw-back requirements.



The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the issuance of numerous implementing regulations, some of which have not yet been issued. Some of the final regulations will continue to take effect over several more years, continuing to make it difficult to anticipate the overall impact to us, our customers, or the financial industry in general. Individually and collectively, both proposed and final regulations resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial conditions and results of operations. Moreover, we are expanding globally.  Global regulation is also becoming more stringent, which may have a greater impact on our business.



Regulation of Silicon Valley Bank

•Require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice;

•Require prior approval for senior executive officer and director changes;

•Direct an increase in capital and the maintenance of specific minimum capital ratios which may preclude the Bank from being deemed well capitalized for regulatory purposes;

•Restrict the Bank’s growth geographically, by products and services, or by mergers and acquisitions;

•Enter into informal or formal enforcement orders, including memoranda of understanding, written agreements and consent or cease and desist orders to take corrective action and enjoin unsafe and unsound practices;

•Restrict or prohibit the Bank from paying dividends or making other distributions to SVB Financial;

•Remove officers and directors and assess civil monetary penalties; and

•Take possession of and close and liquidate the Bank.











Pursuant to applicable California and federal law, state chartered commercial banks are permitted to engage in any activity permissible for national banks.  Therefore, the Bank may form subsidiaries to engage in the many so-called “closely related to banking” or “nonbanking” activities commonly conducted by national banks in operating subsidiaries, and further, the Bank may conduct certain “financial” activities in a subsidiary that would be impermissible for the Bank itself to the same extent as may a national bank, provided the Bank remains “well-capitalized,” “well-managed” and in satisfactory compliance with the CRA.  The Bank continues to be in satisfactory compliance with the CRA.



Regulatory Capital

In addition, the Bank is required to demonstrate its ability to maintain sufficient capital ratios under the scenarios of adverse and severely adverse financial conditions that are part of Federal Reserve Board stress testing requirements.  Bank holding companies with total consolidated assets between $10 billion and $50 billion and state member banks with total consolidated assets of more than $10 billion, such as SVB Financial and the Bank, are now generally required to conduct annual company-run stress tests, the results of which could require us to take certain actions, including raising additional capital.  We are required to submit to the Federal Reserve Board the results of the annual company-run stress tests and to make summaries of the results of the company-run stress tests available to the public.

Under the new capital rules, CET1 is defined as common stock, plus related surplus, and retained earnings plus limited amounts of minority interest in the form of common stock, less the majority of the regulatory deductions.  The new capital rules, like the prior capital rules, specify that total capital consists of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital.  Tier 1 capital for SVB Financial  and the Bank consists of common stock, plus related surplus and retained earnings.  Under the new capital rules, for most banking organizations, the most common form of Additional Tier 1 capital is noncumulative perpetual preferred stock and the most common form of Tier 2 capital is subordinated notes and a portion of the allowance for loan and lease losses (“ALLL”), in each case, subject to the new capital rules’ specific requirements.

The newly effective capital rules also include changes in the risk-weighting of assets to better reflect perceived credit risk and other risk exposure and requires higher tangible common equity components of capital. These include a 150% risk weight (up from 100%) for certain high volatility commercial real estate acquisition, development and construction loans and for non-residential mortgage loans that are 90 days past due or otherwise in nonaccrual status and a 20% (up from 0%) credit conversion









factor for the unused portion of a commitment with an original maturity of one year or less that is not unconditionally cancellable (currently set at 0%). Under the new capital rules, the minimum capital ratios beginning January 1, 2015 are as follows:

•4.5% CET1 to risk-weighted assets

•6.0% Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets

•8.0% Total capital to risk-weighted assets

•4% Tier 1 capital to average consolidated assets as reported on consolidated financial statements (known as the “leverage ratio”)

The new capital rules will require SVB Financial and the Bank to meet a capital conservation buffer requirement in order to avoid constraints on capital distributions, such as dividends and equity repurchases, and certain bonus compensation for executive officers. To meet the requirement when it is fully phased in, the organization must maintain an amount of CET1 capital that exceeds the buffer level of 2.5% above each of the minimum risk-weighted capital ratios. The requirement will be phased in over a four year period, starting January 1, 2016, when the amount of such capital must exceed the buffer level of 0.625%. The buffer level will increase by 0.625 percentage point each year until it reaches 2.5% on January 1, 2019. When the capital conservation buffer requirement is fully phased in, to avoid constraints, a banking organization must maintain the following capital ratios (after any distribution): (i) CET1 to risk-weighted assets more than 7.0%, (ii) Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets more than 8.5%, and (iii) total capital (Tier 1 plus Tier 2) to risk-weighted assets more than 10.5%.

With respect to the Bank, the new capital rules also revise the “prompt corrective action” regulations effective January 1, 2015, by (i) introducing a CET1 ratio requirement at each level (other than critically undercapitalized), with the required CET1 ratio being 6.5% for well-capitalized status; (ii) increasing the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio requirement for each category, with the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio for well-capitalized status being 8% (as compared to the current 6%); and (iii) eliminating the current provision that provides that a bank with a composite supervisory rating of 1 may have a 3% leverage ratio and still be adequately capitalized. The new capital rules do not change the total risk-based capital requirement for any “prompt corrective action” category. See “-Prompt Corrective Action and Other General Enforcement Authority” below.

Although we continue to evaluate the impact that the new capital rules have on SVB Financial and the Bank, we believe that SVB Financial and the Bank meet all capital requirements under the new capital rules on a fully phased-in basis as if such requirements were effective as of December 31, 2014.  The estimate is based on management’s current interpretation, expectations, and understanding of the new capital rules.  We anticipate that the Bank will continue to exceed the well-capitalized minimum capital requirements, and that SVB Financial will continue to qualify as a financial holding company.



Capital Planning

Banking organizations must have appropriate capital planning processes, with proper oversight from the Board of Directors.  Accordingly, pursuant to a separate, general supervisory letter from the Federal Reserve, bank holding companies are expected to conduct and document comprehensive capital adequacy analyses prior to the declaration of any dividends (on common stock, preferred stock, trust preferred securities or other Tier 1 capital instruments), capital redemptions or capital repurchases.  Moreover, the federal banking agencies have adopted a joint agency policy statement, stating that the adequacy and effectiveness of a bank’s interest rate risk management process and the level of its interest rate exposures are critical factors in the evaluation of the bank’s capital adequacy.  A bank with material weaknesses in its interest rate risk management process or high levels of interest rate exposure relative to its capital will be directed by the relevant federal banking agencies to take corrective actions. Banks with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets are required to submit capital plans to the Federal Reserve Board, and failure to submit a satisfactory plan can result in dividend and other restrictions.



Proprietary Trading and Certain Relationships with Hedge Funds and Private Equity Funds

The “Volcker Rule” under the Dodd-Frank Act restricts, among other things, a bank's proprietary trading activities and a bank's ability to sponsor or invest in certain privately offered funds, including certain venture capital, hedge and private equity funds. On December 10, 2013, the federal bank regulatory agencies, the SEC and the CFTC adopted final regulations implementing the Volcker Rule. The final regulations became effective on April 1, 2014, subject to a conformance timeline pursuant to which affected entities (referred to as “banking entities”) are required to bring their activities and investments into conformance with the prohibitions and restrictions of the Volcker Rule and the final regulations thereunder.

Subject to certain exceptions, the Volcker Rule prohibits a banking entity from engaging in “proprietary trading,” which is defined as engaging as principal for the “trading account” of the banking entity in securities or certain other financial instruments. Certain forms of proprietary trading may qualify as “permitted activities,” and thus not be subject to the ban on proprietary trading, such as market-making related activities, risk-mitigating hedging activities, trading in U.S. government or









agency obligations, or certain other U.S. state or municipal obligations, and the obligations of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae. Based on this definition and the exceptions provided under the recently-issued regulations, we do not believe that we engage in any proprietary trading that is prohibited under the Volcker Rule.

Additionally, subject to certain exceptions, the rule prohibits a banking entity from sponsoring or investing in “covered funds,” which includes many venture capital, private equity and hedge funds.  One such exception permits a banking entity to sponsor and invest in a covered fund that it organizes and offers to customers, provided that additional requirements are met.  These permitted investments generally are limited to three percent of the total ownership interests in each covered fund. In addition, the aggregate investments a banking entity makes in all covered funds generally are limited to three percent of the institution’s Tier 1 capital.

Under the final regulations, the Volcker Rule’s prohibitions and restrictions apply to SVB Financial, the Bank and any affiliate of SVB Financial or the Bank.  SVB Financial maintains investments in certain venture capital and private equity funds that it did not sponsor; maintains investments in sponsored-funds that exceed three percent of each such fund’s total ownership interests; and its aggregate investments in all covered funds may exceed three percent of its Tier 1 capital.  SVB Financial (including its affiliates) expects, therefore, that it will be required to reduce the level of its investments in covered funds over time and to forego investment opportunities in certain funds in the future.  SVB Financial is generally required by the final rules to come into conformance with the Volcker Rule’s requirements regarding covered funds by July 2016 with respect to covered funds in which SVB Financial invested or SVB Financial sponsored as of December 31, 2013. The Federal Reserve Board has indicated that it intends to extend this conformance deadline to July 2017. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board may extend the conformance deadline for up to an additional five years (until July 2022) for investments that are considered illiquid. We intend to seek the maximum extensions (up to July 2022) available to us.  However, there is no guarantee that the Federal Reserve Board will grant any of these extensions.

We estimate that our total venture capital and private equity fund investments deemed to be prohibited covered fund interests and therefore subject to the Volcker Rule’s restrictions, had, as of December 31, 2014, an aggregate carrying value of approximately $246 million (and an aggregate fair value of $338 million).  These covered fund interests are comprised of interests attributable, solely, to the Company in our consolidated managed funds and certain of our non−marketable securities.

We continue to assess the financial impact of these rules on our fund investments, as well as the impact of other Volcker Rule restrictions on other areas of our business.  (See “Risk Factors” under Item 1A of Part I below.)



Prompt Corrective Action and Other General Enforcement Authority

Bank holding companies and insured banks also may be subject to potential enforcement actions of varying levels of severity by the federal regulators for unsafe or unsound practices in conducting their business, or for violation of any law, rule, regulation, condition imposed in writing by the agency or term of a written agreement with the agency.  In more serious cases, enforcement actions may include the issuance of directives to increase capital; the issuance of formal and informal agreements; the imposition of civil monetary penalties; the issuance of a cease and desist order that can be judicially enforced; the issuance of removal and prohibition orders against officers, directors, and other institution−affiliated parties; the termination of the bank’s deposit insurance; the appointment of a conservator or receiver for the bank; and the enforcement of such actions through injunctions or restraining orders based upon a judicial determination that the agency would be harmed if such equitable relief was not granted.











Safety and Soundness Guidelines

Banking regulatory agencies have adopted guidelines to assist in identifying and addressing potential safety and soundness concerns before capital becomes impaired.  The guidelines establish operational and managerial standards generally relating to: (i) internal controls, information systems, and internal audit systems; (ii) loan documentation; (iii) credit underwriting; (iv) interest-rate exposure; (v) asset growth and asset quality; and (vi) compensation, fees and benefits.  In addition, the bank regulatory agencies have adopted safety and soundness guidelines for asset quality and for evaluating and monitoring earnings to ensure that earnings are sufficient for the maintenance of adequate capital and reserves. The Federal Reserve Board’s enhanced prudential standards require bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more to establish and maintain risk management committees for their boards of directors to oversee the bank holding companies’ risk management frameworks. In January 2015, we formed a risk committee of our Board of Directors. Bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion and greater are subject to more stringent board risk committee and risk management requirements, including liquidity risk requirements.



Restrictions on Dividends

Dividends from the Bank constitute one of the primary sources of cash for SVB Financial. The Bank is subject to various federal and state statutory and regulatory restrictions on its ability to pay dividends, including applicable provisions of the California Financial Code and the prompt corrective action regulations.  In addition, the banking agencies have the authority to prohibit the Bank from paying dividends, depending upon the Bank’s financial condition, if such payment is deemed to constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Furthermore, under the federal prompt corrective action regulations, the Federal Reserve Board may prohibit a bank holding company from paying any dividends if the holding company’s bank subsidiary is classified as “undercapitalized.”

It is the Federal Reserve’s policy that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of income available over the past years, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition.  It is also the Federal Reserve’s policy that bank holding companies should not maintain dividend levels that undermine their ability to be a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries.  Additionally, in consideration of the recent financial and economic environment, the Federal Reserve has indicated that bank holding companies should carefully review their dividend policy and has discouraged payment ratios that are at maximum allowable levels unless both asset quality and capital are very strong.



Transactions with Affiliates









Loans to Insiders

Extensions of credit by the Bank to insiders of both the Bank and SVB Financial are subject to prohibitions and other restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve’s Regulation O.  For purposes of these limits, “insiders” include directors, executive officers and principal stockholders of the Bank or SVB Financial and their related interests.  The term “related interest” means a company controlled by a director, executive officer or principal stockholder of the Bank or SVB Financial.  The Bank may not extend credit to an insider of the Bank or SVB Financial unless the loan is made on substantially the same terms as, and subject to credit underwriting procedures that are no less stringent than, those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with non-insiders.  Under federal banking regulations, the Bank may not extend credit to insiders in an amount, when aggregated with all other extensions of credit, is greater than $500,000 without prior approval from the Bank’s Board of Directors (with any interested person abstaining from participating directly or indirectly in the voting).  California law, the federal regulations and the Dodd-Frank Act place additional restrictions on loans to insiders, and generally prohibit loans to executive officers other than for certain specified purposes.  The Bank is required to maintain records regarding insiders and extensions of credit to them.



Premiums for Deposit Insurance

The FDIC insures our customer deposits through the DIF up to prescribed limits for each depositor.  In recent years, due to higher levels of bank failures, the FDIC’s resolution costs increased, which depleted the DIF.  In order to restore the DIF to its statutorily mandated minimum of 1.35% of total deposits, the FDIC has increased deposit insurance premium rates.  The FDIC must seek to achieve the 1.35% ratio by September 30, 2020.  Insured institutions with assets of $10 billion or more, such as the Bank, are responsible for funding the increase.  The Bank bases its assessment rate on a risk−based scorecard calculation provided by the FDIC.  In addition, the FDIC retains the authority to further increase the Bank’s assessment rates and the FDIC has established a higher reserve ratio of 2% as a long-term goal which goes beyond what is required by statute.  Continued increases in our FDIC insurance premiums could have an adverse effect on the Bank’s results of operations.  For the year ended December 31, 2014, we recorded $19.2 million in FDIC assessments expense.



Consumer Regulations

The Bank is subject to many federal consumer protection statutes and regulations, such as the CRA, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, the National Flood Insurance Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, as amended by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transaction Act and various federal and state privacy protection laws.  In addition, the CFPB has the authority to conduct examinations for all depository institutions with total assets of $10 billion or more, which includes the Bank.  The CFPB’s mandate is to promulgate consumer regulations and ensure that consumer financial practices at large banks, such as the Bank, comply with consumer financial protection legal requirements.  The CFPB’s authority includes the ability to examine all subsidiaries and affiliates of the Bank as well.  Penalties for violating these laws could subject the Bank to lawsuits and could also result in administrative penalties, including, fines and reimbursements and orders to halt expansion/existing activities.  The CFPB has broad authority to institute various enforcement actions, including investigations, civil actions, cease and desist proceedings and the ability to refer criminal findings to the Department of Justice.  The Bank and SVB Financial are also subject to federal and state laws prohibiting unfair, corrupt or fraudulent business practices, untrue or misleading advertising and unfair competition.

Examination and enforcement by the state and federal banking agencies, and other such enforcement authorities, for non-compliance with consumer protection laws and their implementing regulations have increased and become more intense.  The advent of the CFPB further heightens oversight and review of compliance with consumer protection laws and regulations.  Due to these heightened regulatory concerns and new powers and authority of the CFPB, the Bank and its affiliates may incur additional compliance costs or be required to expend additional funds for investments in their local community.



Anti-Money Laundering Regulations

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act (“USA PATRIOT Act”) of 2001 and its implementing regulations substantially broadened the scope of U.S. anti-money laundering laws and regulations by requiring insured depository institutions, broker-dealers, and certain other financial institutions to have policies, procedures, and controls to detect, prevent, and report money laundering and terrorist financing. The USA PATRIOT Act and its regulations also provide for information sharing, subject to conditions, between federal law enforcement agencies and financial institutions, as well as among financial institutions, for counter-terrorism purposes. Federal banking regulators are required, when reviewing bank holding company acquisition and bank merger applications, to take into account the effectiveness of the anti-money laundering activities of the applicants. Material deficiencies in anti-money laundering compliance can result in public enforcement actions by the bank regulatory agencies, including the imposition of civil money penalties and supervisory restrictions on growth and expansion.  Such enforcement actions could also have serious reputational consequences for SVB Financial and the Bank.











Regulation of Certain Subsidiaries

SVB Asset Management is registered with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and is subject to its rules and regulations.  SVB Securities is registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC and is subject to regulation by the SEC and FINRA.  SVB Securities is also a member of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation.  As a broker-dealer, SVB Securities is subject to Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which is designed to measure the general financial condition and liquidity of a broker-dealer.  Under this rule, SVB Securities is required to maintain the minimum net capital deemed necessary to meet its continuing commitments to customers and others.  Under certain circumstances, this rule could limit the ability of the Bank to withdraw capital from SVB Securities.  In addition, following completion of various studies on investment advisers and broker−dealers required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC has, among other things, recommended to Congress that it consider various means to enhance the SEC’s examination authority over investment advisers, which may have an impact on SVB Asset Management that we cannot currently assess.



International Regulation

Our international-based subsidiaries and global activities, including our banking branch in the United Kingdom and our joint venture bank in China are subject to the respective laws and regulations of those countries and the regions in which they operate.  This includes laws and regulations promulgated by, but not limited to, the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority in the United Kingdom, the China Banking Regulatory Commission, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and the Reserve Bank of India. Moreover, promulgation by standard-setting bodies that are charged with the development of international regulatory frameworks, such as the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, can affect the Bank and SVB Financial globally as national regulators implement the frameworks in local jurisdictions.



Available Information

We make available free of charge through our Internet website, http://www.svb.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The contents of our website are not incorporated herein by reference and the website address provided is intended to be an inactive textual reference only.



