ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

SVB Financial Group is a diversified financial services company, as well as a bank holding company and financial holding company. The Company was
incorporated in the state of Delaware in March 1999. Through our various subsidiaries and divisions, we offer a variety of banking and financial products and services to clients across the United States, as well as in key international
entrepreneurial markets. For nearly 30 years, we have been dedicated to helping entrepreneurs succeed, primarily in the technology, life science, venture capital/private equity and premium wine industries. We provide our clients of all sizes and
stages with a diverse set of products and services to support them throughout their life cycles.

We offer commercial and private
banking products and services through our principal subsidiary, Silicon Valley Bank (the “Bank”), which is a California state-chartered bank founded in 1983 and is a member of the Federal Reserve System. Through its subsidiaries, the Bank
also offers brokerage, investment advisory and asset management services. Through our other subsidiaries and divisions, we also offer non-banking products and services, such as funds management, venture capital/private equity investments, business
valuation and equity management services. Additionally, we focus on cultivating strong relationships with firms within the venture capital and private equity community worldwide, many of which are also our clients and may invest in our corporate
clients.

As of December 31, 2011, we had, on a consolidated basis, total assets of $20.0 billion, investment securities of $11.5
billion, total loans, net of unearned income, of $7.0 billion, total deposits of $16.7 billion and total SVB Financial Group (“SVBFG”) stockholders’ equity of $1.6 billion.

We operate through 26 offices in the United States, as well as offices internationally in China, India, Israel and the United Kingdom. Our
corporate headquarters is located at 3003 Tasman Drive, Santa Clara, California 95054, and our telephone number is 408.654.7400.

When
we refer to “SVB Financial Group,” “SVBFG,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” “us” or use similar words, we mean SVB Financial Group and all of its subsidiaries collectively, including the Bank.
When we refer to “SVB Financial” or the “Parent” we are referring only to the parent company, SVB Financial Group.

Business
Overview

For reporting purposes, SVB Financial Group has three operating segments for which we report financial information in this
report: Global Commercial Bank, SVB Private Bank and SVB Capital.

Global Commercial Bank

Our Global Commercial Bank segment is comprised of results primarily from our Commercial Bank, and to a lesser extent, from SVB Specialty Lending,
SVB Analytics and our Debt Fund Investments, each as further described below.

Commercial Bank. Our Commercial Bank products and
services are provided by the Bank and its subsidiaries to commercial clients in the technology, venture capital/private equity, life science and cleantech industries. The Bank provides solutions to the financial needs of commercial clients through
lending, deposit products, cash management services, global banking and trade products and services, and investment services. It also serves the needs of our non-U.S. clients with global banking products, including loans, deposits and global
finance, in key international entrepreneurial markets, where applicable.







Through lending products and services, the Bank extends loans and other credit facilities to
commercial clients. These loans are often secured by clients’ assets. Lending products and services include traditional term loans, equipment loans, asset-based loans, revolving lines of credit, accounts-receivable-based lines of credits,
capital call lines of credits and credit cards.

The Bank’s deposit and cash management products and services provide commercial
clients with short- and long-term cash management solutions. Deposit products include traditional deposit and checking accounts, certificates of deposit, money market accounts and sweep accounts. In connection with deposit services, the Bank
provides lockbox and merchant services that facilitate timely depositing of checks and other payments to clients’ accounts. Cash management products and services include wire transfer and automated clearing house payment services to enable
clients to transfer funds quickly. Additionally, the cash management services unit provides collection services, disbursement services, electronic funds transfers, and online banking.

The Bank’s global banking and trade products and services facilitate clients’ global finance and business needs. These products and
services include foreign exchange services that allow commercial clients to manage their foreign currency needs and risks through the purchase and sale of currencies, swaps and hedges on the global inter-bank market. To facilitate clients’
international trade, the Bank offers a variety of loan and credit facilities guaranteed by the Export-Import Bank of the United States. The Bank also offers letters of credit, including export, import, and standby letters of credit, to enable
clients to ship and receive goods globally.

The Bank and its subsidiaries offer a variety of investment services and solutions to its
clients that enable companies to effectively manage their assets. Through its broker-dealer subsidiary, SVB Securities, the Bank offers clients access to investments in third party money market mutual funds and fixed-income securities. Through its
registered investment advisory subsidiary, SVB Asset Management, the Bank offers investment advisory services, including outsourced treasury services, with customized cash portfolio management and reporting.

SVB Specialty Lending. SVB Specialty Lending provides banking products and services to our premium wine industry clients, including vineyard
development loans, as well as community development loans made as part of our responsibilities under the Community Reinvestment Act.

SVB Analytics. SVB Analytics provides equity valuation and equity management services to private companies and venture capital/private
equity firms.

Debt Fund Investments. Debt Fund Investments include our investment in debt funds in which we are a strategic
investor: (i) Gold Hill funds, which provide secured debt to private companies of all stages, and (ii) Partners for Growth funds, which provide secured debt primarily to mid-stage and late-stage clients.

SVB Private Bank

SVB Private Bank
is the private banking division of the Bank, which provides a range of personal financial solutions primarily to venture capital/private equity professionals. We offer a customized suite of private banking services, including mortgages, home equity
lines of credit, restricted stock purchase loans, capital call lines of credit, and other secured and unsecured lending. We also help our private banking clients meet their cash management needs by providing deposit account products and services,
including checking, money market, certificates of deposit accounts, online banking, credit cards and other personalized banking services.

SVB
Capital

SVB Capital is the venture capital investment arm of SVB Financial Group, which focuses primarily on funds management.
SVB Capital manages approximately $1.4 billion of funds, largely venture capital funds, primarily on behalf of third party limited partner investors, as well as SVB Financial Group. The SVB Capital family of funds is comprised of funds of funds
and direct venture funds (or co-investment funds). SVB Capital generates income for the Company primarily through management fees, carried interest arrangements and returns through the







Company’s investments in the funds. Most of the funds managed by SVB Capital are consolidated into our financial statements. See Note 2—“Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies—Principles of Consolidation and Presentation” of the “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” under Part II, Item 8 in this report.

For more information about our three operating segments, including financial information and results of operations, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Operating Segment Results” under Part II, Item 7 in this report, and Note 20—“Segment Reporting” of the “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” under Part II, Item 8 in this report.

Income Sources

Our total
revenue is comprised of our net interest income and noninterest income. Net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis and noninterest income for the year ended December 31, 2011 were $528.2 million and $382.3 million, respectively.

Net interest income is primarily income generated from interest rate differentials. The difference between the interest rates received
on interest-earning assets, such as loans extended to clients and securities held in our available-for-sale securities portfolio, and the interest rates paid by us on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings, accounts for the
major portion of our earnings. Our deposits are largely obtained from commercial clients within our technology, life science, venture capital and private equity industry sectors. Deposits are also obtained from the premium wine industry commercial
clients and from our Private Bank clients. We do not obtain deposits from conventional retail sources.

Noninterest income is primarily
income generated from our fee-based services and returns on our investments. We offer a wide range of fee-based financial services to our clients, including global commercial banking, private banking and other business services. Our ability to
integrate and cross-sell our diverse financial services to our clients is a strength of our business model. Additionally, we seek to obtain returns by making investments. We manage and invest in venture capital/private equity funds that invest
directly in privately-held companies, as well as funds that invest in other venture capital/private equity funds. We also invest directly in privately-held companies. Additionally, we recognize gains from warrants to acquire stock in client
companies, which we obtain in connection with negotiating credit facilities and certain other services.

We derive substantially all of
our income from U.S. clients. We derived less than 5 percent of our total revenues from foreign clients for each of 2011, 2010 and 2009.

Industry Niches

In each of the industry
niches we serve, we provide services to meet the needs of our clients throughout their life cycles, beginning with the emerging, start-up stage.

Technology and Life Sciences

We serve a
variety of clients in the technology and life science industries. Our technology clients tend to be in the industries of hardware (semiconductors, communications and electronics), software, cleantech (energy generation, storage and efficiency) and
related services. Our life science clients tend to be in the industries of biotechnology and medical devices. A key component of our technology and life science business strategy is to develop relationships with clients at an early stage and offer
them banking services that will continue to meet their needs as they mature and expand. We serve these clients primarily through three practices:



•OurSVB Acceleratorpractice focuses on serving our “emerging” or “early stage” clients. These clients are generally in the start-up
or early stages of their life cycles. They are typically privately-held and funded by friends and family, “seed” or “angel” investors, or have gone through an initial round of venture capital financing. Typically, they are
primarily engaged in research and development, have little or no revenue and may have only brought a few products or services to market. SVB Accelerator practice clients tend to have annual revenues below $5 million.







•OurSVB Growthpractice serves our “mid-stage,” “late-stage” and “corporate technology” clients. These clients are in the
intermediate or later stages of their life cycles and are generally privately-held, and many are dependent on venture capital for funding. Some of our “corporate technology” clients that are in the more advanced stages of their life cycles
may be publicly held or poised to become publicly held. Our SVB Growth clients generally have a solid or more established product or service offering in the market, with more meaningful or considerable revenue. They also may be expanding globally.
SVB Growth practice clients tend to have annual revenues between $5 million and $75 million.

•OurSVB Corporate Financepractice serves primarily our “large corporate” clients, which are more mature and established companies. These
clients are generally publicly-held, have a more sophisticated product or service offering in the market, and significant revenue. They also may be expanding globally. SVB Corporate Finance practice clients tend to have annual revenues over $75
million.

Venture Capital/Private Equity

We provide financial services to clients in the venture capital/private equity community. Since our founding, we have cultivated strong relationships within the venture capital/private equity community,
particularly with venture capital firms worldwide, many of which are also clients. We serve in the United States and worldwide more than 600 venture capital firms and more than 150 private equity firms, facilitating deal flow to and from these
firms. We may also, through SVB Financial or SVB Capital funds, participate in direct investments in their portfolio companies.

Premium Wine

We are one of the leading providers of financial services to premium wine producers across the Western United States, primarily in
California’s Napa Valley, Sonoma County and Central Coast regions, and the Pacific Northwest, with approximately 300 winery and vineyard clients. We focus on vineyards and wineries that produce grapes and premium wines.

Competition

The banking and financial
services industry is highly competitive, and continues to evolve as a result of changes in regulation, technology, product delivery systems, and the general market and economic climate. Our current competitors include other banks, debt funds and
specialty and diversified financial services intermediaries that offer lending, leasing, payments, investment, advisory and other financial products and services to our target client base. The principal competitive factors in our markets include
product offerings, service, and pricing. Given our established market position within the client segments that we serve, and our ability to integrate and cross-sell our diverse financial services to extend the length of our relationships with our
clients, we believe we compete favorably in all our markets in these areas.

Employees

As of December 31, 2011, we employed 1,526 full-time equivalent employees.

Supervision and Regulation

Our bank and bank holding company operations are subject to
extensive regulation by federal and state regulatory agencies. This regulation is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”), as well as the stability of the U.S. banking system. This
regulation is not intended for the benefit of security holders. As a bank holding company and a financial holding company, SVB Financial is subject to primary inspection, supervision, regulation, and examination by the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (“BHC Act”). The Bank, as a California state-chartered bank and a member of the Federal Reserve System, is subject to primary supervision and examination







by the Federal Reserve Board, as well as the California Department of Financial Institutions (“DFI”). In addition, the Bank’s deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation. SVB Financial’s other nonbank subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve Board and other applicable federal and state regulatory agencies, including the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”)
and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”). Current and future legal and regulatory requirements, restrictions and regulations, including, but not limited to, those imposed under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executive
officers and employees.

In addition, we are subject to foreign regulatory agencies in international jurisdictions, where we may conduct
business, including the U.K., Israel, India and China. (See “International Regulation” below.)

The following discussion of
statutes and regulations is a summary and does not purport to be complete. This discussion is qualified in its entirety by reference to the statutes and regulations referred to in this discussion.

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act—General

Regulation of Holding Company

Under the BHC Act, SVB Financial is subject to the Federal Reserve’s regulation and its authority to:



•Require periodic reports and such additional information as the Federal Reserve may require in its discretion;

•Require the maintenance of certain levels of capital;







•Restrict the ability of bank holding companies to service debt or to receive dividends or other distributions from their subsidiary banks;

•Require prior approval for senior executive officer and director changes under certain circumstances;

•Require that bank holding companies serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to subsidiary banks and commit resources as necessary to support each
subsidiary bank. A bank holding company’s failure to meet its obligations to serve as a source of strength to its subsidiary banks will generally be considered by the Federal Reserve to be an unsafe and unsound banking practice or a violation
of Federal Reserve regulations or both under current law, and will be a statutory violation under the Dodd-Frank Act, as described below;

•Terminate an activity or terminate control of or liquidate or divest certain subsidiaries, affiliates or investments if the Federal Reserve believes the activity
or the control of the subsidiary or affiliate constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of any bank subsidiary;

•Regulate provisions of certain bank holding company debt, including the authority to impose interest ceilings and reserve requirements on such debt and require
prior approval to purchase or redeem our securities in certain situations; and

•Approve acquisitions and mergers with banks and consider certain competitive, management, financial, financial stability and other factors in granting these
approvals. Similar California and other state banking agency approvals may also be required.

The Dodd-Frank Act
codifies bank holding companies’ obligations to serve as a source of financial strength to any bank subsidiary. In that regard, bank holding companies, such as SVB Financial, must have the ability to provide financial assistance to the Bank in
the event of financial distress.

Bank holding companies are generally prohibited, except in certain statutorily prescribed instances
including exceptions for financial holding companies, from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the outstanding voting shares of any company that is not a bank or bank holding company and from engaging directly or
indirectly in activities other than those of banking, managing or controlling banks, or furnishing services to its subsidiaries. However, subject to prior notice or Federal Reserve Board approval, bank holding companies may engage in, or acquire
shares of companies engaged in, activities determined by the Federal Reserve Board to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. As a financial holding company, SVB Financial may engage in
these nonbanking activities and certain other broader securities, insurance, merchant banking and other activities that are determined to be “financial in nature” or are incidental or complementary to activities that are financial in
nature without prior Federal Reserve approval, subject to the requirement imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act that SVB Financial will be required to obtain prior Federal Reserve approval in order to acquire a nonbanking company with more than
$10 billion in consolidated assets.

Pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (“GLBA”), in order to elect and
retain financial holding company status, all depository institution subsidiaries of a bank holding company must be well capitalized, well managed, and, except in limited circumstances, in satisfactory compliance with the Community Reinvestment Act
(“CRA”). In addition, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, a financial holding company will also be required to be well capitalized and well managed. Failure to sustain compliance with these requirements or correct any non-compliance within a
fixed time period could lead to divestiture of subsidiary banks or require all activities to conform to those permissible for a bank holding company.

Because we are a holding company, our rights and the rights of our creditors and security holders to participate in the assets of any of our subsidiaries upon the subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization
will be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors, except to the extent we may ourselves be a creditor with recognized claims against the subsidiary. In addition, there are various statutory and regulatory limitations on the
extent to which the Bank can finance or otherwise transfer funds to us or to our non-bank subsidiaries, including certain investment funds to which the Bank serves as an investment adviser, whether in the form of loans or other extensions of credit,
including a purchase of assets subject to an agreement to repurchase,







securities investments, the borrowing or lending of securities to the extent that the transaction causes the Bank or a subsidiary to have credit exposure to the affiliate, or certain other
specified types of transactions, as discussed in further detail below. Furthermore, loans and other extensions of credit by the Bank to us or any of our non-bank subsidiaries are required to be secured by specified amounts of collateral and are
required to be on terms and conditions consistent with safe and sound banking practices.

SVB Financial is also treated as a bank
holding company under the California Financial Code. As such, SVB Financial and its subsidiaries are subject to periodic examination by, and may be required to file reports with, the California DFI.

Securities Registration and Listing

SVB
Financial’s securities are registered under the SEC’s Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. As such, SVB Financial is subject to the information, proxy
solicitation, insider trading, corporate governance, and other requirements and restrictions of the Exchange Act, as well as the Marketplace Rules and other requirements promulgated by the Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc.

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act

SVB Financial is
subject to the accounting oversight and corporate governance requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including, among other things, required executive certification of financial presentations, increased requirements for board audit
committees and their members, and enhanced requirements relating to disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting.

Regulation of Silicon Valley Bank



•Require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice;

•Require prior approval for senior executive officer and director changes;

•Direct an increase in capital and the maintenance of specific minimum capital ratios which may preclude the Bank from being deemed well capitalized for
regulatory purposes;

•Restrict the Bank’s growth geographically, by products and services, or by mergers and acquisitions;

•Enter into informal or formal enforcement orders, including memoranda of understanding, written agreements and consent or cease and desist orders to take
corrective action and enjoin unsafe and unsound practices;

•Restrict or prohibit the Bank from paying dividends or making other distributions to SVB Financial;

•Remove officers and directors and assess civil monetary penalties; and

•Take possession of and close and liquidate the Bank.







California law permits state chartered commercial banks to engage in any activity permissible for
national banks. Therefore, the Bank may form subsidiaries to engage in the many so-called “closely related to banking” or “nonbanking” activities commonly conducted by national banks in operating subsidiaries, and further, the
Bank may conduct certain “financial” activities in a subsidiary to the same extent as may a national bank, provided the Bank is and remains “well-capitalized,” “well-managed” and in satisfactory compliance with the CRA.

Federal Home Loan Bank System

The Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of San Francisco. Among other benefits, each FHLB serves as a reserve or
central bank for its members within its assigned region and makes available loans or advances to its members. Each FHLB is financed primarily from the sale of consolidated obligations of the FHLB system. As an FHLB member, the Bank is required to
own a certain amount of capital stock in the FHLB. At December 31, 2011, the Bank was in compliance with the FHLB’s stock ownership requirement and our investment in FHLB capital stock totaled $25.0 million.

Regulatory Capital

The federal banking
agencies have adopted guidelines that govern risk-based capital and allowable leverage capital levels for bank holding companies and banks that are expected to provide a measure of capital that reflects the degree of risk associated with a banking
organization’s operations for both transactions reported on the balance sheet as assets, such as loans, and those recorded as off-balance sheet items, such as commitments, letters of credit and recourse arrangements.

Under current capital guidelines, banking organizations are required to maintain certain minimum risk-based capital ratios, which are calculated by
dividing a banking organization’s qualifying capital by its risk-weighted assets (including both on- and off-balance sheet assets). Risk-weighted assets are calculated by assigning assets and off-balance sheet items to broad risk categories.
Qualifying capital is classified depending on the type of capital. For SVB Financial:



•“Tier 1 capital” consists of common equity, retained earnings, qualifying non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, a limited amount of qualifying
cumulative perpetual preferred stock issued prior to May 19, 2010 and noncontrolling interests in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries (including trust-preferred securities), less goodwill and certain other intangible assets. As
discussed further below, qualifying Tier 1 capital may consist of trust-preferred securities issued prior to May 19, 2010, subject to certain criteria and quantitative limits for inclusion of restricted core capital elements in Tier 1 capital.

•“Tier 2 capital” includes, among other things, hybrid capital instruments, perpetual debt, mandatory convertible debt securities, qualifying term
subordinated debt, preferred stock that does not qualify as Tier 1 capital, and a limited amount of allowance for loan and lease losses.

With certain qualifications, the Dodd-Frank Act excludes trust preferred securities issued on or after May 19, 2010 from Tier 1 capital. For depository institution holding companies with total consolidated
assets of more than $15 billion at December 31, 2009, trust preferred securities issued before May 19, 2010 will be phased-out of Tier 1 capital over a three-year period. Because SVB Financial’s total assets were less than
$15 billion as of December 31, 2009, trust preferred securities issued prior to May 19, 2010 (our 7.0% Junior Subordinated debentures) will continue to qualify as Tier 1 capital, subject to any overall regulatory determination to
disqualify such securities from Tier 1 capital treatment.

As a bank holding company, SVB Financial is subject to three capital ratios:
a total risk-based capital ratio, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio and a Tier 1 leverage ratio. To be classified as “adequately capitalized”, the minimum required ratios for bank holding companies and banks are eight percent, four percent
and four percent, respectively. Additionally, for SVB Financial to remain a financial holding company, the Bank must at all







times be “well-capitalized,” which requires the Bank to have a total risk-based capital ratio, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least ten percent, six
percent and five percent, respectively. Moreover, maintaining the financial holding company at “well-capitalized” status provides certain benefits to the company, such as the ability to repurchase stock without prior regulatory approval.
To be “well-capitalized,” the holding company must at all times have a total risk-based and Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least ten percent and six percent, respectively. There is no current Tier 1 leverage requirement for a
holding company to be deemed “well-capitalized”. As of December 31, 2011, both SVB Financial and the Bank were considered “well-capitalized” for regulatory purposes.

The federal banking agencies may change existing capital guidelines or adopt new capital guidelines in the future pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act,
the implementation of Basel III (described below) or other regulatory or supervisory changes. For instance, the Dodd-Frank Act further requires the federal banking agencies to adopt capital requirements which address the risks that the activities of
an institution poses to the institution and the public and private stakeholders, including risks arising from certain enumerated activities. Notwithstanding these capital ratio requirements, pursuant to federal regulatory guidance, banking
organizations are expected to operate with capital positions well above the minimum or “well-capitalized” ratios, with the amount of capital held commensurate with its risk exposure.

SVB Financial is also currently subject to rules that govern the regulatory capital treatment of equity investments in non-financial companies made
on or after March 13, 2000 and held under certain specified legal authorities by a bank or bank holding company. Under the rules, these equity investments will be subject to a separate capital charge that will reduce a bank holding
company’s Tier 1 capital and, as a result, will remove these assets from being taken into consideration in establishing a bank holding company’s required capital ratios discussed above.

Banking organizations must have appropriate capital planning processes, with proper oversight from the Board of Directors. Accordingly, pursuant to
a separate supervisory letter from the Federal Reserve, bank holding companies are expected to conduct and document comprehensive capital adequacy analyses prior to the declaration of any dividends (on common stock, preferred stock, trust preferred
securities or other Tier 1 capital instruments), capital redemptions or capital repurchases. Moreover, the federal banking agencies have adopted a joint agency policy statement, which states that the adequacy and effectiveness of a bank’s
interest rate risk management process and the level of its interest rate exposures are critical factors in the evaluation of the bank’s capital adequacy. A bank with material weaknesses in its interest rate risk management process or high
levels of interest rate exposure relative to its capital will be directed by the federal banking agencies to take corrective actions.

In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires institutions of our size to conduct annual stress tests.

Proprietary Trading and Certain Relationships with Hedge Funds and Private Equity Funds

The “Volcker Rule” under the Dodd-Frank Act includes certain prohibitions on banks’ proprietary trading activities and banks’
ability to sponsor or invest in hedge or private equity funds. Proposed implementing regulations for the Volcker Rule have been issued, and certain final regulations are expected to become effective in July 2012. In a separate rulemaking process,
regulators issued a final rule setting forth the schedule for affected entities to bring their activities and investments into conformance with the prohibitions and restrictions of the Volcker Rule. Pursuant to that “conformance period”
rulemaking, banking entities generally have two years from the effective date of the Volcker Rule to bring their activities into compliance with the Volcker Rule. The conformance period applicable to investment in or sponsorship of covered funds may
be extended, and in the case of certain illiquid funds, may extend to as long as ten years from the effective date of the Volcker Rule.

Subject to certain exceptions, the “Volcker Rule” prohibits a banking entity from engaging in “proprietary trading,” which is
defined as engaging as principal for the “trading account” of the banking entity in securities or







other instruments. Certain forms of proprietary trading may qualify as “permitted activities,” and thus not be subject to the ban on proprietary trading, such as trading in U.S.
government or agency obligations, or certain other U.S. state or municipal obligations, and the obligations of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae. Based on this definition and the exceptions provided under the currently proposed regulations, we
do not believe that we engage in any proprietary trading that would be prohibited under the Volcker Rule.

Additionally, subject to
certain exceptions, the rule prohibits a banking entity from sponsoring or investing in a hedge fund or private equity fund. While a banking entity may “organize and offer” a hedge fund or private equity fund if certain conditions are met,
it may not “sponsor” a covered fund, nor may it acquire or retain an equity partnership or other ownership interest in a fund except for certain limited investments. The Volcker Rule also imposes certain investment limits on banking
entities. When effective, the Volcker Rule is expected to limit covered banking entities to ade minimisinvestment in a hedge fund or private equity fund. Such ade minimisinvestment will be defined by the rules to be immaterial to
the banking entity but in no case may the aggregate investments of a banking entity in hedge funds and private equity funds comprise more than three percent of the institution’s Tier 1 capital. During the transition period, Federal banking
regulators may impose additional capital requirements and other restrictions on any equity, partnership, or ownership interest in or sponsorship of a hedge fund or private equity fund by a banking entity.

Based on the regulations as currently proposed, the Volcker Rule prohibitions would apply to a banking entity such as SVB Financial, the Bank
or any affiliate of SVB Financial or the Bank (including SVB Capital and our strategic fund investments), unless an exception applies. Based on the proposed rules, SVB Financial maintains investments in certain venture capital and private equity
funds that may exceed three percent of its Tier 1 capital and/or may be determined to be material. In the absence of a change to the current Volcker Rule proposal, SVB Financial (including its affiliate SVB Capital) may be required to reduce the
level of its investments in covered funds, would be prohibited from serving as the “sponsor” of funds and would be required to forego investment opportunities in certain funds in the future. SVB Financial would be obligated to come into
conformance with all these requirements in a period of time to be determined by regulators but not to exceed ten years from the effective date of the Dodd-Frank Act.

Basel, Basel II and Basel III Accords

The current risk-based capital guidelines that apply to
SVB Financial and the Bank are based upon the 1988 capital accord of the International Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, a committee of central banks and bank supervisors, as implemented by the Federal Reserve. In 2008, the Federal Reserve
began to phase-in capital standards based on a second capital accord, referred to as Basel II, for large or “core” international banks (total assets of $250 billion or more or consolidated foreign exposures of $10 billion or
more). Basel II emphasizes internal assessment of credit, market and operational risk, as well as supervisory assessment and market discipline in determining minimum capital requirements.

On September 12, 2010, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight body of the Basel Committee, announced agreement on the
calibration and phase-in arrangements for a strengthened set of capital requirements, known as the Basel Capital Adequacy Accords or Basel III. Basel III increases the minimum Tier 1 common equity ratio to 4.5%, net of regulatory deductions, and
introduces a capital conservation buffer of an additional 2.5% of common equity to risk-weighted assets, raising the target minimum common equity ratio to 7.0%. Basel III increases (a) the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio to 8.5% inclusive of the
capital conservation buffer, (b) increases the minimum total capital ratio to 10.5% inclusive of the capital buffer and (c) introduces a countercyclical capital buffer of up to 2.5% of common equity or other fully loss absorbing capital
for periods of excess credit growth. Basel III also introduces a non-risk adjusted Tier 1 leverage ratio of 3.0%, based on a measure of total exposure rather than total assets, and new liquidity standards. The Basel III capital and liquidity
standards are expected to be phased in over a multi-year period. The final package of Basel III reforms was endorsed at the Seoul G20 Leaders Summit in November 2010, and is subject to individual adoption by member nations, including the United
States.







On December 20, 2011, the Federal Reserve issued proposed regulations requiring bank holding
companies with assets in excess of $50 billion to meet certain capital and liquidity requirements. Under the proposed regulations, subject institutions would be subject to the Federal Reserve Board’s capital plan rule, which was issued in
November 2011. That rule requires firms to develop annual capital plans, conduct stress tests, and maintain adequate capital, including a tier one common risk-based capital ratio greater than 5 percent, under both expected and stressed conditions.
In the second phase, the Federal Reserve Board would issue a proposal to implement a risk-based capital surcharge based on the framework and methodology developed by the Basel Committee. Although SVB Financial and the Bank are currently not large
enough to be subject to the terms of such proposed regulations, we believe the Federal Reserve will likely implement changes to the capital adequacy standards applicable to SVB Financial and the Bank in light of Basel III and the overall regulatory
environment which could increase the capital requirements of financial institutions generally, including SVB Financial and the Bank.

Prompt
Corrective Action and Other General Enforcement Authority

State and federal banking agencies possess broad powers to take
corrective and other supervisory action against an insured bank and its holding company. Federal laws require each federal banking agency to take prompt corrective action to resolve the problems of insured banks.

Each federal banking agency has issued regulations defining five categories in which an insured depository institution will be placed, based on the
level of its capital ratios: well-capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, and critically undercapitalized. At each successive lower capital category, an insured bank is subject to more restrictions,
including restrictions on the bank’s activities, operational practices or the ability to pay dividends. Based upon its capital levels, a bank that is classified as well-capitalized, adequately capitalized, or undercapitalized may be treated as
though it were in the next lower capital category if the appropriate federal banking agency, after notice and opportunity for hearing, determines that an unsafe or unsound condition, or an unsafe or unsound practice, warrants such treatment.

In addition to measures taken under the prompt corrective action provisions, bank holding companies and insured banks may be subject to
potential enforcement actions by the federal regulators for unsafe or unsound practices in conducting their business, or for violation of any law, rule, regulation, condition imposed in writing by the agency or term of a written agreement with the
agency. In more serious cases, enforcement actions may include the appointment of a conservator or receiver for the bank; the issuance of a cease and desist order that can be judicially enforced; the termination of the bank’s deposit insurance;
the imposition of civil monetary penalties; the issuance of directives to increase capital; the issuance of formal and informal agreements; the issuance of removal and prohibition orders against officers, directors, and other institution-affiliated
parties; and the enforcement of such actions through injunctions or restraining orders based upon a judicial determination that the agency would be harmed if such equitable relief was not granted.

The FDIC may terminate a depository institution’s deposit insurance upon a finding that the institution’s financial condition is unsafe
or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices that pose a risk to the DIF or that may prejudice the interest of the bank’s depositors. The termination of deposit insurance for a bank would also result in the
revocation of the bank’s charter by the DFI.

Safety and Soundness Guidelines

Banking regulatory agencies have adopted guidelines to assist in identifying and addressing potential safety and soundness concerns before capital
becomes impaired. The guidelines establish operational and managerial standards generally relating to: (1) internal controls, information systems, and internal audit systems; (2) loan documentation; (3) credit underwriting;
(4) interest-rate exposure; (5) asset growth and asset quality; and (6) compensation, fees, and benefits. In addition, the banking regulatory agencies have adopted safety and soundness guidelines for asset quality and for evaluating
and monitoring earnings to ensure that earnings are sufficient for the maintenance of adequate capital and reserves.







Restrictions on Dividends

Dividends from the Bank constitute a primary source of cash for SVB Financial. The Bank is subject to various federal and state statutory and regulatory restrictions on its ability to pay dividends, including
applicable provisions of the California Financial Code and the prompt corrective action regulations. In addition, the banking agencies have the authority to prohibit the Bank from paying dividends, depending upon the Bank’s financial condition,
if such payment is deemed to constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Furthermore, under the federal prompt corrective action regulations, the Federal Reserve Board may prohibit a bank holding company from paying any dividends if the holding
company’s bank subsidiary is classified as “undercapitalized.”

It is the Federal Reserve’s policy that bank holding
companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of income available over the past year, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition. It is also
the Federal Reserve’s policy that bank holding companies should not maintain dividend levels that undermine their ability to be a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries. Additionally, in consideration of the current financial and
economic environment, the Federal Reserve has indicated that bank holding companies should carefully review their dividend policy and has discouraged payment ratios that are at maximum allowable levels unless both asset quality and capital are very
strong.

Transactions with Affiliates

In addition, the Bank and its operating subsidiaries generally may not purchase a low-quality asset from
an affiliate. Moreover, covered transactions and other specified transactions by the Bank and its operating subsidiaries with an affiliate must be on terms and conditions, including credit standards, that are substantially the same, or at least as
favorable to the Bank or its subsidiaries, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with nonaffiliated companies. An entity that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of the Bank would not be considered to be an “affiliate”
of the Bank or its operating subsidiaries for these purposes unless it fell into one of certain categories, such as a “financial subsidiary” authorized under the GLBA.







Loans to Insiders

Extensions of credit by the Bank to insiders of both the Bank and SVB Financial are subject to prohibitions and other restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve’s Regulation O. For purposes of these limits,
“insiders” include directors, executive officers and principal stockholders of the Bank or SVB Financial and their related interests. The term “related interest” means a company controlled by a director, executive officer or
principal stockholder of the Bank or SVB Financial. The Bank may not extend credit to an insider of the Bank or SVB Financial unless the loan is made on substantially the same terms as, and subject to credit underwriting procedures that are no less
stringent than, those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with non-insiders. Under federal banking regulations, the Bank may not extend credit to insiders in an amount, when aggregated with all other extensions of credit, is greater
than $500,000 without prior approval from the Bank’s Board of Directors approval (with any interested person abstaining from participating directly or indirectly in the voting). California law, the federal regulations and the Dodd-Frank Act
place additional restrictions on loans to executive officers, and generally prohibit loans to executive officers other than for certain specified purposes. The Bank is required to maintain records regarding insiders and extensions of credit to them.

Premiums for Deposit Insurance

The FDIC insures our customer deposits through the DIF up to prescribed limits for each depositor. In recent years, due to higher levels of bank
failures, the FDIC’s resolution costs increased, which depleted the DIF. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the DIF, the FDIC has increased assessment rates of insured institutions and may continue to
do so in the future. In 2009, the FDIC also adopted a requirement of institutions to prepay their assessment fees through 2012. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. Any changes in
FDIC insurance premiums may have a material affect on our results of operations.

All FDIC-insured institutions are also required to pay
assessments to the FDIC to fund interest payments on bonds issued by the Financing Corporation (“FICO”), an agency of the federal government established to recapitalize the predecessor to the DIF. These assessments will continue until the
FICO bonds mature in 2017 through 2019.

During 2010, the Bank’s FDIC and FICO assessment rates were based on its domestic
deposits. Effective as of April 1, 2011, however, under final rules adopted by the FDIC and as mandated under the Dodd-Frank Act, FDIC and FICO assessment rates will be based on the average total consolidated assets minus the average
consolidated tangible equity during the assessment period. The reduction in current assessment rates reflects this change from an assessment base computed on deposits to an assessment base computed on assets.

USA PATRIOT Act of 2001

The USA PATRIOT
Act of 2001 and its implementing regulations significantly expanded the anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws, including the Bank Secrecy Act. The Company has adopted comprehensive policies and procedures to address the requirements
of the USA PATRIOT Act. Material deficiencies in anti-money laundering compliance can result in public enforcement actions by the banking agencies, including the imposition of civil money penalties and supervisory restrictions on growth and
expansion. Such enforcement actions could also have serious reputation consequences for SVB Financial and the Bank.

Consumer Protection Laws and
Regulations

The Bank is subject to many federal consumer protection statutes and regulations, such as the CRA, the Equal Credit
Opportunity Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the National Flood Insurance Act and various federal and







state privacy protection laws. Penalties for violating these laws could subject the Bank to lawsuits and could also result in administrative penalties, including, fines and reimbursements and
orders to halt expansion/existing activities. The Bank and SVB Financial are also subject to federal and state laws prohibiting unfair or fraudulent business practices, untrue or misleading advertising and unfair competition.

The Dodd-Frank Act has established a new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (the “Bureau”) within the Federal Reserve, with broad
powers to regulate consumer financial services. The Bureau has extensive authority to prescribe rules under any consumer financial protection law and has supervisory and enforcement authority with respect to Federal consumer financial laws. Under
the Dodd-Frank Act, the Bureau has the authority to prescribe rules that address unfair, deceptive or abusive acts in connection with the provision of consumer financial products and services and to ensure that consumers are provided with full,
accurate and effective disclosure to make responsible decisions about financial transactions. The Bureau has the authority to bring enforcement actions and to commence civil litigation actions or seek civil monetary or equitable relief in connection
with violations of consumer finance law.

In recent years, examination and enforcement by the state and federal banking agencies for
non-compliance with consumer protection laws and their implementing regulations have become more intense. The advent of the Bureau will further heighten oversight and review of compliance with consumer protection laws and regulations. Due to these
heightened regulatory concerns and new powers and authority of the Bureau, the Bank and its affiliates may incur additional compliance costs or be required to expend additional funds for investments in their local community.

Securities Activities

Federal
Reserve’s Regulation R implements exceptions provided in the GLBA for securities activities which banks may conduct without registering with the SEC as securities broker or moving such activities to a broker-dealer affiliate.
Regulation R provides exceptions for networking arrangements with third-party broker-dealers and authorizes compensation for bank employees who refer and assist institutional and high net worth bank customers with their securities, including
sweep accounts to money market funds, and with related trust, fiduciary, custodial and safekeeping needs. The current securities activities which the Bank and its subsidiaries provide customers are conducted in conformance with these rules and
regulations.

Regulation of Certain Subsidiaries

International Regulation

Our international-based subsidiaries and global activities, including our plans to establish a banking branch in the United
Kingdom, a joint venture bank in China and our non-bank financial company in India, are subject







to the respective laws and regulations of those countries. This includes those promulgated by the Financial Services Authority in the United Kingdom, the China Banking Regulatory Commission and
the Reserve Bank of India.

Available Information

We make available free of charge through our Internet website, http://www.svb.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The contents of our website are not
incorporated herein by reference and the website address provided is intended to be an inactive textual reference only.



