Item 1.BUSINESS

General

SVB Financial Group is a diversified financial services company, as well as a bank holding company and financial holding company. The
Company was incorporated in the state of Delaware in March 1999. Through our various subsidiaries and divisions, we offer a variety of banking and financial products and services to clients across the United States, as well as in key
international entrepreneurial markets. For over 25 years, we have been dedicated to helping entrepreneurs succeed, primarily in the technology, life science, venture capital/private equity and premium wine industries. We provide our clients of
all sizes and stages with a diverse set of products and services to support them throughout their life cycles.

We offer
commercial banking products and services through our principal subsidiary, Silicon Valley Bank (the “Bank”), which is a California state-chartered bank founded in 1983 and is a member of the Federal Reserve System. Through its
subsidiaries, the Bank also offers brokerage, investment advisory and asset management services. Through our other subsidiaries and divisions, we also offer non-banking products and services, such as funds management, venture capital/private equity
investments, business valuation and equity management services. Additionally, we focus on cultivating strong relationships with firms within the venture capital and private equity community worldwide, many of which are also our clients and may
invest in our corporate clients.

As of December 31, 2010, we had, on a consolidated basis, total assets of $17.5
billion, investment securities of $8.6 billion, total loans, net of unearned income, of $5.5 billion, total deposits of $14.3 billion and total SVBFG stockholders’ equity of $1.3 billion.

We operate through 26 offices in the United States, as well as offices internationally in China, India, Israel and the United Kingdom.
Our corporate headquarters is located at 3003 Tasman Drive, Santa Clara, California 95054, and our telephone number is 408.654.7400.

When we refer to “SVB Financial Group,” “SVBFG,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” “us” or use similar words, we mean SVB Financial Group and all of
its subsidiaries collectively, including the Bank. When we refer to “SVB Financial” or the “Parent” we are referring only to the parent company, SVB Financial Group.

Business Overview

For reporting purposes, SVB Financial Group has four
operating segments for which we report financial information in this report: Global Commercial Bank, Relationship Management, SVB Capital and Other Business Services.

As of March 31, 2008, we ceased all operations of SVB Alliant, our former investment banking subsidiary which provided corporate finance advisory services, and ceased reporting the business as a
separate operating segment. Based on our assessment of the immateriality of SVB Alliant’s results to our consolidated results of operations, we have not presented the results of operations of SVB Alliant in discontinued operations for any
period presented in this report.

Global Commercial Bank

Our Global Commercial Bank products and services are provided by the Bank and its subsidiaries to commercial clients in the technology,
life science and venture capital/private equity industries. The Bank provides solutions to the financial needs of commercial clients with lending and deposit products and services, cash management services, and global banking and trade products and
services. It also serves the needs of our







non-U.S. clients with global banking products, including loans, deposits and trade products and services, in key international entrepreneurial markets.

Through lending products and services, the Bank extends loans and other credit facilities to commercial clients. These loans are often
secured by clients’ assets. Lending products and services include traditional term loans, equipment loans, asset-based loans, revolving lines of credit, accounts-receivable-based lines of credits and capital call lines of credits.

The Bank’s deposit and cash management products and services provide commercial clients with short- and long-term cash management
solutions. Deposit products include traditional deposit and checking accounts, certificates of deposit, money market accounts and sweep accounts. In connection with deposit services, the Bank provides lockbox and merchant services that facilitate
timely depositing of checks and other payments to clients’ accounts. Cash management products and services include wire transfer and automated clearing house payment services to enable clients to transfer funds quickly. Additionally, the cash
management services unit provides collection services, disbursement services, electronic funds transfers, and online banking through SVBeConnect.

The Bank’s global banking and trade products and services facilitate clients’ global finance and business needs. These products and services include foreign exchange services that allow
commercial clients to manage their foreign currency needs and risks through the purchase and sale of currencies, swaps and hedges on the global inter-bank market. To facilitate clients’ international trade, the Bank offers a variety of loan and
credit facilities guaranteed by the Export-Import Bank of the United States. It also offers letters of credit, including export, import, and standby letters of credit, to enable clients to ship and receive goods globally.

The Bank and its subsidiaries offer a variety of investment services and solutions to its clients that enable companies to effectively
manage their assets. Through its broker-dealer subsidiary, SVB Securities, the Bank offers clients access to investments in third party money market mutual funds and fixed-income securities. Through its registered investment advisory subsidiary, SVB
Asset Management, the Bank offers investment advisory services, including outsourced treasury services, with customized cash portfolio management and reporting.

Relationship Management

Relationship Management provides banking
products and services through the Bank to our premium wine industry clients, including vineyard development loans, as well as a range of private banking services to targeted high-net-worth individuals.

SVB Wine is a division of the Bank that provides banking products and services to our premium wine industry clients, including vineyard
development loans. We offer a variety of financial solutions focused specifically on the needs of our clients’ premium wineries and vineyards.

SVB Private Client Services is the private banking division of the Bank, which provides a range of personal financial solutions to targeted high-net-worth individuals. These products and services include
mortgages, home equity lines of credit, restricted stock purchase loans, airplane loans, capital call lines of credit, and other secured and unsecured lines of credit. We also help our private clients meet their cash management needs by providing
deposit account products and services, including checking, money market and certificates of deposit accounts, and other personalized banking services.

SVB Capital

SVB Capital is the venture capital arm of SVB
Financial Group, which focuses primarily on funds management. SVB Capital manages $1.2 billion of funds, primarily venture capital funds, on behalf of SVB Financial Group and other third party limited partners. The SVB Capital family of funds
is comprised of funds of funds and co-investment funds. SVB Capital generates income for the Company primarily through







management fees, carried interest arrangements and returns through the Company’s direct investments in the funds. Most of the SVB Capital managed funds are consolidated into our financial
statements. See Note 2—“Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Principles of Consolidation and Presentation” of the “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” under Part II, Item 8 in this report.

Other Business Services

The Other Business Services segment is primarily comprised of the following two segments, neither of which individually meet the separate reporting thresholds as defined in Accounting Standards
Codification (“ASC”) 280, and, thus, have been aggregated together as one reporting segment:



•Sponsored Debt Funds & Strategic Investments—We invest in our sponsored debt funds: (i) Gold Hill Venture Lending funds, which
provide secured debt to private companies of all stages, and (ii) Partners for Growth funds, which provide secured debt primarily to mid-stage and late-stage clients. SVB Financial also makes strategic investments directly in certain
privately-held companies and venture capital/private equity funds.

•SVB Analytics—SVB Analytics provides business valuation and equity management services to private companies and venture capital and private equity
firms.

For more information about our four operating segments, including financial information and results
of operations, see Note 21—“Segment Reporting” of the “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” under Part II, Item 8 in this report, and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations—Operating Segment Results” under Part II, Item 7 in this report.

Income Sources

Our total revenue is comprised of our net interest income and noninterest income. Net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis
and noninterest income for the year ended December 31, 2010 were $420.2 million and $247.5 million, respectively.

Net
interest income is primarily income generated from interest rate differentials. The difference between the interest rates received on interest-earning assets, such as loans extended to clients and securities held in our investment portfolio, and the
interest rates paid by us on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings, accounts for the major portion of our earnings. Our deposits are largely obtained from commercial clients within our technology, life science, venture
capital and private equity industry sectors. Deposits are also obtained from the premium wine industry commercial clients and from high-net-worth individuals. We do not obtain deposits from conventional retail sources.

Noninterest income is primarily income generated from our fee-based services and returns on our investments. We market our full range of
fee-based financial services to our commercial and venture capital/private equity firm clients, including global commercial banking, relationship management and other business services. Our ability to integrate and cross-sell our diverse financial
services to our clients is a strength of our business model.

We also seek to obtain returns by making investments. We manage
and invest in venture capital/private equity funds that invest directly in privately-held companies, as well as funds that invest in other venture capital/private equity funds. We also invest directly in privately-held companies. Additionally, we
obtain returns from the realization of gains from warrants. In connection with negotiating credit facilities and certain other services, we often obtain rights to acquire stock in the form of equity warrant assets in client companies.

Industry Niches

In
each of the industry niches we serve, we provide services to meet the needs of our clients throughout their life cycles, beginning with the emerging, start-up stage.







Technology and Life Sciences

We serve a variety of clients in the technology and life science industries. Our technology clients tend to be in the industries of
hardware (semiconductors, communications and electronics), software and related services, and cleantech. Our life science clients tend to be in the industries of biotechnology and medical devices. A key component of our technology and life science
business strategy is to develop relationships with clients at an early stage and offer them banking services that will continue to meet their needs as they mature and expand. We serve our technology and life science clients primarily through three
practices:



•OurSVB Acceleratorpractice focuses on serving our “emerging” or “early stage” clients. These clients are generally in the
start-up or early stages of their life cycles. They are typically privately-held and funded by friends and family, “seed” or “angel” investors, or have gone through an initial round of venture capital financing. Typically, they
are primarily engaged in research and development, have little or no revenue and may have only brought a few products or services to market. SVB Accelerator client revenues tend to be below $5 million.

•OurSVB Growthpractice serves our growing companies, which includes our “mid-stage,” “late-stage” and “corporate
technology” clients. These clients are in the intermediate or later stages of their life cycles and are generally privately-held, and many are dependent on venture capital for funding. Some of our “corporate technology” clients that
are in the more advanced stages of their life cycles may be publicly held or poised to become publicly held. Our SVB Growth clients generally have a solid or more established product or service offering in the market, with more meaningful or
considerable revenue. They also may be expanding globally. SVB Growth client revenues tend to be between $5 million and $75 million.

•OurSVB Corporate Financepractice serves primarily our “large corporate” clients, which are more mature and established companies.
These clients are generally publicly-held, have a more sophisticated product or service offering in the market, and significant revenue. They also may be expanding globally. SVB Corporate Finance client revenues tend to be over $75 million.

Venture Capital/Private Equity

We provide financial services to clients in the venture capital/private equity community. Since our founding, we have cultivated strong relationships within the venture capital/private equity community,
particularly with venture capital firms worldwide, many of which are also clients. We serve in the United States and worldwide more than 600 venture capital firms and more than 150 private equity firms, facilitating deal flow to and from these
firms. We may also, through SVB Financial or SVB Capital funds, participate in direct investments in their portfolio companies.

Premium
Wine

We are one of the leading providers of financial services to premium wine producers across the Western United
States, primarily in California’s Napa Valley, Sonoma County and Central Coast areas, and the Pacific Northwest, with approximately 300 winery and vineyard clients. We focus on vineyards and wineries that produce grapes and wines of high
quality.

Competition

The banking and financial services industry is highly competitive, and continues to evolve as a result of changes in regulation, technology, product delivery systems, and the general market and economic
climate. Our current competitors include other banks, debt funds and specialty and diversified financial services companies that offer lending, leasing, other financial products, and advisory services to our target client base. The principal
competitive factors in our markets include product offerings, service, and pricing. Given our established market position with the client segments that we serve, and our ability to integrate and cross-sell our diverse financial services to extend
the length of our relationships with our clients, we believe we compete favorably in all our markets in these areas.







Employees

As of December 31, 2010, we employed 1,357 full-time equivalent employees.

Supervision
and Regulation

In addition, we are subject to foreign regulatory agencies in international jurisdictions, where we may conduct business, including the U.K., Israel, India and China.

The following discussion of statutes and regulations is a summary and does not purport to be complete. This discussion is qualified in
its entirety by reference to the statutes and regulations referred to in this discussion.

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act—General







Regulation of Holding Company

Under the BHC Act, SVB Financial is subject to the Federal Reserve’s regulation and its authority to:



•Require periodic reports and such additional information as the Federal Reserve may require in its discretion;

•Require the maintenance of certain levels of capital;

•Restrict the ability of bank holding companies to service debt or to receive dividends or other distributions from their subsidiary banks;

•Require prior approval for senior executive officer and director changes under certain circumstances;

•Require that bank holding companies serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to subsidiary banks and commit resources as necessary to
support each subsidiary bank. A bank holding company’s failure to meet its obligations to serve as a source of strength to its subsidiary banks will generally be considered by the Federal Reserve to be an unsafe and unsound banking practice or
a violation of Federal Reserve regulations or both under current law, and will be a statutory violation under the Dodd-Frank Act, as described below;

•Terminate an activity or terminate control of or liquidate or divest certain subsidiaries, affiliates or investments if the Federal Reserve believes
the activity or the control of the subsidiary or affiliate constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of any bank subsidiary;

•Regulate provisions of certain bank holding company debt, including the authority to impose interest ceilings and reserve requirements on such debt and
require prior approval to purchase or redeem our securities in certain situations; and

•Approve acquisitions and mergers with banks and consider certain competitive, management, financial, financial stability and other factors in granting
these approvals. Similar California and other state banking agency approvals may also be required.

The
Dodd-Frank Act codifies bank holding companies’ obligations to serve as a source of financial strength to any bank subsidiary. In that regard, bank holding companies, such as SVB Financial, must have the ability to provide financial assistance
to the Bank in the event of financial distress.

Bank holding companies are generally prohibited, except in certain
statutorily prescribed instances including exceptions for financial holding companies, from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the outstanding voting shares of any company that is not a bank or bank holding company
and from engaging directly or indirectly in activities other than those of banking, managing or controlling banks, or furnishing services to its subsidiaries. However, subject to prior notice or Federal Reserve Board approval, bank holding companies
may engage in, or acquire shares of companies engaged in, activities determined by the Federal Reserve Board to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. As a financial holding company, SVB
Financial may engage in these nonbanking activities and certain other broader securities, insurance, merchant banking and other activities that are determined to be “financial in nature” or are incidental or complementary to activities
that are financial in nature without prior Federal Reserve approval, subject to the requirement imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act that SVB Financial will be required to obtain prior Federal Reserve approval in order to acquire a nonbanking company with
more than $10 billion in consolidated assets.

Pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (“GLBA”), in
order to elect and retain financial holding company status, all depository institution subsidiaries of a bank holding company must be well capitalized, well managed, and, except in limited circumstances, in satisfactory compliance with the Community
Reinvestment Act (“CRA”). In addition, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, a financial holding company will also be required to be well capitalized and well managed. Failure to sustain compliance with these requirements or correct any
non-compliance within a fixed time period could lead to divestiture of subsidiary banks or require all activities to conform to those permissible for a bank holding company.







Because we are a holding company, our rights and the rights of our creditors and security
holders to participate in the assets of any of our subsidiaries upon the subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization will be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors, except to the extent we may ourselves be a creditor with
recognized claims against the subsidiary. In addition, there are various statutory and regulatory limitations on the extent to which the Bank can finance or otherwise transfer funds to us or to our non-bank subsidiaries, including certain investment
funds to which the Bank serves as an investment adviser, whether in the form of loans or other extensions of credit, including a purchase of assets subject to an agreement to repurchase, securities investments, the borrowing or lending of securities
to the extent that the transaction causes the Bank or a subsidiary to have credit exposure to the affiliate, or certain other specified types of transactions, as discussed in further detail below. Furthermore, loans and other extensions of credit by
the Bank to us or any of our non-bank subsidiaries are required to be secured by specified amounts of collateral and are required to be on terms and conditions consistent with safe and sound banking practices.

SVB Financial is also treated as a bank holding company under the California Financial Code. As such, SVB Financial and its subsidiaries
are subject to periodic examination by, and may be required to file reports with, the DFI.

Securities Registration and Listing

SVB Financial’s securities are registered under the SEC’s Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
“Exchange Act”), and listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. As such, SVB Financial is subject to the information, proxy solicitation, insider trading, corporate governance, and other requirements and restrictions of the Exchange Act,
as well as the Marketplace Rules and other requirements promulgated by the Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc.

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act

SVB Financial is subject to the accounting oversight and corporate governance requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002, including, among other things, required executive certification of financial presentations, increased requirements for board audit committees and their members, and enhanced disclosure of controls and procedures and internal control over
financial reporting.

Regulation of Silicon Valley Bank



•Require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice;

•Require prior approval for senior executive officer and director changes;







•Direct an increase in capital and the maintenance of specific minimum capital ratios which may preclude the Bank from being deemed well capitalized for
regulatory purposes;

•Restrict the Bank’s growth geographically, by products and services, or by mergers and acquisitions;

•Enter into informal or formal enforcement orders, including memoranda of understanding, written agreements and consent or cease and desist orders to
take corrective action and enjoin unsafe and unsound practices;

•Restrict or prohibit the Bank from paying dividends or making other distributions to SVB Financial;

•Remove officers and directors and assess civil monetary penalties; and

•Take possession of and close and liquidate the Bank.

California law permits state chartered commercial banks to engage in any activity permissible for national banks. Therefore, the Bank may form subsidiaries to engage in the many so-called “closely
related to banking” or “nonbanking” activities commonly conducted by national banks in operating subsidiaries, and further, pursuant to GLBA, the Bank may conduct certain “financial” activities in a subsidiary to the same
extent as may a national bank, provided the Bank is and remains “well-capitalized,” “well-managed” and in satisfactory compliance with the CRA.

Federal Home Loan Bank System

The Bank is a member of the Federal Home
Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of San Francisco. Among other benefits, each FHLB serves as a reserve or central bank for its members within its assigned region and makes available loans or advances to its members. Each FHLB is financed primarily from
the sale of consolidated obligations of the FHLB system. As an FHLB member, the Bank is required to own a certain amount of capital stock in the FHLB. At December 31, 2010, the Bank was in compliance with the FHLB’s stock ownership
requirement and our investment in FHLB capital stock totaled $25.0 million.

Regulatory Capital

The federal banking agencies have adopted guidelines that govern risk-based capital and allowable leverage capital levels for bank
holding companies and banks that are expected to provide a measure of capital that reflects the degree of risk associated with a banking organization’s operations for both transactions reported on the balance sheet as assets, such as loans, and
those recorded as off-balance sheet items, such as commitments, letters of credit and recourse arrangements.

Under current
capital guidelines, banking organizations are required to maintain certain minimum risk-based capital ratios, which are calculated by dividing a banking organization’s qualifying capital by its risk-weighted assets (including both on- and
off-balance sheet assets). Risk-weighted assets are calculated by assigning assets and off-balance sheet items to broad risk categories. Qualifying capital is classified depending on the type of capital. For SVB Financial:



•“Tier 1 capital” consists of common equity, retained earnings, qualifying non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, a limited amount of
qualifying cumulative perpetual preferred stock issued prior to May 19, 2010 and noncontrolling interests in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries (including trust-preferred securities), less goodwill and certain other intangible
assets. As discussed further below, qualifying Tier 1 capital may consist of trust-preferred securities issued prior to May 19, 2010, subject to certain criteria and quantitative limits for inclusion of restricted core capital elements in Tier
1 capital.

•“Tier 2 capital” includes, among other things, hybrid capital instruments, perpetual debt, mandatory convertible debt securities, qualifying
term subordinated debt, preferred stock that does not qualify as Tier 1 capital, and a limited amount of allowance for loan and lease losses.

With certain qualifications, the Dodd-Frank Act excludes trust preferred securities issued on or after May 19, 2010 from Tier 1 capital. For depository institution holding companies with total
consolidated assets of







more than $15 billion at December 31, 2009, trust preferred securities issued before May 19, 2010 will be phased-out of Tier 1 capital over a three-year period. Because SVB
Financial’s total assets were less than $15 billion as of December 31, 2009, trust preferred securities issued prior to May 19, 2010 (our 7.0% Junior Subordinated debentures ) will continue to qualify as Tier 1 capital.

SVB Financial is also currently subject to rules that govern the regulatory capital treatment of equity investments in non-financial
companies made on or after March 13, 2000 and held under certain specified legal authorities by a bank or bank holding company. Under the rules, these equity investments will be subject to a separate capital charge that will reduce a bank
holding company’s Tier 1 capital and, as a result, will remove these assets from being taken into consideration in establishing a bank holding company’s required capital ratios discussed above.

Banking organizations must have appropriate capital planning processes, with proper oversight from the Board of Directors. Accordingly,
pursuant to a separate supervisory letter from the Federal Reserve, bank holding companies are expected to conduct and document comprehensive capital adequacy analyses prior to the declaration of any dividends (on common stock, preferred stock,
trust preferred securities or other Tier 1 capital instruments), capital redemptions or capital repurchases. Moreover, the federal banking agencies have adopted a joint agency policy statement, which states that the adequacy and effectiveness of a
bank’s interest rate risk management process and the level of its interest rate exposures are critical factors in the evaluation of the bank’s capital adequacy. A bank with material weaknesses in its interest rate risk management process
or high levels of interest rate exposure relative to its capital will be directed by the federal banking agencies to take corrective actions.

In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires institutions of our size to conduct annual stress tests.

Proprietary Trading and Certain Relationships with Hedge Funds and Private Equity Funds

The Dodd-Frank Act adopts the so-called “Volcker Rule” which, subject to a transition period and certain exceptions, prohibits
a banking entity from engaging in “proprietary trading,” which is defined as engaging as principal for the “trading account” of the banking entity in securities or other instruments. Certain forms of proprietary trading may
qualify as “permitted activities,” and thus not be subject to the ban on proprietary trading, such as trading in U.S. government or agency obligations, or certain other U.S. state or municipal obligations, and the obligations of Fannie
Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae. Additionally, subject to a transition







period and certain exceptions, the rule prohibits a banking entity from sponsoring or investing in a hedge fund or private equity fund. While a banking entity may “organize and offer” a
hedge fund or private equity fund if certain conditions are met, it may not acquire or retain an equity partnership or other ownership interest in a fund except for certain limited investments. The Volcker Rule also imposes certain investment
limits on banking entities. When fully implemented after a transition period, the Volcker Rule will limit covered banking entities to ade minimisinvestment in a hedge fund or private equity fund. Such ade minimisinvestment will be
defined by the rules to be immaterial to the banking entity but in no case may the aggregate investments of a banking entity in hedge funds and private equity funds comprise more than three percent of the institution’s Tier 1 capital. During
the transition period, Federal banking regulators may impose additional capital requirements and other restrictions on any equity, partnership, or ownership interest in or sponsorship of a hedge fund or private equity fund by a banking entity.

After the transition period, the Volcker Rule prohibitions will apply to a banking entity such as SVB Financial, the
Bank or any affiliate of SVB Financial or the Bank, unless an exception applies. Depending on how the rule is defined and implemented, it may apply to SVB Capital or our strategic venture capital and private equity fund investments. SVB Financial
maintains investments in certain venture capital and private equity funds that may exceed three percent of its Tier 1 capital and/or may be determined to be material. The scope of the Volcker Rule will be more fully defined through rulemakings
by several federal agencies and will be implemented over a multiple year period, possibly four to twelve years. As such, we cannot fully assess the impact of the Volcker Rule on our business until final rules and regulations are adopted.

Basel, Basel II and Basel III Accords

The current risk-based capital guidelines that apply to SVB Financial and the Bank are based upon the 1988 capital accord of the International Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, a committee of
central banks and bank supervisors, as implemented by the Federal Reserve. In 2008, the Federal Reserve began to phase-in capital standards based on a second capital accord, referred to as Basel II, for large or “core” international banks
(total assets of $250 billion or more or consolidated foreign exposures of $10 billion or more). Basel II emphasizes internal assessment of credit, market and operational risk, as well as supervisory assessment and market discipline in
determining minimum capital requirements.

Prompt Corrective Action and Other General Enforcement Authority

State and federal banking agencies possess broad powers to take corrective and other supervisory action against an insured bank and its holding company. Federal laws require each federal banking agency to
take prompt corrective action to resolve the problems of insured banks.







Each federal banking agency has issued regulations defining five categories in which an
insured depository institution will be placed, based on the level of its capital ratios: well-capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, and critically undercapitalized. At each successive lower capital
category, an insured bank is subject to more restrictions, including restrictions on the bank’s activities, operational practices or the ability to pay dividends. Based upon its capital levels, a bank that is classified as well-capitalized,
adequately capitalized, or undercapitalized may be treated as though it were in the next lower capital category if the appropriate federal banking agency, after notice and opportunity for hearing, determines that an unsafe or unsound condition, or
an unsafe or unsound practice, warrants such treatment.

In addition to measures taken under the prompt corrective action
provisions, bank holding companies and insured banks may be subject to potential enforcement actions by the federal regulators for unsafe or unsound practices in conducting their business, or for violation of any law, rule, regulation, condition
imposed in writing by the agency or term of a written agreement with the agency. In more serious cases, enforcement actions may include the appointment of a conservator or receiver for the bank; the issuance of a cease and desist order that can be
judicially enforced; the termination of the bank’s deposit insurance; the imposition of civil monetary penalties; the issuance of directives to increase capital; the issuance of formal and informal agreements; the issuance of removal and
prohibition orders against officers, directors, and other institution-affiliated parties; and the enforcement of such actions through injunctions or restraining orders based upon a judicial determination that the agency would be harmed if such
equitable relief was not granted.

The FDIC may terminate a depository institution’s deposit insurance upon a finding
that the institution’s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices that pose a risk to the DIF or that may prejudice the interest of the bank’s depositors. The termination of
deposit insurance for a bank would also result in the revocation of the bank’s charter by the DFI.

Safety and Soundness Guidelines

Banking regulatory agencies have adopted guidelines to assist in identifying and addressing potential safety and
soundness concerns before capital becomes impaired. The guidelines establish operational and managerial standards generally relating to: (1) internal controls, information systems, and internal audit systems; (2) loan documentation;
(3) credit underwriting; (4) interest-rate exposure; (5) asset growth and asset quality; and (6) compensation, fees, and benefits. In addition, the banking regulatory agencies have adopted safety and soundness guidelines for
asset quality and for evaluating and monitoring earnings to ensure that earnings are sufficient for the maintenance of adequate capital and reserves.

Restrictions on Dividends

Dividends from the Bank constitute a primary
source of cash for SVB Financial. The Bank is subject to various federal and state statutory and regulatory restrictions on its ability to pay dividends, including the prompt corrective action regulations. In addition, the banking agencies have the
authority to prohibit the Bank from paying dividends, depending upon the Bank’s financial condition, if such payment is deemed to constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Furthermore, under the federal prompt corrective action regulations, the
Federal Reserve Board may prohibit a bank holding company from paying any dividends if the holding company’s bank subsidiary is classified as “undercapitalized.”

It is the Federal Reserve’s policy that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of income
available over the past year, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition. It is also the Federal Reserve’s policy that bank holding companies should not
maintain dividend levels that undermine their ability to be a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries. Additionally, in consideration of the current financial and economic environment, the Federal Reserve has indicated that bank holding
companies should carefully review their dividend policy and has discouraged payment ratios that are at maximum allowable levels unless both asset quality and capital are very strong.







Transactions with Affiliates

In addition, the Bank and
its operating subsidiaries generally may not purchase a low-quality asset from an affiliate. Moreover, covered transactions and other specified transactions by the Bank and its operating subsidiaries with an affiliate must be on terms and
conditions, including credit standards, that are substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the Bank or its subsidiaries, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with nonaffiliated companies. An entity that is a direct
or indirect subsidiary of the Bank would not be considered to be an “affiliate” of the Bank or its operating subsidiaries for these purposes unless it fell into one of certain categories, such as a “financial subsidiary”
authorized under the GLBA. The Dodd-Frank Act further grants the Federal Reserve the power to issue additional regulations that account for netting agreements between a bank or its subsidiary and an affiliate that may be taken into account in
determining the amount of a covered transaction and whether or not a covered transaction is fully secured for purposes of exemption from the affiliate transaction rules.

Loans to Insiders

Extensions of credit by the Bank to insiders of both
the Bank and SVB Financial are subject to prohibitions and other restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve’s Regulation O. For purposes of these limits, “insiders” include directors, executive officers and principal stockholders of
the Bank or SVB Financial and their related interests. The term “related interest” means a company controlled by a director, executive officer or principal stockholder of the Bank or SVB Financial. The Bank may not extend credit to an
insider of the Bank or SVB Financial unless the loan is made on substantially the same terms as, and subject to credit underwriting procedures that are no less stringent than, those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with
non-insiders. Under federal banking regulations, the Bank may not extend a loan to insiders in an amount greater than $500,000 without prior approval from the Bank’s Board of Directors approval (with any interested person abstaining from
participating directly or indirectly in the voting). The federal regulations and the Dodd-Frank Act place additional restrictions on loans to executive officers, and generally prohibit loans to executive officers other than for certain specified
purposes. The Bank is required to maintain records regarding insiders and extensions of credit to them.







Premiums for Deposit Insurance

The FDIC insures our customer deposits through the DIF up to prescribed limits for each depositor. In recent years, due to higher levels
of bank failures, the FDIC’s resolution costs increased, which depleted the DIF. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the DIF, the FDIC increased assessment rates of insured institutions and may continue
to do so in the future. In 2009, the FDIC also adopted a requirement of institutions to prepay their assessment fees through 2012. Based on the most-recently received invoice, as of September 30, 2010, the Bank’s FDIC assessment rate was
11 cents per $100 in assessable deposits.

All FDIC-insured institutions are also required to pay assessments to the FDIC to
fund interest payments on bonds issued by the Financing Corporation (“FICO”), an agency of the federal government established to recapitalize the predecessor to the DIF. Based on the most-recently received invoice, as of September 30,
2010, the FICO assessment rate was 1 cent per $100 in assessable deposits. These assessments will continue until the FICO bonds mature in 2017 through 2019.

During 2010, the Bank’s FDIC and FICO assessment rates were based on its domestic deposits. Effective as of April 1, 2011, however, under final rules recently adopted by the FDIC and as mandated
under the Dodd-Frank Act, FDIC and FICO assessment rates will be based on the average total consolidated assets minus the average consolidated tangible equity during the assessment period.

We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. Any changes in FDIC insurance
premiums may have a material affect on our results of operations.

USA PATRIOT Act of 2001

The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 and its implementing regulations significantly expanded the anti-money laundering and financial transparency
laws, including the Bank Secrecy Act. The Company has adopted comprehensive policies and procedures to address the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act. Material deficiencies in anti-money laundering compliance can result in public enforcement
actions by the banking agencies, including the imposition of civil money penalties and supervisory restrictions on growth and expansion. Such enforcement actions could also have serious reputation consequences for SVB Financial and the Bank.

Consumer Protection Laws and Regulations

The Bank is subject to many federal consumer protection statutes and regulations, such as the CRA, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the National Flood Insurance Act and various
federal and state privacy protection laws. Penalties for violating these laws could subject the Bank to lawsuits and could also result in administrative penalties, including, fines and reimbursements and orders to halt expansion/existing activities.
The Bank and SVB Financial are also subject to federal and state laws prohibiting unfair or fraudulent business practices, untrue or misleading advertising and unfair competition.

The Dodd-Frank Act has established a new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (the “Bureau”) within the Federal Reserve,
with broad powers to regulate consumer financial services. The Bureau has extensive authority to prescribe rules under any consumer financial protection law and has supervisory and enforcement authority with respect to Federal consumer financial
laws. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Bureau has the authority to prescribe rules that address unfair, deceptive or abusive acts in connection with the provision of consumer financial products and services and to ensure that consumers are provided
with full, accurate and effective disclosure to make responsible decisions about financial transactions. The Bureau has the authority to bring enforcement actions and to commence civil litigation actions or seek civil monetary or equitable relief in
connection with violations of consumer finance law.







In recent years, examination and enforcement by the state and federal banking agencies for
non-compliance with consumer protection laws and their implementing regulations have become more intense. The advent of the Bureau will further heighten oversight and review of compliance with consumer protection laws and regulations. Due to these
heightened regulatory concerns and new powers and authority of the Bureau, the Bank and its affiliates may incur additional compliance costs or be required to expend additional funds for investments in their local community.

Securities Activities

Federal Reserve’s Regulation R implements exceptions provided in the GLBA for securities activities which banks may conduct
without registering with the SEC as securities broker or moving such activities to a broker-dealer affiliate. Regulation R provides exceptions for networking arrangements with third-party broker-dealers and authorizes compensation for bank
employees who refer and assist institutional and high net worth bank customers with their securities, including sweep accounts to money market funds, and with related trust, fiduciary, custodial and safekeeping needs. The current securities
activities which the Bank and its subsidiaries provide customers are conducted in conformance with these rules and regulations.

Regulation
of Certain Subsidiaries

Available Information

We make available free of charge through our Internet website,http://www.svb.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is
electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The contents of our website are not incorporated herein by reference and the website address provided is intended to be an inactive textual reference only.



