ITEM 1A.RISK
    FACTORS



We are subject to risks that could adversely affect our
    business, financial condition and results of operations. These
    risks include, but are not limited to the following:



We face significant uncertainty in the industry due to
    government health care reform.





Customers in our Medical Segment depend on third party
    reimbursement and the failure of healthcare programs to provide
    reimbursement or the reduction in levels of reimbursement for
    our medical products could adversely affect our Medical
    Segment.



Demand for some of our medical products is affected by the
    extent to which government healthcare programs and private
    health insurers reimburse our customers for patients’
    medical expenses in the countries where we do business.
    Internationally, medical reimbursement systems vary
    significantly, with medical centers in some countries having
    fixed budgets, regardless of the level of patient treatment.
    Other countries require application for, and approval of,
    government or third party reimbursement. Without both favorable
    coverage determinations by, and the financial support of,
    government and third party insurers, the market for some of our
    medical products could be adversely affected.



We cannot be sure that third party payors will maintain the
    current level of reimbursement to our customers for use of our
    existing products. Adverse coverage determinations or any
    reduction in the amount of reimbursement could harm our
    business. In addition, as a result of their purchasing power,
    third party payors often seek discounts, price reductions or
    other incentives from medical products suppliers. Our provision
    of such pricing concessions could negatively impact our revenues
    and product margins.



Much of our business is subject to extensive government
    regulation, which may require us to incur significant expenses
    to ensure compliance; our failure to comply with those
    regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results
    of operations and financial condition



Numerous national and local government agencies in a number of
    countries regulate our products. The U.S. Food and Drug
    Administration (“FDA”) and government agencies in
    other countries regulate the approval, manufacturing and sale
    and marketing of many of our medical products. The
    U.S. Federal Aviation Administration and the European
    Aviation Safety Agency regulate the manufacture and sale of some
    of our aerospace products and licenses for the operation of our
    repair stations. Failure to comply with applicable regulations
    and quality assurance guidelines could lead to manufacturing
    shutdowns, product shortages, delays in product manufacturing,
    product seizures, recalls, operating restrictions, withdrawal of
    required licenses, prohibitions against exporting of products
    to, or importing products from countries outside the United
    States. In addition, civil and criminal penalties, including
    exclusion under Medicaid or Medicare, could result from
    regulatory






violations. Any one or more of these events could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
    results of operations.



The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a
    medical device, particularly from the FDA and certain foreign
    governmental authorities, can be costly and time consuming, and
    approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely
    basis, if at all. The regulatory approval process may result in
    delayed realization of product revenues or in substantial
    additional costs, which could have a material adverse effect on
    our financial condition and results of operations. Our Medical
    Segment facilities are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA
    and other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities,
    which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to
    certain regulations, including testing, quality control and
    documentation procedures.



On October 11, 2007, Arrow International received a
    corporate warning letter from the FDA, which expresses concerns
    with Arrow’s quality systems, including complaint handling,
    corrective and preventive action, process and design validation
    and inspection and training procedures. While we are working
    with the FDA to resolve these issues, our efforts to address the
    issues raised in the warning letter have required and may
    continue to require the dedication of significant internal and
    external resources. There can be no assurance regarding the
    length of time or cost it will take us to resolve these issues
    to the satisfaction of the FDA. In addition, if our remedial
    actions are not satisfactory to the FDA, we may need to devote
    additional financial and human resources to our efforts, and the
    FDA may take further regulatory actions against us. These
    actions may include seizing our product inventory, obtaining a
    court injunction against further marketing of our products,
    assessing civil monetary penalties or imposing a consent decree
    on us, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations.



We are also subject to various federal and state laws pertaining
    to healthcare pricing and fraud and abuse, including
    anti-kickback and false claims laws. Violations of these laws
    may be punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including
    substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation
    in federal and state healthcare programs.



In addition, we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state
    and local environmental protection and health and safety laws
    governing, among other things:



•the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous
    materials;•emissions or discharges of substances into the
    environment; and•the health and safety of our employees.



These laws and government regulations are complex, change
    frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time.
    We cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with
    current or future environmental protection and health and safety
    laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases
    of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our
    estimates or will not adversely affect our financial condition
    and results of operations. Moreover, we may become subject to
    additional environmental claims, which may include claims for
    personal injury or cleanup, based on our past, present or future
    business activities, which could also adversely affect our
    financial condition and results of operations.



Our strategic initiatives may not produce the intended
    growth in revenue and operating income.



We have disclosed operational strategies and initiatives. These
    strategies include making significant investments to achieve
    revenue growth and margin improvement targets. If we do not
    achieve the expected benefits from these investments or
    otherwise fail to execute on our strategic initiatives, we may
    not achieve the growth improvement we are targeting and our
    results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, as
    part of our strategy for growth, we have made and may continue
    to make acquisitions and divestitures and enter into strategic
    alliances such as joint ventures and joint development
    agreements. However, we may not be able to identify suitable
    acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate
    acquisitions successfully, and our






strategic alliances may not prove to be successful. In this
    regard, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including
    difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies,
    services and products of the acquired companies and the
    diversion of management’s attention from other business
    concerns. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the
    risks inherent in any particular transaction, there can be no
    assurance that we will properly ascertain all such risks. In
    addition, prior acquisitions have resulted, and future
    acquisitions could result, in the incurrence of substantial
    additional indebtedness and other expenses. Future acquisitions
    may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity
    securities. There can be no assurance that difficulties
    encountered with acquisitions will not have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations.



We may not be successful in achieving expected operating
    efficiencies and sustaining or improving operating expense
    reductions, and may experience business disruptions, associated
    with announced restructuring, realignment and cost reduction
    activities.



Over the past few years we have announced several restructuring,
    realignment and cost reduction initiatives, including
    significant realignments of our businesses, employee
    terminations and product rationalizations. While we have started
    to realize the efficiencies of these actions, these activities
    may not produce the full efficiency and cost reduction benefits
    we expect. Further, such benefits may be realized later than
    expected, and the ongoing costs of implementing these measures
    may be greater than anticipated. If these measures are not
    successful or sustainable, we may undertake additional
    realignment and cost reduction efforts, which could result in
    future charges. Moreover, our ability to achieve our other
    strategic goals and business plans may be adversely affected and
    we could experience business disruptions with customers and
    elsewhere if our restructuring and realignment efforts prove
    ineffective.



Our failure to successfully develop new products could
    adversely affect our results.



The medical device industry is characterized by rapid product
    development and technological advances. In addition, while our
    products for the aerospace and commercial industries generally
    have longer life cycles, many of those products require changes
    in design or other enhancements to meet the evolving needs of
    our customers. The future success of our business will depend,
    in part, on our ability to design and manufacture new
    competitive products and to enhance existing products. Our
    product development efforts may require substantial investment
    by us. There can be no assurance that unforeseen problems will
    not occur with respect to the development, performance or market
    acceptance of new technologies or products, such as the
    inability to:



•identify viable new products;•obtain adequate intellectual property protection;•gain market acceptance of new products; or•successfully obtain regulatory approvals.



Moreover, we may not otherwise be able to successfully develop
    and market new products or enhance existing products. Our
    failure to successfully develop and market new products or
    enhance existing products could reduce our revenues and margins,
    which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.



We may incur material losses and costs as a result of
    product liability, warranty, recall and other claims that may be
    brought against us.



Our businesses expose us to potential product liability risks
    that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of
    our products. In particular, our medical device products are
    often used in surgical and intensive care settings with
    seriously ill patients. Many of these products are designed to
    be implanted in the human body for varying periods of time, and
    component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or
    inadequate disclosure of product-related risks with respect to
    these or other products we manufacture or sell could result in
    an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, the patient. In
    addition, our products for the






aerospace and commercial industries are used in potentially
    hazardous environments. Although we carry product liability
    insurance we may be exposed to product liability and warranty
    claims in the event that our products actually or allegedly fail
    to perform as expected or the use of our products results, or is
    alleged to result, in bodily injuryand/orproperty damage. Accordingly, we could experience material
    warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur
    significant costs to defend these claims. In addition, if any of
    our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be
    required to participate in a recall of that product if the
    defect or the alleged defect relates to safety, and we may
    experience lost sales and be exposed to legal and reputational
    risk. Product liability, warranty and recall costs may have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.



We also are party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the
    normal course of business involving contracts, intellectual
    property, import and export regulations, employment and
    environmental matters. The defense of these lawsuits may divert
    our management’s attention, and we may incur significant
    expenses in defending these lawsuits. In addition, we may be
    required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject
    to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations. While we do not believe that any litigation in
    which we are currently engaged would have such an adverse
    effect, the outcome of litigation, including regulatory matters,
    is often difficult to predict, and we cannot assure that the
    outcome of pending or future litigation will not have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results
    of operations.



We have substantial debt obligations that could adversely
    impact our business, results of operations and financial
    condition.



As of December 31, 2009, our outstanding indebtedness was
    approximately $1.2 billion. We will be required to use a
    significant portion of our operating cash flow to reduce our
    indebtedness over the next few years. As a result, cash flow
    available to fund working capital, capital expenditures,
    acquisitions, investments and dividends may be limited. Our
    indebtedness may also subject us to greater vulnerability to
    general adverse economic and industry conditions and increase
    our vulnerability to increases in interest rates because a
    portion of our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates.



Our senior credit facility and agreements with the holders of
    our senior notes, which we refer to below as our senior debt
    facilities, impose certain operating and financial covenants
    that could limit our ability to, among other things:



•incur debt;•create liens;•consolidate, merge or dispose of assets;•make investments;•engage in acquisitions•pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of
    our capital stock; and•enter into derivative agreements to manage exposure to changes
    in interest rates.



In addition, the terms of our senior debt facilities require us
    to comply with a number of covenants, including covenants that
    require us to maintain specified financial ratios, which are
    described in more detail in Item 7, Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations. Our ability to meet those financial ratios can be
    affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure
    that, in the event of a significant deterioration of our
    operating results, we will be able to satisfy those ratios. A
    breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under
    our senior debt facilities. If we fail to maintain compliance
    with these covenants and cannot obtain a waiver from the lenders
    under the senior debt facilities, the lenders could elect to
    declare all amounts outstanding under the senior debt facilities
    to be immediately due and payable and






terminate all commitments to extend further credit under the
    facilities. If the lenders under the senior debt facilities
    accelerate the repayment of borrowings and we are not able to
    obtain financing to enable repayment, we likely would have to
    liquidate significant assets, which nevertheless may not be
    sufficient to repay our borrowings.



We are subject to risks associated with ournon-U.S.operations.



Although no material concentration of our manufacturing
    operations exists in any single country, we have significant
    manufacturing operations outside the United States, including
    operations conducted through entities that are not wholly-owned.
    As of, and for the year ended, December 31, 2009,
    approximately 41% of our total fixed assets and 46% of our total
    net revenues were attributable to products directly distributed
    from our operations outside the U.S. Our international
    operations are subject to varying degrees of risk inherent in
    doing business outside the U.S., including:



•exchange controls, currency restrictions and fluctuations in
    currency values;•trade protection measures;•import or export requirements;•subsidies or increased access to capital for firms who are
    currently or may emerge as competitors in countries in which we
    have operations;•potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws;•restrictions and taxes related to the repatriation of foreign
    earnings;•differing labor regulations;•differing protection of intellectual property;•unsettled political and economic conditions and possible
    terrorist attacks against American interests.



These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on
    our international operations or on our business, results of
    operations and financial condition generally.



Foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and
    interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our
    results.



We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the
    effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity
    prices and interest rates. We expect revenue from products
    manufactured in, and sold into,non-U.S. marketsto continue to represent a significant portion of our net
    revenue. Our consolidated financial statements reflect
    translation of financial statements denominated innon-U.S. currenciesto U.S. dollars, our reporting currency. When the
    U.S. dollar strengthens or weakens in relation to the
    foreign currencies of the countries where we sell or manufacture
    our products, such as the euro, our U.S. dollar-reported
    revenue and income will fluctuate. Although we have entered into
    forward contracts with several major financial institutions to
    hedge a portion of projected cash flows denominated in
    non-functional currency in order to reduce the effects of
    currency rate fluctuations, changes in the relative values of
    currencies may, in some instances, have a significant effect on
    our results of operations.



Many of our products have significant steel and plastic resin
    content. We also use quantities of other commodities, including
    copper and zinc. Although we monitor our exposure to these
    commodity price increases as an integral part of our overall
    risk management program, volatility in the prices of these
    commodities could increase the costs of our products and
    services. We may not be able to pass on these costs to our
    customers and this could have a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations and cash flows.






Fluctuations in our effective tax rate and changes to tax
    laws may adversely affect our results.



As a company with significant operations outside of the U.S., we
    are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other
    jurisdictions. As a result, our effective tax rate is derived
    from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various
    countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate.
    In preparing our financial statements, we estimate the amount of
    tax that will become payable in each of the countries, states
    and other jurisdictions in which we operate. Our effective tax
    rate, however, may be lower or higher than experienced in the
    past due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of
    our profitability from country to country, changes in accounting
    for income taxes and changes in tax laws. Any of these factors
    could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly
    different from previous periods or our current expectations,
    which could have an adverse effect on our business and results
    of operations. In addition, unfavorable results of tax audits
    and changes in tax laws in jurisdictions in which we operate,
    among other things, could adversely affect our results of
    operations and cash flows.



An interruption in our manufacturing operations may
    adversely affect our business.



Many of our key products across all three of our business
    segments are manufactured at single locations, with limited
    alternate facilities. If an event occurs that results in damage
    to one or more of our facilities, it may not be possible to
    timely manufacture the relevant products at previous levels or
    at all. In addition, with respect to our Medical Segment, due to
    the stringent regulations and requirements of the FDA and other
    regulatory authorities regarding the manufacture of our
    products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or
    replacement sources for certain components or materials. A
    reduction or interruption in manufacturing, or an inability to
    secure alternative sources of raw materials or components that
    are acceptable to us, could have an adverse effect on our
    results of operations and financial condition.



Further adverse developments in general domestic and
    global economic conditions combined with a continuation of
    volatile global credit markets could adversely impact our
    operating results, financial condition and liquidity.





In addition, the amount of goodwill and other intangible assets
    on our consolidated balance sheet have increased significantly
    in recent years, primarily as a result of the acquisition of
    Arrow International in 2007. Adverse economic and financial
    market conditions may result in future charges to recognize
    impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill and other
    intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on
    our financial results.






Our technology is important to our success, and our
    failure to protect this technology could put us at a competitive
    disadvantage.



Because many of our products rely on proprietary technology, we
    believe that the development and protection of our intellectual
    property rights is important, though not essential, to the
    future success of our business. In addition to relying on our
    patents, trademarks and copyrights, we rely on confidentiality
    agreements with employees and other measures to protect our
    know-how and trade secrets. Despite our efforts to protect
    proprietary rights, unauthorized parties or competitors may copy
    or otherwise obtain and use these products or technology. The
    steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of this
    technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may
    not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the
    U.S. Moreover, there can be no assurance that others will
    not independently develop the know-how and trade secrets or
    develop better technology than ours or that current and former
    employees, contractors and other parties will not breach
    confidentiality agreements, misappropriate proprietary
    information and copy or otherwise obtain and use our information
    and proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise
    infringe on our intellectual property rights. Our inability to
    protect our proprietary technology could result in competitive
    harm that could adversely affect our business.



We depend upon relationships with physicians and other
    health care professionals.



The research and development of some of our products is
    dependent on our maintaining strong working relationships with
    physicians and other health care professionals. We rely on these
    professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and
    experience regarding our products and the development of our
    products. Physicians assist us as researchers, product
    consultants, inventors and as public speakers. If we fail to
    maintain our working relationships with physicians and receive
    the benefits of their knowledge, advice and input, our products
    may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and
    expectations of the professionals who use and support our
    products, which could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations.



Our workforce covered by collective bargaining and similar
    agreements could cause interruptions in our provision of
    services.



Approximately 13% of our net revenues are generated by
    operations for which a significant part of our workforce is
    covered by collective bargaining agreements and similar
    agreements in foreign jurisdictions. It is likely that a portion
    of our workforce will remain covered by collective bargaining
    and similar agreements for the foreseeable future. Strikes or
    work stoppages could occur that would adversely impact our
    relationships with our customers and our ability to conduct our
    business.



