
10-K
1997 THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION





                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

[X]            ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997

                                       OR

[ ]          TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                         Commission file number 1-11840

                            THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                  Delaware                     36-3871531
        (State of Incorporation) (I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)

                  2775 Sanders Road, Northbrook, Illinois 60062
               (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (847) 402-5000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
                                                          Name of each exchange
     Title of each class                                   on which registered
     -------------------                                   -------------------
Common Stock, par value $0.01                            New York Stock Exchange
per share (the "Common Stock")                           Chicago Stock Exchange

6.76% Exchangeable Notes                                 New York Stock Exchange
Due April 15, 1998

7.95% Cumulative Quarterly                               New York Stock Exchange
Income Preferred Securities, Series A
(issued by a wholly-owned trust of the Registrant)

7.125% Senior Quarterly Interest Bonds                   New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) 
                                    of the Act:  None






         On January 30, 1998,  Registrant had 422,722,298 shares of Common Stock
outstanding.  Of these,  approximately  350,000,000 shares,  having an aggregate
market  value  (based on the  closing  price of these  shares as  reported  in a
summary of composite  transactions  in The Wall Street Journal for stocks listed
on the New York Stock  Exchange on January  30,  1998) of  approximately  $30.98
billion,  were owned by stockholders other than directors and executive officers
of the Registrant, The Savings and Profit Sharing Fund of Allstate Employees and
any person believed by the Registrant to  beneficially  own five percent or more
of Registrant's outstanding common shares.

         Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months,
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

                                            Yes  X                     No ___
                                                ---
         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,
to the  best of  Registrant's  knowledge  in  definitive  proxy  or  information
statements  incorporated  by  reference  in Part  III of this  Form  10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

                       Documents Incorporated By Reference

         Portions of the following  documents are  incorporated  by reference as
follows:

         Parts I, II and III of this Form 10-K incorporate by reference  certain
information  from the  Registrant's  Proxy  Statement for its Annual  Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on May 19, 1998 (the "1998 Proxy Statement").







                                       ii







                                     Part I

Item 1.   Business
- - ------    --------

         The Allstate  Corporation  (the "Company") was  incorporated  under the
laws of the  State of  Delaware  on  November  5,  1992 to serve as the  holding
company for  Allstate  Insurance  Company  ("AIC").  The  Company's  business is
conducted   principally  through  AIC  and  AIC's  subsidiaries   (collectively,
including  the Company,  "Allstate").  Allstate is engaged,  principally  in the
United States and Canada, in the property-liability insurance and life insurance
and annuity businesses. Established in 1931 by Sears, Roebuck and Co. ("Sears"),
Allstate is the country's second largest property-liability insurer on the basis
of 1996 statutory premiums written and is a major life insurer.  Allstate's life
insurance and annuity  operations are conducted  through Allstate Life Insurance
Company  ("ALIC"),  a wholly-owned  subsidiary of AIC, and through  various ALIC
subsidiaries (collectively, "Allstate Life").

         AIC's primary business is the sale of private passenger  automobile and
homeowners  insurance.  In 1996 Allstate  maintained  estimated  national market
shares in these lines of approximately 12.4% and 11.7%, respectively. Allstate=s
property-liability  operations  consist  of two  principal  areas  of  business:
personal  property and casualty  ("PP&C") and  discontinued  lines and coverages
("Discontinued Lines and Coverages"). PP&C, which has historically included only
the Company=s personal property and casualty business,  now includes  commercial
business written through the Allstate agent distribution  channel.  Discontinued
Lines and  Coverages  consists  of  business  no  longer  written  by  Allstate,
including results from  environmental,  asbestos and mass tort losses,  mortgage
pool  business,  and  other  commercial  business  in  run-off,  as  well as the
historical  results of the commercial and  reinsurance  businesses sold in 1996.
Allstate markets its products through a variety of distribution  channels,  with
the  core of its  PP&C  distribution  system  being  a  broad-based  network  of
approximately  15,200 exclusive agents (employee and non-employee) in the United
States and Canada.  Allstate also uses  independent and  specialized  brokers to
expand market reach, including over 7,000 independent agents appointed to market
non-standard auto business.

         Allstate Life sells life insurance, annuity and group pension products.
Allstate Life  distributes  its products  through  Allstate agents which include
life  specialists,  banks,  independent  agents,  brokers  and  direct  response
marketing.

         Information   regarding   revenues,   operating   profit  or  loss  and
identifiable assets attributable to each of the Company's  identifiable business
segments  is  contained  in  note  15 of the  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements  on pages  A-55 and A-56 of the 1998  Proxy  Statement,  incorporated
herein by reference in response to Item 8 hereof.



                                       

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

                  On January 27, 1998, the Company announced that it made a cash
offer  to  purchase  all  of  the   outstanding   shares  of  Pembridge,   Inc.,
("Pembridge")  a Canadian  auto insurer,  for Cdn. $20 per share.  The aggregate
cost of the shares would be  approximately  $275 million,  based on  U.S.-Canada
currency  exchange  rates on January 27, 1998.  The offer is open for acceptance
through  March  27,  1998,  unless it is  extended  or  withdrawn.  The offer is
conditioned on the tender of at least 90% of the Pembridge shares and receipt of
required regulatory approvals.

                  On January 26, 1998,  the Company  announced  that it filed an
application  with the Office of Thrift  Supervision  for  approval  to operate a
federal  savings bank.  The business  plan filed with the Company's  application
focused on trust and cash management services.

                  On December 16, 1997,  the Company  issued  $250,000,000  of 7
1/8% Senior Quarterly Interest Bonds ("QUIBS"). The QUIBS mature on December 15,
2097, subject to the Company's option to redeem the QUIBS in whole or in part on
or after December 19, 2002, at 100% of principal amount plus accrued interest to
the  redemption  date. The Company also has the right to shorten the maturity of
the QUIBS to the extent  required to preserve  the  Company's  ability to deduct
interest  paid by it on the QUIBS.  The proceeds of the  offering  were used for
general corporate purposes, including the Company's stock repurchase program.

                  On November 12, 1997,  Allstate announced that it had sold its
interest  in two  Japanese  insurance  companies  to its  former  joint  venture
partner, The Saison Group.

         On  November  10,  1997,  the  Company  announced  formation  of a  new
subsidiary,  Allstate  New Jersey  Insurance  Company,  a New  Jersey  insurance
corporation,  to  write  automobile  and  homeowners  insurance  in New  Jersey,
commencing  January  1, 1998.  The new  subsidiary  will serve as a  replacement
carrier in New Jersey for  Allstate  Insurance  Company and  Allstate  Indemnity
Company.   This  resolves  the  Company's   application  to  withdraw  from  the
property-liability market in New Jersey.

RISK FACTORS AFFECTING ALLSTATE

         In addition  to the normal  risks of  business,  Allstate is subject to
significant  risk  factors,  including  those  applicable  to it as an insurance
company,  such as: (i) the inherent  uncertainty in the process of  establishing
property-liability  loss  reserves,   particularly  reserves  for  the  cost  of
environmental,  asbestos and mass tort claims, and the fact that ultimate losses
could  materially  exceed  established loss reserves and have a material adverse
effect on results of  operations  and  financial  condition;  (ii) the fact that
Allstate  has  experienced,  and can be  expected  in the future to  experience,
catastrophe  losses which could have a material  adverse impact on its financial
condition,  results of operations and cash flows; (iii) the inherent uncertainty
in the  process of 



                                       
 

establishing  property-liability loss reserves due to the change in loss payment
patterns caused by new claims settlement practices; (iv) the need for Allstate's
insurance  company  subsidiaries  to maintain  appropriate  levels of  statutory
capital and  surplus,  particularly  in light of  continuing  scrutiny by rating
organizations  and  state  insurance  regulatory  authorities,  and to  maintain
acceptable  financial  strength  or  claims-paying   ability  ratings;  (v)  the
extensive regulation and supervision to which Allstate's insurance  subsidiaries
are subject, various regulatory and public initiatives that may affect Allstate,
and regulatory and other legal actions  involving  Allstate;  (vi) the Company's
primary  reliance,  as a holding  company,  on  dividends  from AIC to meet debt
payment  obligations,  and regulatory  restrictions on AIC's ability to pay such
dividends; (vii) the adverse impact which increases in interest rates could have
on the value of Allstate's  investment  portfolio and on the  attractiveness  of
certain Allstate Life products;  (viii) the adverse impact to investment  income
in low interest rate  environments  due to funds being  reinvested in securities
yielding  less than the  average  portfolio  rate;  (ix) the need to adjust  the
effective  duration of the assets and liabilities of Allstate Life's  operations
in order to meet the  anticipated  cash flow  requirements  of its  policyholder
obligations;  and (x) the uncertainty involved in estimating the availability of
reinsurance and the collectibility of reinsurance recoverables.

         See also  "Forward-Looking  Statements"  in this Form 10-K for  several
important  factors that could cause the Company's actual results and experience,
with  respect  to   forward-looking   statements   in  this  Form  10-K  and  in
"Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations" incorporated herein in response to Item 7, to differ materially from
anticipated   results  or  other   expectations   expressed  in  the   Company's
forward-looking statements.


ALLSTATE STRATEGY

         Allstate's strategy is to focus on the profitable growth of its private
passenger automobile and homeowners insurance business;  to increase cross-sales
of its products to its customer base; to expand  distribution  through  existing
non-agency  distribution  channels and through the addition of new  distribution
channels; to manage its catastrophe exposure; to expand its offering of life and
annuity products;  and to seek opportunities in the international  markets. This
strategy is designed to  capitalize  on: (1) the strength of the Allstate  name,
(2)  Allstate's  network of exclusive  agents,  (3)  Allstate's  auto  insurance
capabilities, and (4) additional distribution channels available to Allstate.

         Allstate's   marketing   strategy  for  standard  auto  and  homeowners
insurance varies by geographic area.  Allstate  separates the voluntary personal
auto insurance business into two categories for underwriting  purposes according
to insurance  risks: the standard market and the  non-standard  market,  and has
determined its growth strategy  accordingly.  Allstate is attempting to grow its
standard  auto business  more rapidly in areas where the  regulatory  climate is
more conducive to attractive  returns.  The  non-standard  auto insurance market
consists of  insurance of persons with no prior  driving  experience,  or with a
prior history of accidents or violations,  or 






owning high  performance  cars with high repair and replacement  costs or having
other  special  needs.  Allstate has  achieved the leading  market share in this
market. This has been a market in which Allstate has competed by capitalizing on
an established  distribution  system,  technology and claims capabilities and by
tailoring  pricing and  products to reach a broader  market.  Allstate  plans to
continue to develop  opportunities  in this  market in part,  by  expanding  its
independent  agent  distribution  channel.  Allstate is attempting to manage its
homeowners  exposure  on  policies  in  areas  where  the  potential  loss  from
catastrophes  exceeds  acceptable  levels.  Allstate's  process  of  designating
geographic  areas as growth and limited  growth is dynamic and may be revised as
changes  occur in the legal,  regulatory  and economic  environments  in various
areas,  as catastrophe  exposure is reduced and as new products are approved and
introduced.  Less  than 6% of the  United  States  population  reside  in  areas
designated by Allstate as standard auto limited growth  markets.  As a result of
Allstate's  efforts to  introduce  policy  changes and to  purchase  catastrophe
insurance  coverage,  the homeowners limited growth markets have been reduced to
areas where approximately 13% of the United States population resides.

         Allstate Life has been growing its business  through the development of
new customer focused products, the establishment of new marketing  arrangements,
increased  cross-sales  of  life  and  annuity  products  to  existing  Allstate
customers, offering a variety of competitive fee-based and spread based products
to satisfy  customer  preferences  in various  interest rate  environments,  and
leveraging  existing scale to increase  efficiency and  effectiveness,  in part,
through  investments in technology and the consolidation of certain  facilities.
Allstate  Life's  life  insurance  and annuity  products  are  marketed  through
Allstate agents (including life specialists), banks, independent agents, brokers
and direct response marketing.  Specialized brokers are used to distribute group
pension and  structured  settlement  products not offered by  Allstate=s  agency
force.

         Allstate's  exclusive  agency force of  approximately  15,200 full-time
agents is at the core of its PP&C distribution  system.  Allstate also uses over
2,800 independent  agents to market a full range of Allstate  insurance products
to individuals,  mostly in rural markets not served by Allstate agents, and over
7,000 independent agents appointed by Allstate's subsidiary, Deerbrook Insurance
Company ("Deerbrook"),  to market non-standard auto business. Allstate Life also
has a direct response  marketing program which principally  targets customers of
credit card  issuers  who prefer to  purchase,  through  the mail or  telephone,
selected products not offered by Allstate's agency force.

         In 1997 Allstate commenced the sale of private passenger auto insurance
in Germany through direct marketing.  Allstate has also identified other foreign
areas as attractive markets for property-liability or life insurance,  and plans
to pursue international opportunities as an avenue to grow both its revenues and
profitability.  Allstate believes that it will take a number of years before its
new  and  planned  international  businesses  contribute  significantly  to  its
financial results.







                  Allstate may also pursue selective acquisitions, partnerships,
business expansions,  business start-ups,  and divestitures,  both in the United
States and internationally in the pursuit of its business strategy.

PROPERTY-LIABILITY INSURANCE BUSINESS

         Allstate's  property-liability  insurance business consists of PP&C and
Discontinued  Lines and Coverages.  PP&C,  which accounted for $18.6 billion (or
79%) of Allstate's 1997 statutory  written  premiums,  writes primarily  private
passenger  automobile  and  homeowners  insurance  policies  in 49  states,  the
District of Columbia and Canada.  Since 1997  Allstate has also written  private
passenger  automobile  insurance in Germany.  Operating in approximately  11,300
locations,  Allstate  agents  produce more than 94% of PP&C's  annual  statutory
written premiums,  with the balance  generated by independent  agents largely in
locations  not  currently  served by  Allstate  agents.  Discontinued  Lines and
Coverages consists of business no longer written by Allstate,  including results
from  environmental,  asbestos and mass tort losses,  mortgage pool business and
other  commercial  insurance  business  in  run-off,  as well as the  historical
results of the commercial and reinsurance businesses sold in 1996.

          Principally  engaged in private  passenger  automobile  and homeowners
insurance,   PP&C   accounted  for   substantially   all  of  Allstate's   total
property-liability statutory premiums. Allstate was the country's second largest
personal property and casualty insurer for both private passenger automobile and
homeowners   insurance  in  1996.  Although  private  passenger  automobile  and
homeowners insurance account for the majority of its business,  PP&C also writes
coverages  for  product  lines  such  as  motorcycles,   motor  homes,  renters,
condominium,  residential and landlord,  comprehensive personal liability, fire,
personal umbrella,  recreational vehicle,  mobile home, boat owners and selected
commercial  property and  casualty  coverages.  PP&C also  operates the Allstate
Motor Club,  an  organization  whose  purpose is to aid its members  with travel
plans and emergency road service.

         The Company  separates the voluntary  personal auto insurance  business
into two basic  categories  according to insurance risk; the standard market and
the  non-standard  market.  The  standard  market  consists  of drivers  who are
perceived to have low to average risk of loss expectancy.

         Allstate had a countrywide  market share of approximately  17.3% of the
non-standard market in 1996.  Allstate=s presence in this market, as well as the
standard market allows  Allstate agents to offer insurance  products to the vast
majority of drivers who apply for insurance. The non-standard market consists of
drivers who have higher-than-average risk profiles due to their driving records,
lack of prior  insurance or the types of cars they own. PP&C has a refined price
structure and policy  features which address the special needs of drivers in the
non-standard  market.  These policies are written at higher than standard rates.
Allstate  writes  policies  covering  these  risks  principally   through  AIC's
subsidiary,  Allstate  Indemnity  Company.  Deerbrook  also writes  non-standard
insurance through independent  agencies.  Allstate expects that while its






growth in the  non-standard  market  will  continue,  its rate of growth in this
market will decline as the market matures.


         As a condition  of its license to do business in each state,  Allstate,
like all other  automobile  insurers,  is required to write or share the cost of
private  passenger  automobile  insurance for higher risk  individuals who would
otherwise be unable to obtain such insurance.  The "involuntary"  market, called
the "shared  market," is governed by the applicable laws and regulations of each
state, and policies written in this market are generally  written at higher than
standard rates.  Allstate has generally  experienced losses in its participation
in the shared market.

         PP&C, in addition to writing insurance for standard homes, also insures
high value homes and non-standard  homes, such as those with increased  exposure
given their distance from fire  protection  services,  and also insures risks in
the renters and  condominium  markets.  Allstate  has  targeted  the  homeowners
insurance business as a market with substantial  profitable growth opportunities
for the Company as the  implementation  of  catastrophe  management  initiatives
allows the Company to re-enter certain homeowners markets.

         Allstate,  unlike the  majority  of its  competitors,  does not rely on
rating  bureaus in  establishing  prices for its personal  property and casualty
products.  Instead Allstate uses its proprietary  database,  which contains many
years of its own extensive  underwriting  and pricing  experience.  Accordingly,
subject to applicable state regulations,  different prices are derived according
to numerous variables which apply to each specific risk, including,  in the case
of private passenger  automobile  insurance,  factors relating to the automobile
(such as its age,  make and model) as well as factors  relating  to the  insured
(such as previous driving record).  In management's  opinion,  the extensive use
and analysis of this database,  rather than rating  bureaus,  provides PP&C with
the basis for its market segmentation strategy to price risks accordingly.  PP&C
is  updating  its  nationwide  profiles  of the types of  business it intends to
pursue.

         Allstate  has  attempted  to  reduce  its  PP&C  claims  costs  through
centralized claims  administration,  specialization  and additional  training of
claims  personnel,  and  intensive  and early  investigation  and  settlement of
claims.  The Company has focused on claims involving  alleged personal injury in
connection  with  collisions  involving  relatively  minor  impact.  During 1997
Allstate  continued the testing of redesigned  claim  settlement  procedures for
auto physical damage claims.  As these  procedures are implemented  during 1998,
Allstate will focus on the consistency and accuracy of estimating claim losses.


         As is true for the property-liability  industry in general,  first-year
costs  attributable to PP&C's products are generally  higher than for subsequent
years.   Accordingly,   customer   retention  is  an  important  factor  in  the
profitability of PP&C's products,  since policies that remain in force generally
become more profitable over time.  Allstate customer retention rates in 1997 for
standard and non-standard auto were approximately the same as in 1996. Retention
rates for




  


homeowners  declined in 1997,  having  been  adversely  impacted  by  Allstate's
catastrophe management initiatives. These initiatives are discussed below, under
"Catastrophe Exposure."

         The personal lines private passenger auto and homeowners businesses are
highly competitive.  As of December 31, 1996 over 1,400 insurance companies were
in the market,  with five groups of companies  (State Farm,  Allstate,  Farmers,
Nationwide  and  USAA)  writing  approximately  47%  of  the  private  passenger
automobile  premiums written and  approximately  48% of the homeowners  premiums
written in the United  States.  State Farm  maintains  the leading  share in the
automobile  and  homeowners  market and had 21.4% of the  automobile  market and
23.4% of the homeowners  market in 1996.  Together,  State Farm and Allstate had
34.1% of the total United State's auto and homeowners market in 1996.

         AIC competes principally on the basis of its name recognition, scope of
distribution system,  customer service, use of technology,  product features and
breadth  of product  offerings  and price.  Additionally,  extensive  use of its
database to develop proprietary information gives AIC the ability to segment its
market,  appropriately  price  risks and  cross-sell  its  products  within  its
customer base.

         Approximately  $45  billion of industry  personal  lines  premiums  are
generated by independent agencies, and the remaining $91 billion of premiums are
generated by insurers placing their products  directly with the consumer through
employee agents,  independent  contractor exclusive agents,  direct response and
mail order.  Allstate  believes its exclusive  agency force  provides it with an
advantage in distributing PP&C products.  However,  some competitors,  operating
with solely  exclusive  agents who are  independent  contractors or distributing
through direct response or mail order marketing, or operating with non-exclusive
independent  agents  have  also  been  able to  operate  effective  distribution
systems.

         A majority of Allstate's  15,200  exclusive agents are employee agents.
In future  years,  Allstate  expects that the  percentage  of its agents who are
independent  contractor exclusive agents will increase  substantially.  In 1990,
Allstate  instituted an independent  contractor  exclusive  agent contract under
which  persons are hired for an 18 month period during which they are trained as
agents. Upon completion of the period,  Allstate offers contracts to some of the
trainees  to serve as  independent  contractors  who are  exclusive  agents  for
Allstate. Each person hired since 1990 for eventual consideration as an Allstate
agent has been hired on this basis. In addition,  employee agents who were hired
prior to 1990 have been permitted to convert to independent contractor exclusive
agent status.  At December 31, 1997,  independent  contractor  exclusive agents,
including agents in training to become independent  contractor exclusive agents,
represented  approximately  40% of  Allstate  agents.  Allstate  has a strategic
initiative intended to improve agencies'  productivity to sell to and to service
customers and to align local processes, programs and policies, including workers
classification,   with  Allstate  objectives.  The  Company  is  negotiating  an
agreement with the Department of Treasury,  Internal Revenue Service,  to ensure
continuation of the employee agent program.






         CATASTROPHE EXPOSURE

         Catastrophes are an inherent risk of the  property-liability  insurance
business which have  contributed,  and will continue to contribute,  to material
year-to-year  fluctuations  in Allstate's  results of  operations  and financial
position.  The  level of  catastrophe  loss  experienced  in any year  cannot be
predicted and could be material to results of operations and financial position.
Allstate has experienced two severe  catastrophes in recent years which resulted
in losses of $2.33 billion relating to Hurricane Andrew (net of reinsurance) and
$1.75 billion relating to the Northridge  earthquake.  While management believes
Allstate's  catastrophe  management  strategies,  described below,  will greatly
reduce  the  severity  of future  losses,  Allstate  continues  to be exposed to
similar  or  greater  catastrophes  (see  ARisk  Factors"  and  AForward-Looking
Statements" in this Form 10-K).

         A  "catastrophe"  is defined  by  Allstate  as an event  that  produces
pre-tax  losses before  reinsurance in excess of $1 million  involving  multiple
first party policyholders.  Catastrophes are caused by various events, including
hurricanes,  earthquakes,  tornadoes,  wind and hail storms, and fires. Although
catastrophes  can  cause  losses  in  a  variety  of  property-liability  lines,
homeowners   insurance   has  in  the  past   generated  the  vast  majority  of
catastrophe-related claims. For Allstate, major areas of potential losses due to
hurricanes include major  metropolitan  centers near the eastern and gulf coasts
of the United  States.  Allstate's  exposure to potential  earthquake  losses in
California are now limited by its  participation  in the  California  Earthquake
Authority,  as  described  below.  Other  areas in the  United  States  in which
Allstate is exposed to potential  losses from  earthquakes  include areas in the
central United States surrounding the New Madrid fault system in the midwest and
areas in and around  Seattle,  Washington.  Although  Allstate,  consistent with
industry practice,  prices risks in light of anticipated  catastrophe  exposure,
the incidence and severity of catastrophes is unpredictable.  Allstate continues
to evaluate  alternative  business  strategies  to more  effectively  manage its
exposure to catastrophe losses in these and other areas.

         Allstate has implemented strategies to limit, over time, subject to the
requirements  of insurance  laws and  regulations  and as limited by competitive
considerations,  its insurance exposures in certain regions prone to catastrophe
occurrences.  These  strategies  include  limits  on  new  business  production,
limitations  on certain  policy  coverages,  increases  in  deductibles,  policy
brokering and  participation  in catastrophe  pools.  In addition,  Allstate has
requested and received rate increases and has expanded its use of deductibles in
certain  regions  prone to  catastrophes.  While  management  believes  that its
initiatives have reduced or will reduce  Allstate's  exposure to catastrophes in
certain  geographic regions over time, the extent of such reduction is uncertain
and is constrained by state insurance laws and  regulations.  For example,  some
states, such as Florida and New York, limit the ability of insurers to non-renew
policies. The states in which Allstate faces its highest exposure -- California,
Florida and New York -- require rates to be approved by the  regulator,  thereby
making it more difficult to obtain  adequate rates that reflect the  catastrophe
exposure.  Finally,  all states  have  shared  market  mechanisms  that  provide
insurance  to  persons  who are  unable to obtain  it in the  voluntary  market.
Allstate's ability to reduce its exposure to







catastrophes  may be offset by any increase in the exposure  through such shared
market mechanisms. See "Regulation - Shared Markets" below.

         Allstate  has used  catastrophe  simulation  models  in  attempting  to
estimate  the  probability  and the  levels of  losses  which  may  result  from
catastrophes  (Allstate  also uses  these  models  to  assist  in its  decisions
concerning  pricing,  underwriting  and reinsuring risks in areas of catastrophe
exposure).  These models are subject to uncertainties due to continual  updating
and revisions to reflect the most currently available information on climatology
and seismology, building codes, and policy demographics.  Allstate believes that
improvements  in the amount and types of  information  contained in these models
have improved its estimations of catastrophe  exposures,  as well as its ability
to estimate  losses in the earlier stages of  development.  However,  use of the
models has not enabled Allstate to predict the level of losses associated with a
specific  catastrophe in the past, and the predictive  value of such models with
regard to future  catastrophes is subject to challenge.  Nevertheless,  Allstate
believes  that the  programs  described  below have  significantly  reduced  the
probable maximum loss from hurricanes in Florida or in the Northeastern  portion
of the United States ("Northeast") and earthquakes in California.

          The question of the magnitude of potential  impacts of global  climate
change will be a continuing source of discussion. However, the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change reported that there is a discernible  human influence on
the climate  change  being  observed.  In light of this,  Allstate  continues to
explore and analyze credible scientific evidence, including, but not limited to,
the impact of climate  change,  that may affect  Allstate's  potential  exposure
under its insurance policies.

         During  1997,  the  Company  continued  implementation  of its  plan to
reorganize  its Florida  property  business  in order to reduce its  exposure to
hurricane losses.  The Allstate  Floridian  Insurance Company  ("Floridian") was
formed  in 1996,  to sell and  service  Allstate's  Florida  property  policies.
Existing  Allstate  property  policies  were  transferred  to  Floridian  as the
policies were renewed.  By the end of 1997, Allstate  transferred  substantially
all of its property policies to Floridian.  The remaining property policies will
be  transferred  in  1998.   Floridian  entered  into  catastrophe   reinsurance
agreements  with a  non-affiliated  entity which provides  access to 80% of $500
million of catastrophe  reinsurance protection in excess of $1.00 billion, up to
an aggregate  limit of $800 million  through  1999.  In addition,  Floridian has
access to over 90% of an estimated $600 million of reinsurance  from the Florida
Hurricane Catastrophe Fund. Also, in 1996 and 1997, Allstate non-renewed 156,000
Florida  property  policies with annual premiums of $90 million,  completing its
agreement to sell renewal rights to Clarendon National Insurance Company.

           Allstate  has entered into a  three-year  excess of loss  reinsurance
contract covering  property  policies in the Northeast,  effective June 1, 1997.
The  reinsurance  program  provides  up to 95% of $500  million  of  reinsurance
protection  for  catastrophe  losses  in  excess of an  estimated  $750  million
retention  subject to an annual limit of $500  million and an  aggregate  policy
limit of $1.00 billion.






         In late 1996 the  California  Earthquake  Authority  ("CEA")  commenced
operation.  The  CEA  is a  privately-financed,  publicly-managed  state  agency
created to provide coverage for earthquake damage resulting from seismic events.
Insurers  selling  homeowner  insurance  in  California  are  required  to offer
earthquake  insurance  to  their  customers  either  through  their  company  or
participation  in the CEA.  By the end of 1997,  all of  Allstate's  traditional
earthquake  policies and  mini-earthquake  policies were renewed into the CEA or
the  customer  decided  to  non-renew  their  earthquake  insurance.  Allstate's
homeowners  policy  will  continue  to include  coverages  for losses  caused by
explosions,  theft, glass breakage and fires following an earthquake,  which are
not written by the CEA.

         Approximately  $700  million  of funds  needed to  create  the CEA were
obtained  from  assessments  of  participating   insurance  companies.  In  1996
Allstate's pretax assessment, including related expenses, was approximately $150
million.  Additional  funds  needed to operate the CEA will be obtained  through
assessments of participating insurance companies, reinsurance and bond issuances
funded by  policyholder  assessments.  Allstate  may be  assessed  in the future
depending  on  the  funding  level  of  the  CEA.  All  future   assessments  to
participating CEA insurers are based on homeowners  insurance market share as of
December 31 of the preceding year. Allstate does not expect its portion of these
additional  contingent  assessments,  if needed in 1998,  to exceed $700 million
assuming its current market share does not materially change.

         Allstate  continues to support  passage of legislation in Congress such
as the Homeowner's  Insurance  Availability Act which could, if enacted,  lessen
the impact to Allstate of catastrophic  natural disasters such as hurricanes and
earthquakes.  Allstate is a founding  member of a newly-formed  coalition  whose
members include property insurers and insurance agents.  This group is promoting
a measure that would provide  federal  reinsurance to state disaster  plans.  On
February  9, 1998,  the House  Banking  Subcommittee  on Housing  and  Community
Opportunity  submitted the Homeowner's  Insurance  Availability Act to the House
Banking Committee.  The Company is unable to determine whether, or in what form,
such  proposed legislation  could be enacted or  what the effect on  the Company
would be.


DISCONTINUED LINES AND COVERAGES

          Allstate  wrote excess and surplus lines  coverages  from 1972 to 1985
through  its  subsidiary,   Northbrook  Excess  and  Surplus  Insurance  Company
("NESCO").   NESCO  wrote  professional   liability  coverages  for  architects,
engineers,  lawyers, and physicians,  principally on claims-made coverage forms.
It  also  wrote  substantial  umbrella  and  excess  liability  coverages  on an
occurrence basis, including medical and other products liability coverages,  for
major United States  corporations.  In 1985,  NESCO was merged into AIC assuming
all of the assets and liabilities of NESCO. Since the early 1980's, Allstate has
experienced  significant increases in losses for years prior to 1980 arising out
of NESCO's umbrella and excess liability coverage for large corporations.  Since
the late 1980's, most of these losses have related to environmental







damages,  asbestos-related  damages or  mass-tort  settlements.  AIC, as NESCO's
successor,  has  been  involved,  and  continues  to be  involved,  in  coverage
litigation with NESCO insureds.

         In addition to NESCO's  activities,  during the late 1960's and through
the  early  1980's  Allstate's   reinsurance  business  unit  wrote  treaty  and
facultative  reinsurance covering general liability primary policies,  including
policies for major producers of asbestos products. During approximately the same
period,  Allstate=s  reinsurance  business  unit wrote  reinsurance  coverage on
liability policies with major United States  corporations that have since become
involved in  environmental  and asbestos  claims.  Such  companies may have been
involved with hazardous wastes in a variety of ways including as  manufacturers,
haulers,  dump site  owners,  or  through  a  combination  of these  activities.
Allstate=s  reinsurance  business  unit has been  involved  and  continues to be
involved in coverage  litigation and arbitration with ceding companies and their
insureds  involving  liability for environmental and asbestos damages claims. In
1986,  Allstate  ceased writing  business with ceding  companies which tended to
insure larger corporations with potential  environmental  and/or asbestos damage
exposures,  and its  underwriting  focus was  redirected  toward  smaller,  more
regionalized  insurers who focus on property and casualty coverages and who have
underwriting  standards that are considered  prudent by Allstate.  Also in 1986,
the  general   liability  policy  form  used  by  Allstate  and  others  in  the
property-liability  industry was amended to  introduce  an  "absolute  pollution
exclusion," which excluded coverage for environmental  damage claims,  and added
asbestos  exclusions.  Most  general  liability  policies  issued  prior to 1987
contain annual  aggregate  limits for liability  coverage,  and policies  issued
after 1986 also have an annual  aggregate limit as to all coverages.  Allstate's
experience  to date is that these policy form changes have  effectively  limited
its exposure to  environmental  and  asbestos  claim risks  assumed,  as well as
primary commercial  coverages written, for most policies written in 1986 and all
policies written after 1986.

         Allstate's  environmental and asbestos  exposures are primarily limited
to  policies  written in  periods  prior to 1986 with the  preponderance  of the
losses  emanating from policies  written in the 1970's.  New  environmental  and
asbestos  claims,  however,  continue to be reported.  Allstate has  established
substantial  reserves for the environmental and asbestos damage claims,  and for
mass tort exposures.  Mass tort exposures  primarily relate to liability claims,
such as those for medical devices and other products,  and general  liabilities.
However, there are significant inherent uncertainties in estimating the ultimate
cost of these claims,  as discussed  below.  Further  information  regarding the
foregoing  is  contained  in  AProperty-Liability   Claims  and  Claims  Expense
Reserves" on pages A-10 to A-13 of the 1998 Proxy Statement, incorporated herein
by reference in response to Item 7 hereof. For information  regarding  Superfund
proposed  legislation,  see "Regulatory  Initiatives  and Proposed  Legislation"
below.

         PROPERTY-LIABILITY INSURANCE CLAIMS AND CLAIMS EXPENSE RESERVES

          Allstate  establishes  property-liability  loss  reserves to cover its
estimated  ultimate  liability  for losses  and loss  adjustment  expenses  with
respect to reported  claims and claims  incurred  but not yet reported as of the
end of each accounting period. In accordance with applicable insurance






laws and regulations and generally accepted accounting  principles ("GAAP"),  no
reserves  are  established  until  a  loss  occurs,  including  a  loss  from  a
catastrophe.  Underwriting  results  of the  property-liability  operations  are
significantly  influenced by estimates of  property-liability  claims and claims
expense reserves (see Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements
on pages  A-42 to A-45 of the  1998  Proxy  Statement,  incorporated  herein  by
reference in response to Item 8 hereof).  These reserves are an  accumulation of
the estimated  amounts  necessary to settle all  outstanding  claims,  including
claims  which are incurred  but not  reported,  as of the  reporting  date.  The
reserve  estimates  are  based  on  known  facts  and  on   interpretations   of
circumstances, including Allstate's experience with similar cases and historical
trends involving claim payment patterns, loss payments, pending levels of unpaid
claims and product  mix, as well as other  factors  including  court  decisions,
economic  conditions  and  public  attitudes.   The  effects  of  inflation  are
implicitly  considered in the reserving process.  The establishment of reserves,
including reserves for catastrophes,  is an inherently uncertain process and the
ultimate cost may vary materially from the recorded amounts.  Allstate regularly
updates its reserve estimates as new facts become known and further events occur
which may impact  the  resolution  of  unsettled  claims.  Changes in prior year
reserve  estimates,  which may be  material,  are  reflected  in the  results of
operations in the period such changes are determined to be needed.

         Establishing  net loss  reserves for  environmental,  asbestos and mass
tort claims is subject to uncertainties that are greater than those presented by
other types of claims. Among the complications are lack of historical data, long
reporting  delays,  uncertainty  as to the number and identity of insureds  with
potential   exposure,   unresolved   legal  issues  regarding  policy  coverage,
availability and  collectibility of reinsurance and the extent and timing of any
such contractual  liability.  The legal issues concerning the  interpretation of
various insurance policy provisions and whether environmental, asbestos and mass
tort losses are, or were ever intended to be covered,  are complex.  Courts have
reached different and sometimes  inconsistent  conclusions as to when losses are
deemed to have  occurred  and which  policies  provide  coverage;  what types of
losses are covered; whether there is an insured obligation to defend; how policy
limits are determined;  how policy  exclusions are applied and interpreted;  and
whether clean-up costs represent  insured property damage.  Management  believes
these issues are not likely to be resolved in the near future. See Note 6 of the
Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  on pages A-42 to A-45 of the 1998
Proxy Statement, incorporated herein by reference in response to Item 8 hereof.

         The following tables are summary  reconciliations  of the beginning and
ending property-liability insurance claims and claims expense reserve, displayed
individually for each of the last three years. The first table presents reserves
on a gross (before  reinsurance)  basis.  The end of year gross reserve balances
are reflected in the Consolidated  Statements of Financial Position on page A-26
of the 1998 Proxy  Statement,  incorporated  herein by  reference in response to
Item 8 hereof.  The second table presents reserves on a net (after  reinsurance)
basis.  The total net  property-liability  insurance  claims and claims  expense
amounts are reflected in the Consolidated  Statements of Operations on page A-25
of the 1998 Proxy  Statement,  incorporated  herein by  reference in response to
Item 8 hereof.




















             The   year-end   1997  gross   reserves   of  $17.40   billion  for
property-liability  insurance  claims and claims  expense,  as determined  under
GAAP,  were  $1.80  billion  more than the  reserve  balance  of $15.60  billion
recorded on the basis of statutory  accounting practices for reports provided to
state  regulatory  authorities.  The  principal  difference  is the  reinsurance
recoverable  from third parties totaling $1.63 billion that reduces reserves for
statutory  reporting and is recorded as an asset for GAAP reporting.  Additional
differences are caused by the reserves of the Canadian  subsidiary  which is not
included in the combined United States statutory statement.

           As  the  tables  above   illustrate,   Allstate's   net  reserve  for
property-liability  insurance  claims  and  claims  expense  at the  end of 1996
developed favorably in 1997 by $677 million,  compared to favorable  development
of the gross reserves of $618 million.  Net reserve development in 1996 and 1995
was more favorable than favorable gross reserve development in these years. This
relationship  was due to the fact that Allstate=s  principal  property-liability
lines,  such as private  passenger auto and homeowners,  were not  significantly
affected by reinsurance,  whereas  Discontinued  Lines and Coverages  involved a
higher level of ceded reinsurance protection.  The more favorable development in
the net  reserves  in 1996 and 1995 was due to  higher  anticipated  reinsurance
cessions on increased reserve  reestimates for Discontinued Lines and Coverages.
In 1996, following completion of a comprehensive review of available reinsurance
for Discontinued Lines and Coverages, the Company decreased ceded loss reserves.
This decrease offset the favorable effect of higher reinsurance cessions related
to increased reestimates of gross reserves for Discontinued Lines and Coverages.
See  "Property-Liability  Claims and Claims  Expense  Reserves" on pages A-10 to
A-13 of the 1998 Proxy Statement,  incorporated  herein by reference in response
to Item 7 hereof. For further discussion of the Company's  reinsurance programs,
see  "Property-Liability  Reinsurance  Ceded" on pages A-12 and A-13 of the 1998
Proxy Statement, incorporated herein by reference in response to Item 7 hereof.

             The loss reserve  development  table below  illustrates  the change
over  time of the net  reserves  established  for  property-liability  insurance
claims  and  claims  expense at the end of  various  calendar  years.  The first
section shows the reserves as originally reported at the end of stated year. The
second section, reading down, shows the cumulative amounts paid as of the end of
successive  years with respect to that  reserve  liability.  The third  section,
reading down, shows retroactive  reestimates of the original recorded reserve as
of the end of each  successive  year which is the result of Allstate's  expanded
awareness of additional  facts and  circumstances  that pertain to the unsettled
claims. The last section compares the latest reestimated  reserve to the reserve
originally  established,  and indicates  whether or not the original reserve was
adequate or  inadequate to cover the estimated  costs of unsettled  claims.  The
table also presents the gross reestimated  liability as of the end of the latest
reestimation  period,  with  separate  disclosure  of  the  related  reestimated
reinsurance recoverable.  This presentation appears for all periods in which the
income recognition provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
113 have been applied.







The loss reserve development table is cumulative and, therefore, ending balances
should not be added since the amount at the end of each  calendar  year includes
activity for both the current and prior years.














          The subsequent  reduction in the net reserves  established at December
31, 1996, 1995 and 1994 shown in the foregoing table reflects favorable severity
trends that the Company has  experienced,  as more fully  discussed  below.  The
principal cause for the initial reserves established at the end of 1991, and all
previous  years  reflected in the table,  needing to be increased  over the time
frame in the  above  table is the  cumulative  adverse  reserve  development  on
environmental,  asbestos and mass tort claims, virtually all of which relates to
1984 and prior years.  There are  significant  uncertainties  in estimating  the
amount of  Allstate's  environmental,  asbestos and mass tort claims.  Among the
complications are a lack of historical data, long reporting delays,  uncertainty
as to the number and identity of insureds with potential  exposure,  and complex
unresolved  legal issues  regarding policy coverage and the extent and timing of
any such  contractual  liability.  Courts have reached  different  and sometimes
inconsistent  conclusions as to when the loss occurred and what policies provide
coverage;  what claims are covered;  whether  there is an insured  obligation to
defend; how policy limits are determined;  how policy exclusions are applied and
interpreted; and whether clean-up costs represent insured property damage. These
issues are not likely to be  resolved in the near  future.  As a result of these
issues,  the  ultimate  cost of these  claims  may  generate  losses  that  vary
materially from the amount currently reserved.

          During 1996,  Allstate gained access to complex databases developed by
outside  experts to estimate the cost of liabilities for  environmental  claims.
Allstate's  policy files were compared to the databases to determine an estimate
of the Company's potential  environmental loss. The Company also refined its own
estimation  techniques to estimate  environmental and asbestos losses.  Allstate
used a combination of these resources,  along with an extensive  internal review
of its current claim exposures to estimate  environmental and asbestos reserves.
The Company also performed an in-depth analysis of its reinsurance recoverables.
During the third quarter of 1996, based upon the Company's  re-evaluation,  loss
reserves  for  environmental  and asbestos  exposures, net of reinsurance,  were
increased  by $172  million and $72  million,  respectively.  These  studies and
re-evaluations  resulted in Allstate's actions to increase reserves as described
in AProperty-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves" on pages A-10 to A-13
of the 1998 Proxy  Statement,  incorporated  herein by  reference in response to
Item 7 hereof.  In 1997,  Allstate  updated its  evaluations  of  environmental,
asbestos and mass tort reserves.  This updated  evaluation did not result in any
change in recorded  net loss  reserves.  While  Allstate  believes  the improved
actuarial  techniques and databases described above have assisted in its ability
to  estimate  environmental,  asbestos  and mass tort net loss  reserves,  these
refinements  may prove to be  inadequate  indicators  of the extent of  probable
loss. See note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated  Financial Statements on pages
A-42 to A-45 of the 1998 Proxy  Statement,  incorporated  herein by reference in
response to Item 8 hereof.







          The following table is derived from the Loss Reserve Development table
and  summarizes  the  effect of  reserve  reestimates,  net of  reinsurance,  on
calendar year  operations for the same ten-year  period ended December 31, 1997.
The total of each column details the amount of reserve  reestimates  made in the
indicated  calendar year and shows the accident  years to which the  reestimates
are  applicable.  The amounts in the total accident year column on the far right
represent the cumulative reserve reestimates for the indicated accident year(s).




        Favorable calendar year reserve development in 1992 through 1997 was the
result of favorable  severity  trends in each of the six years,  which more than
offset adverse development in Discontinued Lines and Coverages.

        The favorable severity trend during this six-year period was largely due
to lower than  anticipated  medical  cost  inflation  for  personal  auto injury
claims.  Improvements  in the  Company's  claim  settlement  processes  are also
believed to have  contributed to favorable  development in 1995,  1996 and 1997.
The reduction in the  anticipated  medical cost inflation trend has emerged over
time as actual claim  settlements  validated the effect of the steady decline in
the rate of inflation.  Although  improvements in the Company's claim settlement
process have  contributed to favorable  severity  development of personal injury
claims during the past three years, the new processes have caused an increase in
the number of claims outstanding.  The rate of increase has declined in 1996 and
1997, and the Company expects the rate of increase to stabilize in 1998. However
the  number of  outstanding  claims  may not be  reduced  to  levels  previously
reported.  In addition,  while the claim settlement process changes are believed
to have contributed to favorable severity trends on closed claims, these changes
introduce a greater degree of variability in reserve estimates for the remaining
outstanding  claims at December 31, 1997. Future reserve releases,  if any, will
depend on the  continuation  of the  favorable  loss trends.  See "Risk  Factors
Affecting Allstate" and "Forward-Looking Statements" in this Form 10-K.






LIFE AND ANNUITY BUSINESS

        Allstate Life markets a broad line of life insurance,  annuity and group
pension products.  Life insurance  includes  traditional  products such as whole
life and term life insurance, as well as universal life, variable life and other
interest-sensitive  life products.  Annuities  include both deferred  annuities,
such as variable annuities and fixed rate single premium deferred annuities, and
immediate  annuities such as structured  settlement  annuities.  Allstate Life's
group pension products include  guaranteed  investment  contracts and retirement
annuities.  The assets and  liabilities  relating to flexible  premium  deferred
variable annuities,  variable life and certain guaranteed  investment  contracts
are legally  segregated and reflected as assets and  liabilities of the Separate
Accounts.  In 1997,  annuity  premiums and deposits  represented 62% of Allstate
Life's total statutory premiums and deposits.

        Allstate Life competes principally on the basis of its name recognition,
scope of its  distribution  systems,  customer  service  and  focus,  breadth of
product  offerings,  product  features,  its financial  strength,  claims-paying
ability  ratings,  and price,  and with  respect to  variable  life and  annuity
products,  management  and  investment  performance  of, and various  investment
choices in, its Separate Account portfolio of funds.

        Allstate Life markets  individual and group life insurance,  annuity and
group  pension  products  and  reaches  a broad  market  of  potential customers
throughout  the  United  States  through  a  variety  of  distribution  channels
including Allstate agents, some of whom specialize in life insurance and annuity
products,  banks,  independent  agents,  brokers and direct response  marketing.
Products  bearing the "Allstate Life Insurance  Company" name are generally sold
by  Allstate  agents,   specialized   brokers,   and  through  direct  marketing
techniques,  while other  products,  many of which are of similar types to those
bearing the "Allstate Life Insurance  Company"  name,  are  distributed  through
independent  insurance agents,  brokers and banks.  Allstate Life's products are
written  by  various  ALIC  subsidiaries  and are sold  under  various  names in
addition  to  "Allstate  Life  Insurance   Company,"  including  "Allstate  Life
Insurance Company of New York," "Northbrook Life Insurance Company,"  "Glenbrook
Life and Annuity  Company,"  "Lincoln  Benefit  Life  Company"  and "Surety Life
Insurance  Company."  Life  insurance  in force,  net of  reinsurance,  was $194
billion at  December  31,  1997 and $186  billion at December  31,  1996.  As of
December 31, 1997,  Allstate  Life had $37.3 billion of  investments,  including
$7.6 billion of Separate Account assets.

        Northbrook  Life  Insurance  Company has a strategic  alliance with Dean
Witter Reynolds, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter,
Discover  &  Co.  ("Dean   Witter")  for  the  marketing  and   distribution  of
Northbrook's life and annuity products through Dean Witter's broker sales force.
Glenbrook Life and Annuity Company has also entered into marketing  arrangements
with banks for the sale of life and annuity  products,  including an arrangement
with the AIM mutual  fund  group  under  which AIM  markets  Glenbrook  Life and
Annuity Company variable annuities. Allstate Life is committed to broadening its
bank  distribution  outlets in an effort to  increase  the sales of its  annuity
products,  and to  participate  in the market for life  insurance  products sold
through banks.

        Although  Allstate Life's  management  develops  overall  strategies and
utilizes  certain  services  shared  with  AIC  such  as  investment,   finance,
information  technology  and legal  services,  the  primary  management






of each distribution channel is largely decentralized.  Accordingly,  management
of each  distribution  channel is primarily  responsible for determining its own
product mix and  designing  products  or product  features  appropriate  for its
target market.  Allstate Life believes that its range of  distribution  channels
promotes  flexibility,  extends  market  reach,  reduces  dependency  on any one
distribution  system,  and allows Allstate Life to focus on distinct,  generally
non-overlapping markets.

        The  establishment  of reserve and  contractholder  fund  liabilities in
recognition  of Allstate's  future  benefit  obligations  under life and annuity
policies and other  Allstate  Life products are discussed in Note 2 of the Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages A-30 to A-33 of the 1998 Proxy
Statement, incorporated herein by reference in response to Item 8 hereof.

        The market for financial  services,  including the various types of life
insurance and annuities  sold by Allstate  Life,  is highly  competitive.  As of
December  31,  1997,  there  were  approximately  900  groups of life  insurance
companies in the United States, most of which offer one or more products similar
to those  offered  by  Allstate  Life and many of which  use  similar  marketing
techniques.  Based on information  contained in statements  filed with insurance
departments,  in  1996  approximately  50% of the  life  insurance  and  annuity
premiums and  deposits  were written by 24 groups of  companies.  Allstate  Life
ranked 20th based on statutory life insurance and annuity  premiums and deposits
and based on statutory admitted assets.  Banks and savings and loan associations
in  certain  jurisdictions  compete  with  Allstate  Life  in the  sale  of life
insurance  products.  In addition,  because  certain life  insurance and annuity
products include a savings or investment component,  competition also comes from
brokerage firms,  investment advisors and mutual funds as well as from banks and
other   financial   institutions.   Despite  a  large  number  of  life  company
acquisitions in recent years, the life insurance and annuity market continues to
be highly fragmented and competitive.


CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS

        The  capacity  for  Allstate's  growth in  premiums,  like that of other
insurance companies, is in part a function of its operating leverage.  Operating
leverage for property-liability  insurance companies is measured by the ratio of
net  premiums  written  to  statutory  surplus.  Ratios  in excess of 3 to 1 are
considered outside the usual range by insurance  regulators and rating agencies.
AIC's  premium to surplus  ratio  declined to 1.4 to 1 at December 31, 1997 from
1.6 to 1 at December 31, 1996. The principal cause of the change was an increase
in statutory  surplus  (i.e.,  the excess of assets  permitted by Illinois to be
taken  into  account  over  all  liabilities)  resulting  from  net  income  and
unrealized  gains on  securities,  including  investments  in  affiliates,  on a
statutory  basis.   Maintaining  appropriate  levels  of  statutory  surplus  is
considered  important  by  Allstate's  management,  state  insurance  regulatory
authorities,  and the agencies that rate insurers'  claims-paying  abilities and
financial strength.

        Failure to  maintain  certain  levels of  statutory  capital and surplus
could  result in  increased  scrutiny  or, in some cases,  action taken by state
regulatory  authorities and/or rating agencies.  Increased public and regulatory
concerns  regarding the  financial  stability of  participants  in the insurance
industry have resulted in greater  emphasis being placed by  policyholders  upon
insurance company ratings and have created, particularly with respect to certain
life insurance  products,  some measure of  competitive  advantage for 






insurance  carriers with higher ratings.  Failure to maintain  claims-paying and
financial    strength   ratings   could   negatively    affect   the   Company's
competitiveness.

        The National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") has adopted
a standard for assessing the solvency of insurance companies,  which is referred
to as risk-based  capital  ("RBC").  The  requirement  consists of a formula for
determining each insurer's RBC and a model law specifying  regulatory actions if
an  insurer's  RBC  falls  below  specified  levels.  The RBC  formula  for life
insurance companies establishes capital requirements relating to insurance risk,
business  risk,  asset  risk  and  interest  rate  risk.  The  RBC  formula  for
property-liability  companies  includes  asset and credit risk,  but places more
emphasis on  underwriting  factors for  reserving  and pricing.  At December 31,
1997,  RBC for  each  of  Allstate's  significant  property-liability  and  life
insurance   companies   exceeded  the  required  capital  levels.  See  "Capital
Resources"  on pages  A-18 to A-21 of the  1998  Proxy  Statement,  incorporated
herein by reference in response to Item 7 hereof.

        Allstate  enters into certain  intercompany  insurance  and  reinsurance
transactions  for  its  property-liability  and  life  and  annuity  operations.
Allstate  enters  into  these  transactions  in order to  maintain  underwriting
control  and  spread   insurance  risk  among  various  legal  entities.   These
reinsurance   agreements  have  been  approved  by  the  appropriate  regulatory
authorities.  All  material  intercompany  transactions  are  eliminated  in the
Company's consolidated financial statements.


INVESTMENTS

        Allstate  follows a strategy  to manage  its  exposure  to market  risk.
Market  risk is the risk that the  Company  will  incur  losses  due to  adverse
changes in market rates and prices.  The Company's primary market risk exposures
are to  changes  in  interest  rates,  although  the  Company  also has  certain
exposures to changes in equity prices and foreign  currency  exchange rates. The
active  management of market risk is integral to the Company's  operations.  The
Company may use the following tools to manage its exposure to market risk within
defined   tolerance  ranges:  1)  rebalance  its  existing  asset  or  liability
portfolios,  2) change the character of future  investments  purchased or 3) use
derivatives  to modify the market risk  characteristics  of existing  assets and
liabilities  or assets  expected  to be  purchased.  The  Company  seeks to earn
returns  that  enhance  its  ability  to offer  competitive  rates and prices to
customers  while  contributing  to attractive  and stable  profits and long-term
capital growth for the Company.  Accordingly, the Company's investment decisions
and objectives are a function of the  underlying  risks and product  profiles of
each primary business operation.

        At December 31, 1997,  Allstate's  entire  fixed income  securities  and
equity securities portfolios were designated as "available for sale" and carried
in the Company's financial statements at fair value. While the Company generally
holds its fixed income securities for the long-term, management classifies these
fixed  income  securities  as  available  for  sale to  maximize  the  Company's
flexibility in responding to changes in market  conditions.  Changes in the fair
value of these securities, net of deferred income taxes and deferred acquisition
costs and benefit reserve  adjustments on certain life insurance  products,  are
reflected as a separate component of shareholders' equity. For discussion of the
composition of the Company's  investment  portfolio,  see "Investments" on pages
A-21 to A-23 of the 1998 Proxy  Statement,




  


incorporated herein by reference in response to Item 7 hereof, and Note 4 of the
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages A-35 to A-38 of the 1998
Proxy Statement, incorporated herein by reference in response to Item 8 hereof.

REGULATION

        Allstate  is subject to  extensive  regulation  and  supervision  in the
jurisdictions  in which it does  business.  This  regulation  has a  substantial
effect on the  business of  Allstate,  primarily on  Allstate's  personal  lines
property-liability  business.  This regulatory oversight includes,  for example,
matters  relating to licensing and examination,  rate setting,  trade practices,
policy  forms,  limitations  on the nature  and  amount of certain  investments,
claims practices,  mandated  participation in shared markets and guaranty funds,
reserve adequacy, insurer solvency,  transactions with affiliates, the amount of
dividends that may be paid, and  restrictions  on  underwriting  standards.  For
discussion  of  statutory  financial  information,  see note 12 of the  Notes to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements  on page A-50 of the 1998  Proxy  Statement,
incorporated  herein  by  reference  in  response  to  Item 8  hereof;  and  for
discussion of regulatory contingencies,  see note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial  Statements  on  pages  A-47 and  A-48 of the  1998  Proxy  Statement,
incorporated herein by reference in response to Item 8 hereof.

        LIMITATIONS  ON DIVIDENDS BY INSURANCE  SUBSIDIARIES  - The Company is a
legal entity separate and distinct from its  subsidiaries.  As a holding company
with no other  business  operations,  its  primary  sources  of cash to meet its
obligations,   including   principal  and  interest  payments  with  respect  to
indebtedness,  are dividends and other statutorily  permitted payments from AIC.
AIC, as a domiciliary of Illinois, is subject to the Illinois insurance laws and
regulations. In Illinois, a domestic stock insurer may, without prior regulatory
approval,  pay ordinary  dividends from  statutory  surplus which at the time of
declaration  is not less than the  minimum  required  for the kind of  insurance
business  that such  company  is  authorized  to  conduct.  Under  the  Illinois
Insurance  Code,  AIC's surplus  following any  transaction  with  affiliates or
dividends, including distributions to its shareholder or other security holders,
must be  reasonable  in relation to AIC's  outstanding  liabilities  and must be
adequate  to meet its  financial  needs.  The  Illinois  Insurance  Code  allows
"extraordinary  dividends"  to be paid after  thirty days notice to the Illinois
Insurance  Department,  unless disapproved or sooner approved during such thirty
day period.  "Extraordinary  dividends"  for these  purposes  are defined as any
dividend or distribution  which together with any other dividend or distribution
made  within  the  preceding  12 months  exceeds  the  greater of (i) 10% of the
insurance  company's  statutory surplus as of the preceding December 31, or (ii)
its statutory  net income for the year ended on the  preceding  December 31. The
maximum amount of dividends  that AIC can  distribute  during 1998 without prior
approval of the Illinois  Department of Insurance is $2.6 billion.  If insurance
regulators  determine  that  payment of a dividend  or any other  payments to an
affiliate (such as payments under a tax sharing agreement, payments for employee
or other services, or payments pursuant to a surplus note) would be hazardous to
such insurance  company's  policyholders or creditors,  the regulators may block
such payments that would otherwise be permitted without prior approval.

        HOLDING COMPANY REGULATION - The Company and AIC are currently insurance
holding  companies  subject  to  regulation  throughout  jurisdictions  in which
Allstate's  insurance  subsidiaries  do  business.  Certain  of AIC's and ALIC's
subsidiaries are property-liability and life insurance companies organized under
the respective insurance codes of California,  Florida, Illinois,  Nebraska, New
York and Texas.  The




 


insurance  codes in such states contain similar  provisions  (subject to certain
variations)  to the effect  that the  acquisition  or change of  "control"  of a
domestic  insurer or of any person that  controls a domestic  insurer  cannot be
consummated without the prior approval of the relevant insurance  regulator.  In
general,  a  presumption  of  "control"  arises  from  the  ownership,  control,
possession  with the power to vote or  possession of proxies with respect to 10%
or more of the  voting  securities  of a domestic  insurer  or of a person  that
controls a domestic insurer.  In Florida,  regulatory  approval must be obtained
prior to the  acquisition  of 5% or more of the voting  securities of a domestic
stock insurer or of a controlling company. In addition,  certain state insurance
laws contain  provisions  that  require  pre-acquisition  notification  to state
agencies of a change in control with respect to a non-domestic insurance company
admitted in that state. While such pre-acquisition  notification statutes do not
authorize the state agency to disapprove the change of control, such statutes do
authorize certain  remedies,  including the issuance of a cease and desist order
with respect to the non-domestic  admitted insurer if certain  conditions exist,
such  as  undue  market  concentration.  Thus,  any  transaction  involving  the
acquisition  of 10% or more (5% in Florida) of the Company's  common stock would
generally  require  prior  approval  by  the  state  insurance   departments  in
California,  Florida,  Illinois,  Nebraska, New York and Texas and would require
the   pre-acquisition   notification   in  those   states   which  have  adopted
pre-acquisition   notification   provisions  and  wherein  Allstate's  insurance
subsidiaries are admitted to transact business.  Such approval  requirements may
deter,  delay or prevent  certain  transactions  affecting  the ownership of the
Company's common stock.

        RATE  REGULATION  - Most  states  have  insurance  laws  requiring  that
property-liability   rate  schedules,   policy  or  coverage  forms,  and  other
information be filed with the state's regulatory authority.  In many cases, such
rates and/or  policy forms must be approved  prior to use.  While they vary from
state to state, the objectives of the rating laws are generally the same: a rate
must be adequate, not excessive, and not unfairly discriminatory.

        Property-liability   insurers  are  generally   unable  to  effect  rate
increases with respect to a coverage  until sometime after the costs  associated
with such  coverage  have  increased.  The speed at which an insurer  can change
rates in response to the competition or to increasing costs depends, in part, on
whether  the  rating  laws  are   administered  as  (i)  prior  approval,   (ii)
file-and-use,  or (iii) use-and-file laws. In states having prior approval laws,
a rate must be approved by the  regulator  before it may be used by the insurer.
In states having  file-and-use  laws,  the insurer does not have to wait for the
regulator's  approval  to use a  rate,  but the  rate  must be  filed  with  the
regulatory authority prior to being used. A use-and-file law requires an insurer
to file rates within a certain period of time after the insurer begins using the
rates.  Approximately one half of the states, including California and New York,
have prior  approval  laws.  States such as Florida,  Illinois and Michigan have
both use-and-file and file-and-use laws or regulations,  depending upon the line
of coverage.  Under all three types of rating  systems,  the  regulator  has the
authority to disapprove the rate subsequent to its filing.

        State  regulators have broad  discretion in judging whether an insurer's
rate  or  proposed   rate  is   adequate,   not   excessive   and  not  unfairly
discriminatory.  An  insurer's  ability  to  adjust  its  rates in  response  to
competition or to increasing costs is often dependent on an insurer's ability to
demonstrate  to the  regulator  that  its  rates  or  proposed  rates  meet  the
objectives of the rate making laws. In those states that significantly  restrict
an insurer's  discretion in selecting  the business  that it wants to write,  an
insurer can manage its risk of loss by charging a price that matches the cost of
providing  the  insurance.  In  those  states 




 


that significantly  restrict an insurer's ability to charge a price that matches
the cost of providing the insurance,  the insurer can manage its risk of loss by
being  more  selective  in  the  type  of  business  it  writes.  When  a  state
significantly restricts both underwriting and pricing, it becomes more difficult
for an insurer to maintain its profitability.

        Changes  in  Allstate's   claim   settlement   process  which  may  have
contributed to favorable  severity  trends on closed  personal  injury claims in
1995,  1996 and 1997,  and to a slowing of loss  payments and an increase in the
number of outstanding  claims,  will require Allstate to actuarially adjust loss
information used in its rate application process.

        From time to time, the private passenger  automobile  insurance industry
has come under pressure from state regulators,  legislators and special interest
groups to  reduce,  freeze or set rates at  levels  that do not,  in  Allstate's
management's  view,  correspond with underlying costs. Some of this activity can
result  in  legislation   and/or   regulations   which   adversely   affect  the
profitability  of Allstate's  automobile  insurance  line of business in various
states.  Adverse  legislative and regulatory  activity  constraining  Allstate's
ability to adequately price insurance coverage may occur in the future.  Similar
pressures have been  experienced  regarding rates for homeowners  insurance,  as
regulators  in  catastrophe  prone  states  struggle to  identify an  acceptable
methodology  to price for  catastrophe  exposure.  The  impact of the  insurance
regulatory  environment on Allstate's results of operations in the future is not
predictable.

        SHARED MARKETS - As a condition of its license to do business in various
states,  Allstate is required to  participate  in  mandatory  property-liability
shared  market  mechanisms  or  pooling  arrangements,   which  provide  various
insurance  coverages to  individuals or other entities that otherwise are unable
to purchase such coverage voluntarily provided by private insurers. In addition,
some states require automobile  insurers to participate in reinsurance pools for
claims that exceed a certain amount.  Currently,  there are no mandatory pooling
mechanisms  applicable to Allstate Life,  except for guaranty fund  assessments.
The  participation  by Allstate in such shared markets or pooling  mechanisms is
generally in amounts related to the amount of Allstate's direct writings for the
type of coverage  written by the specific  pooling  mechanism in the  applicable
state.  Allstate incurred an underwriting  gain or (loss) from  participation in
such mechanisms,  mandatory pools and  underwriting  associations of $1 million,
($68)  million  and ($134)  million in 1997,  1996 and 1995,  respectively.  The
amount of future gains or losses or assessments from the personal and commercial
lines shared market mechanisms and pooling  arrangements  described above cannot
be  predicted  with  certainty.  Although it is possible  that future  gains and
losses or assessments from such mechanisms and pooling arrangements could have a
material  effect on results of  operations,  the Company does not expect them to
have a  material  effect  on its  financial condition or results of operations.

        GUARANTY FUNDS - Failures of certain large insurers in recent years have
increased  solvency concerns of regulators.  Under state insurance guaranty fund
laws,  insurers  doing  business in a state can be  assessed,  up to  prescribed
limits,   for  certain   obligations   of  insolvent   insurance   companies  to
policyholders and claimants.  Allstate's  expenses with respect to such guaranty
funds for the years 1997,  1996 and 1995 were $44  million,  $35 million and $26
million,  respectively.  See "Pending Accounting  Standards" on page A-24 of the
1998 Proxy  Statement,  incorporated  herein by  reference in response to Item 7
hereof.







        INVESTMENT   REGULATION   -  Allstate  is  subject  to  state  laws  and
regulations that require  diversification of its investment  portfolio and limit
the amount of investments in certain  investment  categories.  Failure to comply
with these laws and  regulations  would cause  non-conforming  investments to be
treated as non-admitted  assets for purposes of measuring statutory surplus and,
in  some  instances,  would  require  divestiture.  As  of  December  31,  1997,
Allstate's  investment  portfolio complied with such laws and regulations in all
material respects.

        REGULATORY  INITIATIVES  AND PROPOSED  LEGISLATION - The state insurance
regulatory  framework  has during  recent  years come  under  increased  federal
scrutiny,  and certain state  legislatures  have considered or enacted laws that
alter and,  in many  cases,  increase  state  authority  to  regulate  insurance
companies and insurance  holding company  systems.  Further,  the NAIC and state
insurance   regulators   are   re-examining   existing  laws  and   regulations,
specifically  focusing on insurance company investments,  issues relating to the
solvency  of  insurance  companies,  interpretations  of  existing  laws and the
development of new laws. In addition, Congress and certain federal agencies have
investigated  the  condition of the  insurance  industry in the United States to
determine  whether  to  promulgate  federal  regulation.  Allstate  is unable to
predict whether any state or federal  legislation  will be enacted to change the
nature or scope of regulation of the insurance industry, or what effect any such
legislation would have on the Company.

        Environmental  pollution  clean-up  is the  subject of both  federal and
state  regulation.  By some  estimates,  there are thousands of potential  waste
sites  subject to  clean-up.  The  insurance  industry is involved in  extensive
litigation regarding coverage issues. The Comprehensive  Environmental  Response
Compensation  and  Liability  Act of 1980  ("Superfund")  and  comparable  state
statutes  ("mini-Superfund") govern the clean-up and restoration by "Potentially
Responsible Parties" ("PRP's"). Superfund and the mini-Superfunds (Environmental
Clean-up  Laws or "ECLs")  establish  a mechanism  to pay for  clean-up of waste
sites if PRP's fail to do so, and to assign  liability  to PRP's.  The extent of
liability  to be  allocated  to a PRP is  dependent  on a  variety  of  factors.
Further,  the number of waste sites  subject to  clean-up  is unknown.  Very few
sites have been  subject to clean-up to date.  The extent of clean-up  necessary
and  the  assignment  of  liability  has not  been  established.  The  insurance
industry,  including  Allstate,  are  disputing  many such claims.  Key coverage
issues include whether Superfund response costs are considered damages under the
policies,  trigger of  coverage,  applicability  of  pollution  exclusions,  the
potential  for joint and several  liability  and  definition  of an  occurrence.
Similar  coverage  issues exist for  clean-up and waste sites not covered  under
Superfund.  To date,  courts have been  inconsistent  in their  rulings on these
issues.  Allstate's exposure to liability with regard to its insureds which have
been,  or may be,  named  as PRPs is  uncertain.  See  "Discontinued  Lines  and
Coverages",  above.  Superfund reform proposals have been introduced in both the
House of  Representatives  and the Senate of the current Congress,  but none has
been  enacted  at the  date  of  this  filing.  Allstate  will  support  federal
legislation  which  provides  for the  resolution  of Superfund  related  claims
against  insurers at a cost which is fair and affordable to insurers,  and which
fosters  similar state  legislation for hazardous waste cleanup at sites covered
by  state  law  only.  There  can be no  assurance  that  any  Superfund  reform
legislation  will be enacted or that any such  legislation  will  provide  for a
fair,  effective and  cost-efficient  system for settlement of Superfund related
claims.




        New and proposed  federal and state  regulation  and  legislation  would
allow banks greater  participation  in securities and insurance  businesses.  If
these  proposals  are enacted or  promulgated,  they would  present an increased
level of competition for the sale of Allstate Life's life and annuity  products.
Furthermore,  the market for  deferred  annuities  and  interest-sensitive  life
insurance is enhanced by the tax  incentives  available  under  current law. Any
legislative change which lessen these incentives are likely to negatively impact
the demand for these products.

        Enacted  and  pending  state  legislation  to  permit  mutual  insurance
companies to convert to a hybrid  structure  known as a mutual  holding  company
could  have a number of  significant  effects on the  Company by (1)  increasing
industry  competition through  consolidation  caused by mergers and acquisitions
related to the new corporate  form of business;  (2)  increasing  competition in
capital markets; and (3) reopening stock-mutual company disagreements related to
such issues as taxation disparity between mutual and stock insurance companies.


GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF INSURANCE

        Allstate,  through  a  variety  of  companies,  is  authorized  to  sell
property-liability  and life  insurance in 50 states,  the District of Columbia,
Puerto  Rico and Canada.  To a limited  extent,  Allstate  is  engaged,  through
subsidiaries and joint ventures, in the insurance business in Germany, Indonesia
and the Republic of Korea. The following  tabulation  reflects,  in percentages,
the  principal  geographic  distribution  of statutory  premiums  earned for the
property-liability  insurance  business  and  statutory  premiums  for the  life
insurance business for the year ended December 31, 1997:





              No  other  jurisdiction  accounted  for  more  than  2.5%  of  the
     statutory premiums for property-liability insurance or for life insurance.


     SEASONALITY

                Although  the  insurance  business  generally  is not  seasonal,
     claims and claims expense for the  property-liability  insurance operations
     tend to be higher for periods of severe or inclement weather.

     EMPLOYEES

         At December 31, 1997, Allstate employed approximately 51,400 people.




SERVICE MARKS

          The names "Allstate" and "Allstate Life," the slant "A" Allstate logo,
the slogan  "You're in Good Hands With  Allstate"  and the graphic  "Good Hands"
design logo which features  cupped hands holding an automobile and a house,  and
the  "Northbrook"  logo design are used  extensively  in Allstate's  businesses.
Allstate's  rights in the United  States to the names  "Allstate"  and "Allstate
Life," the Allstate and Northbrook  logos, the "Good Hands" slogan and the "Good
Hands" symbol  continue so long as Allstate  continues to exercise those rights.
These  service  marks are the subject of numerous  renewable  United  States and
foreign  service mark  registrations.  The Company  believes  that these service
marks are material to the business of Allstate.


FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

         The  statements  contained  in this Form  10-K and in the  Management's
Discussion and Analysis portion of the 1998 Proxy  Statement,  which portion has
been incorporated herein by reference in response to Item 7 hereof, that are not
historical  information  are  forward-looking   statements  that  are  based  on
management's  estimates,  assumptions and  projections.  The Private  Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor under The Securities Act of
1933 and The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for forward-looking  statements. In
order to comply with the terms of the safe  harbor,  the Company  notes  several
important  factors that could cause the Company's  actual results and experience
with  respect  to  forward-looking  statements  to  differ  materially  from the
anticipated   results  or  other   expectations   expressed  in  the   Company's
forward-looking statements:

1.  Exposure to  Catastrophe  Losses - Management  believes that the  strategies
    implemented  by the  Company to manage its  exposure  to  catastrophes  will
    greatly  reduce the  probability  of severe  losses in the future,  that the
    implementation  of  certain  described  actions  taken  in  Florida  and the
    Northeast  United States will reduce the  Company's  exposure to losses from
    catastrophes in those areas,  and that the Company's  exposure to earthquake
    losses  in  California  has been  significantly  reduced  as a result of its
    participation in the CEA (see  ACatastrophe  Exposure" in this Form 10-K and
    "Catastrophe   Losses  and   Catastrophe   Management"  in  the  1998  Proxy
    Statement).  These  beliefs  are  based  in  part  on  the  efficacy  of the
    techniques  and the  accuracy  of the data  used by the  Company  which  are
    designed to predict the probability of catastrophes and the extent of losses
    to the Company resulting from catastrophes. Catastrophic events may occur in
    the future which  indicate that such  techniques  and data do not accurately
    predict the Company's  losses from  catastrophes,  and the  probability  and
    extent of such losses to the Company may differ  materially  from that which
    would have been predicted by such techniques and data.

          As  noted  under   "Catastrophe   Exposure"  in  this  Form  10-K  and
"Catastrophe  Losses and  Catastrophe  Management" in the 1998 Proxy  Statement,
there are other areas of the United States,  beside Florida, the Northeast coast
and  California,  in which the Company  remains  exposed to the  possibility  of
sustaining  material losses from catastrophes due to hurricanes and earthquakes.







     These  other  areas of  potential  losses  due to hurricanes  include major
     metropolitan centers near the eastern and gulf coasts of the United States.
     Areas in the United  States with  exposure to potential  earthquake  losses
     include  areas  surrounding  the New Madrid fault system in the Midwest and
     faults  in and  surrounding  Seattle,  Washington.  Allstate  continues  to
     evaluate  alternative  business  strategies to more effectively  manage its
     exposure to catastrophe losses in these and other areas.

2.  Personal  Injury  Severity  Trends - The  references  to favorable  personal
    injury severity trends which  management  believes may be due in part to the
    redesign   of   the   Company's   bodily   injury   claim   processes   (see
    AProperty-Liability  Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Reserves" and "Rate
    Regulation" in this Form 10-K, and APP&C  Underwriting  Results" in the 1998
    Proxy Statement) reflect  statistical data for the periods  indicated.  Such
    data for a following  period or periods  could well  indicate  that  average
    personal  injury  severities  have  materially  increased in such subsequent
    period or periods.  Moreover, the recent favorable trends may be reversed in
    the  future  because  of the  increased  costs of  settlements  and  adverse
    judgments in cases which proceed to  litigation.  In the meantime,  however,
    the current data of reduced  personal injury  severities may influence state
    insurance  regulators to deny Allstate rate increases which could reduce the
    growth of the Company's revenues.

    The Company has stated (see "Property-Liability  Insurance Claims and Claims
    Expense  Reserves"  in this Form 10-K,  and  "Property-Liability  Claims and
    Claims  Expenses  Reserves" in the 1998 Proxy  Statement)  that although the
    redesign of the claims  processes for personal injury claims has resulted in
    an  increased  number of claims  outstanding,  the rate of  increase in such
    outstanding  claims will  stabilize in 1998.  This  supposition  is based on
    statistical  records  of less than a year's  duration  and  continuation  of
    normal  frequency  trends.  The  statistics on outstanding  personal  injury
    claims in 1998 could  indicate  an  acceleration  of the rate of such claims
    pending which would increase the uncertainty associated with the statistical
    methods used to establish reserves.

    Management has stated (see  "Property-Liability  Claims and Claims  Expenses
    Reserves" in the 1998 Proxy Statement) that it does not anticipate unusually
    large payments and commutations of environmental and asbestos claims in 1998
    that would impact the survival ratio of such claims to the same degree as in
    1997. Despite management's anticipation,  the amount of environmental and/or
    asbestos claims in 1998 could in fact equal or exceed the 1997 level, with a
    corresponding  adverse  impact on the  survival  ratio for either or both of
    these types of claims.

3.  Decrease in  Property-Liability  Net Investment Income - The Company expects
    to experience lower  investment  yields due, in part, to the reinvestment of
    proceeds from calls and maturities and the investment of positive cash flows
    from  operations  in  securities  yielding  less than the average  portfolio
    rates,  given the current low interest  rate  environment  (see  "Investment
    Outlook" in the 1998 Proxy Statement). Any decrease in net investment income
    will be highly  dependent on the interest  rate  environment  that exists in
    1998.

4.   Liquidity of Allstate Life Portfolio - Management  believes that the assets
     in the  Allstate  Life  portfolio  are  sufficiently  liquid to meet future
     obligations  to life and annuity  policyholders  in various  interest  rate
     scenarios  (see  ALiquidity"  in the 1998  Proxy  Statement).  However,  an
     unexpected  increase in surrenders  and  withdrawals,  coupled with a sharp
     increase in interest rates could make it difficult for





     Allstate  Life to liquidate a sufficient  portion of its  portfolio to meet
     such  obligations  and also maintain its  risk-based  capital at acceptable
     levels.

 5.  Year 2000 Issues - The Company  presently  believes that it will be able to
     timely resolve the Year 2000 issues  affecting its computer  operations and
     that the cost of addressing such matters will not have a material impact on
     Allstate's current financial position,  liquidity or results of operations.
     However,  the  extent to which the  computer  operations  of the  Company's
     external  counterparties  and suppliers are adversely  affected  could,  in
     turn, affect the Company's ability to communicate with such  counterparties
     and  suppliers  and  could  materially  affect  the  Company's  results  of
     operations in any period or periods.

 6.  Expected Growth in Homeowner Premiums - Management  believes an opportunity
     exists to grow  homeowners  premiums as the  implementation  of catastrophe
     management  initiatives  allows the Company to re-enter certain  homeowners
     markets  (see  "PP&C  Outlook"  in the 1998  Proxy  Statement).  Actions of
     Allstate's  competitors  in the homeowners  markets could cause  Allstate's
     share of these markets to remain stable or to decline.

 7.  Expected  Growth in Allstate  Life  Premiums and  Earnings - Allstate  Life
     expects to grow  premiums and increase  earnings in 1998 through  continued
     accelerated customer-focused product development, expanding market reach by
     partnering with new carriers in the bank and broker distribution  channels,
     offering a variety of competitive  fee-based and  spread-based  products to
     satisfy  customer  preferences in various  interest rate  environments  and
     leveraging existing scale to produce efficiency and effectiveness gains, in
     part through  investments in technology (see "Allstate Life Outlook" in the
     1998 Proxy Statement).  Actions of Allstate's  competitors and the interest
     rate  environment  that exists in 1998 could cause Allstate  Life's premium
     growth or earnings to remain stables or to decline.

 8.  Availability  of Company's  Line of Credit - The Company  maintains a $1.50
     billion,  five-year  revolving  line of credit and a $50  million  one-year
     revolving line of credit as potential  sources of funds to meet  short-term
     liquidity  requirements.  In order to borrow on the line of credit,  AIC is
     required to maintain a specified  statutory  surplus level and the Allstate
     debt to equity ratio (as defined in the credit agreement) must not exceed a
     designated level. Under "Capital Resources and Liquidity" in the 1998 Proxy
     Statement,  the Company states that management  expects to continue to meet
     such borrowing  requirements in the future. The ability of AIC and Allstate
     to meet these  requirements  is dependent  upon the economic  well-being of
     AIC.  Should AIC  sustain  significant  losses from  catastrophes,  its and
     Allstate's  ability to  continue to meet the credit  agreement  requirement
     would be lessened. Consequently,  Allstate's right to draw upon the line of
     credit could be diminished  or eliminated  during a period when it would be
     most in need of financial resources.

9.  Cash for Debt  Repayments  and  Purchase of  Pembridge - Under the "Capital
     Resources  and  Liquidity"  in the 1998 Proxy  Statement,  the  Company has
     stated it has adequate borrowing capacity and cash flows from operations to
     fund the  purchase  of  Pembridge,  Inc.  and to  retire  certain  maturing
     securities.  Should AIC sustain  significant losses from catastrophes,  its
     and  Allstate's  ability  to  meet  these  funding  requirements  would  be
     lessened.








EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

            The  following  tabulation  sets  forth the  names of the  executive
officers of the Company, their current ages, the positions with Allstate held by
them, and the dates of their first election as officers:










          No family relationships exist among the above-named individuals.

          Each of the  officers  named  above was elected to serve in the office
indicated until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual
meeting of  stockholders  in 1997 and until his or her  successor is elected and
qualified or until such officer resigns.

          With the exception of officers E. Liddy, R. Wilson, T. Wilson,  and C.
Sylla,  the  above  officers  have  held the  positions  set  forth in the above
tabulation  for at least the last five years or have served  Allstate in various
executive or  administrative  capacities for at least that length of time. Prior
to his election on August 10, 1994 to the position  indicated  above,  Mr. Liddy
served Sears in a financial  officer  capacity  since April 1988,  and was Sears
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial  Officer since February 1992. Prior to
his  election  on January 1, 1995 to the  position  indicated  above,  T. Wilson
served as Sears Vice  President,  Strategy and Analysis from 1993 until December
31, 1994,  and prior to that served as a managing  director for Dean Witter from
1986 to 1993.  Prior to his election on July 5, 1995 to the  position  indicated
above, Mr. Sylla served as a Senior Vice President for Northwestern  Mutual Life
Insurance  Company from 1992 to 1995,  and served as President of an  investment
management firm from 1989 to 1992. R Wilson was elected to her current  position
effective May 1, 1996.  Prior to that, and since November 1994 she had served as
Senior Vice President-Corporate  Communications for Ameritech Corporation.  From
September 1990 until November 1994 R. Wilson was Senior Vice President of AIC.

Item 2.  Properties
- - ------   ----------

            Allstate's  home office complex is located in Northbrook,  Illinois.
The complex  consists of 11 buildings of  approximately 2 million square feet of
office  space  on a  185  acre  site.  The  Northbrook  complex  serves  as  the
headquarters for PP&C and ALIC.

            Allstate's  field business  operations  are conducted  substantially
from 17 offices located  principally in metropolitan areas throughout the United
States and Canada.  Allstate also has  approximately  260 claim service offices,
sales  facilities at  approximately  11,300  locations,  and  approximately  650
automobile  damage  inspection  locations,  most of which are  located  at claim
service offices and sales facilities.

            Allstate's  home office  complex  and most major  offices are owned.
Other facilities are leased, in almost all cases for terms of not more than five
years.  The Company  believes its  properties  and  facilities  are adequate and
suited to Allstate's current operations.


Item 3.   Legal Proceedings
- - ------    -----------------

          Various  legal and  regulatory  actions  are  currently  pending  that
involve Allstate and specific aspects of its conduct of business. In the opinion
of management,  the ultimate liability, if any, in one or more of these actions,
in excess of  amounts  currently  reserved  is not  expected  to have a material
effect on Allstate's financial position or results of operations.  See note 9 to
the





Consolidated  Financial  Statements  on pages  A-47  and A-48 of the 1998  Proxy
Statement incorporated herein by reference in response to Item 8 hereof.


Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
- - ------    ---------------------------------------------------


          None


                                     Part II


Item 5.   Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
- - ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Stockholder Matters
          -------------------

          There were 213,792 record holders of the Company=s  common stock as of
February 17, 1998.  The principal  market for the Company's  common stock is the
New York  Stock  Exchange.  The  Company's  common  stock is also  listed on the
Chicago Stock Exchange. Set forth below are the high and low prices of, and cash
dividends declared for, the Company's common stock during 1997 and 1996:





Item 6.   Selected Financial Data
- - ------    -----------------------

          Incorporated  by reference to "11-Year  Summary of Selected  Financial
          Data" on pages A-2 and A-3 of the 1998 Proxy Statement.







Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- - ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations
          -----------------------------------


          Incorporated by reference to the "Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial  Condition and Results of  Operations"  on pages A-4 to A-24 of the
1998 Proxy Statement.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
- - -------  ----------------------------------------------------------

          Incorporated  by reference to the "Market  Risk"  discussion  on pages
A-15 to A-18 of the 1998 Proxy Statement.

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
- - ------    -------------------------------------------


          The consolidated  financial  statements of the Company,  including the
notes to such  statements,  and other  information  on pages A-25 to A-56 of the
1998 Proxy Statement and the information under "Quarterly  Results" on page A-56
of the 1998 Proxy Statement are incorporated herein by reference.


Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
- - ------    ------------------------------------------------
          Accounting and Financial Disclosure
          -----------------------------------

           None

                                    Part III


Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant


           Certain   information   regarding   directors   of  the   Company  is
incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  the  descriptions  under  "Election  of
Directors" and "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting  Compliance" in the
1998 Proxy Statement.

           Information   regarding   executive   officers   of  the  Company  is
incorporated  herein by  reference  to Item 1 of this  Report  under the caption
"Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Part I hereof.

Item 11. Executive Compensation
- - -------  ----------------------

           Information  regarding  executive  compensation  is  incorporated  by
reference  to the  material  under the  captions  "Directors'  Compensation  and
Benefits,"  "Executive  Compensation,"  "Stock  Options,"  "Pension  Plans," and
"Employment   Contracts,   Termination  of  Employment   and   Change-in-Control
Arrangements" in the 1998 Proxy Statement.





Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
- - -------   ---------------------------------------------------
          Management
          ----------


           Information regarding security ownership of certain beneficial owners
and  management is  incorporated  herein by reference to the material  under the
headings "Security  Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers" and "Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners" in the 1998 Proxy Statement.


Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions
- - -------   ----------------------------------------------


           Information  regarding certain relationships and related transactions
is incorporated  herein by reference to the material under the heading  "Certain
Transactions" in the 1998 Proxy Statement.

                                     Part IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on
- - -------   -------------------------------------------------------
          Form 8-K
          --------

(a) 1 and 2     An "Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement 
                Schedules" has been filed as a part of this Report beginning on 
                page S-1 hereof.

(a) 3...        Exhibits:

                An"Exhibit  Index"  has  been  filed  as a part of  this  Report
                  beginning  on page E-1  hereof and is  incorporated  herein by
                  reference.

(b).....        Reports on Form 8-K:

                Registrant  filed a Current  Report on Form 8-K on December  19,
                1997 (Items 5 and 7).







                                   SIGNATURES
                                   ----------


          Pursuant to the Requirements of Section 13 of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  Registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                                     THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION
                                                               (Registrant)




                                                   s/Samuel H. Pilch
                                                   ------------------------
                                           By:     Samuel H. Pilch
                                                   Controller
                                                  (Principal Accounting Officer)


                                                   March 10, 1998


             Pursuant to the  requirements  of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934,  this report has been signed below by the  following  persons on behalf of
the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.







                    THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997
                                                       


The  following  consolidated  financial  statements,  notes  thereto and related
information of The Allstate  Corporation are incorporated herein by reference to
the Company's 1998 Proxy Statement.

                                                                       Page*
                                                                       ----
Consolidated Statements of Operations **                               A-25
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position **                       A-26
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity **                     A-27
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows **                               A-28
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements                         A-29
Quarterly Results **                                                   A-56

The following additional financial statement schedules and independent auditors'
report and consent are furnished  herewith  pursuant to the requirements of Form
10-K.

The Allstate Corporation                                               Page
- - ------------------------                                               ----
Schedules required to be filed under the provisions of 
Regulation S-X Article 7:
Schedule I        Summary of Investments - Other than Investments 
                  in Related Parties                                   S-2
Schedule II       Condensed Financial Information of The Allstate 
                  Corporation (Registrant)                             S-3
Schedule III      Supplementary Insurance Information                  S-7
Schedule IV       Reinsurance                                          S-8
Schedule V        Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                    S-9
Schedule VI       Supplementary Information Concerning 
                  Consolidated Property-Casualty                       S-10
                  Insurance Operations
Independent Auditors' Report                                           S-11
Independent Auditors' Consent                                          S-12

All  other  schedules  are  omitted  because  they  are not  applicable,  or not
required,  or because the required  information is included in the  Consolidated
Financial Statements or in notes thereto.

*     Refers to page number in Company's 1998 Proxy Statement.
**    Incorporated by reference in Item 8 herein.



                                       S-1

                                       

                    THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                       SCHEDULE I - SUMMARY OF INVESTMENTS
                    OTHER THAN INVESTMENTS IN RELATED PARTIES
                                DECEMBER 31, 1997
                                                   



                                      S-2




                    THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                   SCHEDULE II
                  CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                            STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS


                                      S-3



                    THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                             SCHEDULE II (CONTINUED)
                  CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                        STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION





                                      S-4



                    THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                             SCHEDULE II (CONTINUED)
                  CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                            STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS




See  accompanying  notes  to  condensed  financial   information  and  notes  to
Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated herein by reference.

                                       S-5




                    THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                             SCHEDULE II (CONTINUED)
                  CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                    NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION


1.    GENERAL

The financial  statements of the Registrant  should be read in conjunction  with
the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included in The Allstate
Corporation 1998 Proxy Statement.

The long-term and short-term debt and credit lines presented in Note 8 "Debt" on
page A-46 of the 1998 Proxy  Statement,  with the exception of the Floating Rate
Notes, are direct obligations of the Registrant.

To conform  with the 1997  presentation,  certain  amounts  in the prior  years'
financial statements and notes have been reclassified.

2.    RECEIVABLE AND PAYABLE TO SUBSIDIARIES

The majority of the proceeds from the issuance of the commercial paper have been
loaned to  subsidiaries  through an  intercompany  loan  agreement  and used for
general purposes.

In 1996,  the Registrant  borrowed $750 million from its subsidiary  trusts at a
weighted-average  interest  rate of  7.92%.  These  borrowings  consist  of $550
million  and  $200  million  of  debentures  which  mature  in  2026  and  2045,
respectively, and are redeemable by the Registrant in whole or in part beginning
in 2001 and 2006,  respectively.  The maturity of the $550 million debenture may
be  extended  to 2045.  The  Registrant  recorded  $59 million and $6 million of
interest expense in 1997 and 1996, respectively, related to these borrowings.

3.    OTHER INCOME

In 1997,  the Company  reinstituted  its practice  related to the  settlement of
certain   employee   benefits  of  its   subsidiaries,   mainly  profit  sharing
obligations.

4.    SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES OF NON CASH INVESTING ACTIVITY AND CASH FLOW 
      INFORMATION

During 1997, the Registrant  received a $768 million  dividend from a subsidiary
in the form of fixed income securities.

The  Registrant  paid $144  million,  $87 million and $70 million of interest on
debt in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.


                                      S-6



                    THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
               SCHEDULE III - SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION



($ IN MILLIONS)                                     AT DECEMBER 31,
                                      ----------------------------------------

                                                      RESERVES
                                                     FOR CLAIMS,
                                                       CLAIMS               
                                         DEFERRED      EXPENSE               
                                          POLICY         AND                  
                                        ACQUISITION   CONTRACT                 
              SEGMENT                      COSTS      BENEFITS      UNEARNED  
                                           -----      --------                 
                                                                    PREMIUMS
                                                                    --------   
- - ------------------------------------
- - ----
Property-liability operations
  PP&C................................       $  844      $14,408         $6,168
  Discontinued lines and
    coverages.........................            -        2,995              1
                                               ----       ------          -----
  Total property-liability............          844       17,403          6,169
Life and annuity operations...........        1,982       27,471             64
Corporate and other eliminations......            -            -              -
                                              ------      ------          -----
Total.................................       $2,826      $44,874         $6,233
                                              =====       ======          =====




($ IN MILLIONS)                                     AT DECEMBER 31,
                                      ----------------------------------------

                                                      RESERVES
                                                     FOR CLAIMS,
                                                       CLAIMS               
                                         DEFERRED      EXPENSE               
                                          POLICY         AND                  
                                        ACQUISITION   CONTRACT                 
              SEGMENT                      COSTS      BENEFITS      UNEARNED  
                                           -----      --------                 
                                                                    PREMIUMS
                                                                    --------   
- - ------------------------------------
- - ----
Property-liability operations
  PP&C................................       $  777      $13,909         $6,070
  Discontinued lines and
    coverages.........................            -        3,473              2
                                              -----       ------          -----
  Total property-liability............          777       17,382          6,072
Life and annuity operations...........        1,837       26,407            102
Corporate and other eliminations......            -            -              -
                                              -----       ------          -----
Total.................................       $2,614      $43,789         $6,174
                                              =====       ======          =====




($ IN MILLIONS)                                     AT DECEMBER 31,
                                      ----------------------------------------

                                                      RESERVES
                                                     FOR CLAIMS,
                                                       CLAIMS               
                                         DEFERRED      EXPENSE               
                                          POLICY         AND                  
                                        ACQUISITION   CONTRACT                 
              SEGMENT                      COSTS      BENEFITS      UNEARNED  
                                           -----      --------                 
                                                                    PREMIUMS
                                                                    --------   
- - ------------------------------------
- - ----
Property-liability operations
  PP&C................................       $  532      $12,841         $5,661
  Discontinued lines and
    coverages.........................           72        4,846            469
                                              -----       ------          -----
  Total property-liability............          604       17,687          6,130
Life and annuity operations...........        1,400       25,217             58
Corporate and other eliminations......            -            -              -
                                              --------    ------          -----
Total.................................       $2,004      $42,904         $6,188
                                              =====       ======          =====






                    THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                            SCHEDULE IV - REINSURANCE
                                                                         



                                      S-8




                    THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
            SCHEDULE V - VALUATION ALLOWANCE AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS









                    THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
         SCHEDULE VI -SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION CONCERNING CONSOLIDATED
                     PROPERTY-CASUALTY INSURANCE OPERATIONS
                                     



                                      S-10











                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT




To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
The Allstate Corporation:

We  have  audited  the  consolidated   financial   statements  of  The  Allstate
Corporation  and  subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and for each of
the three  years in the period  ended  December  31,  1997,  and have issued our
report thereon dated February 20, 1998; such consolidated  financial  statements
and report are  included in The  Allstate  Corporation  1998 Proxy  Statement to
Stockholders and are incorporated  herein by reference.  Our audits also include
the financial statement schedules of The Allstate  Corporation and subsidiaries,
listed in the Index at Item 14 (a) 2. These  financial  statement  schedules are
the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express
an  opinion  based on our  audits.  In our  opinion,  such  financial  statement
schedules,  when  considered  in  relation to the basic  consolidated  financial
statements  taken  as a whole,  present  fairly  in all  material  respects  the
information set forth therein.






Deloitte & Touche LLP


Chicago, Illinois
February 20, 1998


















                                      S-11





                                                                     Exhibit 23




                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' CONSENT



We consent to the  incorporation  by reference in  Registration  Statement  Nos.
33-88540,  333-10857 and 333-34583 on Form S-3 and  Registration  Statement Nos.
33-77928, 33-93758, 33-93760, 33-93762, 33-99132, 33-99136, 33-99138, 333-04919,
333-16129,  333-23309,  333-40283,  333-40285  and  333-40289 on Form S-8 of The
Allstate  Corporation  of our reports dated  February 20, 1998,  appearing in or
incorporated  by  reference  in this Annual  Report on Form 10-K of The Allstate
Corporation for the year ended December 31, 1997.





Deloitte & Touche LLP


Chicago, Illinois
March 25, 1998

























                                      S-12





                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
















      --------------------

      *  A management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
      ** SEC File No. 1-11840

                                       E-5

