
10-K
FORM 10-K


                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

            [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998

                                       OR

          [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                         Commission file number 1-11840

                            THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                               Delaware 36-3871531
        (State of Incorporation) (I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)

                  2775 Sanders Road, Northbrook, Illinois 60062
               (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (847) 402-5000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
                                                           NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
      TITLE OF EACH CLASS                                   ON WHICH REGISTERED
Common Stock, par value $0.01                            New York Stock Exchange
per share                                                 Chicago Stock Exchange

7.95% Cumulative Quarterly                               New York Stock Exchange
Income Preferred Securities, Series A
(issued by a wholly-owned trust of the Registrant)

7.125% Senior Quarterly Interest Bonds                   New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None




     On January 31,  1999,  Registrant  had  813,386,882  shares of common stock
outstanding.  Approximately  754,000,000  of these  shares,  having an aggregate
market  value (based on closing  prices on January 29, 1999  reported in the New
York Stock Exchange  Composite  listing) of approximately  $28.28 billion,  were
owned by  stockholders  other  than the  Registrant's  directors  and  executive
officers and Northern  Trust  Corporation,  which is the trustee for The Savings
and Profit Sharing Fund of Allstate Employees.


     The Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months,
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

                    Yes  X                     No ___

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of  Registrant's  knowledge in definitive  proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

                         Documents Incorporated By Reference

     Portions of the  following  documents  are  incorporated  by  reference  as
follows:

     Parts I, II and III of this  Form 10-K  incorporate  by  reference  certain
information  from the  Registrant=s  Proxy  Statement for its Annual  Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on May 18, 1999 (the "Proxy Statement").


                                



PART I                                                                      PAGE

Item 1.      Business..........................................................1
                 Recent Developments...........................................2
                 Risk Factors Affecting Allstate as an Insurer.................3
                 Allstate Strategy.............................................3
                 Property-Liability Insurance Business.........................6
                    Catastrophe Exposure and Catastrophe Management............9
                    Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves.....12
                 Discontinued Lines and Coverages.............................20
                 Life and Savings Segment.....................................21
                 Year 2000....................................................22
                 Capital Requirements.........................................24
                 Investments..................................................25
                 Regulation...................................................25
                 Geographic Distribution of Insurance.........................30
                 Seasonality..................................................30
                 Employees....................................................30
                 Service Marks................................................30
                 Forward-Looking Statements...................................30
                 Executive Officers...........................................32
Item 2.     Properties........................................................33
Item 3.     Legal Proceedings.................................................33
Item 4.     Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders...............34


PART II

Item 5.     Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholders
            Matters...........................................................34
Item 6.     Selected Financial Data...........................................34
Item 7.     Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
            and Results of Operations.........................................35
Item 7A.   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.........35
Item 8.     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.......................35
Item 9.     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
             and Financial Disclosure.........................................35


                                       i




PART III                                                                    PAGE

Item 10.     Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant...............35
Item 11.     Executive Compensation...........................................35
Item 12.     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management...36
Item 13.     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions...................36


PART IV

Item 14.    Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K...36
Signatures....................................................................37
Index to Financial Statement Schedules.......................................S-1
Exhibit Index................................................................E-1















                                       ii




                                     Part I

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS

     The Allstate Corporation (the "Company") was incorporated under the laws of
the State of Delaware  on  November 5, 1992 to serve as the holding  company for
Allstate  Insurance  Company  ("AIC").   The  Company's  business  is  conducted
principally  through AIC and AIC's  subsidiaries  (collectively,  including  the
Company, "Allstate").  Allstate is engaged, principally in the United States and
Canada,  in the  property-liability  insurance  and life  insurance  and savings
businesses.  Allstate is the country's second largest property-liability insurer
on the basis of 1997  statutory  premiums  written and is a major life  insurer.
Allstate's life insurance and savings  operations are conducted through Allstate
Life Insurance Company ("ALIC"),  a wholly-owned  subsidiary of AIC, and through
various ALIC subsidiaries ("Life and Savings").

     Allstate's  primary  business  is the sale of  private  passenger  auto and
homeowners  insurance.  In 1997, Allstate  maintained  estimated national market
shares in these lines of approximately 12.3% and 11.3%, respectively. Allstate's
Property-Liability   operations  consist  of  two  business  segments:  personal
property and casualty  ("PP&C") and  Discontinued  Lines and Coverages.  PP&C is
principally  engaged  in the  sale  of  private  passenger  auto  insurance  and
homeowners  insurance  to  individuals  in both the  United  States and in other
countries.  Discontinued  Lines and  Coverages  consists  of  business no longer
written  by  Allstate.  Allstate  markets  its  products  through a  variety  of
distribution  channels,  with the core of its PP&C  distribution  system being a
broad-based  network of  approximately  15,500  exclusive  agents  (employee and
non-employee) in the United States and Canada, and over 3,000 independent agents
who offer  Allstate  products  primarily  in rural  areas not served by Allstate
agents.  Allstate also uses independent and specialized brokers to expand market
reach,  including  approximately  13,000  independent agents appointed to market
non-standard auto business.

     Life and Savings markets a broad line of life insurance,  savings and group
pension  products.  Life and Savings  distributes its products  through Allstate
agents (including life specialists),  banks,  independent agents and brokers and
through direct response marketing.

     Allstate's Corporate and Other business segment is comprised of holding
company activities and certain non-insurance operations.

     Information  regarding the last three years' revenues and operating  profit
or loss, and the last two years'  identifiable  assets  attributable  to each of
Allstate's  four  business  segments  is  contained  in note 15 of the  Notes to
Consolidated  Financial Statements on pages C-62 to C-64 of the Proxy Statement,
incorporated herein by reference in response to Item 8 hereof.




RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

     On March 3,  1999,  ALIC  and  Putnam  Investments,  a  leading  investment
management  company,  announced  a joint  venture  to create  and  distribute  a
co-branded  variable insurance product line. A joint venture executive committee
consisting  of  executives  from ALIC and Putnam  will  manage the  partnership.
Putnam's  portfolio  managers will oversee the mutual fund  investments and ALIC
will manage the insurance assets.  The products will be distributed via Putnam's
wholesaling  force, and through its partnerships with banks,  broker-dealers and
financial advisors.

     On February 12, 1999, the Company  announced a Rights Agreement under which
shareholders of record on February 26, 1999 will receive a dividend distribution
of one preferred share purchase right (a "Right") on each  outstanding  share of
the Company's common stock.  The Rights become  exercisable ten days after it is
publicly  announced  that a person  or  group  has  acquired  15% or more of the
Company's  common stock or ten business  days after the beginning of a tender or
exchange  offer to acquire 15% or more of the Company's  common stock.  Then the
Rights  become  exercisable  at a price of $150 for a number  of  shares  of the
Company's  common  stock  having a market  value equal to $300.  The Company may
redeem the Rights at a price of $.01 per Right.  The Rights  expire on  February
12,  2009.  The Rights are  intended to protect  shareholders  from  unsolicited
takeover  attempts that may unfairly  pressure  shareholders and deprive them of
the full value of their  shares.  Management is not aware of any such attempt at
this time.

     On September 21, 1998,  the  Company's  Board of Directors  announced  that
Jerry D. Choate,  the  Company's  Chairman and Chief  Executive  Officer,  would
retire at the end of 1998, and that Edward M. Liddy had been elected,  effective
January 1,  1999,  to  replace  Mr.  Choate.  Mr.  Liddy had been the  Company's
President and Chief Operating  Officer since August 1994. As of January 1, 1999,
Mr. Liddy became the Company's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.

     During  1998,  the  Company  received  a charter  from the Office of Thrift
Supervision to operate a federal  savings bank,  Allstate  Federal  Savings Bank
("AFSB").  AFSB offers  electronic  commerce  services to AIC  specifically  for
pre-authorized  payments of customers' premiums and other consumer transactions.
AFSB is also committed to investing $15 million annually in the redevelopment of
urban  communities,  and  plans  to  form  strategic  alliances  with  community
organizations  and other groups in  connection  with these  investments.  During
1999, AFSB plans to introduce  personal trust,  financial  planning services and
other products based on customer needs and regulatory approvals.





RISK FACTORS AFFECTING ALLSTATE AS AN INSURER

     In  addition  to the  normal  risks of  business,  Allstate  is  subject to
significant  risk  factors,  including  those  applicable  to it as an insurance
company,  such as: (i) the inherent  uncertainty in the process of  establishing
property-liability  loss  reserves,   particularly  reserves  for  the  cost  of
environmental,  asbestos and mass tort claims, and the fact that ultimate losses
could  materially  exceed  established loss reserves and have a material adverse
effect on results of  operations  and  financial  condition;  (ii) the fact that
Allstate  has  experienced,  and can be  expected  in the future to  experience,
catastrophe  losses which could have a material  adverse impact on its financial
condition,  results of operations and cash flows; (iii) the inherent uncertainty
in the  process of  establishing  property-liability  loss  reserves  due to the
change in loss payment patterns caused by new claims settlement practices;  (iv)
the need for Allstate=s  insurance company  subsidiaries to maintain appropriate
levels of statutory  capital and surplus,  particularly  in light of  continuing
scrutiny by rating organizations and state insurance regulatory authorities, and
to maintain acceptable financial strength or claims-paying  ability ratings; (v)
the  extensive   regulation  and  supervision  to  which  Allstate=s   insurance
subsidiaries  are subject,  various  regulatory and public  initiatives that may
affect Allstate, and regulatory and other legal actions involving Allstate; (vi)
the Company=s primary reliance,  as a holding company,  on dividends from AIC to
meet debt payment obligations,  and regulatory  restrictions on AIC's ability to
pay such  dividends;  (vii) the adverse impact which increases in interest rates
could  have  on  the  value  of  Allstate=s  investment  portfolio  and  on  the
attractiveness of certain Life and Savings  products;  (viii) the adverse impact
to  investment  income in low  interest  rate  environments  due to funds  being
reinvested in securities yielding less than the average portfolio rate; (ix) the
need to adjust the effective  duration of the assets and liabilities of Life and
Savings'  operations in order to meet the anticipated cash flow  requirements of
its policyholder obligations; and (x) the uncertainty involved in estimating the
availability of reinsurance and the collectibility of reinsurance recoverables.

     See also "Forward-Looking Statements," below, for several important
factors  that could cause the  Company's  actual  results and  experience,  with
respect to  forward-looking  statements  in this Form 10-K to differ  materially
from  anticipated  results  or other  expectations  expressed  in the  Company's
forward-looking statements.


ALLSTATE STRATEGY

     Allstate's  strategy  is to focus on the  profitable  growth of its private
passenger auto and homeowners insurance business;  to improve customer retention
and to increase  cross-sales of its products to its customer base; to manage its
catastrophe  exposure;  to expand  its  offering  of Life and  Savings  products
through existing  non-agency  distribution  channels and through the addition of
new  distribution  channels;  and to  seek  opportunities  in the  international
markets. This



strategy is designed to  capitalize  on: (1) the strength of the Allstate  name,
(2) Allstate's  network of exclusive agents,  (3) Allstate's auto and homeowners
insurance  capabilities,  and (4) additional  distribution channels available to
Allstate.

     Allstate is  experiencing  increased  competition in both its PP&C and Life
and Savings  segments.  The  increase in PP&C  competition  is due, in part,  to
increased  consolidation  in the industry,  to the entry of new companies to the
market attracted by historically  high profit margins on auto insurance,  and to
the expansion and  redefinition of underwriting  risk selection and tolerance by
many competitors.  Increased competition in the Life and Savings segment is due,
in part, to  demutualization  and  consolidation  currently being experienced in
this  industry.  There is also a possibility of federal  legislation  that would
allow banks, securities firms and insurance companies to affiliate.

     Allstate expects that the competitive  pricing  environment in the personal
property  and  casualty  industry  will put  pressure on its premium  growth and
profit  margins,  and plans to offset this pressure by initiating  the following
actions to  increase  growth  and to improve  expense  margins:

     o    implementing  processes  designed  to  control  the  cost of  settling
          homeowners  claims;  

     o    expanding its independent agent  distribution  channel with the intent
          to grow standard, non-standard and homeowners premiums written;

     o    increasing sales of auto and homeowners  related services such as auto
          and home  equity  financing,  and auto parts and labor  warranties  in
          order to provide a more complete set of services to customers; and

     o    expanding  its  domestic  and   international   presence  through  the
          development of start-up  operations,  acquisitions,  partnerships  and
          expanded distribution channels.

     Allstate's  marketing strategy for auto and homeowners  insurance varies by
geographic area.  Allstate is attempting to grow its auto business in the United
States more rapidly in states where the regulatory  climate is more conducive to
attractive returns.  Allstate is attempting to manage its homeowners exposure on
policies in areas where the potential loss from catastrophes  exceeds acceptable
levels. Allstate's process of designating geographic areas as growth and limited
growth is dynamic and may be revised as changes  occur in the legal,  regulatory
and  economic  environments,  as  catastrophe  exposure  is  reduced  and as new
insurance policies are approved and introduced.  Allstate  continuously monitors
its  designated  growth  and  limited  growth  areas and  adjusts  its  actions,
including  limiting  premium  growth,  as  necessary,   to  maintain  acceptable
catastrophe  exposure  levels in these areas. As of December 31, 1998, the areas
designated as auto limited growth markets represent an insignificant  percentage
of the total United  States  population.  As a result of  Allstate's  efforts to
introduce policy changes and to purchase  catastrophe  insurance  coverage,  the
homeowners limited growth markets have been reduced to areas where approximately
4% of the United States population resides.



     Allstate  separates the voluntary personal auto insurance business into two
categories for underwriting  purposes according to insurance risks: the standard
market and the  non-standard  market,  and has  determined  its growth  strategy
accordingly.   The  standard  market  consists  of  drivers  who  meet  criteria
indicating  that  they  have  low  to  average  risk  of  loss  expectancy.  The
non-standard    auto   insurance   market   consists   of   drivers   who   have
higher-than-average risk profiles due to their driving records, to their lack of
prior  insurance  or to the types of cars they own.  Allstate  has  achieved the
leading  market share in this market.  This has been a market in which  Allstate
has competed by capitalizing on an established  distribution system,  technology
and claim handling capabilities and by tailoring pricing and products to reach a
broader  market.  Allstate  plans to continue to develop  opportunities  in this
market in part, by expanding its independent agent distribution channel.

     Life and Savings has been growing its business  through the  development of
new customer focused products, the establishment of new marketing  arrangements,
increased  cross-sales  of  Life  and  Savings  products  to  existing  Allstate
customers,  offering a variety of competitive  fee-based and  interest-sensitive
products to satisfy customer  preferences in various interest rate environments,
and leveraging existing scale to increase efficiency and effectiveness, in part,
through  investments  in  technology.  Life and  Savings'  products are marketed
through Allstate agents (including life specialists),  banks, independent agents
and brokers and through direct response marketing.  Specialized brokers are used
to distribute  group pension and structured  settlement  products not offered by
Allstate=s  agency force.  Life and Savings' direct response  marketing  program
principally  targets  customers  of credit card  issuers who prefer to purchase,
through the mail or  telephone,  selected  products  not  offered by  Allstate's
agency force.

     Allstate's  exclusive agency force of approximately 15,500 full-time agents
is at the core of its PP&C  distribution  system.  Allstate also uses over 3,000
independent  agents to market a full range of  Allstate  insurance  products  to
individuals,  mostly  in rural  markets  not  served  by  Allstate  agents,  and
approximately  13,000  independent  agents  appointed by Allstate's  subsidiary,
Deerbrook Insurance Company ("Deerbrook"), to market non-standard auto business.

     Allstate's   international  operations  have  included  the  sale  of  auto
insurance in Canada for over 40 years. In 1997,  Allstate  commenced the sale of
private  passenger auto insurance in Germany through direct response  marketing.
Allstate  plans similar  direct  response  marketing of auto  insurance in other
western European  countries and in Japan.  Allstate has also identified areas in
Asia and the Pacific Rim as attractive markets,  principally for life insurance,
and plans to pursue these and other international  opportunities as an avenue to
grow both its revenues and profitability.  Allstate believes that it will take a
number of years before its new and planned  international  businesses contribute
significantly to its financial results.

     Allstate  plans  to  pursue  selective  business  start-ups,  acquisitions,
partnerships,  and expanded distribution channels, both in the United States and
internationally in the pursuit of its business strategy.


PROPERTY-LIABILITY INSURANCE BUSINESS

     Allstate's  Property-Liability  insurance business consists of the PP&C and
Discontinued  Lines and  Coverages  segments.  PP&C,  which  accounted for $19.5
billion (or 78%) of Allstate's 1998 statutory written premiums, writes primarily
private  passenger  auto and  homeowners  insurance  policies in 50 states,  the
District  of   Columbia,   Puerto  Rico,   Canada  and  Germany.   Operating  in
approximately  11,800  locations,  Allstate  agents  produce  more than 94.2% of
PP&C's  annual  statutory  written  premiums,  with  the  balance  generated  by
independent agents largely in locations not currently served by Allstate agents.
Discontinued  Lines and  Coverages  consists of  business  no longer  written by
Allstate,  including results from environmental,  asbestos and mass tort losses,
mortgage pool  insurance  business and other  commercial  insurance  business in
run-off,  as well as the historical  results of the  commercial and  reinsurance
businesses sold in 1996.

     PP&C is  principally  engaged  in  private  passenger  auto and  homeowners
insurance,   and  accounted   for   substantially   all  of   Allstate's   total
Property-Liability statutory premiums. Allstate was the country's second largest
personal  property and  casualty  insurer for both  private  passenger  auto and
homeowners  insurance in 1997.  Although  private  passenger auto and homeowners
insurance  account for the majority of its business,  PP&C also writes coverages
for  product  lines such as  motorcycles,  motor  homes,  mechanical  breakdown,
renters,   condominium,   residential  and  landlord,   comprehensive   personal
liability,  fire,  personal umbrella,  recreational  vehicle,  mobile home, boat
owners, parts and labor warranties and selected commercial property and casualty
coverages.  PP&C also operates the AEI Group,  Inc., whose principal  subsidiary
Allstate  Motor Club  provides  members  with travel  plans and  emergency  road
service.  Allstate  customers  are also  offered  access to auto and home equity
loans provided by a third party.

     The Company separates the voluntary  personal auto insurance  business into
two basic  categories  according to insurance  risk; the standard market and the
non-standard  market.  The standard  market consists of drivers who meet certain
criteria which  classify them as having low to average risk of loss  expectancy.
The non-standard  market consists of drivers who have  higher-than-average  risk
profiles due to their driving  records,  lack of prior insurance or the types of
cars they own.  Allstate's  presence in the  non-standard  market as well as the
standard market allows  Allstate agents to offer insurance  products to the vast
majority of drivers who apply for insurance.  PP&C has a refined price structure
and  policy  features  which  address  the  special  needs  of  drivers  in  the
non-standard  market.  These policies are written at higher than standard rates.
Allstate  writes  policies  covering  these  risks  principally   through  AIC's
subsidiary,  Allstate  Indemnity  Company.  Deerbrook  also writes  non-standard
insurance through independent agencies.  Allstate had a countrywide market share
of approximately 18.5% of the non-standard market in 1997.

     As a condition of its license to do business in each state, Allstate,  like
all other  auto  insurers,  is  required  to write or share the cost of  private
passenger auto insurance for higher risk


individuals  who  would  otherwise  be unable to  obtain  such  insurance.  This
"Involuntary,"  or  "Shared,"  market is  governed  by the  applicable  laws and
regulations  of each state,  and policies  written in this market are  generally
written at higher than standard rates. Allstate has generally experienced losses
in its participation in the shared market.

     PP&C,  in addition to writing  insurance for standard  homes,  also insures
high value homes and non-standard  homes, such as those with increased  exposure
given their distance from fire  protection  services,  and also insures risks in
the renters and  condominium  markets.  Allstate  has  targeted  the  homeowners
insurance business as a market with substantial  profitable growth opportunities
for the Company as the  implementation  of  catastrophe  management  initiatives
allows the Company to re-enter certain homeowners markets.

     Allstate,  unlike the majority of its competitors,  does not rely on rating
bureaus in establishing prices for its PP&C products.  Instead Allstate uses its
proprietary   database,   which   contains  many  years  of  its  own  extensive
underwriting and pricing  experience.  Accordingly,  subject to applicable state
regulations,  different prices are derived according to numerous variables which
apply to each specific risk,  including,  in the case of private  passenger auto
insurance,  factors relating to the automobile (such as its age, make and model)
as well as factors relating to the insured (such as previous driving record). In
management's  opinion,  the extensive use and analysis of this database,  rather
than rating  bureaus,  provides PP&C with the basis for its market  segmentation
strategy to price risks accordingly.

     Allstate has attempted to reduce its PP&C claims costs through  centralized
claims   administration,   specialization  and  additional  training  of  claims
personnel, and intensive and early investigation,  evaluation and negotiation of
claims.  During 1998,  Allstate completed the implementation of redesigned claim
settlement procedures for auto physical damage claims. In addition, Allstate has
continued the design and testing of new  procedures  for personal  injury claims
and for property claims involving fire and roof damage.

     As is true for the property-liability industry in general, first-year costs
attributable to PP&C's products are generally higher than for subsequent  years.
Accordingly,  customer  retention is an important factor in the profitability of
PP&C's  products,  since  policies  that remain in force  generally  become more
profitable over time. Allstate customer retention rates in 1998 for standard and
non-standard auto were  approximately  the same as in 1997.  Retention rates for
homeowners  increased  slightly in 1998,  having  declined  in 1997,  due to the
adverse  impact  of  Allstate's   catastrophe  management   initiatives.   These
initiatives  are discussed  below,  under  "Catastrophe  Exposure."  Homeowners'
retention improved significantly in Florida in 1998, after a decline in 1997 due
to the non-renewal and sale of renewal rights of certain homeowners' policies.

     The personal lines private  passenger  auto and  homeowners  businesses are
highly



competitive.  As of December 31, 1997 over 1,400 insurance companies were in the
market, with five groups of companies (State Farm, Allstate, Farmers, Nationwide
and  Progressive)  writing  approximately  47% of  the  private  passenger  auto
premiums written.  Approximately  48% of the homeowners  premiums written in the
United  States were written by five groups of companies  (State Farm,  Allstate,
Farmers,  Nationwide and  Travelers).  State Farm maintains the leading share in
the auto and  homeowners  insurance  market and had 20.5% of the auto market and
23.0% of the homeowners  market in 1997.  Together,  State Farm and Allstate had
32.8% and 34.3%,  respectively,  of the total United States' auto and homeowners
market in 1997.

     AIC competes  principally  on the basis of its name  recognition,  scope of
distribution  system,  customer  service,  use of technology,  product features,
breadth  of product  offerings  and price.  Additionally,  extensive  use of its
database to develop proprietary information gives AIC the ability to segment its
market,  appropriately  price  risks and  cross-sell  its  products  within  its
customer base.

     In 1997, approximately $48 billion of industry personal lines premiums were
generated by  independent  agencies,  and the  remaining $95 billion of premiums
were  generated by insurers  placing their  products  directly with the consumer
through  employee  agents,   independent  contractor  exclusive  agents,  direct
response and mail order.  Allstate  believes its exclusive agency force provides
it with an advantage in distributing PP&C products.  However,  some competitors,
operating  solely  with  exclusive  agents who are  independent  contractors  or
distributing through direct response or mail order marketing,  or operating with
non-exclusive  independent  agents  have  also been  able to  operate  effective
distribution systems.

     Approximately one half of Allstate's  approximately 15,500 exclusive agents
are employee  agents.  In future years,  Allstate expects that the percentage of
its  agents  who are  independent  contractor  exclusive  agents  will  increase
substantially.  In 1990, Allstate instituted an independent contractor exclusive
agent contract under which persons are hired for an 18-month period during which
they are  trained as agents.  Upon  completion  of the period,  Allstate  offers
contracts to some of the trainees to serve as  independent  contractors  who are
exclusive agents for Allstate. With very limited exceptions, persons hired since
1990 for  eventual  consideration  as  Allstate  agents  have been hired on this
basis.  In  addition,  employee  agents who were  hired  prior to 1990 have been
permitted to convert to independent contractor exclusive agent status.

     At December 31, 1998,  independent  contractor exclusive agents,  including
agents  in  training  to  become   independent   contractor   exclusive  agents,
represented  approximately  47% of  Allstate  agents.  Allstate  has a strategic
initiative intended to improve agencies'  productivity to sell to and to service
customers and to align local processes, programs and policies, including workers
classification, with Allstate objectives. Allstate has entered into an agreement
with the Internal  Revenue  Service which permits  continuation  of the employee
agent programs under specified conditions.


CATASTROPHE EXPOSURE AND CATASTROPHE MANAGEMENT

     Catastrophes  are an  inherent  risk  of the  property-liability  insurance
business which have  contributed,  and will continue to contribute,  to material
year-to-year  fluctuations  in Allstate's  results of  operations  and financial
position.  The  level of  catastrophe  loss  experienced  in any year  cannot be
predicted and could be material to results of operations and financial position.
Allstate has experienced two severe  catastrophes in recent years, each of which
resulted  in losses of  approximately  $2  billion.  While  management  believes
Allstate's catastrophe management strategies,  described below, have reduced the
severity of possible future losses,  Allstate continues to be exposed to similar
or greater catastrophes (see ARisk Factors" and AForward-Looking  Statements" in
this Form 10-K).

     A  "catastrophe"  is defined by Allstate as an event that produces  pre-tax
losses before reinsurance in excess of $1 million involving multiple first party
policyholders.  Catastrophes are caused by various events, including hurricanes,
earthquakes,  tornadoes,  wind and hail storms, and fires. Although catastrophes
can cause  losses in a variety of PP&C lines,  homeowners  insurance  has in the
past generated the vast majority of  catastrophe-related  claims.  For Allstate,
major areas of potential  losses due to hurricanes  include  major  metropolitan
centers  near the  eastern  and gulf  coasts of the  United  States.  Allstate's
exposure to  potential  earthquake  losses in  California  is now limited by its
participation  in the  California  Earthquake  Authority  ("CEA"),  as described
below.  Other  areas in the  United  States  in which  Allstate  is  exposed  to
potential  losses from  earthquakes  include areas in the central  United States
surrounding  the New Madrid fault system in the Midwest and faults in and around
Seattle, Washington and Charleston, South Carolina.

     Allstate has  implemented  initiatives  to limit,  over time, its insurance
exposures in certain regions prone to catastrophes,  subject to the requirements
of insurance laws and regulations and as limited by competitive  considerations.
These  initiatives  include  limits on new business  production,  limitations on
certain  policy  coverages,  increases  in  deductibles,  policy  brokering  and
participation  in  catastrophe  pools.  In addition,  Allstate has requested and
received  rate  increases  and  continues  to expand its use of  deductibles  in
certain  regions  prone to  catastrophes.  While  management  believes  that its
initiatives have reduced or will reduce  Allstate's  exposure to catastrophes in
certain  geographic regions over time, the extent of such reduction is uncertain
and is constrained by state  insurance laws and  regulations.  See "Regulation -
Shared Markets" below.

     Allstate formed  Allstate  Floridian  Insurance  Company (" Floridian") and
Allstate  Floridian  Indemnity  Company  ("AFI") which are operating to sell and
service  residential  property  customers in Florida.  Floridian  entered into a
catastrophe  reinsurance  agreement with a non-affiliated  entity which provides
access to 80% of $500 million of catastrophe reinsurance protection for any loss
in excess of  approximately  $1.00  billion,  up to an  aggregate  limit of $800
million.  In addition,  Floridian has access to 90% of an estimated $950 million
of  reimbursements  of  losses  from  the  Florida  Hurricane  Catastrophe  Fund
("FHCF").


     The  FHCF  has the  authority  to issue  bonds  to pay its  obligations  to
participating  insurers.  The bonds issued by the FHCF are funded by assessments
on all property  and casualty  premiums  written in the state,  except  workers'
compensation and accident and health insurance. These assessments are limited to
4% and are recoupable  immediately  through  increases in policyholder  rates. A
rate  filing  or any  portion  of a rate  change  attributable  entirely  to the
assessment is deemed  approved when made to the Florida  Department of Insurance
(the  "Department"),  subject to the Department's  statutory authority to review
the "adequacy" of any rate at any time.

     In addition to direct hurricane losses,  Floridian and AFI are also subject
to assessments from the Florida Windstorm Underwriting  Association ("FWUA") and
the Florida  Property and Casualty Joint  Underwriting  Association  ("FRPCJUA")
which are organizations  created to provide coverage for catastrophic  losses to
property  owners  unable to  obtain  coverage  in the  private  market.  Regular
assessments are levied on participating companies if the deficit in the calendar
year is less than or equal to 10% of the Florida property premiums industry-wide
for the year. An insurer may recoup a regular  assessment through a surcharge to
policyholders  subject  to a cap on the  amount  that can be  charged in any one
year. If the deficit  exceeds 10%, the FWUA and/or FRPCJUA will fund the deficit
through the issuance of bonds.  The costs of these bonds are then funded through
a regular  assessment  in the first  year  following  the  deficit  and  through
emergency  assessments  in subsequent  years.  Companies are required to collect
emergency  assessments directly from the policyholders and remit these monies to
the  organizations  as they  are  collected.  Participating  companies  are also
required to purchase  any unsold bonds  issued by the FWUA and/or  FRPCJUA.  The
insurer must file any recoupment  surcharge with the Department at least 15 days
prior  to  imposing  the  surcharge  on  policies.  The  surcharge  may be  used
automatically  after the  expiration of the 15 days,  unless the  Department has
notified the insurer in writing that any of its calculations are incorrect.

     While the Florida  statutes are designed so that the ultimate cost is borne
by the policyholders, the exposure to assessments and availability of recoveries
may not offset one another in the insurers'  financial  statements due to timing
and to the possibility of policies not being renewed in subsequent years.

     Allstate  entered into a  three-year  excess of loss  reinsurance  contract
covering  property  policies in the  northeastern  portion of the United  States
("Northeast"),  effective June 1, 1997. The reinsurance  program  provides up to
95% of $500 million of reinsurance  protection for catastrophe  losses in excess
of an  estimated  $750  million  retention  subject  to an annual  limit of $500
million and an  aggregate  limit of $1.00  billion  over a  three-year  contract
period.  The deductibles on residential  property policies in New York are being
converted to include a hurricane deductible that is triggered by hurricane


winds greater than 100 miles per hour, and at December 31, 1998, this conversion
process was 40% complete.

     Allstate  participates in the CEA, a  privately-financed,  publicly-managed
state agency created to provide coverage for earthquake damage. Insurers selling
homeowner insurance in California are required to offer earthquake  insurance to
their customers either through their company or by participation in the CEA. All
of Allstate's traditional earthquake policies and mini-earthquake  policies have
been either (i) renewed  into the CEA,  or (ii) not renewed in  accordance  with
customer  requests.  Allstate's  homeowners  policy  will  continue  to  include
coverages  for losses  caused by  explosions,  theft,  glass  breakage and fires
following an earthquake, which are not underwritten by the CEA.

     Approximately  $700  million  of the  capital  needed to create the CEA was
obtained  from  assessments  of  participating  insurance  companies.  In  1996,
Allstate's pretax assessment, including related expenses, was approximately $150
million.  Should losses  arising from an earthquake  cause a deficit in the CEA,
additional   capital  needed  to  operate  the  CEA  will  be  obtained  through
assessments of participating insurance companies, reinsurance and bond issuances
funded by policyholder assessments.  Participating insurers are required to fund
a second  assessment,  not to exceed  $2.15  billion,  if the capital of the CEA
falls below $350  million.  Participating  insurers are required to fund a third
assessment,  not to exceed $1.43 billion, if the aggregate CEA earthquake losses
exceed  $5.81  billion or the  capital of the CEA falls below $350  million.  At
December 31, 1998, the CEA's capital balance was approximately $432 million.  If
the CEA  assesses  its  member  insurers  for any  amount,  the amount of future
assessments on members is reduced by the amounts previously  assessed.  To date,
the CEA has not assessed  member  insurers  beyond the initial  assessment.  The
authority  of the  CEA to  assess  participating  insurers  expires  when it has
completed  twelve years of operation.  At the end of 1998, the CEA had completed
two years of operation. All future assessments to participating CEA insurers are
based on their CEA  insurance  market  share as of December 31 of the  preceding
year. Assuming its current CEA market share does not materially change, Allstate
does not expect its portion of these additional contingent assessments,  if any,
to exceed $540 million,  as the  likelihood of an earthquake  causing  losses in
excess  of the  CEA  industry  capacity  of  $5.81  billion  is less  than  .2%.
Management  believes  Allstate's exposure to earthquake losses in California has
been significantly reduced as a result of its participation in the CEA.

     Allstate  continues to support  passage of  legislation in Congress such as
the Homeowner's Insurance  Availability Act which could, if enacted,  lessen the
impact to Allstate of  catastrophic  natural  disasters  such as hurricanes  and
earthquakes.  Allstate is a founding member of a coalition whose members include
property insurers and insurance  agents.  This group is promoting a measure that
would provide federal reinsurance to state disaster plans. Proposed legislation,
H.R. 21, was  introduced at the beginning of the 106th Congress and was referred
to the House Banking and  Financial  Services  Committee.  Allstate is unable to
determine whether,  or in what form, such proposed  legislation could be enacted
or any resulting effect on Allstate.


PROPERTY-LIABILITY CLAIMS AND CLAIMS EXPENSE RESERVES


     Allstate  establishes   property-liability   loss  reserves  to  cover  its
estimated  ultimate  liability  for losses  and loss  adjustment  expenses  with
respect to reported  claims and claims  incurred  but not yet reported as of the
end of each accounting period. In accordance with applicable  insurance laws and
regulations and generally accepted accounting  principles ("GAAP"),  no specific
claim  reserves are  established  until a loss  occurs,  including a loss from a
catastrophe.  Underwriting  results of the two  Property-Liability  segments are
significantly  influenced by estimates of  property-liability  claims and claims
expense reserves (see Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements
on pages C-48 to C-51 of the Proxy Statement,  incorporated  herein by reference
in  response  to Item 8  hereof).  These  reserves  are an  accumulation  of the
estimated amounts necessary to settle all outstanding  claims,  including claims
which are incurred but not  reported,  as of the reporting  date.  These reserve
estimates  are based on known  facts and on  interpretations  of  circumstances,
including  Allstate's  experience  with  similar  cases  and  historical  trends
involving claim payment patterns, loss payments, pending levels of unpaid claims
and product mix, as well as other factors  including court  decisions,  economic
conditions  and public  attitudes.  The  effects  of  inflation  are  implicitly
considered in the reserving  process.  The establishment of reserves,  including
reserves for catastrophes,  is an inherently  uncertain process and the ultimate
cost may vary materially from the recorded amounts.  Allstate  regularly updates
its reserve  estimates as new facts become known and further  events occur which
may impact the  resolution  of unsettled  claims.  Changes in prior year reserve
estimates,  which may be material, are reflected in the results of operations in
the period such changes are determined to be needed.

     The Company,  in the normal course of business,  may  supplement its claims
and  underwriting  processes by  utilizing  third party  adjusters,  appraisers,
engineers, inspectors, other professionals and information sources to assess and
settle catastrophe and non-catastrophe related claims.

     Establishing  net loss reserves for  environmental,  asbestos and mass tort
claims is subject to  uncertainties  that are greater  than those  presented  by
other types of claims. Among the complications are lack of historical data, long
reporting  delays,  uncertainty  as to the number and identity of insureds  with
potential   exposure,   unresolved   legal  issues  regarding  policy  coverage,
availability and  collectibility of reinsurance and the extent and timing of any
such contractual  liability.  The legal issues concerning the  interpretation of
various  insurance policy  provisions and whether these losses are, or were ever
intended to be covered, are complex. Courts have reached different and sometimes
inconsistent conclusions as to when losses are deemed to have occurred and which
policies provide coverage; what types of losses are covered; whether there is an
insured  obligation  to defend;  how policy  limits are  determined;  how policy
exclusions are applied and  interpreted;  and whether  clean-up costs  represent
insured property damage.  Management  believes these issues are not likely to be
resolved in the near future.  See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated  Financial
Statements on pages C-48 to C-51 of the Proxy Statement,  


incorporated herein by reference in response to Item 8 hereof.

     The  following  tables are summary  reconciliations  of the  beginning  and
ending   property-liability   insurance  claims  and  claims  expense  reserves,
displayed  individually  for each of the  last  three  years.  The  first  table
presents reserves on a gross (before  reinsurance)  basis. The end of year gross
reserve  balances are  reflected  in the  Consolidated  Statements  of Financial
Position on page C-32 of the Proxy Statement,  incorporated  herein by reference
in response to Item 8 hereof. The second table presents reserves on a net (after
reinsurance) basis. The total net property-liability insurance claims and claims
expense  amounts are reflected in the  Consolidated  Statements of Operations on
page C-30 of the Proxy Statement,  incorporated  herein by reference in response
to Item 8 hereof.






























     The year-end 1998 gross reserves of $16.88  billion for  property-liability
insurance  claims and claims  expense,  as  determined  under  GAAP,  were $1.90
billion more than the reserve balance of $14.98 billion recorded on the basis of
statutory   accounting  practices  for  reports  provided  to  state  regulatory
authorities.  The principal difference is the reinsurance recoverable from third
parties totaling $1.46 billion that reduces reserves for statutory reporting and
is recorded as an asset for GAAP reporting. Additional differences are caused by
the  reserves of the  international  subsidiaries  which are not included in the
combined United States statutory statement.

     As   the   tables   above   illustrate,    Allstate's   net   reserve   for
property-liability  insurance  claims  and  claims  expense  at the  end of 1997
developed favorably in 1998 by $700 million,  compared to favorable  development
of the gross reserves of $695 million.  Net reserve development in 1998 and 1997
was more favorable than favorable gross reserve development in these years. This
relationship  was due to the fact that Allstate's  principal  Property-Liability
lines,  such as private  passenger auto and homeowners,  were not  significantly
affected by reinsurance,  whereas  Discontinued  Lines and Coverages  involved a
higher level of ceded reinsurance protection.  The more favorable development in
the net reserves was due to higher anticipated reinsurance cessions on increased
reserve  reestimates for Discontinued  Lines and Coverages.  In 1996,  following
completion of a comprehensive  review of available  reinsurance for Discontinued
Lines and Coverages,  the Company  decreased ceded loss reserves.  This decrease
offset the favorable effect of higher reinsurance  cessions related to increased
reestimates  of  gross  reserves  for  Discontinued  Lines  and  Coverages.  See
"Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves" on pages C-10 to C-14 of
the Proxy  Statement,  incorporated  herein by  reference  in response to Item 7
hereof.  For further  discussion  of the  Company's  reinsurance  programs,  see
"Property-Liability  Reinsurance  Ceded"  on pages  C-13  and C-14 of the  Proxy
Statement, incorporated herein by reference in response to Item 7 hereof.

     The loss reserve  development  table below illustrates the change over time
of the net reserves  established  for  property-liability  insurance  claims and
claims expense at the end of various calendar years. The first section shows the
reserves  as  originally  reported  at the end of the  stated  year.  The second
section,  reading  down,  shows  the  cumulative  amounts  paid as of the end of
successive  years with respect to that  reserve  liability.  The third  section,
reading down, shows retroactive  reestimates of the original recorded reserve as
of the end of each  successive  year which is the result of Allstate's  expanded
awareness of additional  facts and  circumstances  that pertain to the unsettled
claims. The last section compares the latest reestimated  reserve to the reserve
originally  established,  and indicates  whether or not the original reserve was
adequate or  inadequate to cover the estimated  costs of unsettled  claims.  The
table also presents the gross reestimated  liability as of the end of the latest
reestimation  period,  with  separate  disclosure  of  the  related  reestimated
reinsurance recoverable.  This presentation appears for all periods in which the
income recognition provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
113 have been applied.





The loss reserve development table is cumulative and, therefore, ending balances
should not be added since the amount at the end of each  calendar  year includes
activity for both the current and prior years.



     The subsequent reduction in the net reserves established since December 31,
1993 shown in the foregoing  table reflects  favorable  severity trends that the
Company has experienced,  as more fully discussed below. The principal cause for
the initial  reserves  established  at the end of 1991,  and all previous  years
reflected in the table, needing to be increased over the time frame in the above
table is the cumulative adverse reserve  development on environmental,  asbestos
and mass tort claims,  virtually  all of which  relates to 1984 and prior years.
There are  significant  uncertainties  in  estimating  the amount of  Allstate's
environmental, asbestos and mass tort claims. Among the complications are a lack
of historical  data,  long  reporting  delays,  uncertainty as to the number and
identity of insureds with potential  exposure,  complex  unresolved legal issues
regarding policy coverage, availability of reinsurance and the extent and timing
of any such contractual  liability.  Courts have reached different and sometimes
inconsistent  conclusions as to when the loss occurred and what policies provide
coverage;  what claims are covered;  whether  there is an insured  obligation to
defend; how policy limits are determined;  how policy exclusions are applied and
interpreted; and whether clean-up costs represent insured property damage. These
issues are not likely to be  resolved in the near  future.  As a result of these
issues,  the  ultimate  cost of these  claims  may  generate  losses  that  vary
materially from the amount currently reserved.

     Allstate  has  gained  access to  complex  databases  developed  by outside
experts to estimate the cost of liabilities for environmental claims. Allstate's
policy  files were  compared to the  databases  to  determine an estimate of the
Company's  potential  environmental  loss.  The  Company  also  refined  its own
estimation  techniques to estimate  environmental and asbestos losses.  Allstate
has used a  combination  of these  resources,  along with an extensive  internal
review of its current  claim  exposures to estimate  environmental  and asbestos
reserves.  The Company has also performed  in-depth  analysis of its reinsurance
recoverables. During 1996, based upon the Company's re-evaluation, loss reserves
for environmental and asbestos exposures, net of reinsurance,  were increased by
$172 million and $72 million,  respectively.  These  studies and  re-evaluations
resulted  in   Allstate's   actions  to  increase   reserves  as   described  in
AProperty-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves" on pages C-10 to C-14 of
the Proxy  Statement,  incorporated  herein by  reference  in response to Item 7
hereof.  Allstate  updates its evaluations of  environmental,  asbestos and mass
tort  reserves   annually.   While  Allstate  believes  the  improved  actuarial
techniques  and  databases  described  above  have  assisted  in its  ability to
estimate  environmental,  asbestos  and  mass  tort  net  loss  reserves,  these
refinements  may prove to be  inadequate  indicators  of the extent of  probable
loss. See note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated  Financial Statements on pages
C-48 to  C-51 of the  Proxy  Statement,  incorporated  herein  by  reference  in
response to Item 8 hereof.












     The following table is derived from the Loss Reserve  Development table and
summarizes the effect of reserve  reestimates,  net of reinsurance,  on calendar
year  operations for the same ten-year period ended December 31, 1998. The total
of each column details the amount of reserve  reestimates  made in the indicated
calendar  year  and  shows  the  accident  years to which  the  reestimates  are
applicable.  The  amounts  in the total  accident  year  column on the far right
represent the cumulative reserve reestimates for the indicated accident year(s).




     Favorable  calendar year reserve  development  in 1992 through 1998 was the
result of favorable  severity trends in each of the seven years, which more than
offset adverse development in Discontinued Lines and Coverages.

     The favorable  severity trend during this seven-year period was largely due
to lower than  anticipated  medical  cost  inflation  for  personal  auto injury
claims.  Improvements  in the  Company=s  claim  settlement  processes  are also
believed to have contributed to favorable  development since 1995. The reduction
in the anticipated  medical cost inflation trend has emerged over time as actual
claim  settlements  validated  the effect of the  steady  decline in the rate of
inflation. In addition,  while the claim settlement process changes are believed
to have contributed to favorable severity trends on closed claims, these changes
introduce a greater degree of variability in reserve estimates for the remaining
outstanding  claims at December 31, 1998. Future reserve  releases,  if any, are
expected to be  adversely  impacted by  anticipated  increases  in medical  cost
inflation  rates.  See ARisk Factors  Affecting  Allstate" and  "Forward-Looking
Statements" in this Form 10-K.




DISCONTINUED LINES AND COVERAGES

     An Allstate  subsidiary  wrote excess and surplus lines coverages from 1972
to 1985, including professional liability coverages,  principally on claims-made
coverage  forms.  The  subsidiary  also wrote  substantial  umbrella  and excess
liability coverages on an occurrence basis,  including medical and other product
liability  coverages,  for  major  United  States  corporations.  In  1985,  the
subsidiary  was  merged  into  AIC  with  AIC  assuming  all of its  assets  and
liabilities.  Since the  early  1980's,  Allstate  has  experienced  significant
increases  in losses for years  prior to 1980  arising  out of the  subsidiary's
umbrella and excess liability  coverage for large  corporations.  Since the late
1980's,   most  of  these   losses  have  related  to   environmental   damages,
asbestos-related damages or mass-tort settlements.  AIC continues to be involved
in coverage litigation with the subsidiary's insureds.

     In addition, during the late 1960's and through the early 1980's Allstate's
reinsurance  business  unit wrote treaty and  facultative  reinsurance  covering
general liability primary  policies,  including  policies for major producers of
asbestos products.  During approximately the same period, Allstate's reinsurance
business unit wrote reinsurance coverage on liability policies with major United
States  corporations  that have  since  become  involved  in  environmental  and
asbestos claims.  Such companies may have been involved with hazardous wastes in
a variety of ways  including as  manufacturers,  haulers,  dump site owners,  or
through a combination of these activities.  Allstate's reinsurance business unit
continues  to be involved in coverage  litigation  and  arbitration  with ceding
companies and their insureds involving  liability for environmental and asbestos
damages claims. In 1986,  Allstate ceased writing business with ceding companies
which tended to insure larger corporations with potential  environmental  and/or
asbestos damage  exposures,  and its  underwriting  focus was redirected  toward
smaller, more regionalized insurers who focus on property and casualty coverages
and who have  underwriting  standards that are  considered  prudent by Allstate.
Also in 1986, the general  liability  policy form used by Allstate and others in
the property-liability  industry was amended to introduce an "absolute pollution
exclusion," which excluded coverage for environmental  damage claims,  and added
asbestos  exclusions.  Most  general  liability  policies  issued  prior to 1987
contain annual aggregate  limits for product  liability  coverage,  and policies
issued  after  1986  also have an annual  aggregate  limit as to all  coverages.
Allstate's experience to date is that these policy form changes have effectively
limited its exposure to environmental and asbestos claim risks assumed,  as well
as primary commercial  coverages written,  for most policies written in 1986 and
all policies written after 1986.

     Allstate's  environmental  and asbestos  exposures are primarily limited to
policies  written in periods prior to 1986 with the  preponderance of the losses
emanating from policies written in the 1970's.  New  environmental  and asbestos
claims, however,  continue to be reported.  Allstate has established substantial
reserves for the  environmental  and asbestos  damage claims,  and for mass tort
exposures.  Mass tort exposures  primarily relate to product  liability  claims,
such as those for medical devices and other products,  and general  liabilities.
However, there are significant inherent uncertainties in estimating the ultimate
cost of these claims,  as discussed  below.  Further  information  regarding the
foregoing  is  contained  in  AProperty-Liability   Claims  and  Claims  Expense
Reserves" on pages C-10 to C-14 of the Proxy Statement,  incorporated  herein by
reference  in response to Item 7 hereof.  For  information  regarding  Superfund
proposed  legislation,  see "Regulatory  Initiatives  and Proposed  Legislation"
below.


LIFE AND SAVINGS BUSINESS

     Life and Savings markets a broad line of life insurance,  savings and group
pension products.  Life insurance  includes  traditional  products such as whole
life and term life insurance, as well as universal life, variable life and other
interest-sensitive  life  products.   Savings  products  include  both  deferred
annuities,  such as variable  annuities and fixed rate single  premium  deferred
annuities,  flexible premium deferred annuities and immediate  annuities such as
structured  settlement  annuities.  Life and  Savings'  group  pension  products
include guaranteed investment contracts and retirement annuities. The assets and
liabilities  relating to flexible premium deferred variable annuities,  variable
life,  variable universal life and certain guaranteed  investment  contracts are
legally  segregated  and  reflected  as assets and  liabilities  of the Separate
Accounts.  In 1998,  annuity  premiums and deposits  represented 56% of Life and
Savings' total statutory premiums and deposits.

     Life and Savings competes principally on the basis of its name recognition,
scope of its  distribution  systems,  customer  service  and  focus,  breadth of
product  offerings,  product  features,  its financial  strength,  claims-paying
ability  ratings,  and price,  and with  respect to  variable  life and  annuity
products,  management  and  investment  performance  of, and various  investment
choices in, its Separate Account portfolio of funds.

     Life and Savings markets  individual and group life insurance,  savings and
group  pension  products  and  reaches  a broad  market of  potential  customers
throughout  the United States and in other  countries  through  Allstate  agents
(including life specialists),  banks, independent agents and brokers and through
direct  response  marketing.  Products  bearing  the  "Allstate  Life  Insurance
Company" name are generally sold by Allstate agents,  specialized  brokers,  and
through  direct  marketing  techniques.  Other  products,  many of which  are of
similar types to those bearing the "Allstate  Life  Insurance  Company" name but
which bear other brand names,  are  distributed  through  independent  insurance
agents, brokers, banks and direct marketing techniques. Life insurance in force,
net of  reinsurance,  was $202  billion at December 31, 1998 and $194 billion at
December 31, 1997. As of December 31, 1998,  Life and Savings had $41.86 billion
of investments, including $10.10 billion of Separate Account assets.

ALIC subsidiary Northbrook Life Insurance Company ("Northbrook") has a strategic
alliance with Dean Witter  Reynolds,  Inc., a wholly-owned  subsidiary of Morgan
Stanley Dean Witter & Co. ("Dean Witter") for the marketing and  distribution of
Northbrook's life and annuity products through Dean Witter's broker sales force.
ALIC  subsidiary  Glenbrook  Life and  Annuity  Company  has also  entered  into
marketing  arrangements  with banks and brokers for the sale of life and annuity
products,  including an  arrangement  with the AIM mutual fund group under which
AIM markets  Glenbrook  Life and Annuity  Company  variable  annuities.  In 1998
Glenbrook Life and Annuity also began  distributing a no-load  variable  annuity
product  through direct  marketing.  Life and Savings is committed to broadening
its bank and broker  distribution  outlets in an effort to increase the sales of
its  annuity  products,  and to  participate  in the market  for life  insurance
products  sold  through  banks.   Although  Allstate   currently  benefits  from
agreements  with  financial  services  entities  who market and  distribute  its
products, change in control of these non-affiliated entities with which Allstate
has alliances could have a detrimental effect on Life and Savings sales. See


"Recent  Developments,"  above,  concerning  the joint venture  between ALIC and
Putnam Investments to sell variable insurance products.

     Life  and  Savings  utilizes  certain  services  shared  with  AIC  such as
investment,  finance,  information technology and legal services.  Although Life
and Savings'  management  develops  overall  strategies  for its  business,  the
primary  management  of each  distribution  channel  is  largely  decentralized.
Accordingly,  management of each distribution  channel is primarily  responsible
for  determining  its own product mix and product  features  appropriate for its
target market. Life and Savings believes that its range of distribution channels
promotes  flexibility,  extends  market  reach,  reduces  dependency  on any one
distribution system, and allows Life and Savings to focus on distinct, generally
non-overlapping markets.

     The  establishment  of  reserve  and  contractholder  fund  liabilities  in
recognition  of Allstate's  future  benefit  obligations  under life and annuity
policies  and other Life and Savings  products  are  discussed  in Note 2 of the
Notes to the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  on pages  C-36 to C-40 of the
Proxy Statement, incorporated herein by reference in response to Item 8 hereof.

     The market for  financial  services,  including  the various  types of life
insurance and annuities sold by Life and Savings, is highly  competitive.  As of
December  31,  1998,  there  were  approximately  830  groups of life  insurance
companies in the United States, most of which offer one or more products similar
to those  offered by Life and Savings  and many of which use  similar  marketing
techniques.  Based on information  contained in statements  filed with insurance
departments,  in  1997  approximately  68% of the  life  insurance  and  annuity
premiums and deposits were written by 25 groups of  companies.  Life and Savings
ranked  13th  based  on  ordinary  life  insurance  in force  and 20th  based on
statutory  admitted assets.  Banks and savings and loan  associations in certain
jurisdictions  compete  with  Life and  Savings  in the  sale of life  insurance
products.  In addition,  because  certain life  insurance  and annuity  products
include a savings or investment component, competition also comes from brokerage
firms,  investment  advisors  and  mutual  funds as well as from banks and other
financial  institutions.  Despite a large number of life company acquisitions in
recent  years,  the life  insurance  and annuity  market  continues to be highly
fragmented and competitive.

YEAR 2000

     The Company is heavily  dependent  upon  complex  computer  systems for all
phases of its operations,  including  customer  service,  insurance  processing,
underwriting,  loss reserving,  investments and other enterprise systems.  Since
many of the Company's older computer software  programs  recognize only the last
two digits of the year in any date,  some software may fail to operate  properly
in or after the year 1999, if the software is not reprogrammed,  remediated,  or
replaced ("Year 2000").  Also, many systems and equipment that are not typically
thought  of as  computer-related  (referred  to as  "non-IT")  contain  embedded
hardware or software  that may have a Year 2000  sensitive  component.  Allstate
believes  that  many of its  counterparties  and  suppliers  also have Year 2000
issues and non-IT issues which could affect the Company.

     In 1995, the Company  commenced a plan  consisting of four phases which are
intended to mitigate  and/or prevent the adverse affects of the Year 2000 issues
on its systems:  1) inventory and assessment of 


affected  systems and equipment,  2)  remediation  and compliance of systems and
equipment  through  strategies  that include the  replacement  or enhancement of
existing  systems,  upgrades to operating systems already covered by maintenance
agreements  and  modifications  to  existing  systems  to make  them  Year  2000
compliant,  3) testing of systems using  clock-forward  testing for both current
and  future  dates and for  dates  which  trigger  specific  processing,  and 4)
contingency  planning  which will address  possible  adverse  scenarios  and the
potential financial impact to the Company's results of operations,  liquidity or
financial position.

     The Company  believes that the first three steps of this plan,  assessment,
remediation  and  testing,   including  clock-forward  testing  which  is  being
performed  on the  Company's  systems and non-IT,  are mostly  complete  for the
Company's  critical  systems.  In April  1998,  the Company  announced  its main
premium application  system,  ALERT, which manages more than 20 million auto and
homeowners  policies  is Year 2000  compliant.  The  Company is relying on other
remediation techniques for its midrange and personal computer environments,  and
certain mainframe applications.

     Certain  investment  processing  systems,  midrange  computers and personal
computer  environments  are planned to be remediated by the middle of 1999,  and
some systems and non-IT related to discontinued or non-critical functions of the
Company are planned to be abandoned by the end of 1999.

     The Company is currently in the process of  identifying  key  processes and
developing  contingency plans in the event that the systems supporting these key
processes are not Year 2000  compliant at the end of 1999.  Management  believes
these contingency  plans should be completed by mid-1999.  Until these plans are
complete,  management is unable to determine an estimate of the most  reasonably
possible worst case scenario due to issues relating to the Year 2000.

     In  addition,  the  Company is  actively  working  with its major  external
counterparties  and  suppliers  to  assess  their  compliance  efforts  and  the
Company's  exposure  to both their Year 2000  issues  and  non-IT  issues.  This
assessment  has  included  the  solicitation  of  external   counterparties  and
suppliers,  evaluating responses received and testing third party interfaces and
interactions  to  determine  compliance.  Currently  the Company  has  solicited
approximately  1,500 and has received  responses from  approximately  75% of its
counterparties  and  suppliers.  Allstate  will  continue its efforts to solicit
responses  on Year 2000  compliance  from these  parties.  The majority of these
responses have stated that the  counterparties  and suppliers  believe that they
will be Year 2000 compliant and that no transactions will be affected.  However,
some key vendors have not provided  affirmative  responses to date.  The Company
has also decided to test certain  interfaces and interactions to gain additional
assurance on third party compliance.  If key vendors are unable to meet the Year
2000  requirement,  Allstate is preparing  contingency plans that will allow the
Company  to  continue  to  sell  its  products  and to  service  its  customers.
Management believes these contingency plans should be completed by mid-1999. The
Company  currently does not have sufficient  information to determine whether or
not all of its external counterparties and suppliers will be Year 2000 ready.

         The  Company  is  currently  assessing  the  level  of Year  2000  risk
associated with certain personal lines policies that have been issued.  To date,
no changes have been made in coverages  provided by the Company's  personal auto
and homeowners  lines policies to  specifically  exclude  coverage for Year 2000


related  claims.  This does not mean that all losses,  or any particular type of
loss, that might be related to the Year 2000 will be covered. Rather, all claims
will  continue to be evaluated  on a  case-by-case  basis to  determine  whether
coverage is available for a particular  loss in accordance  with the  applicable
terms and conditions of the policy in force.

     The Company also has  investments  which have been  publicly and  privately
placed.  The  Company  may be  exposed  to the risk  that the  issuers  of these
investments will be adversely impacted by Year 2000 issues. The Company assesses
the impact which Year 2000 issues have on the Company's  investments  as part of
due  diligence  for proposed new  investments  and in its ongoing  review of all
current portfolio  holdings.  Any recommended actions with respect to individual
investments  are determined by taking into account the potential  impact of Year
2000 on the issuer.  Contingency plans are being created for any securities held
whose issuer is determined to not be Year 2000 compliant.

     The Company presently  believes that it will resolve the Year 2000 issue in
a timely  manner.  Year 2000  costs are  expensed  as  incurred,  therefore  the
majority of expenses  related to this project have been  incurred as of December
31, 1998. The Company estimates that approximately $125 million in costs will be
incurred  between  the  years of 1995 and  2000.  These  amounts  include  costs
directly  related to fixing Year 2000  issues,  such as  modifying  software and
hiring Year 2000 solution  providers.  These amounts also include costs incurred
to replace  certain  non-compliant  systems which would not have been  otherwise
replaced.

CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS

     The capacity for Allstate's  premium  growth,  like that of other insurance
companies,  is in part a function of its operating leverage.  Operating leverage
for  property-liability  insurance  companies  is  measured  by the ratio of net
premiums written to statutory surplus. Ratios in excess of 3 to 1 are considered
outside the usual  range by  insurance  regulators  and rating  agencies.  AIC's
premium to surplus ratio was 1.4 to 1 at December 31, 1998 and 1997. Maintaining
appropriate  levels of statutory  surplus is considered  important by Allstate's
management,  state insurance regulatory authorities,  and the agencies that rate
insurers' claims-paying abilities and financial strength.

     Failure to maintain  certain levels of statutory  capital and surplus could
result in increased scrutiny or, in some cases, action taken by state regulatory
authorities  and/or rating agencies.  Increased  public and regulatory  concerns
regarding the financial stability of participants in the insurance industry have
resulted  in greater  emphasis  being  placed by  policyholders  upon  insurance
company  ratings and have  created,  particularly  with  respect to certain life
insurance products, some measure of competitive advantage for insurance carriers
with higher ratings.  Failure to maintain  claims-paying and financial  strength
ratings could negatively affect the Company's competitiveness.

     The National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") has a standard
for  assessing  the  solvency of  insurance  companies,  which is referred to as
risk-based  capital  ("RBC").   The  requirement   consists  of  a  formula  for
determining each insurer's RBC and a model law specifying  regulatory actions if
an insurer's RBC falls below specified levels. The RBC


formula for life insurance companies  establishes capital requirements  relating
to insurance  risk,  business  risk,  asset risk and interest rate risk. The RBC
formula for  property-liability  companies  includes asset and credit risks, but
places more  emphasis on  underwriting  factors for  reserving  and pricing.  At
December 31,  1998,  RBC for each of  Allstate's  domestic  insurance  companies
exceeded the required capital levels. See "Capital  Resources" on pages C-19 and
C-20 of the Proxy  Statement,  incorporated  herein by  reference in response to
Item 7 hereof.

     Allstate  enters  into  certain  intercompany   insurance  and  reinsurance
transactions for its Property-Liability and Life and Savings segments.  Allstate
enters into these  transactions  in order to maintain  underwriting  control and
spread insurance risk among various legal entities. These reinsurance agreements
have been approved by the appropriate regulatory  authorities.  All intercompany
transactions are eliminated in the Company=s consolidated financial statements.

INVESTMENTS

     Allstate  follows a strategy to manage its exposure to market risk.  Market
risk is the risk that the Company  will incur  losses due to adverse  changes in
market rates and prices.  The  Company=s  primary  market risk  exposures are to
changes in interest  rates,  although the Company also has certain  exposures to
changes  in equity  prices  and  foreign  currency  exchange  rates.  The active
management of market risk is integral to the Company's  operations.  The Company
may use the following tools to manage its exposure to market risk within defined
tolerance  ranges: 1) rebalance its existing asset or liability  portfolios,  2)
change  the  character  of future  investments  purchased  or 3) use  derivative
instruments  to modify the market risk  characteristics  of existing  assets and
liabilities  or assets  expected  to be  purchased.  The  Company  seeks to earn
returns  that  enhance  its  ability  to offer  competitive  rates and prices to
customers  while  contributing  to attractive  and stable  profits and long-term
capital growth for the Company.  Accordingly, the Company=s investment decisions
and objectives are a function of the  underlying  risks and product  profiles of
each primary business operation.

     At December 31, 1998,  Allstate's entire fixed income securities and equity
securities portfolios were designated as "available for sale" and carried in the
Company's financial  statements at fair value. While the Company generally holds
its fixed income securities for the long-term, management classifies these fixed
income securities as available for sale to maximize the Company=s flexibility in
responding to changes in market  conditions.  Changes in the fair value of these
securities,  net of deferred  income  taxes and deferred  acquisition  costs and
benefit reserve adjustments on certain life insurance products, are reflected as
a separate component of shareholders'  equity. For discussion of the composition
of the Company's investment  portfolio,  see "Investments" on pages C-22 to C-24
of the Proxy Statement,  incorporated  herein by reference in response to Item 7
hereof,  and Note 4 of the Notes to the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  on
pages C-41 to C-44 of the Proxy Statement,  incorporated  herein by reference in
response to Item 8 hereof.

REGULATION

     Allstate  is  subject  to  extensive  regulation  and  supervision  in  the
jurisdictions  in which it does  business.  This  regulation  has a  substantial
effect on the business of Allstate,  primarily on Allstate's PP&C segment.  This
regulatory  oversight includes,  for example,  matters relating to licensing and
examination,  rate setting,  trade practices,  policy forms,  limitations on the
nature and amount of certain investments,


claims practices,  mandated  participation in shared markets and guaranty funds,
reserve adequacy, insurer solvency,  transactions with affiliates, the amount of
dividends that may be paid, and  restrictions  on  underwriting  standards.  For
discussion  of  statutory  financial  information,  see note 12 of the  Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements on pages C-57 and C-58 of the Proxy Statement,
incorporated  herein  by  reference  in  response  to  Item 8  hereof;  and  for
discussion of regulatory contingencies,  see note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements on pages C-52 to C-55 of the Proxy Statement,  incorporated
herein by reference in response to Item 8 hereof.

     LIMITATIONS ON DIVIDENDS BY INSURANCE SUBSIDIARIES - The Company is a legal
entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. As a holding company with no
other business operations,  its primary sources of cash to meet its obligations,
including  principal  and interest  payments with respect to  indebtedness,  are
dividends  and  other  statutorily  permitted  payments  from  AIC.  AIC,  as  a
domiciliary  of  Illinois,  is  subject  to  the  Illinois  insurance  laws  and
regulations. In Illinois, a domestic stock insurer may, without prior regulatory
approval,  pay ordinary  dividends from  statutory  surplus which at the time of
declaration  is not less than the  minimum  required  for the kind of  insurance
business  that such  company  is  authorized  to  conduct.  Under  the  Illinois
Insurance  Code,  AIC's surplus  following any  transaction  with  affiliates or
dividends, including distributions to its shareholder or other security holders,
must be  reasonable  in relation to AIC's  outstanding  liabilities  and must be
adequate  to meet its  financial  needs.  The  Illinois  Insurance  Code  allows
"extraordinary  dividends"  to be paid after  thirty days notice to the Illinois
Insurance  Department,  unless disapproved or sooner approved during such thirty
day period.  "Extraordinary  dividends"  for these  purposes  are defined as any
dividend or distribution  which together with any other dividend or distribution
made  within  the  preceding  12 months  exceeds  the  greater of (i) 10% of the
insurance  company's  statutory surplus as of the preceding December 31, or (ii)
its statutory  net income for the year ended on the  preceding  December 31. The
maximum amount of dividends  that AIC can  distribute  during 1999 without prior
approval of the Illinois  Department of Insurance is $2.96 billion. If insurance
regulators  determine  that  payment of a dividend  or any other  payments to an
affiliate (such as payments under a tax sharing agreement, payments for employee
or other services, or payments pursuant to a surplus note) would be hazardous to
such insurance  company's  policyholders or creditors,  the regulators may block
such payments that would otherwise be permitted without prior approval.


     HOLDING  COMPANY  REGULATION - The Company and AIC are currently  insurance
holding  companies  subject  to  regulation  throughout  jurisdictions  in which
Allstate's  insurance  subsidiaries  do  business.  Certain  of AIC's and ALIC's
subsidiaries are property-liability and life insurance companies organized under
the respective insurance codes of Arizona, Florida, Illinois, Nebraska, New York
and  Texas.  The  insurance  codes in such  states  contain  similar  provisions
(subject to certain  variations) to the effect that the acquisition or change of
"control"  of a  domestic  insurer  or of any  person  that  controls a domestic
insurer  cannot be  consummated  without  the  prior  approval  of the  relevant
insurance  regulator.  In general,  a presumption  of "control"  arises from the
ownership,  control,  possession with the power to vote or possession of proxies
with respect to 10% or more of the voting securities of a domestic insurer or of
a person that controls a domestic insurer. In Florida,  regulatory approval must
be obtained prior to the acquisition of 5% or more of the voting securities of a
domestic stock insurer or of a controlling  company. In addition,  certain state
insurance laws contain provisions that require  pre-acquisition  notification to
state agencies of a change in control with respect to a  non-domestic  insurance
company admitted in that state. 


hile such  pre-acquisition  notification  statutes  do not  authorize  the state
agency to disapprove the change of control,  such statutes do authorize  certain
remedies, including the issuance of a cease and desist order with respect to the
non-domestic  admitted insurer if certain conditions exist, such as undue market
concentration.  Thus, any  transaction  involving the acquisition of 10% or more
(5% in Florida) of the  Company's  common stock would  generally  require  prior
approval  by the state  insurance  departments  in Arizona,  Florida,  Illinois,
Nebraska, New York and Texas and would require the pre-acquisition  notification
in those states which have adopted  pre-acquisition  notification provisions and
wherein  Allstate's  insurance  subsidiaries are admitted to transact  business.
Such approval  requirements  may deter,  delay or prevent  certain  transactions
affecting the ownership of the Company's common stock.

     RATE   REGULATION  -  Most  states  have   insurance  laws  requiring  that
property-liability   rate  schedules,   policy  or  coverage  forms,  and  other
information be filed with the state's regulatory authority.  In many cases, such
rates and/or  policy forms must be approved  prior to use.  While they vary from
state to state, the objectives of the rating laws are generally the same: a rate
must be adequate, not excessive, and not unfairly discriminatory.

     Property-liability  insurers are generally  unable to effect rate increases
with respect to a coverage until sometime after the costs  associated  with such
coverage  have  increased.  The speed at which an insurer  can  change  rates in
response to the competition or to increasing costs depends,  in part, on whether
the rating laws are administered as (i) prior approval,  (ii)  file-and-use,  or
(iii)  use-and-file  laws. In states having prior  approval laws, a rate must be
approved by the regulator before it may be used by the insurer. In states having
file-and-use  laws,  the  insurer  does  not  have to wait  for the  regulator's
approval to use a rate, but the rate must be filed with the regulatory authority
prior to being used. A use-and-file law requires an insurer to file rates within
a certain period of time after the insurer begins using the rates. Approximately
one half of the states,  including  California and New York, have prior approval
laws.  States such as Florida,  Illinois and Michigan have both use-and-file and
file-and-use laws or regulations, depending upon the line of coverage. Under all
three types of rating systems, the regulator has the authority to disapprove the
rate subsequent to its filing.

     State regulators have broad discretion in judging whether an insurer's rate
or proposed rate is adequate, not excessive and not unfairly discriminatory.  An
insurer's  ability  to  adjust  its  rates  in  response  to  competition  or to
increasing  costs is often  dependent on an insurer's  ability to demonstrate to
the regulator  that its rates or proposed  rates meet the objectives of the rate
making laws. In those states that significantly restrict an insurer's discretion
in selecting the business that it wants to write, an insurer can manage its risk
of loss by charging a price that matches the cost of providing the insurance. In
those states that significantly  restrict an insurer's ability to charge a price
that matches the cost of  providing  the  insurance,  the insurer can manage its
risk of loss by being more  selective in the type of business it writes.  When a
state  significantly  restricts both  underwriting and pricing,  it becomes more
difficult for an insurer to maintain its profitability.

     Changes in Allstate=s claim  settlement  process which may have contributed
to favorable severity trends on closed bodily injury claims since 1995, and to a
slowing of loss  payments and an increase in the number of  outstanding  claims,
will require  Allstate to actuarially  adjust loss  information used in its rate
application process.



     From time to time, the private  passenger auto insurance  industry has come
under pressure from state regulators, legislators and special interest groups to
reduce,  freeze or set rates at levels that do not, in  Allstate=s  management's
view,  correspond  with  underlying  costs.  Some of this activity can result in
legislation  and/or  regulations  which adversely  affect the  profitability  of
Allstate's  auto  insurance  line  of  business  in  various   states.   Adverse
legislative  and  regulatory   activity   constraining   Allstate's  ability  to
adequately price insurance  coverage may occur in the future.  Similar pressures
have been experienced regarding rates for homeowners insurance, as regulators in
catastrophe prone states struggle to identify an acceptable methodology to price
for catastrophe exposure.  The impact of the insurance regulatory environment on
Allstate's results of operations in the future is not predictable.

     SHARED  MARKETS - As a  condition  of its license to do business in various
states,  Allstate is required to  participate  in  mandatory  property-liability
shared  market  mechanisms  or  pooling  arrangements,   which  provide  various
insurance  coverages to  individuals or other entities that otherwise are unable
to purchase such coverage voluntarily provided by private insurers. Underwriting
results  related to these  organizations  have been immaterial to the results of
operations.

     GUARANTY FUNDS - Under state insurance guaranty fund laws, insurers
doing business in a state can be assessed,  up to prescribed limits, for certain
obligations of insolvent  insurance  companies to  policyholders  and claimants.
Allstate's  expenses related to these funds have been  immaterial.  See "Pending
Accounting  Standards" on page C-27 of the Proxy Statement,  incorporated herein
by reference in response to Item 7 hereof.

     INVESTMENT  REGULATION - Allstate is subject to state laws and  regulations
that require diversification of its investment portfolio and limit the amount of
investments in certain investment categories.  Failure to comply with these laws
and  regulations  would  cause  non-conforming  investments  to  be  treated  as
non-admitted  assets for  purposes of measuring  statutory  surplus and, in some
instances,  would  require  divestiture.  As of December  31,  1998,  Allstate's
investment  portfolio  complied with such laws and  regulations  in all material
respects.

     REGULATORY  INITIATIVES  AND  PROPOSED  LEGISLATION  - The state  insurance
regulatory  framework  has during  recent  years come  under  increased  federal
scrutiny,  and certain state  legislatures  have considered or enacted laws that
alter and,  in many  cases,  increase  state  authority  to  regulate  insurance
companies and insurance  holding company  systems.  Further,  the NAIC and state
insurance   regulators   are   re-examining   existing  laws  and   regulations,
specifically  focusing on insurance company investments,  issues relating to the
solvency  of  insurance  companies,  interpretations  of  existing  laws and the
development  of new laws.  Allstate  is unable to predict  whether  any state or
federal  legislation will be enacted to change the nature or scope of regulation
of the insurance industry, or what effect any such legislation would have on the
Company.

         Environmental  pollution  clean-up is the  subject of both  federal and
state  regulation.  By some  estimates,  there are thousands of potential  waste
sites  subject to  clean-up.  The  insurance  industry is involved in  extensive
litigation regarding coverage issues. The Comprehensive  Environmental  Response
Compensation  and  Liability  Act of 1980  ("Superfund")  and  comparable  state
statutes  ("mini-Superfund") 


govern  the  clean-up  and  restoration  by  "Potentially  Responsible  Parties"
("PRP's").  Superfund and the  mini-Superfunds  (Environmental  Clean-up Laws or
"ECLs")  establish a mechanism  to pay for clean-up of waste sites if PRP's fail
to do so,  and to assign  liability  to PRP's.  The  extent of  liability  to be
allocated to a PRP is dependent on a variety of factors.  Further, the number of
waste sites subject to clean-up is unknown.  Very few sites have been subject to
clean-up  to date.  The  extent of  clean-up  necessary  and the  assignment  of
liability has not been established.  The insurance industry, including Allstate,
is disputing many such claims.  Key coverage  issues include  whether  Superfund
response costs are considered  damages under the policies,  trigger of coverage,
applicability  of  pollution  exclusions,  the  potential  for joint and several
liability and definition of an  occurrence.  Similar  coverage  issues exist for
clean-up and waste sites not covered under Superfund.  To date, courts have been
inconsistent in their rulings on these issues.  Allstate's exposure to liability
with  regard  to its  insureds  which  have  been,  or may be,  named as PRPs is
uncertain. See "Discontinued Lines and Coverages", above.

     Superfund reform  proposals have been introduced in Congress,  but none has
been  enacted  at the  date  of  this  filing.  Allstate  will  support  federal
legislation  which  provides  for the  resolution  of Superfund  related  claims
against  insurers at a cost which is fair and affordable to insurers,  and which
fosters  similar state  legislation for hazardous waste cleanup at sites covered
by  state  law  only.  There  can be no  assurance  that  any  Superfund  reform
legislation  will be enacted or that any such  legislation  will  provide  for a
fair,  effective and  cost-efficient  system for settlement of Superfund related
claims.

     New and proposed federal and state  regulation and legislation  would allow
banks greater participation in securities and insurance businesses. Depending on
the form in which these proposals are enacted or promulgated, they could present
an increased  level of  competition  for the sale of Life and Savings  products.
Furthermore,  the market for  deferred  annuities  and  interest-sensitive  life
insurance is enhanced by the tax  incentives  available  under  current law. Any
legislative changes which would lessen these incentives are likely to negatively
impact the demand for these products.

     Enacted and pending state legislation to permit mutual insurance  companies
to convert to a hybrid  structure known as a mutual holding company could have a
number  of  significant  effects  on  the  Company  by (1)  increasing  industry
competition through  consolidation caused by mergers and acquisitions related to
the new corporate form of business,  and (2)  increasing  competition in capital
markets.

GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF INSURANCE

     Allstate,   through  a  variety  of   companies,   is  authorized  to  sell
property-liability  and life  insurance in 50 states,  the District of Columbia,
Puerto Rico and Canada.  To a limited extent, in 1998 Allstate was also engaged,
through  subsidiaries and joint ventures,  in the insurance business in Germany,
Indonesia and the Republic of Korea. In 1999, Allstate expects to sell insurance
in Japan,  Italy and the  Philippines.  The following  tabulation  reflects,  in
percentages,  the principal geographic distribution of statutory premiums earned
for the  Property-Liability  segments  and  statutory  premiums for the Life and
Savings segment for the year ended December 31, 1998:








     No other jurisdiction  accounted for more than 3% of the statutory premiums
for the Property-Liability or Life and Savings segments.

SEASONALITY

     Although  the  insurance  business  generally is not  seasonal,  claims and
claims expense for the Property-Liability insurance operations tend to be higher
for periods of severe or inclement weather.

EMPLOYEES

     At December 31, 1998, Allstate employed approximately 53,000 people.


SERVICE MARKS

     The names  "Allstate" and "Allstate Life," the slant "A" Allstate logo, the
slogan  "You're in Good Hands With Allstate" and the graphic "Good Hands" design
logo which  features  cupped hands  holding an automobile  and a house,  and the
"Northbrook"  logo  design  are  used  extensively  in  Allstate's   businesses.
Allstate's  rights in the United  States to the names  "Allstate"  and "Allstate
Life", the Allstate and Northbrook  logos, the "Good Hands" slogan and the "Good
Hands" symbol  continue so long as Allstate  continues to exercise those rights.
These  service  marks are the subject of numerous  renewable  United  States and
foreign  service mark  registrations.  The Company  believes  that these service
marks are material to the business of Allstate.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     The  statements  contained  in this  Form  10-K  that  are  not  historical
information  are  forward-looking  statements  that are  based  on  management's
estimates, assumptions and projections. The Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995  provides a safe  harbor  under The  Securities  Act of 1933 and The
Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934 for  forward-looking  statements.  In order to
comply  with the terms of the safe  harbor,  Allstate  notes  several  important
factors  that could cause its actual  results  and  experience  with  respect to
forward-looking  statements to differ materially from the anticipated results or
other expectations expressed in Allstate's forward-looking statements:

     1.   Exposure  to  Catastrophe  Losses  -  Allstate  believes  that: 
     o    the   strategies   implemented   by  it  to  manage  its  exposure  to
          catastrophes  have  reduced the  probability  of 


          severe  losses in the future; 
     o    the  implementation  of certain described actions taken in Florida and
          the  Northeast  will  reduce   Allstate's   exposure  to  losses  from
          catastrophes in those areas; 
     o    Allstate's  exposure  to  earthquake  losses  in  California  has been
          significantly reduced as a result of its participation in the CEA (see
          "Catastrophe Exposure and Catastrophe Management," above).

Factors that could cause actual catastrophe losses to be materially greater than
currently  anticipated by Allstate  include that fact that its beliefs are based
in part on the efficacy of the  techniques  and the accuracy of the data used by
Allstate  and  the  CEA  which  are  designed  to  predict  the  probability  of
catastrophes  and the extent of losses to Allstate  and the CEA  resulting  from
catastrophes.  Catastrophic  events may occur in the future which  indicate that
such  techniques  and data do not  accurately  predict  Allstate's  or the CEA's
losses  from  catastrophes,  and the  probability  and extent of such  losses to
Allstate  and the CEA may  differ  materially  from that  which  would have been
predicted by such techniques and data.

2.  ENVIRONMENTAL  AND  ASBESTOS  RISKS -  Allstate  believes  that  changes  to
insurance  policies  have  effectively  limited  its  exposure  to  losses  from
environmental  and asbestos for most  policies  written in 1986 and all policies
written after 1986 ( see  "Discontinued  Lines and Coverages,"  above).  Factors
that could  cause  Allstate  to sustain  materially  greater  losses  from these
policies include the possibility that future judicial decisions could be adverse
to it. That is,  interpretation of provisions in insurance policies is a complex
process,   and  courts  have  reached   different  and  sometimes   inconsistent
conclusions concerning liability under these policies. Consequently,  Allstate's
experience  to date  may  not be an  accurate  predictor  of  future  experience
concerning its possible exposure to losses under these policies.

3. BODILY INJURY SEVERITY TRENDS - The references to favorable  severity trends,
which management  believes may be due in part to lower than anticipated  medical
cost inflation for personal auto injury claims and to improvements in Allstate's
claim settlement  processes (see  "Property-Liability  Claims and Claims Expense
Reserves," above), reflect statistical data for the periods indicated. Such data
for a future  period  or  periods  could  well  indicate  that  severities  have
materially increased in such subsequent period or periods.  Moreover, the recent
favorable trends may be reversed in the future because of the increased costs of
settlements and adverse  judgments in cases which proceed to litigation.  In the
meantime,  however,  the current data of reduced  severities may influence state
insurance  regulators  to deny Allstate  rate  increases  which could reduce the
growth of its revenues.

4. YEAR 2000 ISSUES - Allstate  believes that it will be able to timely  resolve
the Year  2000  issues  affecting  its  computer  operations  and that the costs
incurred  between  the  years  1995-2000  in  resolving  these  issues  will  be
approximately  $125  million (see "Year 2000,"  above).  However,  the extent to
which  the  computer  operations  of  Allstate's  external   counterparties  and
suppliers are adversely  affected could, in turn, affect  Allstate's  ability to
communicate with such  counterparties and suppliers,  could increase the cost of
resolving the Year 2000 issues and could materially affect Allstate's results of
operations in any future period or periods.





Executive Officers

            The  following  tabulation  sets  forth the  names of the  executive
officers of the Company, their current ages, the positions with Allstate held by
them, and the dates of their first election as officers:

                                                                      DATE FIRST
NAME                    AGE     POSITION AND OFFICES HELD        ELECTED OFFICER

Edward M. Liddy*........53   Chairman, President and Chief Executive        1994
                              Officer of the Company and AIC

Richard I. Cohen........54   Senior Vice President of AIC                   1989
                             (PP&C Claim Service Unit)

Joan M. Crockett........48   Senior Vice President
                             of AIC (Human Resources)                       1994

Edward J. Dixon.........55   Senior Vice President of AIC                   1988
                             (PP&C Field Operations)

Robert W. Gary..........60   Senior Vice President of AIC                   1986
                             President, PP&C Unit)

Steven L. Groot.........49   Senior Vice President of AIC                   1988
                             (President, International Unit)

Louis G. Lower, II......53   Chairman, ALIC                                 1982

Michael J. McCabe.......53   Senior Vice President of  AIC                  1980
                             (Marketing and Brand Development)

Ronald D. McNeil........46   Senior Vice President of AIC                   1994
                             (PP&C, Property Operations)

Robert W. Pike..........57   Vice President, Secretary and                  1978
                             General Counsel of the Company;
                             Executive Vice President,
                             Secretary and General Counsel
                             of AIC

Samuel H. Pilch ........52   Controller of the Company; Group               1995
                             Vice President and Controller
                             of AIC

Francis W. Pollard......56   Senior Vice President and                      1984
                             Chief Information Officer
                             of AIC

Casey J. Sylla..........55   Vice President and Acting Chief Financial      1995
                             Officer of the Company; Senior Vice
                             President, Chief Investment Officer and
                             Acting Chief Financial Officer of AIC


Rita P. Wilson..........52   Senior Vice President of AIC                   1988
                            (President, Allstate Indemnity)

Thomas J. Wilson........41   President, ALIC                                1995

         No family relationships exist among the above-named individuals.

___________________
*Also a director of the Company


     Each of the Company and AIC officers named above may be removed from office
at any time, with or without cause, by the Board of Directors of the Company, in
the case of Company positions, and by the Board of Directors of AIC, in the case
of AIC positions.

     With the exception of Messrs.  Liddy, T. Wilson, Sylla and Pilch, the above
officers have held the positions set forth in the above  tabulation for at least
the  last  five  years  or  have  served   Allstate  in  various   executive  or
administrative  capacities  for at least five  years.  Prior to his  election on
January 1, 1999 to the position stated above,  Mr. Liddy served as the Company's
and AIC's  President and Chief  Operating  Officer since August 1994, and before
that as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Sears,  Roebuck and
Co.  since  February  1992.  Prior to his  election  on  January  1, 1999 to the
position  stated  above,  T.  Wilson  served as the  Company's  and AIC's  Chief
Financial  Officer  since  January  1,  1995 and  prior to that as  Sears'  Vice
President, Strategy and Analysis since 1993. Prior to his election on January 1,
1999 to the position stated above, Mr. Sylla was AIC's Senior Vice President and
Chief  Investment  Officer since July 5, 1995.  Before  coming to Allstate,  Mr.
Sylla served as a Senior Vice President for  Northwestern  Mutual Life Insurance
Company  from 1992 to 1995.  Before  his  election  on January  18,  1999 to the
position  stated  above,  Mr. Pilch served as  Controller of the Company and AIC
since 1995,  and prior to that as Vice  President of The  Travelers  Corporation
since 1989.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES 

     Allstate's  home office  complex is located in  Northbrook,  Illinois.  The
complex  consists of 11 building  complexes  providing  approximately  2 million
square feet of office space on a 185 acre site. The Northbrook complex serves as
the headquarters for AIC and ALIC.

     Allstate's field business  operations are conducted  substantially  from 17
major offices located  principally in metropolitan  areas  throughout the United
States and Canada.  Allstate also has  approximately  270 claim service offices,
sales  facilities at  approximately  11,600  locations,  and  approximately  850
automobile  damage  inspection  locations,  most of which are  located  at claim
service offices and sales facilities.

     Allstate's  home  office  complex and most major  offices are owned.  Other
facilities  are  leased,  in  almost  all  cases for terms of not more than five
years.  The Company  believes its  properties  and  facilities  are adequate and
suited to Allstate's current operations.


ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     Various legal and  regulatory  actions are  currently  pending that involve
Allstate and specific aspects of the conduct of its business.  In the opinion of
management,  the ultimate liability, if any, in one or more of these actions, in
excess of amounts  currently  reserved is not expected to have a material effect
on Allstate's  financial  position or results of  operations.  See note 9 to the
Consolidated  Financial  Statements on pages C-52 to C-55 of the Proxy Statement
incorporated herein by reference in response to Item 8 hereof.


ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS


          None


                                     Part II


ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
          STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     There were  184,332  record  holders of the  Company's  common  stock as of
February 18, 1999.  The principal  market for the Company's  common stock is the
New York  Stock  Exchange.  The  Company's  common  stock is also  listed on the
Chicago Stock Exchange. Set forth below are the high and low prices of, and cash
dividends  declared for, the Company's  common stock during 1998 and 1997. Stock
prices and  dividends  have been  adjusted to reflect  the 2-for-1  split of the
Company's common stock in July 1998:




ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA


     Incorporated by reference to "11-Year  Summary of Selected  Financial Data"
on pages C-2 and C-3 of the Proxy Statement.




ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
           CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


     Incorporated by reference to the  "Management's  Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" on pages C-4 to C-29 of the Proxy
Statement.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     Incorporated by reference to the "Market Risk"  discussion on pages C-16 to
C-19 of the Proxy Statement.

ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA


     The consolidated  financial statements of the Company,  including the notes
to  such  statements  on  pages  C-30 to C-65  of the  Proxy  Statement  and the
information  under  "Quarterly  Results" on page C-65 of the Proxy Statement are
incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
           ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

           None

                                    Part III


ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT


     Certain  information  regarding  directors  of the Company is  incorporated
herein by reference  to the  descriptions  under  "Election  of  Directors"  and
"Section  16(a)  Beneficial   Ownership  Reporting   Compliance"  in  the  Proxy
Statement.

     Information  regarding  executive  officers of the Company is  incorporated
herein  by  reference  to Item 1 of this  Report  under the  caption  "Executive
Officers of the Registrant" in Part I hereof.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

           Information  regarding  executive  compensation  is  incorporated  by
reference  to the  material  under the  captions  "Directors'  Compensation  and
Benefits,"  "Executive  Compensation,"  "Stock  Options,"  "Pension  Plans," and
"Employment   Contracts,   Termination  of  Employment   and   Change-in-



Control Arrangements" in the Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT


     Information  regarding  security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  to the  material  under the
headings "Security  Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers" and "Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners" in the Proxy Statement.


ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS


     Information  regarding certain  relationships  and related  transactions is
incorporated  herein by  reference to the  material  under the heading  "Certain
Transactions" in the Proxy Statement.

                                     Part IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON
          FORM 8-K

(a)  1  and  2  An  "Index  to  Financial  Statements  and  Financial  Statement
                Schedules"  has  been filed as a  part of this Report  beginning
                on page S-1 hereof.

(a) 3           Exhibits:

                An"Exhibit  Index" has  been  filed  as a part  of  this  Report
                beginning on page  E-1  hereof  and is  incorporated  herein  by
                reference.

(b)             Reports on Form 8-K:

                None.













                                   SIGNATURES



     Pursuant to the  Requirements of Section 13 of the Securities  Exchange Act
of 1934,  the  Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                                     THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION
                                                          (Registrant)




                                                   S/SAMUEL H. PILCH
                                           By:     Samuel H. Pilch
                                                   Controller
                                                  (Principal Accounting Officer)


                                                     March 26, 1999


     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


SIGNATURE                 TITLE                                             DATE


S/ EDWARD M. LIDDY      Chairman, President and
Edward M. Liddy         Chief Executive Officer          )
                        and a Director                   )
                        (Principal Executive             )
                        Officer)                         )
                                                         )
                                                                  March 26, 1999
S/CASEY J. SYLLA        Vice President and
Casey J. Sylla          Acting Chief Financial           )
                        Officer                          )
                        (Principal Financial             )
                        Officer)                         )


   

SIGNATURE                 TITLE                                             DATE

S/ JAMES G. ANDRESS      Director                        )
James G. Andress

S/WARREN L. BATTS        Director                        )
Warren L. Batts

S/EDWARD A. BRENNAN      Director                        )
Edward A. Brennan

S/ JAMES M. DENNY        Director                        )        March 26, 1999
James M. Denny

S/RONALD T. LEMAY        Director                        )
Ronald T. LeMay

S/MICHAEL A. MILES       Director                        )
Michael A. Miles

S/H. JOHN RILEY, JR.     Director                        )
H. John Riley, Jr.

S/JOSHUA I. SMITH        Director                        )     
Joshua I. Smith






                    THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
                          Year Ended December 31, 1998


The  following  consolidated  financial  statements,  notes  thereto and related
information of The Allstate  Corporation are incorporated herein by reference to
the Company's Proxy Statement.

                                                                           PAGE*
Consolidated Statements of Operations **                                    C-30
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income **                          C-31
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position **                            C-32
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity **                          C-33
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows **                                    C-34
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements**                            C-35
Quarterly Results **                                                        C-65

The following additional financial statement schedules and independent auditors'
report and consent are furnished  herewith  pursuant to the requirements of Form
10-K.


*     Refers to page number in the Company's  Proxy Statement.
**    Incorporated by reference in Item 8 herein.





                                      S-1



                                                         S-2














                    THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                             SCHEDULE II (CONTINUED)
                  CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                    NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION


1. .GENERAL

The financial  statements of the Registrant  should be read in conjunction  with
the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included in The Allstate
Corporation 1999 Proxy Statement.

The long-term and short-term debt and credit lines presented in Note 8 "Debt" on
page C-52 of the 1999 Proxy  Statement,  with the exception of the Floating Rate
Notes, are direct obligations of the Registrant.

To conform  with the 1998  presentation,  certain  amounts  in the prior  years'
financial statements and notes have been reclassified.

2..RECEIVABLE AND PAYABLE TO SUBSIDIARIES

The majority of the proceeds from the issuance of the commercial paper have been
loaned to  subsidiaries  through an  intercompany  loan  agreement  and used for
general purposes.

In 1996,  the Registrant  borrowed $750 million from its subsidiary  trusts at a
weighted-average  interest  rate of  7.92%.  These  borrowings  consist  of $550
million  and  $200  million  of  debentures  which  mature  in  2026  and  2045,
respectively, and are redeemable by the Registrant in whole or in part beginning
in 2001 and 2006,  respectively.  The maturity of the $550 million debenture may
be extended to 2045. The Registrant  recorded $59 million of interest expense in
1998 and 1997, respectively, related to these borrowings.

3..OTHER INCOME

Other income primarily represents income from the settlement of certain employee
benefits of its subsidiaries, mainly profit sharing obligations. The 1997 amount
includes settlements for prior years.

4. GAIN ON DISPOSITION OF OPERATIONS

The  gain on  disposition  of  operations  in 1998  was in  connection  with the
conversion of 6.76%  Automatically  Convertible Equity Securities  ("ACES") into
shares of The PMI Group, Inc. common stock.

5.  SUPPLEMENTAL  DISCLOSURES  OF NON CASH  INVESTING  ACTIVITY  AND  CASH  FLOW
    INFORMATION

The  Registrant  received  dividends  of $707  million and $768  million  from a
subsidiary   in  the  form  of  fixed  income   securities  in  1998  and  1997,
respectively.

The  Registrant  paid $178 million,  $144 million and $87 million of interest on
debt in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

                                      S-6




                                      S-7



                                      


 
  




                                                                          S-9








                                      










                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT




To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
The Allstate Corporation:

We  have  audited  the  consolidated   financial   statements  of  The  Allstate
Corporation  and  subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and for each of
the three  years in the period  ended  December  31,  1998,  and have issued our
report thereon dated February 19, 1999; such consolidated  financial  statements
and report are  included in The  Allstate  Corporation  1999 Proxy  Statement to
Stockholders and are incorporated  herein by reference.  Our audits also include
the financial statement schedules of The Allstate  Corporation and subsidiaries,
listed in the Index at Item 14 (a) 2. These  financial  statement  schedules are
the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express
an  opinion  based on our  audits.  In our  opinion,  such  financial  statement
schedules,  when  considered  in  relation to the basic  consolidated  financial
statements  taken  as a whole,  present  fairly  in all  material  respects  the
information set forth therein.




Deloitte & Touche LLP

Chicago, Illinois
February 19, 1999

















                                      S-11





                                                                      Exhibit 23



                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' CONSENT




We consent to the  incorporation  by reference in  Registration  Statement  Nos.
333-61817 and 333-34583 on Form S-3 and  Registration  Statement Nos.  33-77928,
33-93758,  33-93760,   33-93762,   33-99132,   33-99136,  33-99138,   333-04919,
333-16129,  333-23309,  333-40283,  333-40285  and  333-40289 on Form S-8 of The
Allstate  Corporation  of our reports dated  February 19, 1999,  appearing in or
incorporated  by  reference  in this Annual  Report on Form 10-K of The Allstate
Corporation for the year ended December 31, 1998.





Deloitte & Touche LLP

Chicago, Illinois
March  24, 1999























                                      S-12






                                              
                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

                       The Allstate Corporation Form 10-K
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 1998


      EXHIBIT                                                         SEQUENTIAL
      NO.          DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION                                 PAGE NO.



      3.(a)         Restated  Certificate  of  Incorporation  
                    of The Allstate Corporation as amended 
                    effective August 18, 1995. 
                    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3
                    to the Company's  Quarterly  Report on 
                    Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 
                    September 30, 1995**

                    By-Laws as amended effective June 29,1995.
        3.(b)       Incorporated  by reference to the Company's 
                    Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 
                    1995.

        4.          Registrant  hereby  agrees  to  furnish  
                    to  the Commission,  upon request,  with 
                    the instruments defining  the rights of 
                    holders of each issue of long-term   debt  
                    of  the   Registrant  and  its consolidated 
                    subsidiaries.

      10.1          Master Agreement for Systems
                    Operations Services, dated as
                    of November 30, 1992, between
                    Allstate Insurance Company and
                    Advantis, a New York general
                    partnership.  Incorporated by
                    reference to Exhibit 10.5 to
                    Registration Statement No. 33-59676.

      10.2          Human Resources Allocation Agreement,
                    dated as of May 27, 1993, among Sears,
                    Roebuck and Co., The Allstate Corporation
                    and Allstate Insurance Company.
                    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                    10.14 to Registration Statement
                    No. 33-59676.




                                      E-1



     EXHIBIT                                                         SEQUENTIAL
      NO.          DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION                                 PAGE NO.



      10.3         IPO Related Intercompany Agreement,
                   dated as of May 29, 1993, between The
                   Allstate Corporation and Sears, Roebuck
                   and Co.  Incorporated by reference to
                   Exhibit 10.15 to Registration Statement
                   No. 33-59676.

      10.4         Tax Sharing Agreement dated May 14, 
                   1993 between Sears, Roebuck and Co. 
                   and its subsidiaries.  Incorporated by 
                   reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Amendment
                   No. 3 to Registration Statement No. 
                   33-59676.

      10.5         Separation Agreement dated February 
                   20, 1995 between Sears, Roebuck and 
                   Co. and the Company.  Incorporated by
                   reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
                   Company's Current Report on Form 8-K
                   dated February 22, 1995.**

      10.6         Marketing File Separation Agreement
                   dated February 20, 1995 between Sears,
                   Roebuck and Co. and the Company.
                   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                   10(b) to the Company's Current Report
                   on Form 8-K dated February 22, 1995.**

      10.7         Research Services Agreement dated
                   February 20, 1995 between Sears,
                   Roebuck and Co. and the Company.
                   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                   10(c) to the Company's Current
                   Report on Form 8-K dated February 22,
                   1995.**

      10.8          Supplemental Tax Sharing Agreement
                    dated January 27, 1995 between Sears,
                    Roebuck and Co. and the Company.
                    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                    10(d) to the Company's Current Report
                    on Form 8-K dated February 22, 1995.**

      10.9          Supplemental Human Resources 
                    Allocation Agreement dated January 27, 
                    1995 between  Sears, Roebuck and Co.
                    and the Company.  Incorporated by 
                    reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the 
                    Company's Current Report on Form 8-K
                    dated February 22, 1995.**


                                      E-2

  


     EXHIBIT                                                         SEQUENTIAL
      NO.          DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION                                 PAGE NO.

   
      10.10        Profit Sharing and Employee Stock
                   Ownership Plan Allocation Agreement
                   dated January 27, 1995 between Sears,
                   Roebuck and Co. and the Company.
                   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                   10(f) to the Company's Current Report
                   on Form 8-K dated February 22, 1995.**

      10.11*       Allstate Insurance Company 
                   Supplemental Retirement Income Plan, 
                   as amended and restated effective 
                   January 1, 1996.  Incorporated by 
                   reference to Exhibit 10.11
                   to the Company's Form 10-K report
                   for 1995.**

      10.12*       The Allstate Corporation Deferred
                   Compensation Plan, as amended and
                   restated effective November 11, 1997.
                   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                   to the Company's Form 10-K
                   report for 1997.**

      10.13*      The Allstate Corporation
                  Amended and Restated Deferred
                  Compensation Plan for Non-Employee
                  Directors, as amended and restated
                  as of February 5, 1997. Incorporated
                  by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to the
                  Company's Form 10-K report for 1997.**

      10.14*      The Allstate Corporation Annual
                  Executive Incentive Compensation
                  Plan, as amended and restated as of
                  March 9, 1999.

      10.15*      The Allstate Corporation Long-Term
                  Executive Incentive Compensation
                  Plan, as amended and restated as of
                  March 9, 1999.

      10.16*      The Allstate Corporation Equity
                  Incentive Plan, as amended and
                  restated on November 10, 1998.


      10.17*      Form of stock option under the
                  Equity Incentive Compensation Plan.
                  Incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit 10.18 to the Company's
                  Form 10-K report for 1995.**

                                      E-3


  


     EXHIBIT                                                         SEQUENTIAL
      NO.          DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION                                 PAGE NO.

    10.18*     Form of restricted stock grant
                 under the Equity Incentive Plan.
                 Incorporated by reference to
                 Exhibit 10.18 to the Company's
                 Form 10-K report for 1996.**

      10.19*     The Allstate Corporation Equity
                 Incentive Plan for Non-Employee
                 Directors as amended and restated on
                 November 10, 1998.

      10.20*     The Allstate Corporation Employees
                 Replacement Stock Plan, as amended
                 and restated on November 10, 1998.


      10.21*     Form of stock option under the
                 Replacement Stock Plan.
                 Incorporated by reference to
                 Exhibit 10.21 to the Company=s
                 Form 10-K report for 1995.**


      10.22*     Form of restricted stock grant
                 under the Replacement Stock Plan.
                 Incorporated by reference to
                 Exhibit 10.22 to the Company's
                 Form 10-K for 1995.**


      10.23*      The Allstate Corporation Annual
                  Covered Employee Incentive  
                  Compensation Plan as amended and 
                  restated as of March 9, 1999.

      11          Computation of Earnings per
                  Common Share.

      12          Computation of Earnings to Fixed
                  Charges Ratio.

      21          Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

      23          Independent Auditors' Consent.


                                      E-4



     EXHIBIT                                                         SEQUENTIAL
      NO.          DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION                                 PAGE NO.




      
      27          Financial Data schedule, submitted
                  electronically to the Securities and
                  Exchange Commission for information
                  only and not filed.














































      ------------------
      * A management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
      ** SEC File No. 1-11840

                                      E-5

