Item 1. Business.

Overview

®

®

®

We celebrated our 50thanniversary in 2010, and over our 51-year history, we have developed
a simple business model focused on our core strength of delivering quality pizza and other complementary items in a timely manner. This business model includes a delivery-oriented store design with low capital requirements, a focused menu of pizza
and other complementary items, committed owner-operator franchisees and a vertically-integrated supply chain system. Our earnings are driven largely by retail sales at our franchise stores, which generate royalty payments and supply chain revenues
to us. We also generate earnings through retail sales at our Company-owned stores. Internationally, similar dynamics apply. However, most geographies are granted to a qualified master franchisee, and this master franchisee can utilize three
potential income streams: running corporate stores, sub-franchising and running supply chain centers.

We operate our business in three
segments: domestic stores, domestic supply chain and international.



•Domestic stores.The domestic stores segment, which is comprised of 4,513 franchise stores and 394 Company-owned stores, generated revenues of
$523.4 million and income from operations of $154.8 million during our fiscal year ended January 1, 2012, which we refer to herein as 2011.



•Domestic supply chain.Our domestic supply chain segment, which manufactures our dough and thin crust products, processes vegetables and
distributes food, equipment and supplies to all of our Company-owned stores and over 99% of our domestic franchise stores, generated revenues of $927.9 million and income from operations of $71.8 million during 2011.



•International.Our international segment is comprised of 4,835 franchise stores outside the contiguous United States. It also manufactures dough
and distributes food and supplies in a limited number of these markets. During 2011, our international segment generated revenues of $200.9 million, of which approximately 54% related to franchise royalties and fees, and generated income from
operations of $93.1 million, of which approximately 91% related to franchise royalties and fees.

On a consolidated basis,
we generated revenues of more than $1.6 billion and income from operations (after deducting $60.6 million of unallocated corporate and other expenses) of $259.1 million in 2011. Net income was $105.4 million in 2011. In each of the past three years,
we have been able to increase our net income, grow our global retail sales and in those three years have added nearly 1,000 net stores worldwide. We were able to grow our business with capital expenditures that generally ranged between $20.0 million
to $30.0 million on an annualized basis, as a significant portion of our earnings are derived from retail sales by our franchisees.

Our
history

We have been delivering quality, affordable pizza to our customers since 1960 when brothers Thomas and James
Monaghan borrowed $900 and purchased a small pizza store in Ypsilanti, Michigan. Since that time, our store count and geographic reach have grown substantially. We opened our first franchise store in 1967 and our first international store in 1983.
During 2010, we opened our 9,000thstore worldwide and as
of January 1, 2012, we had 9,742 stores worldwide. We celebrated the Company’s 50thanniversary on December 9, 2010.







In 1998, an investor group led by investment funds associated with Bain Capital, LLC completed a
recapitalization through which the investor group acquired a 93% controlling economic interest in our Company from Thomas Monaghan and his family. In 2004, Domino’s Pizza, Inc. completed its initial public offering (the “IPO”) and now
trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “DPZ.” In connection with the IPO, on May 11, 2004, we reincorporated in Delaware. Prior to that, TISM, Inc., the then parent company of the Domino’s Pizza business, was a
Michigan corporation, which operated through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Domino’s Pizza LLC, a Michigan limited liability company.

During 2007, the Company completed a recapitalization transaction (the “2007 Recapitalization”), primarily consisting of, (i) the issuance
of $1.7 billion of borrowings of fixed rate notes, (ii) the purchase and retirement of all outstanding senior subordinated notes, (iii) the repayment of all outstanding borrowings under its senior credit facility, and (iv) the payment
of a special cash dividend to shareholders and related anti-dilution payments and adjustments to certain stock option holders.

Industry
overview

In this document, we rely on and refer to information regarding the U.S. quick service restaurant, or QSR,
sector, the U.S. QSR pizza category and its components and competitors (including us) from the CREST®report prepared by The NPD Group, as well as market research reports, analyst reports and other publicly-available information. Although we believe this information to be reliable, we have not independently verified it. Domestic sales information
relating to the QSR sector, U.S. QSR pizza category and U.S. pizza delivery and carry-out represent reported consumer spending obtained by The NPD Group’s CREST®report from consumer surveys. This information relates to both our Company-owned and franchise stores. Unless otherwise indicated, all U.S. industry data included
in this document is based on reported consumer spending obtained by The NPD Group’s CREST®report
from consumer surveys.

The U.S. QSR pizza category is large and fragmented. With sales of $32.4 billion in the twelve months ended
November 2011, it is the second largest category within the $238.9 billion U.S. QSR sector. The U.S. QSR pizza category is primarily comprised of delivery, dine-in and carry-out.

We operate primarily within the U.S. pizza delivery component. Its $9.8 billion of sales accounted for approximately 30% of total U.S. QSR pizza category sales in the twelve months ended November 2011. We
and our top two competitors account for approximately 51% of U.S. pizza delivery, based on reported consumer spending, with the remaining 49% attributable to regional chains and individual establishments.

We also compete in the growing carry-out component, which, together with pizza delivery, comprise the largest components of the U.S. QSR pizza category.
U.S. carry-out pizza had $14.3 billion of sales in the twelve months ended November 2011 and while our primary focus is on pizza delivery, we are also favorably positioned to compete in carry-out given our strong brand, convenient store locations
and quality, affordable menu offerings.

In contrast to the United States, international pizza delivery is relatively underdeveloped, with
only Domino’s and one other competitor having a significant global presence. We believe that demand for international pizza and pizza delivery is large and growing, driven by international consumers’ increasing emphasis on convenience, and
the proven success of our 28 years of conducting business abroad.

Our competitive strengths

We believe that our competitive strengths include the following:



•Strong and proven growth and earnings model.Over our 51-year history, we have developed a focused growth and earnings model. This model
is anchored by strong store-level economics, which provide an entrepreneurial incentive for our franchisees and generate demand for new stores. Our franchise system, in turn, has produced strong and consistent earnings for us through royalty fees
and through supply chain revenues, with minimal associated capital expenditures by us.







•Strong store-level economics.We have developed a cost-efficient store model, characterized by a delivery and carry-out oriented
store design, with low capital requirements and a focused menu of quality, affordable pizza and other complementary items. At the store level, we believe that the simplicity and efficiency of our operations give us significant advantages over our
competitors, who, in many cases, also focus on dine-in. Our domestic stores, and the vast majority of our international stores, do not offer extensive dine-in areas and thus do not require expensive restaurant facilities and staffing. In addition,
our focused menu simplifies and streamlines our production and delivery processes and maximizes economies of scale on purchases of our principal ingredients. As a result of our focused business model and menu, our stores are small (generally up to
1,500 square feet) and relatively inexpensive to build, furnish and maintain as compared to many other QSR franchise opportunities. The combination of this efficient store model and strong store sales volume has resulted in strong store-level
financial returns and makes Domino’s Pizza an attractive business opportunity for existing and prospective franchisees.



•Strong and well-diversified franchise system.We have developed a large, global, diversified and committed franchise network that
is a critical component of our system-wide success and our leading position in pizza delivery. As of January 1, 2012, our franchise store network consisted of 9,348 stores, 48% of which were located in the contiguous United States. In the
United States, nine franchisees operate more than 50 stores, including our largest domestic franchisee who operates 136 stores. Our domestic franchisees own and operate an average of four stores. We generally require our domestic franchisees to
forego active, outside business endeavors, aligning their interests with ours and making the success of each Domino’s Pizza store of critical importance to our franchisees.

In addition, we generally share 50% (or a higher percentage in the case of Company-owned stores and certain franchisees who operate a
larger number of stores) of the pre-tax profits generated by our regional dough manufacturing and supply chain centers with those domestic franchisees who agree to purchase all of their food from our supply chain system. These arrangements
strengthen our ties with our franchisees by enhancing their profitability, while providing us with a continuing source of revenues and earnings. This arrangement also provides incentives for franchisees to work closely with us to reduce costs. We
believe our strong, mutually-beneficial franchisee relationships are evidenced by the over 99% voluntary participation in our domestic supply chain system, our over 99% domestic franchise contract renewal rate and our over 99% collection rate on
domestic franchise royalty and domestic supply chain receivables.

Internationally, we have been able to
grow our franchise network by attracting franchisees with business experience and local market knowledge. We generally employ our master franchise model, which provides our international franchisees with exclusive rights to operate stores and
sub-franchise our well-recognized Domino’s Pizza®brand name in specific, agreed-upon market areas, as well
as operate their own supply chain systems. From year-end 2006 through 2011, we grew our international franchise network 50%, from 3,223 stores to 4,835 stores. Our largest master franchisee operates 861 stores in five markets, which accounts for
approximately 18% of our total international store count. During 2011, we had 413 net international store openings, including 75 net stores in India, 58 net stores in Turkey and 54 net stores in the United Kingdom.



•Strong cash flow and earnings stream.A substantial percentage of our earnings are generated by our committed, owner-operator
franchisees through royalty payments and revenues to our vertically-integrated supply chain system.

We believe that our store economics have led to a strong, well-diversified franchise system. This established franchise system has produced strong cash flow and earnings for us, which has enabled us to
invest in the Domino’s Pizza®brand, our stores, our technology and our supply chain centers, pay
significant dividends, repurchase shares of our common stock, repurchase and retire outstanding principal on our fixed rate notes and deliver attractive returns to our stockholders.



•#1 pizza delivery company in the United States with a leading international presence.We are the number one pizza delivery company
in the United States with a 22.6% share based on reported consumer spending. With 4,907 stores located in the contiguous United States, our domestic store delivery areas cover a majority of U.S. households. Our share position and scale allow us to
leverage our purchasing power, supply chain strength and advertising investment across our store base. We also believe that our scale and market coverage allow us to effectively serve our customers’ demands for convenience and timely delivery.

Outside the United States, we have significant market share positions in the key markets in which we
compete, including the United Kingdom, Mexico, Australia, India, South Korea, Canada, Turkey, Japan, France and Taiwan. Our top ten international markets, based on store count, accounted for approximately 76% of our international retail sales in
2011. We believe we have a strong presence in each of these markets.







•Strong brand awareness.We believe our Domino’s Pizza®brand is one of the most widely-recognized consumer brands in the world. We believe consumers associate our brand with the timely delivery of quality, affordable
pizza and other complementary items. Over the past five years, our domestic franchise and Company-owned stores have invested an estimated $1.4 billion on national, local and co-operative advertising in the United States. Additionally, we estimate
that our international franchisees commit significant dollars in advertising efforts in their markets. Our Domino’s
Pizza®brand is routinely named a MegaBrand byAdvertising Age. We continue to reinforce our brand with
extensive advertising through television, radio, print and web-based promotions. We have also enhanced the strength of our brand through marketing affiliations with brands such as Coca-Cola®.

We believe that our
brand is particularly strong among pizza consumers for whom a meal is a fairly spontaneous event. In these situations, we believe that service and product quality are the consumers’ priorities. We believe that well established demographic and
lifestyle trends will drive continuing emphasis on convenience and will, therefore, continue to play into our brand’s strength.



•Internal dough manufacturing and supply chain system.In addition to generating significant revenues and earnings, primarily in the
United States, we believe that our vertically integrated dough manufacturing and supply chain system enhances the quality and consistency of our products, enhances our relationships with franchisees, leverages economies of scale to offer lower costs
to our stores and allows our store managers to better focus on store operations and customer service by relieving them of the responsibility of mixing dough in the stores and sourcing other ingredients.

In 2011, we made approximately 515,000 full-service food deliveries to our domestic stores, or approximately two deliveries per store, per
week, with an on-time delivery performance rate of approximately 94%. All of our Company-owned and over 99% of our domestic franchise stores purchase all of their food and supplies from us. This is accomplished through our network of 16 regional
dough manufacturing and supply chain centers, each of which is generally located within a one-day delivery radius of the stores it serves, and a leased fleet of over 400 tractors and trailers. Additionally, we supply our domestic and international
franchisees with equipment and supplies through our equipment and supply center, which we operate as part of our domestic supply chain segment, offering a full range of non-food products, from ovens to uniforms. We also supply certain of our
domestic stores with ingredients that are processed at our vegetable processing center and thin crust product that is manufactured at our thin crust manufacturing center, both of which we operate as part of our domestic supply chain segment.

Because we source the food for substantially all of our domestic stores, our domestic supply chain segment enables us to
leverage and monitor our strong supplier relationships to achieve the cost benefits of scale and to ensure compliance with our rigorous quality standards. In addition, the “one-stop shop” nature of this system, combined with our delivery
accuracy, allows our store managers to eliminate a significant component of the typical “back-of-store” activity that many of our competitors’ store managers must undertake. Additionally, we operate six supply chain centers that
service certain of our international franchise markets.

Our business strategy

We intend to achieve further growth and strengthen our competitive position through the continued implementation of our business strategy, which includes the following key elements:



•Continue to execute on our mission statement.Our mission statement is “Exceptional franchisees and team members on a mission to be
the best pizza delivery company in the world.” We implement this mission statement by following a business strategy that:



•puts franchisees and Company-owned stores at the foundation of all our thinking and decisions;



•emphasizes our ability to select, develop and retain exceptional team members and franchisees;



•provides a strong infrastructure to support our stores; and



•builds excellent store operations to create loyal customers.

We adhere to the following guiding principles, which are based on the concept of one united brand, system and team:



•putting people first;



•demanding integrity;



•striving to make every customer a loyal customer;



•delivering with smart hustle and positive energy; and



•winning by improving results every day.







•Grow our leading position in an attractive industry.U.S. pizza delivery and carry-out are the largest components of the U.S. QSR pizza
category. They are also highly fragmented. Pizza delivery, through which a majority of our retail sales are generated, had sales of $9.8 billion in the twelve months ended November 2011. As the leader in U.S. pizza delivery, we believe that our
convenient store locations, simple operating model, widely-recognized brand and efficient supply chain system are competitive advantages that position us to capitalize on future growth.

The carry-out component had $14.3 billion of sales in the twelve months ended November 2011. While our primary focus is on pizza delivery,
we are also favorably positioned as a leader in the growing carry-out component given our strong brand, convenient store locations and quality, affordable menu offerings.



•Leverage our strong brand awareness.We believe that the strength of our Domino’s Pizza®brand makes us one of the first choices of consumers seeking a convenient, quality and affordable meal. We intend to
continue to promote our brand name and enhance our reputation as the leader in pizza delivery. In 2009, in connection with the launch of our improved pizza recipe, we launched the campaign, “Oh Yes We Did.” The launch of the new pizza and
this campaign received significant attention in the news media, social networking internet sites and other media outlets and we experienced positive same store sales growth in our domestic stores throughout 2010 and 2011.

In 2008, each domestic store contributed 4% of its retail sales to support national advertising in addition
to contributions for market-level advertising. In 2009, domestic stores within active advertising co-operatives elected to allocate an additional 1% of their advertising contributions to support national advertising initiatives, which resulted in
each domestic store contributing 5% of its retail sales to support national advertising as stores within inactive advertising co-operatives were already contributing 5% of its retail sales to support national advertising. Also in 2009, all domestic
franchisees amended their standard franchise agreements to require a contribution of 5.5% (subject, in limited instances, to lower rates based on certain incentives and waivers) of their retail sales for national advertising and to eliminate the
required market-level contributions. We currently anticipate this 5.5% contribution rate, which took effect in 2010 and continued throughout 2011, to remain in place for the foreseeable future.

We intend to leverage our strong brand by continuing to introduce innovative, consumer-tested and profitable new
product varieties (such as Artisan pizzas, Oven Baked Sandwiches, Domino’s American Legends®pizzas and
BreadBowl Pasta™), complementary side items (such as our new Stuffed Cheesy Bread, boneless chicken and wings, Cinna
Stix®and Chocolate Lava Crunch Cakes) and value promotions, as well as through marketing affiliations with
brands such as Coca-Cola®. Additionally, we may from time-to-time partner with other organizations in an effort
to promote the Domino’s Pizza®brand. We believe these opportunities, when coupled with our scale and share
leadership, will allow us to grow our position in U.S. pizza delivery.



•Expand global store base.We plan to expand our base of domestic stores to take advantage of the attractive growth opportunities in U.S.
pizza delivery. We believe that our scale will allow us to expand our store base with limited marketing, distribution and other incremental infrastructure costs. Additionally, our franchise-oriented business model will allow us to expand our store
base with limited capital expenditures and working capital requirements. While we plan to expand our traditional domestic store base primarily through opening new franchise stores, we will also continually evaluate our mix of Company-owned and
franchise stores, strategically acquire franchise stores and refranchise Company-owned stores.

We believe that pizza has global appeal and that there is strong and growing international demand for delivered pizza. We have successfully built a broad international platform, primarily through our
master franchise model, as evidenced by our 4,835 international stores in more than 70 international markets. We believe that we continue to have significant long-term growth opportunities in international markets where we have established a leading
presence. In our top ten international markets, we believe that our current store base is approximately half of the total long-term potential store base in those markets. Generally, we believe we will achieve long-term growth internationally as a
result of the favorable store-level economics of our business model, the growing international demand for pizza and delivered pizza and the strong global recognition of the Domino’s Pizza®brand. Our international stores have produced positive quarterly same store sales growth for 72 consecutive quarters. Additionally, during 2011, we had 413 net
international store openings, including 75 net stores in India, 58 net stores in Turkey and 54 net stores in the United Kingdom.







Store operations

We believe that our focused and proven store model provides a significant competitive advantage relative to many of our competitors who focus on multiple components of the pizza category, particularly
dine-in. We have been focused primarily on pizza delivery for over 50 years. Because our domestic stores and most of our international stores do not offer extensive dine-in areas, they typically do not require expensive real estate, are relatively
small and are relatively inexpensive to build and equip. Our stores also benefit from lower maintenance costs, as store assets have long lives and updates are not frequently required. Our simple and efficient operational processes, which we have
refined through continuous improvement, include:



•strategic store locations to facilitate delivery service;



•production-oriented store designs;



•product and process innovations;



•a focused menu;



•efficient order taking, production and delivery;



•Domino’s PULSE™ point-of-sale system; and



•a comprehensive store operations evaluation program.

Strategic store locations to facilitate delivery service

We locate our stores
strategically to facilitate timely delivery service to our customers. The majority of our domestic stores are located in populated areas in or adjacent to large or mid-size cities, or on or near college campuses. We use geographic information
software, which incorporates variables such as traffic volumes, competitor locations, household demographics and visibility, to evaluate and identify potential store locations and new markets.

Production-oriented store designs

Our typical store is relatively small, occupying generally up to 1,500 square feet and is designed with a focus on efficient and timely production of
consistently high quality food for delivery. The store layout has been refined over time to provide an efficient flow from order-taking to delivery. Our stores are primarily production facilities and accordingly, do not typically have an extensive
dine-in area.

Product and process innovations

Our over 50 years of experience and innovative culture have resulted in numerous new product and process developments that increase both quality and efficiency. These include our efficient,
vertically-integrated supply chain system, a sturdier corrugated pizza box and a mesh screen that helped cook pizza crust more evenly. The Domino’s HeatWave®hot bag keeps our pizzas hot during delivery. We also continue to introduce new products such as Domino’s Oven Baked Sandwiches, launched in 2008; Domino’s
American Legends®pizzas and Domino’s BreadBowl Pasta™, both launched in 2009; and improved new
boneless chicken and wings, Domino’s Artisan pizzas and Stuffed Cheesy Bread, each launched in 2011. Additionally, we have added a number of complementary side items to our menu such as bread sticks, Cinna Stix®and Chocolate Lava Crunch Cakes. In 2009, we introduced our improved pizza recipe, which was a change to our core
pizza recipe.

Focused menu

We maintain a focused menu that is designed to present an attractive, quality offering to customers, while minimizing order errors, and expediting the order taking and food preparation processes. Our
basic menu has three choices for pizza products: pizza type, pizza size and pizza toppings. Most of our stores carry two or three sizes of Traditional Hand-Tossed, Pan, Brooklyn Style and Crunchy Thin Crust pizza. Our typical store also offers
Domino’s Artisan pizzas, Domino’s American Legends®pizzas, Domino’s Oven Baked Sandwiches,
Domino’s Bread Bowl Pasta™, boneless chicken and wings, bread sticks, Cinna Stix®, Chocolate Lava
Crunch Cakes, new Stuffed Cheesy Bread and Coca-Cola®soft drink products. We also occasionally offer other
products on a promotional or a regional basis, such as salads. We believe that our focused menu creates a strong identity among consumers, improves operating efficiency and maintains food quality and consistency.







Efficient order taking, production and delivery

Each store executes an operational process that includes order taking, pizza preparation, cooking (via automated, conveyor-driven ovens), boxing and
delivery. The entire order taking and pizza production process is designed for completion in approximately 12-15 minutes. These operational processes are supplemented by an extensive employee training program designed to ensure world-class quality
and customer service. It is our priority to ensure that every Domino’s store operates in an efficient, consistent manner while maintaining our high standards of food quality and team member safety.

Domino’s PULSE™ point-of-sale system

Our computerized management information systems are designed to improve operating efficiencies, provide corporate management with timely access to financial and marketing data and reduce store and
corporate administrative time and expense. We have installed Domino’s PULSE™, our proprietary point-of-sale system, in every Company-owned store in the United States and in more than 98% of our domestic franchise stores and in a growing
portion of the international stores. Domino’s PULSE™ features include:



•touch screen ordering, which ensures accuracy and facilitates more efficient order taking;



•a delivery driver routing system, which ensures delivery efficiency;



•administrative and reporting capabilities, which enable store managers to better focus on store operations and customer satisfaction; and



•state-of-the-art online ordering capability, including Pizza Tracker and Pizza Builder.

We require our domestic franchisees to install and maintain Domino’s PULSE™. Additionally, Domino’s PULSE™has been installed in over 2,000 international franchise stores.
Management believes that utilizing Domino’s PULSE™ throughout our domestic system, and a growing portion of our global system, provides us with competitive advantages over other point-of-sales systems, including:



•consistent execution and communication of operational best practices in our stores;



•real-time dissemination of data with field management, which enables efficient and informed decision making;



•data collection capability, which provides senior management insight into store operations;



•innovation sharing throughout the system, which allows all users to be more efficient and profitable; and



•electronic dissemination of materials and information to our stores, which reduces training and operating costs.

Since the rollout of Domino’s PULSE™to our domestic stores, our online ordering transactions have grown. Currently, on average, almost one-third of
our domestic stores’ sales originate online. In 2010, we made the strategic decision to develop our own online ordering platform and manage this important and growing area of our business internally. In 2011, we launched a new mobile
application for the iPhone and iPod touch to provide further convenience for our customers when ordering online. We intend to continue to enhance and grow our online ordering capabilities.

Comprehensive store operations evaluation program

We utilize a comprehensive
evaluation program to ensure that our stores are meeting both our stringent standards as well as the expectations of our customers. The program focuses primarily on the quality of the pizza the store is producing, the customer service the store is
providing and the condition of the store as viewed by the customer. We believe that this program is an integral part of our strategy to maintain high standards in our stores.

Segment overview

We operate in three business segments:



•Domestic stores.Our domestic stores segment consists of our domestic franchise operations, which oversees a network of 4,513 franchise stores
located in the contiguous United States, and our domestic Company-owned store operations, which operates a network of 394 Company-owned stores located in the contiguous United States;



•Domestic supply chain.Our domestic supply chain segment operates 16 regional dough manufacturing and food supply chain centers, one thin crust
manufacturing center, one supply chain center providing equipment and supplies to certain of our domestic and international stores and one vegetable processing center; and



•International.Our international segment is comprised of our network of 4,835 international franchise stores in more than 70 international
markets. Our international segment also distributes food to a limited number of markets from six dough manufacturing and supply chain centers in Canada (four), Alaska and Hawaii.







Domestic stores

During 2011, our domestic stores segment accounted for $523.4 million, or nearly 32% of our consolidated revenues. Our domestic franchises are operated by entrepreneurs who own and operate an average of
four stores. Nine of our domestic franchisees operate more than 50 stores, including our largest domestic franchisee who operates 136 stores. Our principal sources of revenues from domestic store operations are Company-owned store sales and royalty
payments based on retail sales by our franchisees. Our domestic network of Company-owned stores also plays an important strategic role in our predominantly franchised operating structure. In addition to generating revenues and earnings, we use our
domestic Company-owned stores as test sites for new products and promotions as well as store operational improvements and as forums for training new store managers and prospective franchisees. We also believe that our domestic Company-owned stores
add to the economies of scale available for advertising, marketing and other costs that are primarily borne by our franchisees. While we continue to be primarily a franchised business, we continually evaluate our mix of domestic Company-owned and
franchise stores in an effort to optimize our long-term profitability.

Our domestic Company-owned store operations are divided into ten
geographic areas located throughout the contiguous United States while our domestic franchise operations are divided into four regions. Our team members within these areas provide direct supervision over our domestic Company-owned stores; provide
training, store operational audits and marketing services and provide financial analysis and store development services to our franchisees. We maintain a close relationship with our franchise stores through regional franchise teams, an array of
computer-based training materials that help franchise stores comply with our standards and franchise advisory groups that facilitate communications between us and our franchisees.

Domestic supply chain

During 2011, our domestic supply chain segment accounted for
$927.9 million, or 56% of our consolidated revenues. Our domestic supply chain segment is comprised primarily of 16 regional dough manufacturing and supply chain centers that manufacture fresh dough on a daily basis and purchase, receive, store and
deliver quality pizza-related food products and other complementary items to all of our Company-owned stores and over 99% of our domestic franchise stores. Each regional dough manufacturing and supply chain center serves approximately 300 stores,
generally located within a one-day delivery radius. We regularly supply nearly 5,000 stores with various supplies and ingredients, of which, nine product groups account for over 90% of the volume. Our domestic supply chain segment made approximately
515,000 full-service deliveries in 2011 or approximately two deliveries per store, per week; and we produced over 304 million pounds of dough during 2011.

We believe that our franchisees voluntarily choose to obtain food, supplies and equipment from us because we provide the most efficient, convenient and cost-effective alternative, while also providing
both quality and consistency. In addition, our domestic supply chain segment offers a profit-sharing arrangement to stores that purchase all of their food from our domestic dough manufacturing and supply chain centers. This profit-sharing
arrangement generally provides domestic Company-owned stores and participating franchisees with 50% (or a higher percentage in the case of Company-owned stores and certain franchisees who operate a larger number of stores) of their regional supply
chain center’s pre-tax profits. Profits are shared with the franchisees based upon each franchisee’s purchases from our supply chain centers. We believe these arrangements strengthen our ties with these franchisees.

The information systems used by our domestic dough manufacturing and supply chain centers are an integral part of the quality service we provide our
stores. We use routing strategies and software to optimize our daily delivery schedules, which maximizes on-time deliveries. Through our strategic dough manufacturing and supply chain center locations and proven routing systems, we achieved an
on-time delivery performance rate of over 94% during 2011. Our supply chain center drivers unload food and supplies and stock store shelves typically during non-peak store hours, which minimize disruptions in store operations.

International

During 2011, our
international segment accounted for $200.9 million, or 12% of our consolidated revenues. At January 1, 2012, we had 4,835 international franchise stores. The principal sources of revenues from our international operations are royalty payments
generated by retail sales from franchise stores and sales of food and supplies to franchisees in certain markets.







We have grown by more than 1,600 international stores over the past five years. During 2011, we had 413 net
international store openings, including 75 net stores in India, 58 net stores in Turkey and 54 net stores in the United Kingdom. Our international franchisees adapt our standard operating model, within certain parameters, to satisfy the local eating
habits and consumer preferences of various regions outside the United States. Currently, most of our international stores are operated under master franchise agreements, and we plan to continue entering into master franchise agreements with
qualified franchisees to expand our international operations in selected countries. We believe that our international franchise stores appeal to potential franchisees because of our well-recognized brand name, the limited capital expenditures
required to open and operate our stores and our system’s favorable store economics. While we had a significant presence in our top ten international markets, we believe that these markets contain opportunities for additional growth of the
Domino’s brand. The following table shows our store count as of January 1, 2012 in our top ten international markets, which account for approximately 75% of our international stores.



MarketNumberof storesUnited Kingdom670Mexico577Australia450India439South Korea358Canada354Turkey220Japan205France195Taiwan141

Our domestic franchise program

As of January 1, 2012, our 4,513 domestic franchise stores were owned and operated by our 1,077 domestic franchisees. The success of our franchise formula, which enables franchisees to benefit from
our brand name with a relatively low initial capital investment, has attracted a large number of motivated entrepreneurs as franchisees. As of January 1, 2012, the average domestic franchisee owned and operated four stores and had been in our
franchise system for over fourteen years. At the same time, nine of our domestic franchisees operated more than 50 stores, including our largest domestic franchisee who operates 136 stores.

Franchisees

We apply rigorous standards to prospective franchisees. We generally
require prospective domestic franchisees to manage a store for at least one year before being granted a franchise. This enables us to observe the operational and financial performance of a potential franchisee prior to entering into a long-term
contract. We also generally restrict the ability of domestic franchisees to be involved in other businesses, which focuses our franchisees’ attention on operating their stores. As a result, the vast majority of our domestic franchisees have
historically come from within the Domino’s Pizza system. We believe these standards are largely unique to the franchise industry and result in qualified and focused franchisees operating their stores.

Franchise agreements

We enter
into franchise agreements with domestic franchisees under which the franchisee is granted the right to operate a store in a particular location for a term of ten years, with options to renew for an additional term of ten years. We currently have a
franchise contract renewal rate of over 99%. Under the current standard franchise agreement, we assign an exclusive area of primary responsibility to each franchise store. During the term of the franchise agreement, the franchisee is required to pay
a 5.5% royalty fee on sales, subject, in limited instances, to lower rates based on area development agreements, sales initiatives and new store incentives. We have the contractual right, subject to state law, to terminate a franchise agreement for
a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, a franchisee’s failure to make required payments when due or failure to adhere to specified Company policies and standards.

Franchise store development

We provide domestic franchisees with assistance in
selecting store sites and conforming the space to the physical specifications required for a Domino’s Pizza store. Each domestic franchisee selects the location and design for each store, subject to our approval, based on accessibility and
visibility of the site and demographic factors, including population density and anticipated traffic levels. We also sell fixtures and equipment to most of our franchise stores.







Our international franchise program

Franchisees

The vast majority of our markets outside of the contiguous United
States are operated by master franchisees with franchise and distribution rights for entire regions or countries; in a few select regions or countries, we franchise directly to individual store operators. Prospective master franchisees are required
to possess or have access to local market knowledge required to establish and develop Domino’s Pizza stores. The local market knowledge focuses on the ability to identify and access targeted real estate sites along with expertise in local
customs, culture, consumer behavior and laws. We also seek candidates that have access to sufficient capital to meet growth and development plans.

Master franchise agreements

Our master franchise agreements generally grant the
franchisee exclusive rights to develop or sub-franchise stores and the right to operate supply chain centers in a particular geographic area for a term of 10 to 20 years, with options to renew for additional terms. The agreements typically contain
growth clauses requiring franchisees to open a minimum number of stores within a specified period. The master franchisee is generally required to pay an initial, one-time franchise fee as well as an additional franchise fee upon the opening of each
new store. In addition, the master franchisee is required to pay a continuing royalty fee as a percentage of retail sales, which varies among international markets, and averaged approximately 3.0% in 2011.

Franchise training and support

Training
store managers and employees is a critical component of our success. We require all domestic franchisees to complete initial and ongoing training programs provided by us. In addition, under the standard domestic franchise agreement, domestic
franchisees are required to implement training programs for their store employees. We assist our domestic and international franchisees by making training materials available to them for their use in training store managers and employees, including
computer-based training materials, comprehensive operations manuals and franchise development classes. We also maintain communications with our franchisees online through various newsletters, electronic communications and through face-to-face
meetings.

Franchise operations

We enforce stringent standards over franchise operations to protect the Domino’s Pizza®brand. All franchisees are required to operate their stores in compliance with written policies, standards and specifications, which include matters such as menu
items, ingredients, materials, supplies, services, furnishings, decor and signs. Each franchisee has discretion to determine the prices to be charged to customers. We also provide ongoing support to our franchisees, including training, marketing
assistance and consultation to franchisees who experience financial or operational difficulties. We have established several advisory boards, through which franchisees contribute to developing system-wide initiatives.

Marketing operations

®

®







By communicating a common brand message at the national, local market and store levels, we create and
reinforce a powerful, consistent marketing message to consumers. This is evidenced by our successful marketing campaign with the slogan “Oh Yes We Did.” Since introducing our improved pizza recipe and this new marketing campaign in the
fourth quarter of 2009, we have received significant attention in the news media, social networking internet sites and other media outlets, and have experienced positive same store sales growth in our domestic stores. Additionally in May 2011,Pizza Today, the leading publication of the pizza industry, named Domino’s its “Chain of the Year” for the second straight year – making the Company a three-time overall winner of the honor, and the first pizza delivery
company to receive the honor in back-to-back years. Over the past five years, we estimate that domestic stores have invested approximately $1.4 billion on national, local and co-operative advertising in the United States.

Internationally, marketing efforts are the responsibility of the franchisee in each local market. We assist international franchisees with their
marketing efforts through marketing workshops and knowledge sharing of best practices and successful concepts.

Third-party suppliers

We have maintained active relationships of 20 years or more with more than half of our major third-party suppliers. Our third-party
suppliers are required to meet strict quality standards to ensure food safety. We review and evaluate our third-party suppliers’ quality assurance programs through, among other actions, on-site visits, third party audits and product evaluations
to ensure compliance with our standards. We believe that the length and quality of our relationships with third-party suppliers provides us with priority service and quality products at competitive prices.

We believe that two factors have been critical to maintaining long-lasting relationships and keeping our purchasing costs low. First, we are one of the
largest domestic volume purchasers of pizza-related products such as flour, cheese, sauce and pizza boxes, which allows us to maximize leverage with our third-party suppliers when items are put out for bid on a scheduled basis. Second, we use a
combination of single-source and multi-source procurement strategies. Each supply category is evaluated along a number of criteria including value of purchasing leverage, consistency of quality and reliability of supply to determine the appropriate
number of third-party suppliers.

We currently purchase our pizza cheese from a single supplier. Under the arrangement with this supplier, the
supplier agreed to provide an uninterrupted supply of cheese and the Company agreed to a five-year pricing period during which it agreed to purchase all of its primary pizza cheese for the Company’s domestic stores from this supplier or,
alternatively, pay to the supplier an amount reflecting any benefit previously received by the Company under the new pricing terms. The pricing schedule is directly correlated to the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) block cheddar price. The
majority of our meat toppings come from a single supplier under a contract that began in November 2010 and expires in October 2013. We have the right to terminate these arrangements for quality failures and for uncured breaches.

We believe that alternative third-party suppliers for all of these ingredients are available, and all of our pizza boxes, sauces and
other ingredients are sourced from various third-party suppliers. While we may incur additional costs if we are required to replace any of our third-party suppliers, we do not believe that such additional costs would have a material adverse effect
on our business. We also entered into a multi-year agreement with Coca-Cola effective January 1, 2003 for the contiguous United States. The contract provides for Coca-Cola to be our exclusive beverage supplier and expires at such time as a
minimum number of cases of Coca-Cola®products are purchased by us. We continually evaluate each supply category
to determine the optimal sourcing strategy.

We have not experienced any significant shortages of supplies or any delays in receiving our food
or beverage inventories, restaurant supplies or products. Prices charged to us by our third-party suppliers are subject to fluctuation and we have historically been able to pass increased costs and savings on to our stores. We periodically enter
into supplier contracts, and infrequently utilize financial instruments, to manage the risk from changes in commodity prices. We do not engage in speculative transactions nor do we hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes.

Competition

U.S. and international pizza delivery and carry-out are highly competitive. Domestically, we compete against regional and local companies as well as national chains Pizza Hut®, Papa John’s®and Little Caesars Pizza®.
Internationally, we compete primarily against Pizza Hut®and country-specific national and local companies. We
generally compete on the basis of product quality, location, image, service and price. We also compete on a broader scale with quick service and other international, national, regional and local restaurants. In addition, the overall food service
industry and the QSR sector in particular are intensely competitive with respect to product quality, price, service, convenience and concept. The industry is often affected by changes in consumer tastes, economic conditions, demographic trends and
consumers’ disposable income. We compete within the food service industry and the QSR sector not only for customers, but also for personnel, suitable real estate sites and qualified franchisees.







Government regulation

We are subject to various federal, state and local laws affecting the operation of our business, as are our franchisees, including various health, sanitation, fire and safety standards. Each store is
subject to licensing and regulation by a number of governmental authorities, which include zoning, health, safety, sanitation, building and fire agencies in the jurisdiction in which the store is located. In connection with maintaining our stores,
we may be required to expend funds to meet certain federal, state and local regulations, including regulations requiring that remodeled or altered stores be accessible to persons with disabilities. Difficulties in obtaining, or the failure to
obtain, required licenses or approvals could delay or prevent the opening of a new store in a particular area or cause an existing store to cease operations. Our supply chain facilities are also licensed and subject to similar regulations by
federal, state and local health and fire codes.

We are also subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act and various other federal and state laws
governing such matters as minimum wage requirements, overtime and other working conditions and citizenship requirements. A significant number of our food service personnel are paid at rates related to the applicable minimum wage, and past increases
in the minimum wage have increased our labor costs, as would future increases.

We are subject to the rules and regulations of the Federal
Trade Commission and various state laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises. The Federal Trade Commission and various state laws require that we furnish a franchise disclosure document containing certain information to prospective
franchisees, and a number of states require registration of the franchise disclosure document with state authorities. We are operating under exemptions from registration in several states based on the net worth of our operating subsidiary,
Domino’s Pizza LLC and experience. Substantive state laws that regulate the franchisor-franchisee relationship presently exist in a substantial number of states, and bills have been introduced in Congress from time to time that would provide
for federal regulation of the franchisor-franchisee relationship. The state laws often limit, among other things, the duration and scope of non-competition provisions, the ability of a franchisor to terminate or refuse to renew a franchise and the
ability of a franchisor to designate sources of supply. We believe that our franchise disclosure document, together with any applicable state versions or supplements, and franchising procedures comply in all material respects with both the Federal
Trade Commission guidelines and all applicable state laws regulating franchising in those states in which we have offered franchises.

Internationally, our franchise stores are subject to national and local laws and regulations that often are similar to those affecting our domestic
stores, including laws and regulations concerning franchises, labor, health, sanitation and safety. Our international stores are also often subject to tariffs and regulations on imported commodities and equipment, and laws regulating foreign
investment. We believe that our international disclosure statements, franchise offering documents and franchising procedures comply in all material respects with the laws of the foreign countries in which we have offered franchises.

Privacy and data protection

We are
subject to a number of privacy and data protection laws and regulations globally. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing attention to privacy and data protection
issues with the potential to affect directly our business, including recently enacted laws and regulations in the United States and internationally requiring notification to individuals and government authorities of security breaches involving
certain categories of personal information. We have a privacy policy posted on our website atwww.dominos.comand believe that we are in material compliance therewith.

Trademarks

We have many registered trademarks and service marks and
believe that the Domino’s®mark and Domino’s Pizza®names and logos, in particular, have significant value and are important to our business. Our policy is to pursue registration of our trademarks and to vigorously
oppose the infringement of any of our trademarks. We license the use of our registered marks to franchisees through franchise agreements.

Environmental matters

We are not aware
of any federal, state or local environmental laws or regulations that will materially affect our earnings or competitive position, or result in material capital expenditures. However, we cannot predict the effect of possible future environmental
legislation or regulations. During 2011, there were no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities, and no such material expenditures are anticipated in 2012.







Employees

As of January 1, 2012, we had approximately 10,000 employees, who we refer to as team members, in our Company-owned stores, supply chain centers, World Resource Center (our corporate headquarters)
and regional offices. None of our team members are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. As franchisees are independent business owners, they and their employees are not included in our employee count. We
consider our relationship with our employees and franchisees to be good. We estimate the total number of people who work in the Domino’s Pizza system, including our employees, franchisees and the employees of franchisees, was over 195,000 as of
January 1, 2012.

Safety

Our commitment to safety is embodied in our hiring, training and review process. Before an applicant is considered for hire as a delivery driver in the
United States, motor vehicle records are reviewed to ensure a minimum safe driving record of one or two years. In addition, we require regular checks of driving records and proof of insurance for delivery drivers throughout their employment with us.
Each domestic Domino’s driver, including drivers employed by franchisees, are required to complete our safe delivery training program. We have also implemented several safe driving incentive programs.

Our safety and security department oversees security matters for our domestic Company-owned stores. Regional security and safety directors oversee
security measures at domestic Company-owned store locations and assist local authorities in investigations of incidents involving our stores or personnel.

Community activities

We believe in supporting the communities we serve, and we base our
corporate giving on three simple elements: delivering charitable support to our own team members, to our customers, and to national programs.

National philanthropic partner

We have a tradition of creating multi-year partnerships with a national charity to raise funds and public awareness for the organization. Our current national philanthropic partner is St. Jude
Children’s Research Hospital®. St. Jude is internationally recognized for its pioneering work in finding
cures and saving children with cancer and other catastrophic diseases. Through a variety of internal and consumer-based activities, including a national fundraising campaign calledThanks and Giving, the Domino’s Pizza system has
contributed more than $12.0 million to St. Jude during our eight years of partnership, including approximately $2.4 million in 2011. In addition to raising funds, the Domino’s Pizza system has supported St. Jude through in-kind donations,
including hosting hospital-wide pizza parties for patients and their families. The Domino’s Pizza system also helps St. Jude build awareness through the inclusion of the St. Jude logo on millions of our pizza boxes and through a link on our
consumer web site.

The Domino’s Pizza Partners Foundation

Founded in 1986, the mission of the Partners Foundation is “Team Members Helping Team Members.” Completely funded by team member and franchise contributions, the foundation is a separate,
not-for-profit organization that has disbursed nearly $12.0 million since its inception, to meet the needs of team members facing crisis situations, such as fire, accidents, illness or other personal tragedies.

Domino’s Pizza contributions

During 2011, the Domino’s Pizza system has directly contributed as well as helped raise approximately $2.8 million to external charitable
organizations in monetary and in-kind giving.

Franchisee involvement

In addition to the work that we do in the community on a corporate level, we are proud to have the support of more than 2,000 franchisees around the world who choose to get involved with local charities
to make a difference in their communities. Franchisees participate in numerous local programs with schools, hospitals and other charitable organizations, delivering pizzas and offering monetary support.







Research and development

We operate research and product development facilities at our World Resource Center in Ann Arbor, Michigan. Company-sponsored research and development activities, which include, among other things,
testing new products for possible menu additions, are an important activity to us and our franchisees. We do not consider the amounts spent on research and development to be material.

Insurance

We maintain insurance coverage for general liability, owned and non-owned
automobile liability, workers’ compensation, employment practices liability, directors’ and officers’ liability, fiduciary, property (including leaseholds and equipment, as well as business interruption), commercial crime, global
risks, data asset and network security risks, product contamination and other coverages in such form and with such limits as we believe are customary for a business of our size and type.

We have retention programs for workers’ compensation, general liability and owned and non-owned automobile liabilities for certain periods prior to December 1998 and for periods after December 2001.
We are generally responsible for up to $1.0 million per occurrence under these retention programs for workers’ compensation and general liability. We are also generally responsible for between $500,000 and $3.0 million per occurrence under
these retention programs for owned and non-owned automobile liabilities. Pursuant to the terms of our standard franchise agreement, franchisees are also required to maintain minimum levels of insurance coverage at their expense and to have us named
as an additional insured on their liability policies.

Working capital

Information about the Company’s working capital is included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7., page 29.

Customers

The
Company’s business is not dependent upon a single customer or small group of customers, including franchisees. No customer accounted for more than 10% of total consolidated revenues in 2009, 2010 or 2011. Our largest franchisee operates 861
stores in five international markets, and accounted for approximately 8.8% of our total store count. Additionally, royalty revenues from this franchisee accounted for approximately 1.1% of our consolidated revenues in 2011.

Seasonal operations

The Company’s
business is not typically seasonal.

Backlog orders

The Company has no backlog orders as of January 1, 2012.

Government contracts

No material portion of the Company’s business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at
the election of the United States government.

Financial information about business segments and geographic areas

Financial information about international and United States markets and business segments is incorporated herein by reference to Selected Financial Data,
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related footnotes in Part II, Item 6., pages 27 through 28, Item 7. and 7A., pages 29 through 45 and
Item 8., pages 46 through 76, respectively, of this Form 10-K.







Available information

The Company makes available, free of charge, through its internet websitewww.dominosbiz.com, its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy
statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with the Securities
and Exchange Commission. You may read and copy any materials filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission at the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain
information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330. This information is also available atwww.sec.gov. The reference to these website addresses does not constitute
incorporation by reference of the information contained on the websites and should not be considered part of this document.

