
10-K
ALLIED 10-K




________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                   FORM 10-K
               [x] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
                                       OR
 
             [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                   For the transition period from     to
 
                         Commission file number 1-8974
 
                               ALLIEDSIGNAL INC.
 
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 

 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code (201)455-2000
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 

 
- ------------
*  The  common  stock  is  also  listed for  trading  on  the  Amsterdam, Basle,
   Frankfurt, Geneva, London, Paris, Tokyo and Zurich stock exchanges.
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None
 
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12  months (or  for such shorter  period that  the Registrant  was
required  to  file  such reports),  and  (2)  has been  subject  to  such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No _
Indicate by check mark if disclosure  of delinquent filers pursuant to Item  405
of  Regulation S-K is  not contained herein,  and will not  be contained, to the
best of Registrant's  knowledge, in definitive  proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K [ ]
 
The  aggregate market  value of  the voting stock  held by  nonaffiliates of the
Registrant was approximately $9.6 billion at December 31, 1994.
 
There were 283,131,846 shares of Common Stock outstanding at December 31, 1994.
 
                      Documents Incorporated by Reference
         Part I and II: Annual Report to Shareowners for the Year Ended December
31, 1994.
        Part III: Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Shareowners to be held
April 24, 1995.
 
________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________

                               ALLIEDSIGNAL INC.
 
                             CROSS REFERENCE SHEET
 

 

 
- ------------
 
*  To  be  included  in  a  definitive Proxy  Statement  to  be  filed  with the
   Securities and Exchange Commission not later than 120 days after December 31,
   1994.
 

NOTE:    AlliedSignal  Inc. is  sometimes  referred  to in  this  Report  as the
Registrant and  as  the Company,  and  AlliedSignal Inc.  and  its  consolidated
subsidiaries  are sometimes  referred to  as the Company  as the  context may so
require.
 
                                

 
- ------------
 
 (a) These items are omitted since the Registrant will file with the  Securities
     and Exchange Commission a definitive Proxy Statement pursuant to Regulation
     14A  involving  the election  of directors  not later  than 120  days after
     December 31,  1994. Certain  other information  relating to  the  Executive
     Officers of the Registrant appears at pages 15 and 16 of this Report.
 

                                    PART I.
 
ITEM 1.   BUSINESS
 
     AlliedSignal Inc. with its consolidated subsidiaries (sometimes referred to
in  this Report as the Company) was organized  in the State of Delaware in 1985.
The Company is the successor to  Allied Corporation, which was organized in  the
State of New York in 1920.
 
     The  Company's  operations  are conducted  under  three  business segments:
aerospace, automotive and engineered materials.
 
     The Company's  products  are  used  by  many  major  industries,  including
textiles,   construction,  plastics,  electronics,  motor  vehicles,  chemicals,
housing,  telecommunications,  utilities,  packaging,  military  and  commercial
aviation and aerospace, and in the space program, and agriculture. The following
is  a description of  the Company's three business  segments and their principal
products and activities.
 
AEROSPACE
 
     The Aerospace  segment  is  among the  world's  largest  manufacturers  and
suppliers  of  advanced  technology  products  and  services  for  the military,
commercial and general aviation, and space markets.
 
     In  1994   the  Company   substantially  completed   a  restructuring   and
consolidation  of  Aerospace's 12  principal product  lines into  four strategic
business units:  Aerospace  Equipment Systems  (Equipment  Systems),  Commercial
Avionics   Systems  (Avionics  Systems),   AlliedSignal  Engines  (Engines)  and
Government Electronic Systems (Electronic Systems).
 
     The Company serves key  military and commercial  segments of the  aviation,
defense  and space markets with a broad array of systems, subsystems, components
and services. It designs, develops, manufactures, markets and services  hundreds
of  products  found  on  all types  of  aircraft,  from  single-engine executive
aircraft and wide-bodied 'jumbos' flown  by the world's commercial carriers,  to
trainers,  transports, bombers,  fighters and helicopters  used by  the U.S. and
other countries for  national defense.  The Company's  global business  consists
primarily  of original-equipment  sales and  an extensive  aftermarket business,
including spare  parts,  maintenance  and repair,  and  retrofitting.  Worldwide
customers  include all of the major airframe and engine manufacturers, including
Boeing,  McDonnell  Douglas,  Lockheed,   Airbus  Industrie  (Airbus),   British
Aerospace,  Fokker, Cessna, Fairchild, Dassault, Rockwell International, Pratt &
Whitney, General Electric (GE) and Rolls  Royce, as well as the world's  leading
airlines.
 
     Principal products, manufactured for military aircraft, civil air transport
and   general  aviation  markets,  include  primary  propulsion,  consisting  of
turboprop, turbofan, turbojet  and turboshaft engines,  and auxiliary power  gas
turbine  engines; environmental control systems, consisting of air conditioning,
cabin  pressure  and  temperature  controls;  airborne  weather  avoidance   and
collision  avoidance radar systems; forward-looking wind shear detection systems
and wing ice detection systems; aircraft communications -- both voice and  data;
microwave  landing systems; automatic flight  control systems; pneumatic control
systems; engine and  flight instruments;  motion sensing and  air data  systems;
navigation   and   identification   equipment,   including   identification   of
friend-or-foe  systems;  cockpit  data   recorders;  ground  proximity   warning
equipment;  electric power  generating systems;  fuel control  systems; aircraft
wheels and brakes;  test systems;  electromechanical and  hydraulic systems  and
components;  heat  transfer  equipment  and engine  oil  cooling  systems. Other
products include electronic cooling systems and infrared radiation suppressors.
 
     The Company  also manufactures  products for  missiles, spacecraft  defense
command,   control   communication   and  intelligence   programs   and  oceanic
applications, primarily  for  defense markets.  Products  include  cryptographic
equipment,  radar proximity fuzes, space-pointing  devices for deep space probes
and control  systems  for  spacecraft,  gyroscopes  for  tactical  missiles  and
military  aircraft, antisubmarine warfare  systems as well  as field engineering
management and technical support services to the National Aeronautics and  Space
Administration (NASA) and the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE).
 
 

     In  June 1994 the Company  sold a portion of  its small aerospace actuation
business and all of  its general aviation repair  and overhaul hangar  business,
consisting of five airport-based hangar facilities.
 
     In  October 1994 the Company completed the purchase of the Lycoming Turbine
Engine Division of Textron Inc. for  $375 million and the assumption of  certain
liabilities.  The  acquisition  extended the  Company's  turbine  engine product
offerings into the 50- to 115-seat  regional aircraft market and in  helicopters
and other commercial and military applications.
 
     The  Company entered into  a number of alliances  and joint ventures during
the year, of which the following  were among the most significant. The  Company,
to  be more  responsive to its  Japanese customers, formed  a strategic alliance
with  Shimadzu  Corporation,  Kyoto,  Japan  covering  aerospace  equipment  and
controls  products in Japan  under which the Company  designated Shimadzu as its
first-preference company for all  future manufacturing and business  development
in  Japan. The agreement  covers environmental control  systems, engine controls
and  accessories  and  actuation  products.  Engines  selected  Kawasaki   Heavy
Industries of Kobe, Japan as its partner to manufacture the Company's 131-series
auxiliary  power units (APU) for the new  McDonnell Douglas MD-90 and Boeing 737
aircraft programs.  Kawasaki  is  also developing  and  building  the  accessory
gearbox  for Engines'  new RE220  APU. The  Company has  signed a  memorandum of
agreement to  form a  joint  venture with  TAECO,  a Hong  Kong-based  aerospace
company,  to start an aircraft maintenance center at TAECO's facility in Xiamen,
China. The joint venture  will provide repair and  overhaul services on all  the
Company's  products used by airline operators in China and the rest of Asia. The
Company also signed a letter of intent with China Eastern Airlines to  establish
a joint venture to provide aircraft wheel and brake repair and overhaul services
in Shanghai, China.
 
     The  Company is affected by the level of expenditures for defense and space
programs and  the  level  of  production  of  commercial  and  general  aviation
aircraft.  The  Company's  aerospace  products are  sold  directly  to  the U.S.
government, aircraft manufacturers and commercial  airlines, and to dealers  and
distributors of general aviation products.
 
     Moderate growth in the Company's commercial business for aerospace products
is  expected,  over the  long  term, to  mitigate  a reduction  in  U.S. defense
spending. Moreover, aerospace  sales are not  dependent on any  one key  defense
program   or  commercial   customer.  However,   contract  awards   by  aircraft
manufacturers, some of which are discussed below, can be cancelled or reduced if
aircraft orders are cut back. The products and services are sold in  competition
with  those of a large number of other companies, some of which have substantial
financial resources  and  significant technological  capabilities.  Among  those
companies  that  compete with  several of  the segment's  product areas  are GE,
Honeywell, Rockwell International, Sundstrand and United Technologies.
 
     Sales to the U.S.  government, acting through  its various departments  and
agencies  and through prime contractors, amounted to $1,886 million for 1994 and
$1,911 million  for 1993,  which  amounts include  sales  to the  Department  of
Defense  of $1,300 million in 1994 and $1,391 million in 1993. Approximately 59%
and 61% of sales  to the U.S.  government in 1994  and 1993, respectively,  were
made  under fixed-price  contracts in  which the  Company agrees  to perform the
contract for a fixed price and retains  for itself any benefits of cost  savings
or must bear the burden of cost overruns.
 
     Government  contracts are generally  terminable by the  government at will.
Upon termination,  the  contractor is  normally  entitled to  reimbursement  for
allowable  costs and  to an  allowance for profit.  However, if  the contract is
terminated because of the contractor's  default, the contractor may not  recover
all  of  its costs  and  may be  liable  for any  excess  costs incurred  by the
government in procuring undelivered items from another source.
 
     The Company, as are other government contractors, is subject to  government
investigations  of business practices and compliance with government procurement
regulations.  Although  such  regulations  provide  that  a  contractor  may  be
suspended or debarred from government contracts under certain circumstances, and
the  outcome  of  pending  government investigations  cannot  be  predicted with
certainty, management is not presently aware of any such investigation which  it
expects will have a material adverse effect on the Company.
 
     Orders  for  certain  products  sold  to  general  and  commercial aviation
customers  mainly  consist  of  relatively  short-term  and  frequently  renewed
commitments. Government procurement agencies
 
 

generally  issue  contracts  covering  relatively long  periods  of  time. Total
backlog for products and services  for both government and commercial  contracts
was  $4,730 million at December 31, 1994 and $4,773 million at December 31, 1993
of which  U.S. and  foreign government  orders were  $1,803 million  and  $1,861
million  for the  respective years.  The Company  anticipates that approximately
$2,681 million of the total 1994 backlog will be filled during 1995.
 
     The Aerospace  segment's  international  operations  consist  primarily  of
exporting   U.S.  manufactured  products,  performance  of  services,  operating
aircraft repair and overhaul facilities and licensing activities. The  principal
manufacturing facility outside of the U.S. is in Canada.
 
     In 1994, as in the prior year, world defense spending continued to decline.
Furthermore,  most major U.S. and international airlines operated in a difficult
economic environment, with the modest turnarounds that began in the second  half
of  1993 continuing in  1994. While the regional  airlines showed some financial
strength, growth in the high end corporate aviation market remained slow.
 
     Aerospace was awarded  a number of  significant contracts in  1994 and  had
strong  success in booking new programs,  being awarded approximately 64% of the
programs bid.
 
     Aerospace was awarded several significant contracts related to Boeing's new
737-700 program totaling about  $3 billion in potential  sales over the life  of
the  program.  The  most  significant of  these  awards  included  the Company's
designation as the sole supplier  of APUs for this  new family of aircraft;  the
contract  has a sales  potential of $2 billion.  Equipment Systems won contracts
for the environmental control  and bleed air systems  with a sales potential  of
$370  million. GE's Aircraft Engines unit awarded contracts to Equipment Systems
for the main  fuel control  and the  air turbine  start system  for its  CFM56-7
engine  on the new 737 program with  a combined sales potential of $260 million.
Southwest Airlines awarded a contract with a sales potential of $225 million  to
Equipment  Systems  for  wheels and  brakes  on  its new  Boeing  737-700 fleet.
Equipment Systems was also awarded a contract for the engine nose cowl  anti-ice
valve with a sales potential of $22 million.
 
     The  Company  has  received  contracts for  the  proposed  MD-95, McDonnell
Douglas' newest  twin-engine aircraft  for the  100-passenger market.  Equipment
Systems  will supply the environmental control systems and Avionics Systems will
provide the communications and navigational systems on a
Supplier-Furnished-Equipment basis.  The combined  sales  potential of  the  two
contracts is more than $500 million.
 
     Aero  Vodochody  of Czechoslovakia  selected International  Turbine Engines
Corp., a joint venture between Engines and the Aero Industry Development  Center
of  the Republic of China (Taiwan), to  supply F124-GA-100 engines for its L-159
light attack/advanced trainer aircraft. The  sales potential of the contract  is
$290  million. Aero Vodochody also chose  a Rockwell-AlliedSignal team to supply
the avionics suite for its L-159 program; Electronic Systems is responsible  for
supplying  and  integrating  selected  avionics  subsystems.  Lockheed  Aircraft
Services awarded  a contract  to Electronic  Systems to  upgrade the  integrated
cockpits displays and mission avionics in A-4M SkyHawk tactical fighters sold by
the U.S. government to the Republic of Argentina's Air Force.
 
     Engines  received an order  to supply the  Garrett Turbine Compressor Power
180C engine for up to 750 ground carts for the U.S. Air Force (USAF) for the San
Antonio Air Logistics Center's Large Aircraft  Start System. The contract has  a
sales potential of $75 million.
 
     Electronic  Systems  received a  contract with  a  sales potential  of $200
million to  produce  an  inertial  measurement  unit  for  Northrop's  Brilliant
Anti-Tank Weapon.
 
     The  USAF's  Philips Laboratory  awarded  Equipment Systems  a  contract to
develop a turbopump. This contract has  sales potential of about $5 million  and
is  considered strategically significant because  it positions Equipment Systems
for entry into the turbopump market.
 
     Two important APU maintenance service agreements (MSA) were awarded  during
the  year. Southwest Airlines, for its fleet of 737 aircraft, awarded a contract
with a  sales potential  of $100  million  to the  Company and  Alaska  Airlines
selected the Company to service its APUs with a sales potential of $7.6 million.
 
 

     The  Australian Civil Aviation Authority awarded  a contract for $9 million
to Electronic Systems to  provide a parallel approach  radar monitor (PARM)  for
Sydney's  airport;  it will  be the  third airport  in the  world and  the first
outside the U.S. with a PARM.
 
     The Company was  also awarded new  contracts in general  aviation in  1994.
Avionics Systems successfully penetrated the safety avionics market by winning a
contract  from Gulfstream to provide a  safety avionics suite for the Gulfstream
GV aircraft. The award included a  traffic alert and collision avoidance  system
(TCAS  II), ground  proximity warning  systems and  maintenance data acquisition
units. Israeli Aircraft Industries selected the Company for three contracts with
a combined  sales  potential exceeding  $30  million. The  TFE731-40  engine,  a
turbofan  from the Company's  new generation of TFE731  engines, was selected as
the propulsion system  for the  Astra SPX aircraft  and the  Company's APUs  and
environmental  control  systems  were  selected  for  the  Galaxy  business jet.
Dassault Aviation selected Engines to supply the most powerful of its new family
of turbofan engines,  the TFE731-60,  for Dassault's new  Falcon 900EX.  Engines
received  a contract for 69  TPE 331-13 turboprop engines  from Jetstream with a
sales potential of $220  million. Canadair selected Engines  to supply APUs  and
air  turbine  start systems  for its  fleet  of Global  Express aircraft  with a
combined sales potential of $50 million.
 
     NASA awarded AlliedSignal Technical  Services Corporation (ATSC) the  test,
evaluation  and maintenance  contract for its  White Sands Test  Facility in New
Mexico. The initial  three-year contract, plus  a two-year option,  will have  a
sales  potential of $163 million. In an award that secured a strong position for
future potential space station work, Equipment Systems received a contract  from
NASA's  Lewis Research Center to develop the first space flight demonstration of
a solar dynamic electric power generation  system with a sales potential of  $15
million.  Aerospace  was part  of four  industry  teams that  will share  in $98
million in technology  reinvestment project  grants from  the U.S.  government's
Advanced  Research Projects  Agency. Among  the projects  will be  a $42 million
award for the development of a radar system to be used in an Autonomous  Landing
Guidance System and a $43 million award to develop Fly-by-Light Advanced Systems
Hardware.  ATSC  will develop  and install  the ground  system for  Taiwan's new
satellite program under a contract with a sales potential, including options, of
$32 million.
 
     The Company was also awarded a number of significant contracts in 1993.
 
     Chalk Airlines  purchased Engine's  TPE331-14  turboprop to  re-engine  its
fleet of Albatross amphibian aircraft with a sales potential of $24 million. The
U.S.  Army  funded a  $73 million  contract  add-on under  which LHTEC,  a joint
venture with Allison Engines, will continue  development of a growth version  of
its  T-800  turboshaft engine  which has  been  selected for  use on  the RAH-66
Comanche helicopter.
 
     The Company received  new military avionics  contracts in 1993.  Electronic
Systems,  teamed with Chrysler Technology, was awarded a major contract from the
USAF for the update of autopilots and displays for the C-130 and C-141 aircraft.
The program  has a  sales potential  to the  Company of  $500 million.  Avionics
Systems  was awarded a $15 million contract  from Lockheed to supply TCAS II for
C-130 aircraft.  Electronic Systems  received an  order from  McDonnell  Douglas
Helicopter  Company to update the display processor for the AH-64 Longbow Apache
helicopter, a program with  a sales potential of  over $300 million.  Electronic
Systems received a significant contract from the USAF Special Operations Command
for  the  Multi-mission  Advanced  Tactical Terminal,  a  program  with  a sales
potential of $170 million. Electronic Systems led one of four winning teams  for
the Advanced Research Projects Agency's Small Low-cost Interceptor Device (SLID)
program  which is expected  to develop military  land vehicle protection through
the use of smart small projectiles. SLID has a sales potential of $110  million.
Electronic   Systems  was  also  awarded   several  contracts  for  its  APX-100
Identification Friend-or-Foe transponder from the U.S. Navy, Air National Guard,
U.K. Ministry of Defence  and Teledyne Ryan with  a combined sales potential  of
over $150 million.
 
     Other key military aircraft equipment awards included wheels and brakes for
the  F-18E/F (the  Navy's first-line  fighter) and  the integrated environmental
control system for the F-22, by Equipment Systems, together with more than  $340
million in sales potential. The latter was particularly notable because it began
as  a procurement for  a single component of  the environmental control systems,
but
 
 

Equipment System's strong focus on systems integration turned it into a contract
for the complete system.
 
     ATSC was successful in booking  several technical services programs.  These
programs  included the NASA White Sands program, with $225 million in sales, the
U.S. Marine Corps' Maritime  Prepositioning Ship program,  with $125 million  in
sales,  and a number  of smaller NASA  programs with over  $130 million in sales
potential.
 
     In the commercial and general aviation aircraft market, in addition to  the
1994 awards previously mentioned, Equipment Systems was designated as one of two
wheel  and brake suppliers  for Boeing on  its new 737-700  transport, a program
with $1.3 billion in sales potential. On the new Gulfstream GV aircraft, Engines
was awarded  a contract  to supply  the APUs  and Equipment  Systems received  a
contract  for  the environmental  control  and cabin  pressure  control systems.
Together, the awards have a sales  potential of $130 million. Equipment  Systems
received  the engine  starting system  contract for  the BMW/Rolls  Royce BR-710
engine, the selected engine for both  the Gulfstream GV and the Canadair  Global
Express  aircraft.  Furthermore,  Equipment Systems  received  the environmental
control system contract for the new Learjet Model 45 general aviation  aircraft.
Equipment  Systems was  awarded contracts  for aircraft  wheels and  brakes from
Continental Airlines with a  sales potential of $170  million and from JAL,  Air
France and Egyptair with a combined sales potential of $140 million. Engines was
awarded an APU long-term maintenance service agreement from a major airline with
a sales potential of $135 million.
 
     In  the  spacecraft  market,  Lockheed  Missile  &  Space  Company  awarded
Electronic Systems the  ring laser  gyro and  momentum wheel  contracts for  its
IRIDIUM program and a ring laser gyro contract for its Frugal Satellite program.
The combined potential sales of these programs is $50 million.
 
     The  Company expects  that these programs  will require  only minimal fixed
capital spending.
 
AUTOMOTIVE
 
     The Automotive  segment designs,  engineers  and manufactures  systems  and
components  for worldwide  vehicle manufacturers and  aftermarket customers. The
segment's principal  business  areas  are braking  systems,  engine  components,
safety  restraint systems  and the  aftermarket. Within  each area,  the segment
offers a wide range of products for  passenger cars and light, medium and  heavy
trucks.
 
     For  manufacturers of passenger cars and light trucks, the Company provides
disc and  drum brakes,  power  brake boosters  and master  cylinders,  anti-lock
braking  systems  (ABS),  friction  materials,  spark  plugs,  turbochargers and
occupant protection systems (seat belts, air bags and related components).
 
     The Company's primary product offerings for the manufacturers of medium and
heavy trucks and  off-road vehicles  primarily include air  and hydraulic  brake
actuation  components, air and hydraulic drum and disc brakes, ABS, compressors,
air dryers, friction materials, turbochargers and charge-air intercoolers.
 
     The aftermarket business includes replacement  parts for most of the  above
items  as well as air, oil and fuel  filters, wire and cable products, and brake
sealants and fluids.
 
     Automotive operations are located in  the U.S., Australia, Brazil,  Canada,
China,   France,  Germany,  India,  Ireland,  Italy,  Japan,  Malaysia,  Mexico,
Portugal, South  Korea,  Spain  and  the U.K.  Distribution  and  marketing  are
conducted  in  these  and  numerous other  countries  as  well. Internationally,
products are  marketed  under the  Bendix,  Fram, Autolite,  Garrett  and  Jurid
trademarks.
 
     Worldwide  passenger car  and truck original-equipment  sales accounted for
approximately 74% in 1994  and 70% in  1993 of the net  sales of the  Automotive
segment  with aftermarket  sales accounting  for the  balance. In  1994 and 1993
Automotive operations outside the U.S. accounted for $2,217 and $2,002  million,
or 45% and 44%, respectively, of worldwide sales.
 
     In  1994  and  1993  sales  of  automotive  original-equipment  systems and
components were made to approximately 30  customers of which the Company's  five
largest  automotive manufacturing customers accounted  for approximately 62% and
60%,   respectively,    of   such    sales.   Total    worldwide   sales    (for
 
 

original-equipment and aftermarket use) for 1994 and 1993 to the five automotive
manufacturers  amounted to  $2,063 and $1,886  million, including  sales to Ford
Motor Company (Ford), the segment's largest  customer, of $782 and $715  million
for the respective years.
 
     In  1994 the  Company established  two joint  ventures in  Europe, one with
Sogefi S.p.A. and the other with Gilardini, a subsidiary of Fiat, and Sequa. The
joint venture with  Sogefi S.p.A.,  a European manufacturer  and distributor  of
automotive  filters and  other automotive products,  is expected  to enable both
partners to penetrate new  markets through a joint  distribution network and  to
reduce  costs through consolidation of both warehouses and distribution centers.
The joint venture with  Gilardini and Sequa --  BAG, S.p.A. -- will  manufacture
and  supply  hybrid  inflators for  driver  and  passenger-side air  bags  to be
assembled by a Company plant in Italy. These operations will provide the Company
with an entry into the European air bag market. In January 1995 the Company  and
Jidosha  Kiki Co. of Japan  formed a joint venture  to supply brake boosters for
vehicles built in Europe by Japanese manufacturers. The venture will be based in
Pamplona, Spain.
 
     The Company acquired substantially all of the seat belt business of General
Safety,  a North American designer and manufacturer of safety restraint systems,
in 1994. The acquisition is expected to bolster growth potential for the Company
as a leading supplier of vehicle safety restraint systems in North America.
 
     In late December 1994 the Company acquired Ford's spark plug  manufacturing
plant  in  Treforest,  South  Wales.  The  acquisition  enhanced  the  Company's
relationship with Ford as its sole supplier of spark plugs in both North America
and Europe and is expected to provide a manufacturing base in Europe for  growth
in the aftermarket spark plug business.
 
     In  February  1995 the  Company reached  an agreement  to acquire  the Budd
Company's Wheel and Brake Division, whose products include: rotors, hubs,  drums
and  related assemblies for  passenger cars and light  trucks; steel disk wheels
for heavy trucks; and demountable rims  and hub and drum assemblies for  medium-
and  heavy-duty trucks.  The Wheel  and Brake Division  had sales  of about $250
million in the fiscal year ended September 30, 1994. The Company signed a letter
of intent to acquire  Fiat Auto Poland S.A.'s  braking business, whose  products
include  disc  and  drum  brakes,  master  cylinders  and  brake  boosters.  The
manufacturing facility of the business  is located in Twargodora, Poland.  Sales
of about $30 million are expected in 1995.
 
     Construction  of a new turbocharger plant in Shanghai, China began in 1994.
This facility is  expected to enable  the Company to  serve the rapidly  growing
diesel engine market in China and provide turbochargers to international markets
as  opportunities develop. In December 1994, as a temporary measure, the Company
began producing turbochargers in a leased facility in China.
 
     The  Company continues  to invest in  the ABS  and air bag  segments of the
automotive industry. New ABS product introductions and major awards on a  number
of car models continue to provide the Company with the synergies necessary to be
a  worldwide brake  system supplier.  The Company's  global air  bag position is
expected to continue to strengthen with the formation in 1994 of the BAG, S.p.A.
inflator joint venture and with the establishment of an air bag module  assembly
operation in Italy. The new air bag assembly operation has received sales awards
from European manufacturers.
 
     The Company initiated  facilities rationalization  plans in  1991 and  1992
which  will significantly  reduce the  number of  worldwide automotive locations
through 1995.  By  the  end  of  1994, 23  operating  plants  had  been  closed.
Rationalization  and consolidations of sales  offices, distribution centers, and
research and development facilities will continue throughout 1995.
 
     The segment's operations  outside the  U.S. are  conducted through  various
foreign  companies  in which  it has  interests ranging  from minor  to complete
control.  International   operations  also   include  the   exporting  of   U.S.
manufactured products and licensing activities.
 
     The Automotive segment's products are sold in highly competitive markets to
customers  who demand performance, quality and competitive prices. Virtually all
automotive components are sold in  competition with other independent  suppliers
or  with the captive component divisions of the vehicle manufacturers. While the
Company's competitive position varies among  its products, the Company  believes
it  is a  significant factor  in each  of its  major product  markets. The major
independent competitors in one or more major business areas include: ITT  Teves,
Lucas Girling, Rockwell-WABCO,
 
 

Dana,  Autoliv, Cooper Industries, Schwitzer, Midland, Bosch, Kelsey Hayes, KKK,
TRW, Purolator, Delco, AM Brake, Raybestos, Takata and Morton.
 
ENGINEERED MATERIALS
 
     The Engineered  Materials  segment is  composed  of five  major  divisions:
Fibers, Fluorine Products, Performance Materials, Plastics and Laminate Systems.
Other  businesses not included  in these divisions are  the Paxon joint venture,
the Environmental Catalysts joint venture and Carbon Materials.
 
     Fibers. The Company is  a leading producer  of type 6  nylon and the  third
largest  producer of nylon in the U.S.  The Company is also the largest domestic
producer of caprolactam, the primary intermediate  for type 6 nylon, from  which
it  produces fine and heavy  denier nylon yarns and  molding compounds and film.
These yarns are sold under the  trademarks Anso'r', Anso X'r', Anso IV'r',  Anso
V'r', Worry-Free'r', CrushResister'tm' and Caprolan'r'. In addition, the Company
produces heavy denier polyester yarns. The Company primarily sells yarns to  the
carpet, textile, motor vehicle and industrial markets.
 
     In the carpet yarn markets, both continuous filament and staple nylon yarns
are  sold to yarn processors  and mills for the  manufacture of carpeting. Nylon
filament and staple are the dominant fiber yarns used in carpet production.  The
four  largest  producers,  including  the Company,  have  over  90%  of domestic
capacity.  The  Company  has  achieved  recognition  as  a  leader  in   product
development and has developed a strong customer base. Brand identity, service to
customers  and quality are important competitive factors in the market and there
is considerable  price competition.  The Company  strengthened its  position  in
Europe  through the acquisition  of carpet yarn  facilities from Akzo  NV in the
third quarter of 1993.
 
     In the motor vehicle and industrial markets, the Company's primary products
are nylon  and  polyester  yarns  for  use in  tire  cord,  seat  belts,  hoses,
tarpaulins  and  outdoor furniture.  In Europe  the Company  produces industrial
polyester yarn in a  $200 million facility in  Longlaville, France, which  began
operations  in the fourth  quarter of 1993. The  Company believes that polyester
yarn will become the primary reinforcement for passenger car radial tires in the
world in the late  1990s and is exploring  development opportunities in the  Far
East.
 
     The  textile fibers markets, where the Company sells Caprolan'r' nylon flat
yarns for warp knit and  weaving applications, include intimate apparel,  sports
outerwear,  jackets and such recreational products  as sleeping bags, back packs
and luggage. The industry is highly price competitive.
 
     Fluorine Products. The major fluorine products are hydrofluoric acid  (HF),
fluorocarbons, sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) and sterilant gases.
 
     The Company is the world's largest producer of HF and an industry leader in
the  production and sale  of products derived  from HF, including fluorocarbons,
SF6 and uranium hexafluoride (UF6).
 
     Genetron'r'   fluorocarbons   are   sold   mainly   as   refrigerants    to
original-equipment   and  replacement  manufacturers  of  air  conditioning  and
refrigeration equipment  and as  foam blowing  agents to  rigid foam  producers.
Genesolv'r'   fluorocarbons  are   sold  as   solvents  in   precision  cleaning
applications  such   as   electronics,  optics   and   aerospace   applications.
Approximately  one-third of  the Company's Genetron'r'  and Genesolv'r' products
are chlorofluorocarbons  (CFCs).  The  Montreal Protocol  (Protocol),  which  is
supported  by 87 countries, regulates  worldwide CFC production and consumption.
With few exceptions, the Protocol requires 100% elimination of fully halogenated
CFC production by  industrialized countries  by December 31,  1995. The  amended
U.S.  Clean Air Act  also regulates CFCs  and similarly requires  that most U.S.
production of CFCs be phased out by the  end of 1995. CFCs produced in the  U.S.
are   also  subject  to  the  Ozone   Depleting  Chemical  Tax  of  the  Revenue
Reconciliation Act of 1989.
 
     The Company  is continuing  its  efforts to  develop  environmentally-safer
fluorocarbon  products as it replaces the  current CFC product line. An existing
commercial plant  in  El  Segundo,  CA was  converted  in  1991  to  manufacture
hydrochlorofluorocarbon  (HCFC)-141b,  a key  substitute  for CFC-11,  a blowing
agent in urethane foams,  and as a replacement  for CFC-113 in critical  solvent
applications.  By 1994 the Company more than  tripled the plant's capacity to 60
million pounds per year. The Company has
 
 

commercialized key CFC  substitute products in  various applications,  including
automotive   air  conditioning   and  residential,   commercial  and  industrial
refrigeration.   In   this   connection,   the   Company   began   manufacturing
environmentally-safer  alternatives to CFCs  at a new  $70 million multi-product
commercial facility in Geismar, LA targeted primarily at the substitute products
HCFC-123, HCFC-124,  hydrofluorocarbon (HFC)-125  and HFC-134a.  The Company  is
continuing  its  research  and  development  efforts  in  view  of  the changing
regulatory environment  in which  it operates.  The Company  does not  currently
expect  that the Protocol or the U.S. Clean Air Act will have a material adverse
effect on  the  Company. However,  the  Company  cannot predict  the  impact  of
possible future regulatory issues.
 
     The  Company acquired the CFC  business of Akzo NV,  with facilities in the
Netherlands, in  April 1994.  This  acquisition has  provided the  Company  with
access to new markets for its fluorocarbon products.
 
     The  Company is one of two domestic  producers of SF6, a gas primarily used
by  utilities  because  of  its  electrical  insulatory  properties  in  circuit
breakers, switches, transmission lines and electronic minisubstations.
 
     The Company also produces sterilant gases which primarily consist of blends
of  ethylene oxide and fluorocarbons that  are sold to hospitals, medical device
manufacturers and  contract  sterilizers.  The Company  holds  the  patents  for
selected sterilant gas blends using environmentally-safer fluorocarbons.
 
     Performance   Materials.   Businesses  included   are   A-C'r'  performance
additives, performance chemicals, advanced microelectronics materials, amorphous
metals, specialty films, nuclear services and the UOP joint venture.
 
     A-C'r' performance additives are low-molecular weight polyethylene  polymer
additives  which primarily serve the  textiles, plastics, adhesives and polishes
specialty markets worldwide.
 
     The performance chemicals  business is  the leading  supplier of  specialty
oxime   chemicals  for   use  in   the  agricultural,   coatings,  photographic,
pharmaceutical, adhesives and sealants, and  mining industries. The Company  has
some cost benefits from its captive source of hydroxylamine sulfate.
 
     The  advanced  microelectronics  materials business  designs,  develops and
manufactures materials for semiconductor companies  worldwide. The Company is  a
leader  in  technology that  smoothes  integrated circuits  under  the trademark
ACCUGLASS'r'.
 
     The Company manufactures  amorphous metals (METGLAS'r'  Alloys) that  offer
significant  efficiency  gains  in  electrical  distribution  transformers  over
conventional electrical steel which is currently used. Amorphous metals are also
a key component in theft deterrent systems used by retail companies.
 
     Major  products  in  the  specialty  films  business  include  cast   nylon
(Capran'r'),  biaxially  oriented nylon  film  (Biax'r') and  fluoropolymer film
(Aclar'r'). Specialty  film  markets  include food,  pharmaceutical,  and  other
packaging and industrial applications.
 
     The  Company's nuclear services business processes uranium ore concentrates
into UF6 which is an essential  intermediate in the production of fuel  elements
for  nuclear power reactors for domestic and foreign customers. In November 1992
a Company  subsidiary  entered  into  a  partnership  with  a  General  Atomics'
affiliate   to  market  UF6  conversion   services  supplied  by  the  Company's
Metropolis,  Illinois  manufacturing   facility.  The  partnership,   ConverDyn,
competes  for the open world market with four foreign processors that are either
government owned or controlled.
 
     UOP is an equally owned joint venture with Union Carbide Corporation  which
designs  and  licenses processes,  and produces  and  markets catalysts  for the
petroleum refining, gas processing, petrochemical and food industries.
 
     Plastics.  The  Plastics  business  manufactures  and  markets  engineering
resins.  The  Company  is  a  leading producer  of  nylon  6  engineering resins
(Capron'r') for  the  automotive,  electrical  and  electronic  component,  food
packaging,  lawn care and power tool markets. The Company completed an expansion
of the color compounding facility at Sparta, TN.
 
     Laminate Systems. This business  unit manufactures circuit board  laminates
for  the  electronic  and  electrical  industries.  The  Company's  product line
includes copper clad and unclad laminates used in
 
 

computer,  telecommunication,   instrumentation   and   military   applications.
Approximately  50%  of  sales  are to  the  international  market,  primarily in
southeast Asia and throughout Europe. The industry is highly price  competitive.
The Company, in partnership with Mitsui Mining and Smelting Company, is backward
integrated  in electro deposited copper foil. The Company completed construction
of a new laminates plant in Thailand in the first quarter of 1994 and commercial
production commenced in the second quarter.
 
     Other Businesses. Businesses not  included in the  five major divisions  of
the  Engineered  Materials Segment  are the  Paxon joint  venture, Environmental
Catalysts joint venture and Carbon Materials.
 
     The Paxon joint venture is equally owned with Exxon Corporation. The  joint
venture  manufactures high-density polyethylene resins used in the production of
plastics for household and industrial products.
 
     The Environmental  Catalysts  business is  a  major worldwide  supplier  of
catalysts  used in  catalytic converters for  automobiles. In  November 1994 the
Company and General Motors  Corporation (GM) formed a  joint venture to  produce
coated  automotive catalytic  converter substrates. The  Company contributed its
environmental catalysts business and  GM contributed coating-related  technology
and a long-term supply contract to the joint venture.
 
     The  Carbon Materials business produces binder pitch for electrodes for the
aluminum and  carbon industries,  creosote oils  as preservatives  for the  wood
products   and  carbon  black   markets,  refined  naphthalene   as  a  chemical
intermediate, and driveway  sealer tar  and roofing pitch  for the  construction
industry.  All of the tar products are  distilled from coal tar, a by-product of
the steel industry's coking operations.
 
     The principal raw materials  used in the  Engineered Materials segment  are
generally   readily  available   and  include   cumene,  natural   gas,  sulfur,
terephthalic  acid,  ethylene  and   ethylene  glycol,  fluorspar,  HF,   carbon
tetrachloride,  chloroform,  nylon  resins, fiberglass,  copper  foil, platinum,
rhodium and coal tar pitch. The Company is producing virtually all of its HF and
nylon resin  requirements. Important  competitors are:  Du Pont,  GE,  Monsanto,
Hoechst/Celanese,  BASF Fibers,  Koppers, U.S.I., Phillips,  Soltex, Atochem and
Nan Ya.
 
SEGMENT FINANCIAL DATA
 
     Note 26 (Segment Financial  Data) of Notes to  Financial Statements in  the
Company's 1994 Annual Report to shareowners is incorporated herein by reference.
 
DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN FINANCIAL DATA
 
     Note  25  (Geographic  Areas  --  Financial  Data)  of  Notes  to Financial
Statements in the Company's  1994 Annual Report  to shareowners is  incorporated
herein by reference.
 
FOREIGN ACTIVITIES
 
     The  Company's foreign businesses are subject  to the usual risks attendant
upon investments in foreign countries, including nationalization, expropriation,
limitations on repatriation  of funds, restrictive  action by local  governments
and changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
 
     The Company's principal foreign manufacturing operations are in  Australia,
Brazil,  Canada, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Portugal, South
Korea, Spain,  Singapore,  Taiwan, the  Netherlands  and the  U.K.  The  Company
maintains  sales  and business  offices in  these  and various  other countries,
including Austria,  Belgium,  China, Denmark,  Finland,  Hong Kong,  India,  New
Zealand,  Norway, Sweden  and Turkey  as well  as warehousing,  distribution and
aircraft repair and overhaul facilities to support foreign operations and export
sales. Further information about foreign activities is discussed in the  segment
narratives.
 
 

RAW MATERIALS
 
     Among the principal raw materials used by the Company, in addition to those
previously discussed  for  the  Engineered Materials  segment,  are  electronic,
optical   and  mechanical   component  parts  and   assemblies,  electronic  and
electromechanical devices, metallic  products, magnetic  and induction  devices,
castings,  forgings,  steel  and  bar  stock,  copper,  aluminum,  platinum  and
titanium. The Company  believes that  sources of  supply for  raw materials  and
components are generally adequate.
 
PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS
 
     The   Company  owns   approximately  15,000   patents  or   pending  patent
applications and  is  licensed  under  other patents  covering  certain  of  its
products  and processes.  It believes that,  in the aggregate,  the rights under
such patents and licenses  are generally important to  its operations, but  does
not  consider that any patent or license or  group of them related to a specific
process or product is of material importance in relation to the Company's  total
business.
 
     The  Company also has  registered trademarks for a  number of its products.
Some of the  more significant  trademarks include:  AiResearch, Anso,  Autolite,
Bendix,  Bendix/King, Capron, Fram,  Garrett, Genetron, Jurid,  King and Norplex
Oak.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
     The Company's research  activities are  directed toward  the discovery  and
development of new products and processes, improvements in existing products and
processes, and the development of new uses of existing products.
 
     Research and development expense totaled $318 million in 1994, $313 million
in  1993  and $320  million in  1992.  Customer-sponsored (principally  the U.S.
government) research and development activities amounted to an additional  $486,
$514 and $501 million in 1994, 1993 and 1992.
 
     The  Company's Research and Technology organization has research facilities
at Morris Township, New Jersey and Des Plaines, Illinois consisting of  research
and  development  laboratories where  special  emphasis is  placed  upon applied
research and upon development of new products and processes. In addition,  there
are  approximately 48 other  research laboratories and  facilities which provide
direct support to the operating segments.
 
ENVIRONMENT
 
     The Company is  subject to  various federal, state  and local  requirements
regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating
to  the protection of the environment. It is the Company's policy to comply with
these requirements  and the  Company believes  that, as  a general  matter,  its
policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable
risk   of  environmental  damage,  and  of  resulting  financial  liability,  in
connection with its  business. Some  risk of environmental  damage is,  however,
inherent  in particular operations  and products of  the Company, as  it is with
other companies  engaged in  similar  businesses. (See  the description  of  the
Engineered  Materials segment,  above, for  information regarding  regulation of
CFCs.)
 
     The Company is and  has been engaged in  the handling, manufacture, use  or
disposal of many substances which are classified as hazardous or toxic by one or
more  regulatory agencies. The  Company believes that, as  a general matter, its
handling, manufacture, use and  disposal of such substances  are in accord  with
environmental  laws  and  regulations.  It  is  possible,  however,  that future
knowledge  or  other  developments,  such  as  improved  capability  to   detect
substances  in  the  environment,  increasingly  strict  environmental  laws and
standards and enforcement  policies thereunder,  could bring  into question  the
Company's handling, manufacture, use or disposal of such substances.
 
     Among  other  environmental requirements,  the  Company is  subject  to the
federal Superfund law, and similar state laws, under which the Company has  been
designated  as a potentially  responsible party which may  be liable for cleanup
costs associated with various  hazardous waste sites, some  of which are on  the
U.S.  Environmental Protection Agency's Superfund priority list. Although, under
some
 
 

court interpretations of these laws, there  is a possibility that a  responsible
party  might have to bear more than  its proportional share of the cleanup costs
if it  is  unable to  obtain  appropriate contribution  from  other  responsible
parties,   the  Company  has  not  had  to  bear  significantly  more  than  its
proportional share in multi-party situations taken as a whole.
 
     Capital expenditures  for  environmental  control  facilities  at  existing
operations  were $43 million in 1994. The  Company estimates that during each of
the years 1995  and 1996 such  capital expenditures will  be in the  $65 to  $70
million range. In addition to capital expenditures, the Company has incurred and
will continue to incur operating costs in connection with such facilities.
 
     Reference is made to Management's Discussion and Analysis at page 21 of the
Company's  1994 Annual Report to  shareowners, incorporated herein by reference,
for further information regarding environmental matters.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
     The Company had  an aggregate of  87,500 salaried and  hourly employees  at
December  31, 1994. Of the approximately  30,000 unionized employees, 16,300 are
employed in  the  Company's  U.S.  and Canadian  plants  and  other  facilities.
Unionized  employees are represented by local unions that are either independent
or affiliated with  the United  Auto Workers, the  International Association  of
Machinists,  the United Steel  Workers of America, the  Oil, Chemical and Atomic
Workers International Union, the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and many
other international unions. Relations between the Company and its employees  and
their  various representatives  have been  generally satisfactory,  although the
Company has experienced work stoppages from  time to time. Approximately 21%  of
the  Company's  U.S.  and  Canadian unionized  employees  are  covered  by labor
contracts scheduled to  expire in  1995. Major labor  negotiations will  include
locations in all of the segments.
 
ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES
 
     The  Company has 383 locations consisting of plants, research laboratories,
sales offices and other  facilities. The plants are  generally located to  serve
large  marketing areas and  to provide accessibility to  raw materials and labor
pools. The  properties are  generally maintained  in good  operating  condition.
Utilization of these plants may vary with government spending and other business
conditions;  however,  no major  operating facility  is significantly  idle. The
facilities, together with planned expansions, are expected to meet the Company's
needs for  the  foreseeable  future.  The Company  owns  or  leases  warehouses,
railroad cars, barges, automobiles, trucks, airplanes and materials handling and
data  processing equipment.  It also leases  space for  administrative and sales
staffs. The Company's  headquarters and  administrative complex  are located  at
Morris Township, New Jersey.
 
     The  principal plants, which  are owned in  fee unless otherwise indicated,
are as follows:
 
                                   AEROSPACE
 
Phoenix, AZ (4 plants, 3 fully leased, 1 partially leased)
Prescott, AZ
Tempe, AZ
Tucson, AZ (partially leased)
Sylmar, CA
Torrance, CA (partially leased)
Stratford, CT (owned by the U.S. Government and managed by the Company)
Fort Lauderdale, FL
South Bend, IN
Olathe, KS
Columbia, MD
Towson, MD
Kansas City, MO (owned by the U.S. Government and managed by the Company)
Eatontown, NJ
Teterboro, NJ
Rocky Mount, NC
South Montrose, PA
Redmond, WA (partially leased)
Rexdale, Ont., Canada (partially leased)
Montreal, Que., Canada
Raunheim, Germany
 
                                   AUTOMOTIVE
 
Greenville, AL
Torrance, CA
St. Joseph, MI
Fostoria, OH
Greenville, OH
Sumter, SC
Jackson, TN
Maryville, TN
Campinas, Brazil
Angers, France
Beauvais, France
Conde, France
Moulins, France
Thaon-Les-Vosges, France
Crema, Italy
Glinde, Germany
Carlisle, United Kingdom
Skelmersdale, United Kingdom
 
 

                              ENGINEERED MATERIALS
 
Metropolis, IL
Baton Rouge, LA
Geismar, LA
Moncure, NC
Philadelphia, PA
Pottsville, PA
Columbia, SC
Chesterfield, VA
Hopewell, VA
Longlaville, France
 
ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     The first and second paragraphs of Note 20 (Commitments and  Contingencies)
of Notes to Financial Statements at pages 34 and 35 of the Company's 1994 Annual
Report to shareowners are incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
                                 Not Applicable
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     The  executive officers of  the Registrant, listed  as follows, are elected
annually in April. There are no family relationships among them.
 

 
- ------------
 (a) Also a director.
 
 (b) Mr. Powell intends to retire on March 31, 1995.
 
                                                  (table continued on next page)
 
 

(table continued from previous page)

 
 

                                    PART II.
 
ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
          MATTERS
 
     Market and  dividend  information  for the  Registrant's  common  stock  is
contained  in Note  27 (Unaudited Quarterly  Financial Information)  of Notes to
Financial Statements  at  page  38  of  the  Company's  1994  Annual  Report  to
shareowners, and such information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     The  number of record holders of the Registrant's common stock is contained
in the statement  'Selected Financial  Data' at page  39 of  the Company's  1994
Annual  Report to  shareowners, and such  information is  incorporated herein by
reference.
 
ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
     The information  included  under  the  captions  'For  the  Year'  and  'At
Year-End' in the statement 'Selected Financial Data' at page 39 of the Company's
1994 Annual Report to shareowners is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
          RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
     'Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis' on  pages  19 through  25  of the
Company's 1994 Annual Report to shareowners is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
     The Company's consolidated financial  statements, together with the  report
thereon  of Price Waterhouse  LLP dated February  1, 1995 appearing  on pages 26
through 38 of the Company's 1994 Annual Report to shareowners, are  incorporated
herein  by reference. With  the exception of  the aforementioned information and
the information incorporated by reference  in Items 1, 3, 5,  6 and 7, the  1994
Annual Report to shareowners is not to be deemed filed as part of this Form 10-K
Annual Report.
 
ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
          FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
                                 Not Applicable
 
                                   PART III.
 
ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     Information relating to directors of the Registrant, as well as information
relating  to compliance  with Section  16(a) of  the Securities  Exchange Act of
1934, will be contained in a  definitive Proxy Statement involving the  election
of  directors which  the Registrant will  file with the  Securities and Exchange
Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A not later than 120 days after December 31,
1994, and such information  is incorporated herein  by reference. Certain  other
information relating to Executive Officers of the Registrant appears at pages 15
and 16 of this Form 10-K Annual Report.
 
ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
     Information  relating to executive  compensation is contained  in the Proxy
Statement referred to above in 'Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the
Registrant,' and such information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 

ITEM 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
     Information relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management is contained in  the Proxy Statement referred  to above in 'Item  10.
Directors  and Executive  Officers of the  Registrant,' and  such information is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
                                 Not Applicable
 
                                    PART IV.
 
ITEM 14.   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 

 
(a)(2.) Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules
 
     The  two financial statement schedules applicable  to the Company have been
omitted because of the absence of the conditions under which they are required.
 
(a)(3.) Exhibits
 
     See the  Exhibit Index  to  this Form  10-K  Annual Report.  The  following
exhibits  listed  on the  Exhibit Index  are  filed with  this Form  10-K Annual
Report:
 

 
     The  exhibits  identified  in the  Exhibit  Index with  an  asterisk(*) are
management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.
 
(b) Reports on Form 8-K
 
     No reports on Form 8-K were filed  for the three months ended December  31,
1994.
 


                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant  to  the requirements  of Section  13 or  15(d) of  the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the  Registrant has duly caused  this annual report to  be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                             AlliedSignal Inc.
 
March 2, 1995                               By:           G. PETER D'ALOIA
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                          G. Peter D'Aloia
                                                  Vice President and Controller
 
     Pursuant  to the requirements of the  Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
annual report has been signed  below by the following  persons on behalf of  the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated:

 
** These  individuals  together  perform the  functions  of  principal financial
   officer.
 
March 2, 1995
 


                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 

 


 
- ------------
 
     The Exhibits identified above with an asterisk(*) are management  contracts
or compensatory plans or arrangements. 
 
                            STATEMENT OF DIFFERENCES





