
10-K
ALLIED 10-K




________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                   FORM 10-K
               [x] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995
                                       OR
 
             [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                   For the transition period from     to
 
                         Commission file number 1-8974
 
                               ALLIEDSIGNAL INC.
 
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 

 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code (201)455-2000
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 

 
- ------------
*  The  common  stock  is  also  listed for  trading  on  the  Amsterdam, Basle,
   Frankfurt, Geneva, London, Paris and Zurich stock exchanges.
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None
 
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12  months (or  for such shorter  period that  the Registrant  was
required  to  file  such reports),  and  (2)  has been  subject  to  such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No _
 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure  of delinquent filers pursuant to Item  405
of  Regulation S-K is  not contained herein,  and will not  be contained, to the
best of Registrant's  knowledge, in definitive  proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K [ ]
 
The  aggregate market  value of  the voting stock  held by  nonaffiliates of the
Registrant was approximately $13.4 billion at December 31, 1995.
 
There were 282,769,564 shares of Common Stock outstanding at December 31, 1995.
 
                      Documents Incorporated by Reference
                      -----------------------------------
         Part I and II: Annual Report to Shareowners for the Year Ended December
31, 1995.
        Part III: Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Shareowners to be held
April 22, 1996.
 
________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________



                               ALLIEDSIGNAL INC.
 
                             CROSS REFERENCE SHEET
 

 

 
- ------------
 
*  To  be  included  in  a  definitive Proxy  Statement  to  be  filed  with the
   Securities and Exchange Commission not later than 120 days after December 31,
   1995.
 



NOTE:    AlliedSignal  Inc. is  sometimes  referred  to in  this  Report  as the
Registrant and  as  the Company,  and  AlliedSignal Inc.  and  its  consolidated
subsidiaries  are  sometimes referred  to  as the  Company,  as the  context may
require.
 
                                

 
- ------------
 
 (a) These items are omitted since the Registrant will file with the  Securities
     and Exchange Commission a definitive Proxy Statement pursuant to Regulation
     14A  involving  the election  of directors  not later  than 120  days after
     December 31,  1995. Certain  other information  relating to  the  Executive
     Officers of the Registrant appears at pages 15 and 16 of this Report.
 




                                    PART I.
 
ITEM 1.   BUSINESS


     AlliedSignal Inc. (with its consolidated subsidiaries sometimes referred to
in  this Report as the Company) was organized  in the State of Delaware in 1985.
The Company is the successor to  Allied Corporation, which was organized in  the
State of New York in 1920.
 
     The  Company's  operations  are conducted  under  three  business segments:
Aerospace, Automotive and Engineered Materials.
 
     The Company's  products  are  used  by  many  major  industries,  including
electronics,   motor  vehicles,  chemicals,  textiles,  construction,  plastics,
housing, telecommunications,  utilities,  packaging, agriculture,  military  and
commercial aviation, and in the space program. The following is a description of
the   Company's  three  business  segments  and  their  principal  products  and
activities.
 
AEROSPACE
 
     The Aerospace  segment  is  among the  world's  largest  manufacturers  and
suppliers  of  advanced  technology  products  and  services  for  the military,
commercial and general aviation, and space markets.
 
     Aerospace's principal  product  lines  are organized  into  four  strategic
business  units:  AlliedSignal  Engines (Engines),  Aerospace  Equipment Systems
(Equipment Systems),  Government  Electronic Systems  (Electronic  Systems)  and
Commercial Avionics Systems (Avionics Systems).
 
     The  Company serves key  military and commercial  segments of the aviation,
defense and space markets with a broad array of systems, subsystems,  components
and  services. It designs, develops, manufactures, markets and services hundreds
of products found on all types of aircraft, from single-piston engine  aircraft,
executive  aircraft  and wide-bodied  'jumbos' flown  by the  world's commercial
carriers, to trainers, transports, bombers, fighters and helicopters used by the
U.S. and other  countries for  national defense. The  Company's global  business
consists primarily of original equipment (OE) sales and an extensive aftermarket
business,  including  spare  parts, maintenance  and  repair,  and retrofitting.
Worldwide customers include the U.S. and  foreign governments, all of the  major
airframe and engine manufacturers, including Boeing, McDonnell Douglas, Lockheed
Martin,   Airbus  Industrie  (Airbus),  British  Aerospace,  Cessna,  Fairchild,
Dassault, Gulfstream,  Bombardier,  Rockwell  International,  Pratt  &  Whitney,
General Electric (GE) and Rolls Royce, as well as the world's leading airlines.
 
     Principal products, manufactured for military aircraft, civil air transport
and   general  aviation  markets,  include  primary  propulsion,  consisting  of
turboprop, turbofan, turbojet  and turboshaft engines,  and auxiliary power  gas
turbine  engines; environmental control systems, consisting of air conditioning,
cabin  pressure  and  temperature  controls;  airborne  weather  avoidance   and
collision  avoidance radar systems;  forward-looking windshear detection systems
and wing ice detection systems; aircraft communications -- both voice and  data;
microwave  landing systems; automatic flight  control systems; pneumatic control
systems; engine and  flight instruments;  motion sensing and  air data  systems;
navigation   and   identification   equipment,   including   identification   of
friend-or-foe systems; flight  data recorders; cockpit  voice recorders;  ground
proximity  warning  systems;  electric power  generating  systems;  fuel control
systems; aircraft  wheels  and  brakes; brake  control  systems;  test  systems;
electromechanical  and hydraulic systems and components; heat transfer equipment
and engine  oil  cooling  systems. Other  products  include  electronic  cooling
systems and infrared radiation suppressors.
 
     The  Company also  manufactures products  for missiles,  spacecraft defense
command,  control   communication   and  intelligence   programs   and   oceanic
applications,  primarily  for  defense markets.  Products  include cryptographic
equipment, radar proximity fuzes, space-pointing  devices for deep space  probes
and  control  systems  for  spacecraft,  gyroscopes  for  tactical  missiles and
military aircraft, antisubmarine  warfare systems as  well as field  engineering
management  and technical support services to the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration (NASA) and the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE).
 
     In October 1994 the Company completed the purchase of the Lycoming  Turbine
Engine  Division of Textron Inc. (Lycoming Engine). The acquisition extended the
Company's turbine engine product
 
 


offerings into the 50- to 115-seat  regional aircraft market and in  helicopters
and  other commercial and military applications.  Lycoming Engine had 1994 sales
of $550 million.
 
     In January 1996, the Company completed the acquisition of Northrop  Grumman
Corporation's  precision products business based  in Norwood, Massachusetts. The
business, which  has  annual sales  of  approximately $39 million,  manufactures
inertial  and sensor products  for military and space  markets. In addition, the
Company sold its military  landing gear business  to Coltec Industries'  Menasco
unit.
 
     The  Company is affected by the level of expenditures for defense and space
programs and  the  level  of  production  of  commercial  and  general  aviation
aircraft.  The Company's  aerospace products are  sold directly to  the U.S. and
foreign governments,  aircraft manufacturers  and  commercial airlines,  and  to
dealers and distributors of general aviation products.
 
     Moderate growth in the Company's commercial business for aerospace products
is  expected,  over the  long  term, to  mitigate  a reduction  in  U.S. defense
spending. Moreover, aerospace  sales are not  dependent on any  one key  defense
program   or  commercial   customer.  However,   contract  awards   by  aircraft
manufacturers, some of which are discussed below, can be canceled or reduced  if
aircraft  orders are cut back. The products and services are sold in competition
with those of a large number of other companies, some of which have  substantial
financial  resources  and  significant technological  capabilities.  Among those
companies that  compete with  several of  the segment's  product areas  are  GE,
Honeywell,  Rockwell  International,  Sundstrand, United  Technologies  and B.F.
Goodrich.
 
     Sales to the U.S.  government, acting through  its various departments  and
agencies  and through prime contractors, amounted to $1,806 million for 1995 and
$1,886 million  for 1994,  which  amounts include  sales  to the  Department  of
Defense  of $1,205 million in 1995 and $1,300 million in 1994. Approximately 54%
and 59% of sales  to the U.S.  government in 1995  and 1994, respectively,  were
made  under fixed-price  contracts in  which the  Company agrees  to perform the
contract for a fixed price and retains  for itself any benefits of cost  savings
or must bear the burden of cost overruns.
 
     Government  contracts are generally  terminable by the  government at will.
Upon termination,  the  contractor is  normally  entitled to  reimbursement  for
allowable  costs and  to an  allowance for profit.  However, if  the contract is
terminated because of the contractor's  default, the contractor may not  recover
all  of  its costs  and  may be  liable  for any  excess  costs incurred  by the
government in procuring undelivered items from another source.
 
     The Company, as are other government contractors, is subject to  government
investigations  of business practices and compliance with government procurement
regulations.  Although  such  regulations  provide  that  a  contractor  may  be
suspended or debarred from government contracts under certain circumstances, and
the  outcome  of  pending  government investigations  cannot  be  predicted with
certainty, management is not presently aware of any such investigation which  it
expects will have a material adverse effect on the Company.
 
     Orders  for  certain  products  sold  to  general  and  commercial aviation
customers  mainly  consist  of  relatively  short-term  and  frequently  renewed
commitments.  Government procurement agencies generally issue contracts covering
relatively long periods  of time. Total  backlog for products  and services  for
both government and commercial contracts was $4,523 million at December 31, 1995
and  $4,730 million at  December 31, 1994  of which U.S.  and foreign government
orders were $1,871  million and  $1,803 million  for the  respective years.  The
Company  anticipates that approximately $3,010 million of the total 1995 backlog
will be filled during 1996.
 
     The Aerospace  segment's  international  operations  consist  primarily  of
exporting   U.S.  manufactured  products,  performance  of  services,  operating
aircraft repair and overhaul facilities and licensing activities. The  principal
manufacturing facility outside of the U.S. is in Canada.
 
     In 1995, as in the prior year, world defense spending continued to decline.
However,  most major  U.S. and international  airlines operated  in an improving
economic environment. The  modest turnaround that  began in the  second half  of
1993,  continued in  1994 and strengthened  significantly in  1995. The regional
airlines experienced strong growth while the high-end corporate aviation  market
showed moderate growth.
 
     Aerospace received a number of significant contracts during 1995.
 
 


     The  Company's flight safety systems were chosen by several major airlines.
Singapore Airlines  selected the  Company's flight  safety and  data  management
avionics  for its 67 Boeing 747-400 and  Airbus A340-300E aircraft in a contract
with a potential sales value of more than $20 million. Scandinavian Airlines and
Continental  Airlines  became  the  first   two  customers  for  the   Company's
Electro-Thermal  Ice  Protection  System  on  their  MD-80  aircraft.  Southwest
Airlines selected Avionics  Systems to  supply a complete  package of  avionics,
including  forward-looking windshear detection systems, and Equipment Systems to
provide maintenance for wheels and brakes in contracts with a combined potential
sales value of $175 million.
 
     Engine's new TFE731-40 turbofan engine was  chosen by Dassault for its  new
Falcon  50EX business jet. Engines was  also selected to provide TPE331-14-GR/HR
turboprop engines for 69 Jetstream 41 aircraft ordered by Trans States  Airlines
Inc. and SA Airlink of South Africa; the contract, including spares and service,
has  a  potential sales  value of  $220  million. Engines  was chosen  to supply
TFE731-5BR turbofan engines  for the  new Raytheon  Hawker 800XP  aircraft in  a
contract  with a  potential sales  value of  $300 million.  Engines and Avionics
Systems received a contract with a potential sales value of $240 million for the
LF-507 engines  and  avionics for  the  Avro  RJ-85 aircraft  chosen  by  Sabena
Airlines  and Swissair. Equipment Systems was selected by GE Aircraft Engines to
supply the start system for the CF34-8C.
 
     In military markets,  Electronic Systems won  several key awards.  Northrop
Grumman  selected Electronic Systems  to be the sole  supplier of the navigation
system for  the  U.S.  Army's  brilliant  anti-armor  submunition  program;  the
contract  has  a  potential  sales  value  of  $200  million.  McDonnell Douglas
Helicopter Systems selected the Company to provide multipurpose displays for its
AH-64D Longbow Apache  advanced attack  helicopter in  a contract  with a  sales
potential  in excess of $300 million. Equipment Systems will provide the turbine
cooling valve for Pratt & Whitney's F119 engine, currently under development  to
power  the twin-engine F-22 Advanced Tactical Fighter; the award has a potential
sales value  of more  than $12  million. Equipment  Systems also  was awarded  a
contract having a potential sales value of $20 million by the U.S. Navy (USN) to
provide F-18 wheel and brake spare parts and contracts for various valve systems
on  the Seawolf and  New Attack submarines.  Raytheon Aircraft selected Avionics
Systems to supply avionics for the  new U.S. Air Force (USAF)/USN Joint  Primary
Aircraft  Training  System  aircraft.  The  USN/Marine  Corps  selected Avionics
Systems' new flat-panel,  color liquid  crystal displays  to replace  up to  700
mechanical horizontal situation indicators in its H46 helicopters.
 
     In  the general aviation  market, the Company  received several significant
contracts. Engine's new RE100 Auxiliary Power Unit (APU) was selected by Learjet
as the  standard option  for its  new Lear  45 business  jet. Equipment  Systems
received  a  contract to  supply the  air conditioning  system for  Cessna's new
Citation Excel turbofan aircraft. Avionics Systems was selected by Cessna to  be
the  exclusive supplier of avionics for  the rebirth of the single-piston-engine
aircraft.
 
     A number of airlines selected Equipment Systems for their wheels and brakes
for new aircraft, including: Japan Air System for wheels and brakes for its  new
fleet  of Boeing 777 aircraft  in a contract with  potential sales valued at $54
million; Egyptair for  wheels and  carbon brakes  for the  airline's new  Airbus
A340s  and Boeing 777s; and Shandong Airlines  for wheels and brakes for its new
Boeing 737  aircraft.  The Company  was  also  chosen by  McDonnell  Douglas  to
assemble  and deliver an integrated landing system, including wheels and brakes,
for its new MD-95 twin-jet aircraft.
 
     In the helicopter market, McDonnell Douglas chose the Company's Bendix/King
and Global Wulfsberg avionics for its new Explorer helicopter in a contract with
a sales potential  of $50 million.  Light Helicopter Turbine  Engine Company,  a
partnership  with the Allison  Engine Company, signed  a contract with Hindustan
Aeronautics Ltd.  to provide  CTS800  commercial turboshaft  engines for  a  new
advanced  light helicopter. Projections of 300  helicopters could result in more
than $150 million in engine sales.
 
     AlliedSignal Technical Services  Corp. (ATSC)  received a  contract with  a
$200  million sales potential from the  USAF to provide maintenance, engineering
services and modifications to the Air Force Satellite Control Network.
 
 


     Equipment Systems  received  a  contract  from  Bombardier  Aerospace-North
America   to  provide  the  integrated  electrical  power  system  for  the  new
deHavilland Dash  8 Series  400 regional  aircraft. McDonnell  Douglas  selected
Avionics  Systems to supply liquid  crystal displays as part  of a field upgrade
program to retrofit the electro-mechanical flight instruments on the DC-8, DC-9,
DC-10 and MD-80 aircraft.
 
     The Company was also awarded a number of significant contracts in 1994.
 
     Aerospace was awarded several significant contracts related to Boeing's new
737-700 program totaling about  $3 billion in potential  sales over the life  of
the  program.  The  most  significant of  these  awards  included  the Company's
designation as the sole supplier  of APUs for this  new family of aircraft;  the
contract  has a sales  potential of $2 billion.  Equipment Systems won contracts
for the environmental control  and bleed air systems  with a sales potential  of
$370  million. GE's Aircraft Engines unit awarded contracts to Equipment Systems
for the main  fuel control  and the  air turbine  start system  for its  CFM56-7
engine  on the new 737 program with  a combined sales potential of $260 million.
Southwest Airlines awarded a contract with a sales potential of $225 million  to
Equipment  Systems  for  wheels and  brakes  on  its new  Boeing  737-700 fleet.
Equipment Systems was also awarded a contract for the engine nose cowl  anti-ice
valve with a sales potential of $22 million.
 
     The  Company has received  contracts for the  MD-95. Equipment Systems will
supply the environmental control systems  and Avionics Systems will provide  the
communications and navigational systems on a supplier-furnished-equipment basis.
The combined sales potential of the two contracts is more than $500 million.
 
     Aero  Vodochody  of Czechoslovakia  selected International  Turbine Engines
Corp., a joint venture between Engines and the Aero Industry Development  Center
of  the Republic of China (Taiwan), to  supply F124-GA-100 engines for its L-159
light attack/advanced trainer aircraft. The  sales potential of the contract  is
$290  million. Aero Vodochody also chose  a Rockwell-AlliedSignal team to supply
the avionics suite for its L-159 program; Electronic Systems is responsible  for
supplying and integrating selected avionics subsystems. Lockheed Martin Aircraft
Services  awarded a  contract to  Electronic Systems  to upgrade  the integrated
cockpit displays and mission avionics in A-4M SkyHawk tactical fighters sold  by
the U.S. government to the Republic of Argentina's Air Force.
 
     Engines  received an order  to supply the  Garrett Turbine Compressor Power
180C engine for  up to 750  ground carts for  the USAF for  the San Antonio  Air
Logistics  Center's  Large  Aircraft  Start System.  The  contract  has  a sales
potential of $75 million.
 
     Electronic Systems  received a  contract  with a  sales potential  of  $200
million to produce an inertial measurement unit for Northrop Grumman's Brilliant
Anti-Tank Weapon.
 
     The  USAF's  Philips Laboratory  awarded  Equipment Systems  a  contract to
develop a turbopump. This contract has  sales potential of about $5 million  and
is  considered strategically significant because  it positions Equipment Systems
for entry into the turbopump market.
 
     Two important APU maintenance service agreements (MSA) were awarded  during
the  year. Southwest Airlines, for its fleet of 737 aircraft, awarded a contract
with a  sales potential  of $100  million  to the  Company and  Alaska  Airlines
selected the Company to service its APUs with a sales potential of $7.6 million.
 
     The  Australian Civil Aviation Authority awarded  a contract for $9 million
to Electronic Systems to  provide a parallel approach  radar monitor (PARM)  for
Sydney's  airport;  it will  be the  third airport  in the  world and  the first
outside the U.S. with a PARM.
 
     The Company was  also awarded new  contracts in general  aviation in  1994.
Avionics Systems successfully penetrated the safety avionics market by winning a
contract  from Gulfstream to provide a  safety avionics suite for the Gulfstream
GV aircraft. The award included a  traffic alert and collision avoidance  system
(TCAS  II), ground  proximity warning  systems and  maintenance data acquisition
units. Israeli Aircraft Industries selected the Company for three contracts with
a combined  sales  potential exceeding  $30  million. The  TFE731-40  engine,  a
turbofan  from the Company's  generation of TFE731 engines,  was selected as the
propulsion system  for  the  Astra  SPX aircraft  and  the  Company's  APUs  and
environmental  control  systems  were  selected  for  the  Galaxy  business jet.
Dassault Aviation
 
 


selected Engines  to supply  the most  powerful of  its new  family of  turbofan
engines,  the TFE731-60,  for Dassault's  new Falcon  900EX. Engines  received a
contract for  69  TPE331-14  turboprop  engines  from  Jetstream  with  a  sales
potential  of $220  million. Canadair  selected Engines  to supply  APUs and air
turbine start systems for its fleet  of Global Express aircraft with a  combined
sales potential of $50 million.
 
     NASA  awarded ATSC  the test, evaluation  and maintenance  contract for its
White Sands Test Facility in New Mexico. The initial three-year contract, plus a
two-year option, has a sales potential of $163 million. In an award that secured
a strong position  for future  potential space station  work, Equipment  Systems
received a contract from NASA's Lewis Research Center to develop the first space
flight  demonstration of a solar dynamic electric power generation system with a
sales potential of $15 million. Aerospace  was part of four industry teams  that
will  share in  $98 million in  technology reinvestment project  grants from the
U.S. government's Advanced Research Projects Agency. Among the projects is a $42
million award for the development of a radar system to be used in an  Autonomous
Landing Guidance System and a $43 million award to develop Fly-by-Light Advanced
Systems  Hardware.  ATSC  is developing  and  installing the  ground  system for
Taiwan's new  satellite  program  under  a  contract  with  a  sales  potential,
including options, of $32 million.
 
     The  Company expects  that these programs  will require  only minimal fixed
capital spending.
 
AUTOMOTIVE
 
     The Automotive  segment designs,  engineers  and manufactures  systems  and
components  for worldwide  vehicle manufacturers and  aftermarket customers. The
segment's principal  business  areas  are braking  systems,  engine  components,
safety  restraint systems  and the  aftermarket. Within  each area,  the segment
offers a wide range of products for  passenger cars and light, medium and  heavy
trucks.
 
     For  manufacturers of passenger cars and light trucks, the Company provides
disc and drum brakes, power brake  boosters and master cylinders, brake  valves,
wheel  end products, friction materials, spark plugs, turbochargers and occupant
protection systems (seat belts, air bags and related components).
 
     The Company's primary product offerings for the manufacturers of medium and
heavy trucks and  off-road vehicles  primarily include air  and hydraulic  brake
actuation  components, air and hydraulic drum and disc brakes, anti-lock braking
systems (ABS), compressors,  air dryers, friction  materials, turbochargers  and
charge-air intercoolers.
 
     The  aftermarket business includes replacement parts  for most of the above
items as well as air, oil and  fuel filters, wire and cable products, and  brake
sealants and fluids.
 
     Automotive  operations are located in  the U.S., Australia, Brazil, Canada,
China, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico,  Poland,
Portugal,  South Korea, Spain,  Turkey and the  United Kingdom. Distribution and
marketing  are  conducted  in  these  and  numerous  other  countries  as  well.
Internationally, products are marketed under the Bendix, Fram, Autolite, Garrett
and Jurid trademarks.
 
     Worldwide  passenger car and truck OE sales accounted for approximately 74%
in both  1995  and  1994  of  the net  sales  of  the  Automotive  segment  with
aftermarket  sales  accounting  for the  balance.  In 1995  and  1994 Automotive
operations outside the U.S. accounted for  $2,499 and $2,217 million, or 45%  in
both years, of worldwide sales.
 
     In 1995 and 1994 sales of automotive OE systems and components were made to
approximately  30  customers  of  which the  Company's  five  largest automotive
manufacturing customers accounted for  approximately 52% and 56%,  respectively,
of  such sales. Total worldwide sales (for  OE and aftermarket use) for 1995 and
1994 to the Company's five  largest automotive manufacturing customers  amounted
to  $2,138 and $2,063 million, including sales to Ford Motor Company (Ford), the
segment's largest customer, of $887 and $782 million for the respective years.
 
 


     The segment's operations  outside the  U.S. are  conducted through  various
foreign  companies  in which  it has  interests ranging  from minor  to complete
control.  International   operations  also   include  the   exporting  of   U.S.
manufactured products and licensing activities.
 
     The Automotive segment's products are sold in highly competitive markets to
customers  who demand performance, quality and competitive prices. Virtually all
automotive components are sold in  competition with other independent  suppliers
or  with the captive component divisions of the vehicle manufacturers. While the
Company's competitive position varies among  its products, the Company  believes
it  is a  significant factor  in each  of its  major product  markets. The major
independent competitors in one or more major business areas include: ITT  Teves,
Lucas  Girling,  Rockwell-WABCO,  Dana, Autoliv,  Cooper  Industries, Schwitzer,
Midland, Bosch, Kelsey Hayes, KKK,  TRW, Purolator, Delco, AM Brake,  Raybestos,
Takata and Morton.
 
     In  1994 the  Company established  two joint  ventures in  Europe, one with
Sogefi S.p.A. and the other with Gilardini, a subsidiary of Fiat, and Sequa. The
joint venture with  Sogefi S.p.A.,  a European manufacturer  and distributor  of
automotive  filters and other automotive products,  has enabled both partners to
penetrate new markets through a joint  distribution network and to reduce  costs
through  consolidation of  both warehouses  and distribution  centers. The joint
venture with Gilardini and Sequa -- BAG, S.p.A. -- which began operations in the
third quarter  of  1995,  manufactures and supplies hybrid inflators for driver-
and passenger-side air bag modules that are assembled by the Company's new plant
in  Italy.  Hybrid  inflators  provide  a cost-efficient method of inflating air
bags, using  compressed  argon  gas  and  a proprietary environmentally-friendly
solid generant from the Atlantic Research Corporation, which is used to heat the
gas. These operations  provide  the  Company with an entry into the European air
bag  market.  In January 1995 the Company and Jidosha Kiki Co. of Japan formed a
joint venture to supply brake boosters for vehicles built in Europe  by Japanese
manufacturers. The venture is based in Pamplona, Spain.
 
     In late December 1994 the Company acquired Ford's spark plug  manufacturing
plant  in  Treforest,  South  Wales.  The  acquisition  enhanced  the  Company's
relationship with Ford as its sole supplier of spark plugs in both North America
and Europe  and  provides a  manufacturing  base in  Europe  for growth  in  the
aftermarket spark plug business.
 
     In  April  1995 the  Company acquired  the Budd  Company's Wheel  and Brake
Division, whose products include: rotors, hubs, drums and related assemblies for
passenger cars  and  light trucks;  steel  disk  wheels for  heavy  trucks;  and
demountable  rims and hub and drum assemblies for medium- and heavy-duty trucks.
The Wheel and Brake Division had 1994 sales of over $300 million.
 
     In June 1995 the  Company acquired Fiat Auto  Poland S.A. (Fiat)'s  braking
business  in  Poland,  whose  products  include  disc  and  drum  brakes, master
cylinders and  brake boosters;  and  became the  exclusive supplier  of  braking
systems to Fiat in Poland. The manufacturing facility of the business is located
in Twargodora, Poland. Annual sales approximate $30 million.
 
     In 1995 the Company purchased Transturk Holding's 68% interest in Transturk
Fren  Donanim Industriesi AS, a leading Turkish manufacturer of braking systems.
The acquisition brings the  Company's investment in the  company to 80%.  Annual
sales approximate $27 million.
 
     Construction  of a new turbocharger plant  in Shanghai, China was completed
and production began  in September 1995.  This facility enables  the Company  to
serve   the  rapidly  growing   diesel  engine  market   in  China  and  provide
turbochargers to international markets as opportunities develop.
 
     Automotive, as previously announced, has decided to exit the  light-vehicle
ABS  business  and  is  conducting  discussions  concerning  the  future  of its
light-vehicle braking  business.  Exiting  the ABS  business  could  hinder  the
Company's  ability to remain a first  tier supplier of complete braking systems.
The Company expects that neither exiting the ABS business nor the absence of  an
agreement  regarding the  light-vehicle braking  business would  have a material
impact on the Company's results of operations or financial position in 1996. The
ABS actions do not affect the  heavy-truck ABS business, in which the  Company's
joint venture with Knorr-Bremse has a significant market position.
 
     In  addition, a  reduction in  the Automotive  workforce was  announced and
substantially completed in the fourth quarter of 1995. The reduction  eliminates
approximately  3,100 full-time-equivalent positions.  The workforce reduction is
expected to be completed by the end of 1996.
 
 


ENGINEERED MATERIALS
 
     The Engineered  Materials  segment is  composed  of four  major  divisions:
Polymers,  Fluorine Products, Specialty Chemicals  and Electronic Materials. The
Specialty Chemicals and Electronic Materials  divisions were formed in  February
1996 by realigning some of Engineered Materials' businesses in order to increase
the focus on the rapidly growing global markets these divisions serve.
 
     Polymers.  The  Polymers  division  consists  of  the  Fibers  and Plastics
businesses  which  were  combined  in  1995  to  enhance  the  units'   vertical
integration and ensure optimization throughout the nylon system.
 
     The Company's Fibers business is a leading producer of type 6 nylon and the
third  largest producer  of nylon in  the U.S.  The Company is  also the largest
domestic producer of  caprolactam, the  primary intermediate for  type 6  nylon,
from  which it produces fine and heavy  denier nylon yarns and molding compounds
and film. These  yarns are sold  under the trademarks  Anso'r', Anso X'r',  Anso
IV'r',  Anso V'r', Worry-Free'r', CrushResisterTM  and Caprolan'r'. In addition,
the Company produces heavy denier  polyester yarns. The Company primarily  sells
yarns to the carpet, textile, motor vehicle and industrial markets.
 
     In the carpet yarn markets, both continuous filament and staple nylon yarns
are  sold to yarn processors  and mills for the  manufacture of carpeting. Nylon
filament and staple are the dominant fiber yarns used in carpet production.  The
four  largest  producers,  including  the Company,  have  over  90%  of domestic
capacity.  The  Company  has  achieved  recognition  as  a  leader  in   product
development and has developed a strong customer base. Brand identity, service to
customers  and quality are important competitive factors in the market and there
is considerable price competition.
 
     In the motor vehicle and industrial markets, the Company's primary products
are nylon  and  polyester  yarns  for  use in  tire  cord,  seat  belts,  hoses,
tarpaulins  and  outdoor  furniture.  In 1995  the  Company  announced  plans to
increase capacity  at its  industrial polyester  yarn facility  in  Longlaville,
France  at a  cost of  approximately $45 million.  In November  1995 the Company
acquired Bridgestone/Firestone's  50  million-pound industrial  polyester  fiber
plant  in  Hopewell,  Virginia.  With  anticipated  modernization,  the  Company
believes that the Hopewell  plant will have annual  sales of approximately  $100
million.  The  Company  believes that  polyester  yarn will  become  the primary
reinforcement for passenger car radial tires in the world in the late 1990s  and
is exploring development opportunities in the Asia/Pacific region.
 
     The  textile fibers markets, where the Company sells Caprolan'r' nylon flat
yarns for warp knit and  weaving applications, include intimate apparel,  sports
outerwear,  jackets and such recreational products  as sleeping bags, back packs
and luggage. The industry is highly price competitive.
 
     The Plastics  business manufactures  and  markets engineering  resins.  The
Company  is a leading producer of nylon 6 engineering resins (Capron'r') for the
automotive, electrical and electronic component,  food packaging, lawn care  and
power tool markets.
 
     In  October 1995  the Company  acquired the  nylon plastics  and industrial
fibers manufacturing facilities in Rudolstadt, Germany, from the German state of
Thuringia. The Company plans to invest about $100 million during the next  three
years to expand and upgrade the facility.
 
     Fluorine Products. The Fluorine Products business consists of Hydrofluoric
Acid (HF), Fluorocarbons,  Nuclear  Services,  Sulfur  Hexafluoride  (SF6)  and
Sterilant Gases.
 
     The Company is the world's largest producer of HF and an industry leader in
the production and sale  of products derived  from HF, including  fluorocarbons,
SF6 and uranium hexafluoride (UF6).
 
     Genetron'r'  fluorocarbons  are  sold  mainly  as  refrigerants  to  OE and
replacement manufacturers of air conditioning and refrigeration equipment and as
foam blowing agents to rigid foam producers. Genesolv'r' fluorocarbons are  sold
as  solvents in precision cleaning applications  such as electronics, optics and
aerospace applications. The Montreal Protocol (Protocol), which has been  signed
by  the United States, regulates  worldwide chlorofluorocarbons (CFC) production
and consumption. With few exceptions, the Protocol required 100% elimination  of
fully  halogenated CFC production by industrialized countries as of December 31,
1995. The amended U.S. Clean Air Act also regulates CFCs and similarly  required
that  most  U.S.  production  of  CFCs  be  phased  out  by  the  end  of  1995.
 
 


CFCs produced in the U.S. are also  subject to the Ozone Depleting Chemical  Tax
of  the Revenue Reconciliation  Act of 1989. In  accordance with applicable law,
the Company's Genetron'r' and Genesolv'r' products include CFCs.
 
     The Company is continuing  its efforts to develop  environmentally-friendly
fluorocarbon  products as it replaces the  current CFC product line. An existing
commercial plant in El Segundo, California was converted in 1991 to  manufacture
hydrochlorofluorocarbon  (HCFC)-141b,  a key  substitute  for CFC-11,  a blowing
agent in urethane foams,  and as a replacement  for CFC-113 in critical  solvent
applications.  By 1994 the Company more than  tripled the plant's capacity to 60
million pounds  per year.  The  Company has  commercialized key  CFC  substitute
products  in  various applications,  including  automotive air  conditioning and
residential, commercial and  industrial refrigeration. In  this connection,  the
Company  began manufacturing environmentally-friendly alternatives  to CFCs at a
new $70 million multi-product commercial facility in Geismar, Louisiana targeted
primarily at  the  substitute  products  HCFC-123,  HCFC-124,  hydrofluorocarbon
(HFC)-125  and HFC-134a. The Company is  continuing its research and development
efforts in view of the changing regulatory environment in which it operates. The
Company cannot predict the impact of possible future regulatory issues.
 
     The Company acquired the  CFC business of Akzo  NV, with facilities in  the
Netherlands,  in  April 1994.  This acquisition  has  provided the  Company with
access to new markets for its fluorocarbon products.
 
     The Company's Nuclear Services business processes uranium ore  concentrates
into  UF6 which is an essential intermediate  in the production of fuel elements
for nuclear  power  reactors  for  domestic and  foreign  customers.  A  Company
subsidiary  is in  partnership with a  General Atomics' affiliate  to market UF6
conversion services supplied by the Company's Metropolis, Illinois manufacturing
facility. The partnership, ConverDyn,  competes for the  open world market  with
four foreign processors that are either government owned or controlled.
 
     The  Company is one of two domestic  producers of SF6, a gas primarily used
by  utilities  because  of  its  electrical  insulatory  properties  in  circuit
breakers, switches, transmission lines and electronic minisubstations.
 
     The Company also produces sterilant gases which primarily consist of blends
of  ethylene oxide and fluorocarbons that  are sold to hospitals, medical device
manufacturers and  contract  sterilizers.  The Company  holds  the  patents  for
selected sterilant gas blends using environmentally-friendly fluorocarbons.
 
     Specialty  Chemicals. Businesses  included are  Riedel-de Haen, Performance
Chemicals,  A-C'r'  Performance  Additives,   the  UOP  joint  venture,   Carbon
Materials, the Environmental Catalysts joint venture and Specialty Films.
 
     In  October  1995  the Company  purchased  Hoechst AG's  95.8%  interest in
Riedel-de Haen  AG,  a  specialty  chemicals  manufacturer  located  in  Seelze,
Germany.  Riedel-de  Haen  manufactures  products  for  the  pharmaceutical  and
electronics industries, as well as  coatings, photo dyes and specialty  pigments
markets. Annual sales approximate $250 million.
 
     The Performance Chemicals business is a leading supplier of specialty oxime
chemicals  for use in the  agricultural, coatings, photographic, pharmaceutical,
adhesives and  sealants,  and  mining  industries. The  Company  has  some  cost
benefits from its captive source of hydroxylamine sulfate.
 
     A-C'r'  Performance Additives are low-molecular weight polyethylene polymer
additives which primarily serve the  textiles, plastics, adhesives and  polishes
specialty markets worldwide.
 
     UOP  is an equally owned joint venture with Union Carbide Corporation which
designs and  licenses processes,  and  produces and  markets catalysts  for  the
petroleum refining, gas processing, petrochemical and food industries.
 
     The  Carbon Materials business produces binder pitch for electrodes for the
aluminum and  carbon industries,  creosote oils  as preservatives  for the  wood
products   and  carbon  black   markets,  refined  naphthalene   as  a  chemical
intermediate, and driveway  sealer tar  and roofing pitch  for the  construction
industry.  All of the tar products are  distilled from coal tar, a by-product of
the steel industry's coking operations.
 
 


     The Environmental  Catalysts  business is  a  major worldwide  supplier  of
catalysts  used in  catalytic converters for  automobiles. In  November 1994 the
Company and General Motors  Corporation (GM) formed a  joint venture to  produce
coated  automotive catalytic  converter substrates. The  Company contributed its
environmental catalysts business and  GM contributed coating-related  technology
and a long-term supply contract to the joint venture.
 
     Major   products  in  the  Specialty  Films  business  include  cast  nylon
(Capran'r'), biaxially  oriented nylon  film  (Biax'r') and  fluoropolymer  film
(Aclar'r').  Specialty  film  markets include  food,  pharmaceutical,  and other
packaging and industrial applications. The Company plans to begin  manufacturing
SpectraVueTM, a line of thin plastic films that significantly improves the image
quality  of Liquid Crystal  Displays, during 1996.  The Company will manufacture
SpectraVueTM components  from  a new  $25  million facility  in  Elizabeth,  New
Jersey.
 
     Electronic  Materials. Businesses  included are  Laminate Systems, Advanced
Microelectronic Materials and Amorphous Metals.
 
     Laminate Systems manufactures  circuit board laminates  for the  electronic
and  electrical industries. The Company's product  line includes copper clad and
unclad  laminates  used  in  computer,  telecommunication,  instrumentation  and
military  applications.  Approximately 55%  of  sales are  to  the international
market, primarily  in southeast  Asia  and throughout  Europe. The  industry  is
highly  price competitive.  The Company, in  partnership with  Mitsui Mining and
Smelting Company, is backward integrated in electro deposited copper foil.  This
unit  also manufactures electrical grade glass yarns in partnership with Nittobo
Corporation of Japan.
 
     The Advanced  Microelectronics  Materials business  designs,  develops  and
manufactures  materials for semiconductor companies  worldwide. The Company is a
leader in  technology  that smoothes  integrated  circuits under  the  trademark
ACCUGLASS'r'.
 
     The  Company manufactures  amorphous metals (METGLAS'r'  Alloys) that offer
significant  efficiency  gains  in  electrical  distribution  transformers  over
conventional electrical steel which is currently used. Amorphous metals are also
a key component in theft deterrent systems used by retail companies.
 
     In  December 1995 the  Company exited its  high-density polyethylene (HDPE)
business. Paxon Polymer Company,  L.P., a partnership of  the Company and  Exxon
Chemical Company, transferred the HDPE business to Exxon.
 
     The  principal raw materials  used in the  Engineered Materials segment are
generally  readily   available  and   include  cumene,   natural  gas,   sulfur,
terephthalic   acid,  ethylene  and  ethylene   glycol,  fluorspar,  HF,  carbon
tetrachloride, chloroform,  nylon  resins, fiberglass,  copper  foil,  platinum,
rhodium and coal tar pitch. The Company is producing virtually all of its HF and
nylon  resin  requirements. Important  competitors are:  Du Pont,  GE, Monsanto,
Hoechst/Celanese, BASF Fibers,  Koppers, U.S.I., Phillips,  Soltex, Atochem  and
Nan Ya.
 
SEGMENT FINANCIAL DATA
 
     Note  23 (Segment Financial  Data) of Notes to  Financial Statements in the
Company's 1995 Annual Report to shareowners is incorporated herein by reference.
 
DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN FINANCIAL DATA
 
     Note 24  (Geographic  Areas  --  Financial  Data)  of  Notes  to  Financial
Statements  in the Company's  1995 Annual Report  to shareowners is incorporated
herein by reference.
 
FOREIGN ACTIVITIES
 
     The Company's foreign businesses are  subject to the usual risks  attendant
upon investments in foreign countries, including nationalization, expropriation,
limitations  on repatriation of  funds, restrictive action  by local governments
and changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
 
 


     The Company's principal foreign manufacturing operations are in  Australia,
Brazil,   Canada,  France,  Germany,  Ireland,  Italy,  Japan,  Mexico,  Poland,
Portugal, South Korea, Spain, Singapore, Taiwan, the Netherlands and the  United
Kingdom.  The Company maintains sales and  business offices in these and various
other countries, including Austria, Belgium, China, Denmark, Finland, Hong Kong,
India,  New  Zealand,  Norway,  Sweden  and  Turkey  as  well  as   warehousing,
distribution  and  aircraft repair  and overhaul  facilities to  support foreign
operations and export  sales. Further  information about  foreign activities  is
discussed in the segment narratives.
 
RAW MATERIALS
 
     Among the principal raw materials used by the Company, in addition to those
previously  discussed  for  the Engineered  Materials  segment,  are electronic,
optical  and  mechanical   component  parts  and   assemblies,  electronic   and
electromechanical  devices, metallic products, castings, forgings, steel and bar
stock, copper,  aluminum,  platinum  and titanium.  The  Company  believes  that
sources of supply for raw materials and components are generally adequate.
 
PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS
 
     The   Company  owns   approximately  14,000   patents  or   pending  patent
applications and  is  licensed  under  other patents  covering  certain  of  its
products  and processes.  It believes that,  in the aggregate,  the rights under
such patents and licenses  are generally important to  its operations, but  does
not  consider that any patent or license or  group of them related to a specific
process or product is of material importance in relation to the Company's  total
business.
 
     The  Company also has  registered trademarks for a  number of its products.
Some of the  more significant  trademarks include:  AiResearch, Anso,  Autolite,
Bendix,  Bendix/King, Capron, Fram,  Garrett, Genetron, Jurid,  King and Norplex
Oak.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
     The Company's research  activities are  directed toward  the discovery  and
development of new products and processes, improvements in existing products and
processes, and the development of new uses of existing products.
 
     Research  and development  expense totaled $353,  $318 and  $313 million in
1995, 1994  and 1993,  respectively.  Customer-sponsored (principally  the  U.S.
government)  research and development activities amounted to an additional $536,
$486 and $514 million in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.
 
     The Company has approximately 48  research facilities which provide  direct
support to the operating segments.
 
ENVIRONMENT
 
     The  Company is  subject to various  federal, state  and local requirements
regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating
to the protection of the environment. It is the Company's policy to comply  with
these  requirements  and the  Company believes  that, as  a general  matter, its
policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable
risk  of  environmental  damage,  and  of  resulting  financial  liability,   in
connection  with its  business. Some risk  of environmental  damage is, however,
inherent in particular  operations and products  of the Company,  as it is  with
other  companies  engaged in  similar businesses.  (See  the description  of the
Engineered Materials  segment, above,  for information  regarding regulation  of
CFCs.)
 
     The  Company is and has  been engaged in the  handling, manufacture, use or
disposal of many substances which are classified as hazardous or toxic by one or
more regulatory agencies. The  Company believes that, as  a general matter,  its
handling,  manufacture, use and  disposal of such substances  are in accord with
environmental laws  and  regulations.  It  is  possible,  however,  that  future
knowledge   or  other  developments,  such  as  improved  capability  to  detect
substances in  the  environment,  increasingly  strict  environmental  laws  and
standards  and enforcement  policies thereunder,  could bring  into question the
Company's handling, manufacture, use or disposal of such substances.
 
     Among other  environmental  requirements, the  Company  is subject  to  the
federal  Superfund law, and similar state laws, under which the Company has been
designated as a potentially  responsible party which may  be liable for  cleanup
costs  associated with various hazardous  waste sites, some of  which are on the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's Superfund priority list. Although,  under
some  court  interpretations  of  these  laws, there  is  a  possibility  that a
responsible party might have to bear
 
 


more than its proportional share of the cleanup costs if it is unable to  obtain
appropriate contribution from other responsible parties, the Company has not had
to bear significantly more than its proportional share in multi-party situations
taken as a whole.
 
     Capital  expenditures  for  environmental  control  facilities  at existing
operations were $44 million in 1995.  The Company estimates that during each  of
the  years 1996  and 1997 such  capital expenditures will  be in the  $40 to $45
million range. In addition to capital expenditures, the Company has incurred and
will continue to incur operating costs in connection with such facilities.
 
     Reference is made to Management's Discussion and Analysis at page 21 of the
Company's 1995 Annual Report to  shareowners, incorporated herein by  reference,
for further information regarding environmental matters.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
     The  Company had  an aggregate of  88,500 salaried and  hourly employees at
December 31, 1995. Of the  approximately 33,000 unionized employees, 19,000  are
employed  in  the  Company's  U.S. and  Canadian  plants  and  other facilities.
Unionized employees are represented by local unions that are either  independent
or  affiliated with  the United Auto  Workers, the  International Association of
Machinists, the United  Steelworkers of  America, the Oil,  Chemical and  Atomic
Workers International Union, the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and many
other  international unions. Relations between the Company and its employees and
their various  representatives have  been generally  satisfactory, although  the
Company  has experienced work stoppages from  time to time. Approximately 39% of
the Company's  U.S.  and  Canadian  unionized employees  are  covered  by  labor
contracts  scheduled to  expire in 1996.  Major labor  negotiations will include
locations in all of the segments.
 
ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES
 
     The Company has 372 locations consisting of plants, research  laboratories,
sales  offices and other  facilities. The plants are  generally located to serve
large marketing areas and  to provide accessibility to  raw materials and  labor
pools.  The  properties are  generally maintained  in good  operating condition.
Utilization of these plants may vary with government spending and other business
conditions; however,  no major  operating facility  is significantly  idle.  The
facilities, together with planned expansions, are expected to meet the Company's
needs  for  the  foreseeable  future. The  Company  owns  or  leases warehouses,
railroad cars, barges, automobiles, trucks, airplanes and materials handling and
data processing equipment.  It also  leases space for  administrative and  sales
staffs.  The Company's  headquarters and  administrative complex  are located at
Morris Township, New Jersey.
 
     The principal plants, which  are owned in  fee unless otherwise  indicated,
are as follows:
 
                                   AEROSPACE
 
Phoenix, AZ (4 plants, 3 fully leased, 1 partially leased)
Tempe, AZ
Tucson, AZ (partially leased)
Torrance, CA (partially leased)
Stratford, CT (owned by the U.S. Government and managed by the Company)
Fort Lauderdale, FL
South Bend, IN
Lawrence, KS
Olathe, KS
Columbia, MD
Towson, MD
Teterboro, NJ
Rocky Mount, NC
Rexdale, Ont., Canada (partially leased)
Raunheim, Germany
 
                                   AUTOMOTIVE
 
Greenville, AL
Torrance, CA
St. Joseph, MI
Fostoria, OH
Greenville, OH
Sumter, SC
Jackson, TN
Maryville, TN
Campinas, Brazil
Angers, France
Conde, France
Moulins, France
Thaon-Les-Vosges, France
Crema, Italy
Glinde, Germany
Skelmersdale, United Kingdom
 
                              ENGINEERED MATERIALS
 
Metropolis, IL
Baton Rouge, LA
Geismar, LA
Moncure, NC
Philadelphia, PA
Pottsville, PA
Columbia, SC
Chesterfield, VA
Hopewell, VA
Longlaville, France
Seelze, Germany
 
 


ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     The  first and second paragraphs of Note 19 (Commitments and Contingencies)
of Notes to Financial Statements at page 35 of the Company's 1995 Annual  Report
to shareowners are incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
                                 Not Applicable
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     The  executive officers of  the Registrant, listed  as follows, are elected
annually in April. There are no family relationships among them.
 

 
- ------------
 (a) Also a director.
 
                                                  (table continued on next page)
 
 


(table continued from previous page)
 

 
                                    PART II.
 
ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
          MATTERS
 
     Market  and  dividend  information  for the  Registrant's  common  stock is
contained in Note  25 (Unaudited  Quarterly Financial Information)  of Notes  to
Financial  Statements  at  page  38  of  the  Company's  1995  Annual  Report to
shareowners, and such information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 


     The number of record holders of the Registrant's common stock is  contained
in  the statement  'Selected Financial  Data' at page  39 of  the Company's 1995
Annual Report to  shareowners, and  such information is  incorporated herein  by
reference.
 
ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
     The  information  included  under  the  captions  'For  the  Year'  and 'At
Year-End' in the statement 'Selected Financial Data' at page 39 of the Company's
1995 Annual Report to shareowners is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
          RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
     'Management's Discussion  and  Analysis' on  pages  19 through  25  of  the
Company's 1995 Annual Report to shareowners is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
     The  Company's consolidated financial statements,  together with the report
thereon of Price  Waterhouse LLP dated  February 1, 1996  appearing on pages  26
through  38 of the Company's 1995 Annual Report to shareowners, are incorporated
herein by reference. With  the exception of  the aforementioned information  and
the  information incorporated by reference  in Items 1, 3, 5,  6 and 7, the 1995
Annual Report to shareowners is not to be deemed filed as part of this Form 10-K
Annual Report.
 
ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
          FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
                                 Not Applicable
 
                                   PART III.
 
ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     Information relating to directors of the Registrant, as well as information
relating to compliance  with Section  16(a) of  the Securities  Exchange Act  of
1934,  will be contained in a  definitive Proxy Statement involving the election
of directors which  the Registrant will  file with the  Securities and  Exchange
Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A not later than 120 days after December 31,
1995,  and such information  is incorporated herein  by reference. Certain other
information relating to Executive Officers of the Registrant appears at pages 15
and 16 of this Form 10-K Annual Report.
 
ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
     Information relating to  executive compensation is  contained in the  Proxy
Statement referred to above in 'Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the
Registrant,' and such information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
     Information relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management  is contained in the  Proxy Statement referred to  above in 'Item 10.
Directors and Executive  Officers of  the Registrant,' and  such information  is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
 


ITEM 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
                                 Not Applicable
 
                                    PART IV.
 
ITEM 14.   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 

 
     The two financial statement schedules  applicable to the Company have  been
omitted because of the absence of the conditions under which they are required.
 
(a)(3.) Exhibits
 
     See  the  Exhibit Index  to  this Form  10-K  Annual Report.  The following
exhibits listed  on the  Exhibit Index  are  filed with  this Form  10-K  Annual
Report:
 

 
     The exhibits  identified  in the  Exhibit  Index with  an  asterisk(*)  are
management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.
 
(b) Reports on Form 8-K
 
     No  reports on Form 8-K were filed  for the three months ended December 31,
1995.
 


                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant  to  the requirements  of Section  13 or  15(d) of  the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the  Registrant has duly caused  this annual report to  be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                           AlliedSignal Inc.
 
February 27, 1996                          By:     /s/ G. PETER  D'ALOIA
                                              ----------------------------------
                                                      G. Peter D'Aloia
                                                Vice President and Controller
 
     Pursuant  to the requirements of the  Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
annual report has been signed  below by the following  persons on behalf of  the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated:

 

February 27, 1996
 


                STATEMENT OF DIFFERENCES

The registered trademark symbol shall be expressed as 'r'
The trademark symbol shall be expressed as 'tm'
The subscript numerics in chemistry notation shall be expressed as baseline
numerics, e.g., sulfur hexafluoride would be expressed SF6.





                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 

 



 
- ------------
 
     The Exhibits identified above with an asterisk(*) are management  contracts
or compensatory plans or arrangements.





