ITEM 1A.Risk
    Factors



This section discusses the most significant factors that affect
    our business, operations and financial condition. It does not
    describe all risks and uncertainties applicable to us, our
    industry or ownership of our securities. If any of the following
    risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties that are not yet
    identified or that we currently think are not material, actually
    occur, we could be materially adversely affected. In that event,
    the value of our securities could decline.



We have grouped these risk factors into three general categories:



•Risks arising from our business;•Risks arising from our capital structure; and•Risks arising from our status as a REIT.



Risks
    Arising from Our Business



We
    depend on Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living for a significant
    portion of our revenues and operating income; Any inability or
    unwillingness by Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living to satisfy
    its obligations under its agreements with us could have a
    Material Adverse Effect on us.



We lease a substantial portion of our properties to Kindred and
    Brookdale Senior Living, and each of them is a significant
    source of our total revenues and operating income. Since the
    Kindred Master Leases and our leases with Brookdale Senior
    Living aretriple-netleases, we depend on Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living not
    only for rental income, but also to pay insurance, taxes,
    utilities and maintenance and repair expenses in connection with
    the leased properties. Any inability or unwillingness by Kindred
    or Brookdale Senior Living to make rental payments to us or to
    otherwise satisfy its obligations under its agreements with us
    could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. In addition, any
    failure by Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living to effectively
    conduct its operations or to maintain and improve our properties
    could adversely affect its





business reputation and its ability to attract and retain
    patients and residents in our properties, which could have a
    Material Adverse Effect on us. Kindred and Brookdale Senior
    Living have also agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us
    harmless from and against various claims, litigation and
    liabilities arising in connection with their respective
    businesses, and we cannot assure you that either Kindred or
    Brookdale Senior Living will have sufficient assets, income,
    access to financing and insurance coverage to enable it to
    satisfy its indemnification obligations.



The
    properties managed by Sunrise account for a significant portion
    of our revenues and operating income; Adverse developments in
    Sunrise’s business and affairs or financial condition could
    have a Material Adverse Effect on us.



day-to-day



In addition, any adverse developments in Sunrise’s business
    and affairs, financial strength or ability to operate our
    properties efficiently and effectively could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on us. If Sunrise experiences any significant
    financial, legal, accounting or regulatory difficulties due to
    the weakened economy or otherwise, such difficulties could
    result in, among other adverse events, acceleration of its
    indebtedness, the inability to renew or extend its revolving
    credit facility, the enforcement of default remedies by its
    counterparties or the commencement of insolvency proceedings
    under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code by or against Sunrise, any
    one or a combination of which could have a Material Adverse
    Effect on us.



We
    face potential adverse consequences of bankruptcy or insolvency
    by our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other
    obligors.







our properties, avoid the imposition of liens on a propertyand/ortransition a property to a new tenant, operator or manager.



We may
    be unable to reposition our properties on as favorable terms, or
    at all, if we have to replace any of our tenants or operators,
    and we may be subject to delays, limitations and expenses in
    repositioning our assets.



We cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases
    upon their expiration. If the Kindred Master Leases, our leases
    with Brookdale Senior Living or any of our other leases are not
    renewed, we would be required to reposition those properties
    with another tenant or operator. In case of non-renewal, we
    generally have one year prior to expiration of the lease term to
    arrange for such repositioning and our tenants are required to
    continue to perform all of their obligations (including the
    payment of all rental amounts) for the non-renewed assets until
    such expiration. However, following expiration of the lease term
    or in the event we exercise our right to replace a tenant upon a
    lease default, during any period that we are attempting to
    locate a suitable replacement tenant or operator, there could be
    a decrease or cessation of rental payments on those properties.
    We also might not be successful in identifying suitable
    replacements or entering into leases with new tenants or
    operators on a timely basis or on terms as favorable to us as
    our current leases, if at all, and we may be required to fund
    certain expenses and obligations (e.g., real estate taxes, debt
    costs and maintenance expenses) to preserve the value and avoid
    the imposition of liens on properties while they are being
    repositioned.



Our ability to reposition our properties with another suitable
    tenant or operator could be significantly delayed or limited by
    various state licensing receivership, CON or other laws, as well
    as by the Medicare and Medicaidchange-of-ownershiprules. We could also incur substantial additional expenses in
    connection with any licensing, receivership orchange-of-ownershipproceedings. In the case of our MOBs, our ability to locate
    suitable replacement tenants could be impaired by the
    specialized medical uses of those properties, and we may be
    required to spend substantial amounts to adapt the MOB to other
    uses. Any such delays, limitations and expenses could adversely
    impact our ability to collect rent, obtain possession of leased
    properties or otherwise exercise remedies for tenant default and
    could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.



We
    have now, and may have in the future, exposure to contingent
    rent escalators, which can hinder our growth and
    profitability.



We receive a significant portion of our revenues by leasing our
    assets under long-termtriple-netleases in which the rental rate is generally fixed with annual
    escalations. Certain of our leases contain escalators contingent
    upon the achievement of specified revenue parameters or based on
    changes in the Consumer Price Index. If the revenues generated
    by ourtriple-netleased properties as a result of weak economic conditions or
    other factors or the Consumer Price Index does not increase, our
    revenues attributes to these leases may not increase.



The
    weakened economy could adversely impact our operating income and
    earnings, as well as the results of operations of our tenants
    and operators, which could impair their ability to meet their
    obligations to us.



Continued concerns about the U.S. economy and the systemic
    impact of high unemployment, volatile energy costs, geopolitical
    issues, the availability and cost of credit, the
    U.S. mortgage market and a severely distressed real estate
    market have contributed to increased market volatility and
    weakened business and consumer confidence. This difficult
    operating environment could adversely affect our ability to
    generate revenuesand/orincrease our costs at our Sunrise-managed properties, thereby
    reducing our operating income and earnings. It could also have
    an adverse impact on the ability of our tenants and operators to
    maintain occupancy and rates in our properties, which could harm
    their financial condition. These economic conditions could cause
    us to experience operating deficiencies at our Sunrise-managed
    propertiesand/orcause
    our tenants and operators to be unable to meet their rental
    payments and other obligations due to us, which could have a
    Material Adverse Effect on us.





We may
    be unable to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing
    our real estate loan investments, and even if we are successful
    in our foreclosure efforts, we may be unable to successfully
    reposition the properties, which may adversely affect our
    ability to recover our investments.



If a borrower defaults under any of our mortgage loans, we may
    have to foreclose on the loan or protect our interest by
    acquiring title to the property and thereafter making
    substantial improvements or repairs in order to maximize the
    property’s investment potential. The borrower may contest
    enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy
    protection against our exercise of enforcement or other remediesand/orbring
    claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce
    mortgage obligations. If the borrower seeks bankruptcy
    protection, the automatic stay provisions of the
    U.S. Bankruptcy Code would preclude us from enforcing
    foreclosure or other remedies against the borrower unless relief
    is first obtained from the court having jurisdiction over the
    bankruptcy case. Foreclosure-related costs, highloan-to-valueratios or declines in the value of the property may prevent us
    from realizing an amount equal to our mortgage loans upon
    foreclosure, and we may be required to record valuation
    allowance for such losses. Even if we are able to successfully
    foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate loan
    investments, we may inherit properties that we are unable to
    expeditiously reposition with new tenants or operators, if at
    all, which would adversely affect our ability to recover our
    investment.



We are
    exposed to various operational risks, liabilities and claims
    with respect to our operating assets that may adversely affect
    our ability to generate revenues and/or increase our costs and
    could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.



We are exposed to various operational risks, liabilities and
    claims with respect to our operating assets, including our
    Sunrise-managed properties and our MOBs, that may adversely
    affect our ability to generate revenuesand/orincrease our costs, thereby reducing our profitability. These
    risks include fluctuations in occupancy levels, the inability to
    achieve economic resident fees (including anticipated increases
    in those fees), rent control regulations, increases in costs of
    materials, energy, labor (as a result of unionization or
    otherwise) and services, national and regional economic
    conditions, the imposition of new or increased taxes, capital
    expenditure requirements, professional and general liability
    claims and the availability and costs of professional and
    general liability insurance. Any one or a combination of these
    factors could result in operating deficiencies at our operating
    assets which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.



We may
    encounter certain risks when implementing our business strategy
    to pursue investments in, and/or acquisitions or development of,
    additional seniors housing and/or healthcare
    assets.



We intend to continue to pursue investments in,and/oracquisitions or development of, additional seniors housingand/orhealthcare assets domestically and internationally, subject to
    the contractual restrictions contained in our unsecured
    revolving credit facilities and the indentures governing our
    outstanding senior notes. Investments in and acquisitions of
    these properties, including our pending Atria acquisition,
    entail general risks associated with any real estate investment,
    including risks that the investment will fail to perform in
    accordance with expectations, that the estimates of the cost of
    improvements necessary for acquired properties will prove
    inaccurate or that the tenant, operator or manager will fail to
    meet performance expectations. Furthermore, healthcare
    properties are often highly customized and may require costly
    tenant-specific improvements.



In addition, any new development projects that we pursue would
    be subject to risks of construction delays or cost overruns that
    may increase project costs, new project commencement risks such
    as receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental
    approvals and permits and the risk of incurring development
    costs in connection with projects that are not pursued to
    completion. Investments in and acquisitions of properties
    outside the United States would also expose us to legal,
    economic and market risks associated with operating in foreign
    countries, such as currency and tax risks. If we incur
    additional debt or issue equity securities, or both, to finance
    future investments, acquisitions or development activity (as we
    intend to do in our pending Atria acquisition), our leverage
    could increase or our per share financial results could be
    reduced.





When we attempt to finance, acquire or develop properties, we
    compete with healthcare providers, other healthcare REITs,
    healthcare lenders, real estate partnerships, banks, insurance
    companies, private equity firms and other investors, some of
    whom may have greater financial resources and lower costs of
    capital than we do. Our ability to compete successfully for
    investment and acquisition opportunities is affected by many
    factors, including our cost of obtaining debt and equity capital
    at rates comparable to or better than our competitors. Increased
    competition makes it more challenging for us to identify and
    successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our business
    objectives and could improve the bargaining power of property
    owners seeking to sell, thereby impeding our investment,
    acquisition and development activities. See
    “Business — Competition” included in
    Item 1 of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.Even if we succeed in identifying and competing for such
    opportunities, we could encounter unanticipated difficulties and
    expenditures relating to the properties or businesses we invest
    in or acquire, the investment or acquisition could divert
    management’s attention from our existing business, or the
    value of such investment or acquisition could decrease
    substantially, some or all of which could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on us.



As we invest in,and/oracquire or develop, additional seniors housingand/orhealthcare assets or businesses, we expect that the number of
    operators of our properties and, potentially, our business
    segments will increase. We cannot assure you that we will have
    the capabilities to successfully monitor and manage a portfolio
    of properties with a growing number of operatorsand/ormanage such businesses. Moreover, in some cases, acquisitions
    require the integration of companies that have previously
    operated independently. Successful integration of the operations
    of those companies will depend primarily on our ability to
    consolidate operations, systems, procedures and personnel to
    eliminate redundancies and costs. Potential difficulties we
    could encounter during integration include the loss of key
    employees, disruption of our business, possible inconsistencies
    in standards, controls, procedures and policies, and the
    assumption of unexpected liabilities. In addition, projections
    of estimated future revenues, costs savings or operating metrics
    that we develop during the due diligence and integration
    planning process could prove to be inaccurate. If we experience
    any of these difficulties, or if we later discover additional
    liabilities or experience unforeseen costs relating to
    acquisitions, we might not achieve the economic benefit we
    expect, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.



Our
    investments are concentrated in seniors housing and healthcare
    real estate, making us more vulnerable economically than if our
    investments were diversified.



We invest primarily in real estate — in particular,
    seniors housing and healthcare properties. This concentration
    exposes us to all of the risks inherent in investments in real
    estate to a greater degree than if our portfolio was
    diversified, and these risks are magnified by the fact that our
    real estate investments are limited to properties used in the
    seniors housing or healthcare industries. If the current
    downturn in the real estate industry continues or intensifies,
    it could adversely affect the value of our properties and our
    ability to sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to
    us. A downturn in the seniors housing or healthcare industries
    could negatively impact our operating income and earnings, as
    well as our operators’ ability to make rental payments to
    us, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.



Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our
    ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in
    response to changes in economic or other conditions will be
    limited. In addition, transfers of healthcare properties may be
    subject to regulatory approvals that are not required for
    transfers of other types of commercial properties. We cannot
    give any assurances that we will recognize full value for any
    property that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons.
    This inability to respond quickly to changes in the performance
    of our investments could adversely affect our business, results
    of operations and financial condition.



The healthcare industry is highly competitive. The occupancy
    levels at, and revenues from, our properties depend on the
    ability of our operators and managers to successfully compete
    with other operators and managers, including on the bases of
    scope and quality of care and services provided, reputation and
    financial condition, physical appearance of the properties,
    price, and location. We cannot be certain that our operators and
    managers will be able to achieve and maintain occupancy and rate
    levels that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to
    us. Moreover, our operators and managers may encounter increased
    competition in the future that could limit their ability to
    attract residents and patients or expand their businesses, which
    could





materially adversely affect their ability to meet their
    obligations to us and, in turn, could have a Material Adverse
    Effect on us.



Furthermore, the healthcare industry is highly regulated, and
    changes in government regulation and reimbursement in the past
    have had material adverse consequences on the industry in
    general, which consequences may not have been contemplated by
    lawmakers and regulators. We cannot assure you that future
    changes in government regulation of healthcare will not have a
    material adverse effect on the healthcare industry, including
    our seniors housing and healthcare operations, tenants and
    operators. Our ability to invest in non-seniors housing or
    non-healthcare properties is restricted by the terms of our
    unsecured revolving credit facilities, so these adverse effects
    may be more pronounced than if we diversified our investments
    outside of real estate or outside of seniors housing or
    healthcare properties.



Our
    tenants, operators and managers may be adversely affected by
    increasing healthcare regulation and enforcement.



Over the last several years, the regulatory environment
    surrounding the long-term healthcare industry has intensified
    both in the amount and type of regulations and in the efforts to
    enforce those regulations. This is particularly true for large
    for-profit, multi-facility providers like Kindred, Brookdale
    Senior Living and Sunrise. The extensive federal, state and
    local laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry
    include those relating to, among other things, licensure,
    conduct of operations, ownership of facilities, addition of
    facilities and equipment, allowable costs, services, prices for
    services, qualified beneficiaries, quality of care, patient
    rights, fraudulent or abusive behavior, and financial and other
    arrangements which may be entered into by healthcare providers.
    Changes in enforcement policies by federal and state governments
    have resulted in a significant increase in the number of
    inspections, citations of regulatory deficiencies and other
    regulatory sanctions, including terminations from the Medicare
    and Medicaid programs, bars on Medicare and Medicaid payments
    for new admissions, civil monetary penalties and even criminal
    penalties. See “Governmental Regulation —
    Healthcare Regulation” included in Item 1 of this
    Annual Report onForm 10-K.



If our tenants, operators and managers fail to comply with the
    extensive laws, regulations and other requirements applicable to
    their businesses and the operation of our properties, they could
    become ineligible to receive reimbursement from governmental and
    private third-party payor programs, face bans on admissions of
    new patients or residents, suffer civiland/orcriminal penaltiesand/orbe
    required to make significant changes to their operations. Our
    tenants, operators and managers also could be forced to expend
    considerable resources responding to an investigation or other
    enforcement action under applicable laws or regulations. In such
    event, the results of operations and financial condition of our
    tenants, operators and managers and the results of operations of
    our properties operated or managed by those entities could be
    adversely affected, which, in turn, could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on us. We are unable to predict the future course
    of federal, state and local regulation or legislation, including
    the Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, or the
    intensity of enforcement efforts with respect to such regulation
    and legislation, and any changes in the regulatory framework
    could likewise have a material adverse effect on our tenants,
    operators and managers, which, in turn, could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on us.



Changes
    in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from
    third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid
    programs, could have a material adverse effect on certain of our
    tenants and operators.



Kindred and certain of our other tenants and operators rely on
    reimbursement from third-party payors, including the Medicare
    and Medicaid programs, for substantially all of their revenues.
    Various federal and state legislative and regulatory proposals
    have been made that would implement cost-containment measures
    that limit payments to healthcare providers. Budget crises and
    financial shortfalls could also cause states to implement
    Medicaid rate freezes or cuts. See “Governmental
    Regulation — Healthcare Regulation” included in
    Item 1 of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.In addition, private third-party payors have continued their
    efforts to control healthcare costs. We cannot assure you that
    adequate reimbursement levels will be available for services to
    be provided by Kindred and our other tenants and operators that
    are currently being reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid or private
    payors. Significant limits by governmental and private
    third-party payors on





the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and
    fees could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity,
    financial condition and results of operations of certain of our
    tenants and operators, which could affect adversely their
    ability to make rental payments under, and otherwise comply with
    the terms of, their leases with us.



We
    have only limited rights to terminate our management agreements
    with Sunrise, and we may be unable to replace Sunrise if our
    management agreements are terminated or not
    renewed.



We and Sunrise are parties to long-term management agreements
    pursuant to which Sunrise currently provides comprehensive
    property management services with respect to 79 of our seniors
    housing communities. Each management agreement has an original
    term of 30 years commencing as early as 2004, but may be
    terminated by us upon the occurrence of an event of default by
    Sunrise in the performance of a material covenant or term
    thereof (including, in certain circumstances, the revocation of
    any licenses or certificates necessary for operation), subject
    in most cases to Sunrise’s rights to cure such defaults.
    Each management agreement may also be terminated upon the
    occurrence of certain insolvency events relating to Sunrise. In
    addition, we may terminate management agreements based on the
    failure to achieve certain NOI targets or to comply with certain
    expense control covenants. However, various legal and
    contractual considerations may limit or delay our exercise of
    any or all of these termination rights.



In the event that our management agreements with Sunrise are
    terminated for any reason or are not renewed upon expiration of
    their terms, we will have to find another manager for the
    properties covered by those agreements. We believe there are a
    number of qualified national and regional seniors care providers
    that would be interested in managing our Sunrise-managed
    properties. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able
    to locate another suitable manager or, if we are successful in
    locating such a manager, that it will manage the properties
    effectively. Moreover, any such replacement manager would
    require approval by the applicable regulatory authority and, in
    most cases, the mortgage lender of the applicable property. We
    cannot assure you that such approvals would be granted or that,
    if granted, the process of seeking such approvals would not
    cause delay. Any inability or lengthy delay in replacing Sunrise
    as manager following termination or non-renewal of our
    management agreements could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.



Our
    investments in joint ventures could be adversely affected by our
    lack of sole decision-making authority regarding major
    decisions, our reliance on our joint venture partners’
    financial condition, any disputes that may arise between us and
    our joint venture partners and our exposure to potential losses
    from the actions of our joint venture partners.



As of December 31, 2010, we had controlling interests in
    six MOBs owned through joint ventures with partners who provide
    management and leasing services for the properties, and we had
    noncontrolling interests of between 5% and 20% in 58 MOBs owned
    through joint ventures with institutional third parties. These
    joint ventures involve risks not present with respect to our
    wholly owned properties, including the following:



•We may be prevented from taking actions that are opposed by our
    joint venture partners. Under certain of our joint venture
    arrangements, we may share decision-making authority with our
    joint venture partners regarding major decisions affecting the
    ownership or operation of the joint venture and any property
    owned by the joint venture, such as the sale or financing of the
    property or the making of additional capital contributions for
    the benefit of the property. For joint ventures where we have a
    noncontrolling interest our joint venture partners may take
    actions that we oppose;•Our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a
    third party may be restricted. Prior consent of our joint
    venture partners may be required for a sale or transfer to a
    third party of our interests in such joint ventures;•Our joint venture partners might become bankrupt or fail to fund
    their share of required capital contributions, which may delay
    construction or development of a property or increase our
    financial commitment to the joint venture;







•Our joint venture partners may have business interests or goals
    with respect to the property that conflict with our business
    interests and goals, which could increase the likelihood of
    disputes regarding the ownership, management or disposition of
    the property;•Disputes may develop with our joint venture partners over
    decisions affecting the property or the joint venture, which may
    result in litigation or arbitration that could increase our
    expenses, distract our officersand/ordirectors from focusing their time and effort on our business
    and disrupt theday-to-dayoperations of the property, such as by delaying the
    implementation of important decisions until the conflict or
    dispute is resolved; and•We may suffer losses as a result of the actions of our joint
    venture partners with respect to our joint venture investments.



We may
    be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange
    rates.



We currently own twelve seniors housing communities in the
    Canadian provinces of Ontario and British Columbia. As a result,
    we are subject to fluctuations in U.S. and Canadian
    exchange rates, which may, from time to time, have an impact on
    our financial condition and results of operations. Increases or
    decreases in the value of the Canadian dollar will impact the
    amount of our net income. In addition, if we increase our
    international presence through investments in,and/oracquisitions or development of, seniors housingand/orhealthcare assets outside the United States, we may transact
    additional business in currencies other than U.S. or
    Canadian dollars. Although we may decide to pursue hedging
    alternatives, including borrowing in local currencies, to
    protect against foreign currency fluctuations, we cannot assure
    you that any such fluctuations will not have a Material Adverse
    Effect on us.



Revenues
    from our senior living operations are dependent on private pay
    sources; Events which adversely affect the ability of seniors to
    afford our daily resident fees could cause our occupancy rates,
    resident fee revenues and results of operations to
    decline.



By and large, assisted and independent living services currently
    are not reimbursable under government reimbursement programs,
    such as Medicare and Medicaid. Hence, substantially all of the
    resident fee revenues generated by our senior living operations
    are derived from private pay sources consisting of income or
    assets of residents or their family members. In general, due to
    the expense associated with building new properties and the
    staffing and other costs of providing services at these
    properties, only seniors with income or assets meeting or
    exceeding the comparable median in the regions where our
    properties are located typically can afford to pay the daily
    resident and care fees. The current economic downturn and
    depressed housing market, as well as other events such as
    changes in demographics, could adversely affect the ability of
    seniors to afford these fees. If Sunrise or another manager is
    unable to attract and retain seniors with sufficient income,
    assets or other resources required to pay the fees associated
    with assisted and independent living services, our occupancy
    rates, resident fee revenues and results of operations could
    decline, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on
    us.



Our
    ownership of certain properties subject to ground lease, air
    rights or other restrictive agreements exposes us to the loss of
    such properties upon breach or termination of such agreements,
    limits our uses of these properties and restricts our ability to
    sell or otherwise transfer such
    properties.



We hold interests in certain of our MOB properties through
    leasehold interests in the land on which the buildings are
    located, through leases of air rights for the space above the
    land on which the buildings are located or through similar
    agreements, and we may acquire or develop additional properties
    in the future that are subject to similar ground lease, air
    rights or other restrictive agreements. Under these agreements,
    we are exposed to the possibility of losing our interests in the
    property upon termination or an earlier breach by us. In
    addition, many of our ground lease, air rights and other
    restrictive agreements impose significant limitations on our
    uses of the subject properties and restrict our right to convey
    our interest in such agreements, which may limit our ability to
    timely sell or exchange the properties and impair their value.





Overbuilding
    in markets in which our seniors housing communities and MOBs are
    located could adversely affect our future occupancy rates,
    operating margins and profitability.



Barriers to entry in the assisted living and MOB industries are
    not substantial. Consequently, the development of new seniors
    housing communities or MOBs could outpace demand. If the
    development of new seniors housing communities or MOBs outpaces
    demand for those asset types in the markets in which our
    properties are located, those markets may become saturated and
    we could experience decreased occupancy, reduced operating
    margins and lower profitability.



Termination
    of resident lease agreements could adversely affect our revenues
    and earnings.



Applicable regulations governing assisted living communities
    generally require written resident lease agreements with each
    resident. Most of these regulations also require that each
    resident have the right to terminate the resident lease
    agreement for any reason on reasonable notice. Consistent with
    these regulations, the resident lease agreements signed by
    Sunrise with respect to our properties managed by it generally
    allow residents to terminate their lease agreements on
    30 days’ notice. Thus, Sunrise cannot contract with
    residents to stay for longer periods of time, unlike typical
    apartment leasing arrangements with terms of up to one year or
    longer. In addition, the resident turnover rate in our seniors
    housing communities may be difficult to predict. If a large
    number of resident lease agreements terminate at or around the
    same time, and if our units remained unoccupied, then our
    revenues and earnings could be adversely affected, which, in
    turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.



Volatility
    or disruption in the capital markets could prevent our
    counterparties from satisfying their obligations to
    us.



Uncertainty in the capital markets and tightening of credit
    markets, similar to that experienced in recent years, could make
    accessing new capital more challenging and more expensive for
    our counterparties. Interest rate fluctuations, financial market
    volatility or credit market disruptions could limit the ability
    of our tenants, operators and managers to obtain credit to
    finance their businesses on acceptable terms, which could
    adversely affect their ability to satisfy their obligations to
    us. In addition, any difficulty experienced by our other
    counterparties, such as letters of credit issuers, insurance
    carriers, banking institutions, title companies and escrow
    agents, in accessing capital or other sources of funds could
    prevent such counterparties from remaining viable entitiesand/orsatisfying their obligations to us, which could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on us.



The
    amount and scope of insurance coverage provided by our policies
    and policies maintained by our tenants, operators and managers
    may not adequately insure against losses.



We maintainand/orrequire in our existing leases and other agreements that our
    tenants, operators and managers maintain all applicable lines of
    insurance on our properties and their operations. Although we
    continually review the insurance maintained by us and our
    tenants, operators and managers and believe the coverage
    provided to be customary for similarly situated companies in our
    industry, we cannot assure you that in the future such insurance
    will be available at a reasonable cost or that we or our
    tenants, operators and managers will be able to maintain
    adequate levels of insurance coverage. We also cannot give any
    assurances as to the future financial viability of our insurers
    or that the insurance coverage provided will fully cover all
    losses on our properties upon the occurrence of a catastrophic
    event.



Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits
    occur, we could incur substantial liability or lose all or a
    portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well
    as the anticipated future revenues from the property. In such an
    event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage
    debt or other financial obligations related to the property. We
    cannot assure you that material uninsured losses, or losses in
    excess of insurance proceeds, will not occur in the future.



As part of our MOB development business, we provide engineering,
    construction and architectural services, and design,
    construction or systems failures may result in substantial
    injury or damage to clientsand/orthird
    parties. Injury or damage claims may arise in the ordinary
    course and may be asserted with respect to ongoing or completed
    projects. Although we maintain liability insurance, if any claim
    results in a





loss, we cannot assure you that our insurance coverage would be
    adequate to cover the loss in full. If we sustain losses in
    excess of our insurance coverage, we may be required to make a
    payment for the difference and could lose our investment in,
    and/or experience reduced profits and cash flows from, the
    affected MOB, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.



Significant
    legal actions could subject us or our tenants, operators and
    managers to increased operating costs and substantial uninsured
    liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our or
    their liquidity, financial condition and results of
    operation.



From time to time, we may be directly involved in lawsuits and
    other legal proceedings. We may also be named as defendants in
    lawsuits arising out of alleged actions of our tenants,
    operators and managers for which such tenants, operators and
    managers have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless
    from and against certain claims and liabilities. An unfavorable
    resolution of pending or future litigation could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on us.



Our tenants, operators and managers continue to experience
    increases in both the frequency and severity of professional
    liability claims. In addition to large compensatory claims,
    plaintiffs’ attorneys continue to seek significant punitive
    damages and attorneys’ fees. Due to the historically high
    frequency and severity of professional liability claims against
    healthcare providers, the availability of professional liability
    insurance has been restricted and the premiums on such insurance
    coverage remain very high. As a result, the insurance coverage
    of our tenants, operators and managers might not cover all
    claims against them or continue to be available to them at a
    reasonable cost. If our tenants, operators and managers are
    unable to maintain adequate insurance coverage or are required
    to pay punitive damages, they may be exposed to substantial
    liabilities.



In addition, many healthcare providers are pursuing different
    organizational and corporate structures coupled with
    self-insurance programs that provide less insurance coverage.
    For example, Kindred insures its professional liability risks,
    in part, through a wholly owned, limited purpose insurance
    company, which insures initial losses up to specified coverage
    levels per occurrence with no aggregate coverage limit. Coverage
    for losses in excess of those per occurrence levels is
    maintained through unaffiliated commercial insurance carriers up
    to an aggregate limit, and all claims in excess of the aggregate
    limit are then insured by the limited purpose insurance company.
    Similarly, Sunrise maintains a self-insurance program to cover
    its general and professional liabilities. Our tenants, operators
    and managers, like Kindred and Sunrise, that insure any part of
    their general and professional liability risks through their own
    captive limited purpose entities generally estimate the future
    cost of general and professional liability through actuarial
    studies that rely primarily on historical data. However, due to
    the rise in the number and severity of professional claims
    against healthcare providers, these actuarial studies may
    underestimate the future cost of claims, and reserves for future
    claims may not be adequate to cover the actual cost of those
    claims.



As a result, the tenants, operators and managers of our
    properties could incur large funded and unfunded professional
    liability expense, which could materially adversely affect their
    liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, and,
    in turn, their ability to make rental payments under, or
    otherwise comply with the terms of, their leases with us or,
    with regard to our Sunrise-managed properties, our results of
    operations, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.



The
    hospitals on whose campuses our MOBs are located and their
    affiliated health systems could fail to remain competitive or
    financially viable, which could adversely impact their ability
    to attract physicians and physician groups to our
    MOBs.



Our MOB operations depend on the viability of the hospitals on
    or near whose campuses our MOBs are located and their affiliated
    health systems in order to attract physicians and other
    healthcare-related clients. The viability of these hospitals, in
    turn, depends on factors such as the quality and mix of
    healthcare services provided, competition, demographic trends in
    the surrounding community, market position and growth potential,
    as well as the ability of the affiliated health systems to
    provide economies of scale and access to capital. If a hospital
    on or near whose campus one of our MOBs is located is unable to
    meet its financial obligations, and if an affiliated health
    system is unable to support that hospital, the hospital may not
    be able to





compete successfully or it could be forced to close or relocate,
    which could adversely impact its ability to attract physicians
    and other healthcare-related clients. Because we rely on our
    proximity to and affiliations with these hospitals to create
    demand for space in our MOBs, their inability to remain
    competitive or financially viable, or to attract physicians and
    physician groups, could materially adversely affect our MOB
    operations and have a Material Adverse Effect on us.



We may
    not be able to maintain or expand our relationships with our
    existing and future hospital and health system
    clients.



The success of our MOB business depends, to a large extent, on
    our past, current and future relationships with hospital and
    health system clients. We invest a significant amount of time to
    develop these relationships, and they have helped us to secure
    acquisition and development opportunities, as well as other
    advisory, property management and hospital project management
    projects, with both new and existing clients. If any of our
    relationships with hospital or health system clients
    deteriorates, or if a conflict of interest or non-compete
    arrangement prevents us from expanding these relationships, our
    ability to secure new acquisition and development opportunities
    or other advisory, property management and hospital project
    management projects could be adversely impacted and our
    professional reputation within the industry could be damaged.



Our
    MOB development projects, including development projects
    undertaken on afee-for-servicebasis or through our joint ventures, may not yield anticipated
    returns.



A key component of our MOB long-term growth strategy is
    exploring development opportunities and, when appropriate,
    making investments in those projects. In deciding whether to
    make an investment in a particular MOB development, we make
    certain assumptions regarding the expected future performance of
    that property. These assumptions are subject to risks normally
    associated with these projects, including, among others:



•we may be unable to obtain financing for these projects on
    favorable terms or at all;•we may not complete development projects on schedule or within
    budgeted amounts;•we may encounter delays or refusals in obtaining all necessary
    zoning, land use, building, occupancy, environmental and other
    required governmental permits and authorizations, or
    underestimate the costs necessary to bring the property up to
    market standards;•development and construction delays may give tenants the right
    to terminate preconstruction leases or cause us to incur
    additional costs;•volatility in the price of construction materials and labor may
    increase our development costs;•hospitals or health systems may maintain significant
    decision-making authority with respect to the development
    schedule;•one of our builders may fail to perform or satisfy the
    expectations of our clients or prospective clients;•we may incorrectly forecast risks associated with development in
    new geographic regions;•tenants may not lease space at the quantity or rental rate
    levels projected;•competition from other developments may lure away desirable
    tenants;•the demand for the development project may decrease prior to
    completion; and•lease rates and rents at newly developed properties may
    fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and
    economic conditions.



Moreover, in MOB development projects undertaken on afee-for-servicebasis, we generally construct properties for clients in exchange
    for a fixed fee, which creates risks such as the inability to
    pass on increased labor and construction material costs to our
    clients, development and construction delays that could give our
    counterparties the right to receive penalties from us, and
    bankruptcy or default by our contractors. We attempt





to mitigate these risks by establishing certain limits on our
    obligations, shifting some of the risk to the general contractorand/orseeking other legal protections.



If any of the foregoing risks occur, our MOB development
    projects, including development projects undertaken on afee-for-servicebasis or through our joint ventures, may not yield anticipated
    returns, which could materially adversely affect our MOB
    operations and have a Material Adverse Effect on us.



Our
    operators may be sued under a federal whistleblower
    statute.



Our operators who engage in business with the federal government
    may be sued under a federal whistleblower statute designed to
    combat fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry. See
    “Governmental Regulation — Healthcare
    Regulation” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report
    onForm 10-K.These lawsuits can involve significant monetary damages and
    award bounties to private plaintiffs who successfully bring
    these suits. If any of these lawsuits were to be brought against
    our operators, such suits combined with increased operating
    costs and substantial uninsured liabilities could have a
    material adverse effect on the operators’ liquidity,
    financial condition and results of operation and on their
    ability to make rental payments to us, which, in turn, could
    have a Material Adverse Effect on us.



If any
    of our properties are found to be contaminated, or if we become
    involved in any environmental disputes, we could incur
    substantial liabilities and costs.



Under federal and state environmental laws and regulations, a
    current or former owner of real property may be liable for costs
    related to the investigation, removal and remediation of
    hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum that are released
    from or are present at or under, or that are disposed of in
    connection with such property. Owners of real property may also
    face other environmental liabilities, including government fines
    and penalties imposed by regulatory authorities and damages for
    injuries to persons, property or natural resources.
    Environmental laws and regulations often impose liability
    without regard to whether the owner was aware of, or was
    responsible for, the presence, release or disposal of hazardous
    or toxic substances or petroleum. In certain circumstances,
    environmental liability may result from the activities of a
    current or former operator of the property. Although we are
    generally indemnified by the current operators of our properties
    for contamination caused by them, these indemnities may not
    adequately cover all environmental costs. See “Governmental
    Regulation — Environmental Regulation” included
    in Item 1 of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



Our
    success depends, in part, on our ability to retain key
    personnel, and the loss of any one of them could adversely
    impact our business.



The success of our business depends, in part, on the leadership
    and performance of our executive management team and key
    employees. Our future performance will be substantially
    dependent on our ability to retain and motivate these
    individuals. Competition for these individuals is intense, and
    we cannot give any assurances that we will retain our key
    officers and employees or that we can attract or retain other
    highly qualified individuals in the future. Losing any one or
    more of these persons could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.



Failure
    to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting
    could harm our business, results of operations and financial
    condition.



Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to
    provide a report by management on internal control over
    financial reporting, including management’s assessment of
    the effectiveness of such control. Changes to our business will
    necessitate ongoing changes to our internal control systems and
    processes. Internal control over financial reporting may not
    prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent
    limitations, including the possibility of human error, the
    circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore,
    even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable
    assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation
    of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of
    our internal controls, including any failure to implement
    required new or improved controls, or if we experience
    difficulties in their implementation, our business, results of
    operations and financial condition could be materially adversely
    harmed and we could fail to meet our reporting obligations.





If the
    liabilities we have assumed in connection with acquisitions are
    greater than expected, or if there are unknown liabilities, our
    business could be materially and adversely
    affected.



We have assumed certain liabilities in connection with our past
    acquisitions, such as the Lillibridge acquisition, including, in
    some cases, contingent liabilities, and we expect to assume
    certain liabilities in connection with the Atria acquisition, if
    consummated. As we integrate these acquisitions, we may learn
    additional information about the seller and assumed liabilities
    that adversely affects us, such as:



•Liabilities relating to theclean-upor
    remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions;•Unasserted claims of vendors or other persons dealing with the
    seller;•Liabilities, claims and litigation, whether or not incurred in
    the ordinary course of business, relating to periods prior to
    our acquisition;•Claims for indemnification by general partners, directors,
    officers and others indemnified by the seller; and•Liabilities for taxes relating to periods prior to our
    acquisition.



As a result, we cannot assure you that our past acquisitions
    will be successful or will not, in fact, harm our business.
    Among other things, if the liabilities we have assumed are
    greater than expected, or if there are obligations relating to
    the acquired properties of which we were not aware at the time
    we completed the acquisition, our business could be materially
    adversely affected.



Risks
    Arising from Our Capital Structure



Limitations
    on our ability to access capital could have an adverse effect on
    our ability to meet our debt payments, make distributions to our
    stockholders or make future investments necessary to implement
    our business plan.



In order to meet our debt payments, make distributions to our
    stockholders or make future investments necessary to implement
    our business plan, we may need to raise additional capital. In
    recent years, the global capital and credit markets have
    experienced a period of extraordinary turmoil and upheaval,
    characterized by the bankruptcy, failure or sale of various
    financial institutions and an unprecedented level of
    intervention from the U.S. federal government. This
    disruption in the credit markets, the repricing of credit risk
    and the deterioration of the financial and real estate markets
    created difficult conditions for REITs and other companies to
    access capital or other sources of funds. These conditions
    included greater stock price volatility, significantly less
    liquidity, widening of credit spreads and a lack of price
    transparency. Although access to capital and other sources of
    funding improved in 2010, conditions remain difficult and could
    deteriorate further. We cannot predict for how long access to
    capital and other sources of funding will remain constrained or
    the extent to which our results of operation and financial
    condition may be adversely affected.







and/or



We may
    become more leveraged.



As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately
    $2.9 billion of outstanding indebtedness. The instruments
    governing our existing indebtedness permit us to incur
    substantial additional debt, and we may borrow additional funds,
    which may include secured borrowings. A high level of
    indebtedness would require us to dedicate a substantial portion
    of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service,
    thereby reducing the funds available to implement our business
    strategy and to make distributions to stockholders. A high level
    of indebtedness could also have the following consequences:



•Potential limits on our ability to adjust rapidly to changing
    market conditions and vulnerability in the event of a downturn
    in general economic conditions or in the real estateand/orhealthcare industries;•Potential impairment of our ability to obtain additional
    financing for our business strategy; and•Potential downgrade in the rating of our debt securities by one
    or more rating agencies, which could have the effect of, among
    other things, limiting our access to capital and increasing our
    cost of borrowing.



In addition, from time to time we mortgage our properties to
    secure payment of indebtedness. If we are unable to meet our
    mortgage payments, then the encumbered properties could be
    foreclosed upon or transferred to the mortgagee with a
    consequent loss of income and asset value. A foreclosure on one
    or more of our properties could have a Material Adverse Effect
    on us.



We are
    exposed to increases in interest rates, which could reduce our
    profitability and adversely impact our ability to refinance
    existing debt, sell assets or engage in acquisition and
    investment activity, and our decision to hedge against interest
    rate risk might not be effective.



We receive a significant portion of our revenues by leasing our
    assets under long-termtriple-netleases in which the rental rate is generally fixed with annual
    rent escalations, subject to certain limitations. Certain of our
    debt obligations are floating rate obligations with interest
    rate and related payments that vary with the movement of LIBOR,
    Bankers’ Acceptance or other indexes. The generally fixed
    rate nature of our revenues and the variable rate nature of
    certain of our obligations create interest rate risk. Although
    our operating assets





provide a partial hedge against interest rate fluctuations, if
    interest rates rise, our interest costs for our existing
    floating rate debt and any new debt we incur would also
    increase. This increased cost could have the effect of reducing
    our profitability or making our lease and other revenues
    insufficient to meet our obligations, and could make the
    financing of any acquisition or investment activity more costly.
    Further, rising interest rates could limit our ability to
    refinance existing debt when it matures or cause us to pay
    higher rates upon refinancing. An increase in interest rates may
    also decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for
    our assets, thereby limiting our ability to reposition our
    portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other
    conditions.



We may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility
    by using hedging arrangements that involve risk, including the
    risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations
    under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be
    effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes,
    that the amount of income we may earn from hedging transactions
    may be limited by federal tax provisions governing REITs, and
    that these arrangements may result in higher interest rates than
    we would otherwise have. Moreover, no amount of hedging activity
    can completely insulate us from the risks associated with
    changes in interest rates. Failure to hedge effectively against
    interest rate risk, if we choose to engage in such activities,
    could adversely affect our results of operations and financial
    condition.



Covenants
    in the instruments governing our existing indebtedness limit our
    operational flexibility, and a covenant breach could materially
    adversely affect our operations.



The terms of the instruments governing our existing indebtedness
    require us to comply with a number of customary financial and
    other covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage,
    leverage ratios and net worth requirements. Our continued
    ability to incur additional debt and to conduct business in
    general is subject to compliance with these covenants, which
    limit our operational flexibility. Breaches of these covenants
    could result in defaults under the applicable debt instruments,
    in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against
    such instruments, even if we satisfy our payment obligations.
    Financial and other covenants that limit our operational
    flexibility, as well as defaults resulting from our breach of
    any of these covenants, could have a Material Adverse Effect on
    us.



Risks
    Arising from Our Status as a REIT



Loss
    of our status as a REIT would have significant adverse
    consequences to us and the value of our common
    stock.



If we lose our status as a REIT (currentlyand/orwith
    respect to any tax years for which the statute of limitations
    has not expired), we will face serious tax consequences that
    will substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our
    obligations and for distribution to our stockholders for each of
    the years involved because:



•We would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to
    stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be
    subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates;•We also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax
    and possibly increased state and local taxes; and•Unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we
    could not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four taxable
    years following the year during which we were disqualified.



In addition, in such event we would no longer be required to pay
    dividends to maintain REIT status. As a result of all these
    factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our
    ability to implement our business strategy and would adversely
    affect the value of our common stock.



Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly
    technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only
    limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The
    determination of various factual matters and circumstances not
    entirely within our control may affect our ability to remain
    qualified as a REIT. In addition, new legislation, regulations,
    administrative interpretations or court decisions may adversely
    affect





our investors or our ability to remain qualified as a REIT for
    tax purposes. Although we believe that we qualify as a REIT, we
    cannot assure you that we will continue to qualify or remain
    qualified as a REIT for tax purposes.



The
    90% distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity and may
    limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial
    transactions.



To comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to
    REITs and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make
    distributions to our stockholders. See “Certain
    U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations —
    Requirements for Qualification as a REIT — Annual
    Distribution Requirements” included in Item 1 of this
    Annual Report onForm 10-K.The indentures governing our outstanding senior notes permit us
    to make annual distributions to our stockholders in an amount
    equal to the minimum amount necessary to maintain our REIT
    status so long as the ratio of our Debt to Adjusted Total Assets
    (as each term is defined in the indentures) does not exceed 60%
    and to make additional distributions if we pass certain other
    financial tests. However, distributions may limit our ability to
    rely upon rental payments from our properties or subsequently
    acquired properties to finance investments, acquisitions or new
    developments.



Although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient
    cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the REIT
    distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to
    time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to
    meet the 90% distribution requirement. This may be due to timing
    differences between the actual receipt of income and actual
    payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the
    inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in
    arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand. In addition,
    non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or
    repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash
    deductions also may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or
    liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution
    requirement.



In the event that timing differences occur or we decide to
    retain cash or to distribute such greater amount as may be
    necessary to avoid income and excise taxation, we may, if
    possible, borrow funds, issue additional equity securities, pay
    taxable stock dividends, distribute other property or securities
    or engage in a transaction intended to enable us to meet the
    REIT distribution requirements. Any of these actions may require
    us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations; however,
    see “— Risks Arising from Our Capital
    Structure — Limitations on our ability to access
    capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our
    debt payments, make distributions to our stockholders or make
    future investments necessary to implement our business
    plan.” The terms of the instruments governing our existing
    indebtedness restrict our ability to engage in some of these
    transactions.



To
    preserve our qualification as a REIT, our certificate of
    incorporation contains ownership limits with respect to our
    capital stock that may delay, defer or prevent a change of
    control of our company.



To assist us in preserving our qualification as a REIT, our
    certificate of incorporation provides that if a person acquires
    beneficial ownership of more than 9.9% of our outstanding
    preferred stock or 9.0% of our common stock, the shares that are
    beneficially owned in excess of the applicable limit are
    considered to be “excess shares” and are automatically
    deemed transferred to a trust for the benefit of a charitable
    institution or other qualifying organization selected by our
    Board of Directors. The trust is entitled to all dividends with
    respect to the excess shares and the trustee may exercise all
    voting power over the excess shares. We have the right to buy
    the excess shares for a purchase price equal to the lesser of
    (i) the price per share in the transaction that created the
    excess shares or (ii) the market price on the day we buy
    the shares, but if we do not purchase them, the trustee of the
    trust is required to transfer the excess shares at the direction
    of our Board of Directors. These ownership limits could delay,
    defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might
    involve a premium price for our common stock or might otherwise
    be in the best interests of our stockholders.





If we
    decide to pay taxable stock dividends to meet the REIT
    distribution requirements, your tax liability may be greater
    than the amount of cash you receive.



Under Revenue Procedure 2010-12, the IRS has stated that it will
    treat stock dividends as distributions for purposes of
    satisfying the REIT distribution requirements for calendar years
    2008 through 2012 if each stockholder can elect to receive the
    distribution in cash, even if the aggregate cash amount paid to
    all stockholders is limited, provided certain requirements are
    met. Accordingly, if we decide to pay a stock dividend in
    accordance with Revenue Procedure2010-12,your tax liability with respect to such dividend may be
    significantly greater than the amount of cash you receive.



