
10-K405
FORM 10-K/405



 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                   FORM 10-K
 
(MARK ONE)
   [X]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
                       EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994
                                       OR
   [_] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
                      EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
            For the transition period from            to
                         Commission File Number 1-7845
 
                         LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
                MISSOURI                               44-0324630
    (State or other jurisdiction of       (I.R.S. employer identification no.)
     incorporation or organization)
 
          NO. 1--LEGGETT ROAD                           64836
           CARTHAGE, MISSOURI                          (Zip code)
    (Address of principal executive
                offices)
 
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (417) 358-8131
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
 

 
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [_]
 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K (Sec. 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]
 
  The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
Registrant was approximately $1,396,352,074.
 
  There were 41,663,229 shares of the Registrant's common stock outstanding as
of February 24, 1995.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
  Portions of the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for its Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 10, 1995, are incorporated by reference
into Part III of this report.
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                                    PART  I

ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

     General Development of Business.  The Company was incorporated in 1901 as
the successor to a partnership formed in 1883 at Carthage, Missouri.  That
partnership was a pioneer in the manufacture and sale of steel coil bedsprings.
The Company manufacturers, markets and distributes products that range from
components for bedding and furniture to other select furnishings and diversified
products.  Products produced and sold for the furnishings industry constitute
the largest portion of the Company's business.  These include components used by
companies making furniture and bedding for home, office and commercial
applications.  Also in the furnishings industry, the Company produces and sells
some finished products.  In addition, a group of diversified non-furnishings
products is produced and sold.  The term "Company," unless the context requires
otherwise, refers to Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and its majority owned
subsidiaries.

     The Company acquired ten companies in 1994 in exchange for approximately
$79 million in cash (net of cash acquired) and 601,000 shares of common stock.
The acquired companies expanded the Company's annual sales base by approximately
$200 million.  For further information concerning acquisitions see Note B of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

     Products, Market and Customers.  The Company has several thousand
customers, most of which are manufacturers of finished furnishings.  The Company
is not dependent upon any single customer or any few customers.

     Historically, the furnishings industry has been highly fragmented and
included many relatively small companies, widely dispersed geographically.
Although a trend toward consolidation in the furnishings industry has continued,
the industry as a whole remains fragmented to a substantial degree.

     The Company's furniture and bedding components customers manufacture
bedding (mattresses and boxsprings), upholstered and non-upholstered furniture
and other finished products for sale to retailers, institutions, wholesalers and
others. The Company's component products are sold and distributed primarily
through the Company's sales personnel.
 
     The Company also manufactures and sells finished products for the
furnishings industry.  These finished products include carpet underlay and non-
skid pads, metal shelving, point-of-purchase display racks, sleep-related
finished furniture, and other furnishings for residential and commercial
markets.  Some of the finished furniture is sold to bedding and furniture
manufacturers which resell the furniture under their own labels to wholesalers
or retailers.  Certain finished furniture such as bed frames, fashion beds,
daybeds and other select items are also sold by the Company directly to
retailers.

     The following list is representative of the principal products produced by
the Company in the furnishings industry:


 
BEDDING COMPONENTS
Lectro-LOK(R), WEBLOC(R), LOK-Fast(TM),
 Flex-Deck(TM), and Semiflex(TM) boxspring
 components
Edge and corner stabilizer spring supports
Foam and fiber cushioning materials
Gribetz computerized single needle (Class V) 
 and multi-needle chain stitch (Class I-IV) quilting 
 machinery, material handling systems, panel 
 cutters, tape edge and border serging machines
Hanes construction fabrics
Mira-Coil(R), Super-Lastic(R), Lura-Flex(TM),
 Hinge Flex(TM), and Ever-Flex(TM) innerspring
 assemblies for mattresses
Mounted and crated boxsprings and
 foundation units
Nova-Bond(R) and other insulator pads for
 mattresses and boxsprings
Perm-A-Lator(R), Plasteel(R), Posturizer(TM), Flexnet(TM) 
 and other mattress insulators
Spring and basic wire
Synthetic, wool, cotton, and silk cushioning
 materials
WBSCO material handling systems and 
 equipment for bedding manufacturers
Wood frames and dimension lumber for
 boxspring frames

FINISHED PRODUCTS
Bed frames
Daybeds made of brass, painted metal and wood
DURAPLUSH(TM), Permaloom(R), other carpet 
 underlay and non-skid pads
Electric beds
Genuine Brass, Lustre Brass(R) and other
 metal fashion beds and headboards
Metal and wire shelving and other commercial 
 fixtures
Pedestal bed bases
Point-of-purchase displays and racks
Rollaway beds
Steel bunk beds
Trundle beds
Wood headboards

FURNITURE COMPONENTS
Chair controls, casters and other components
 for office furniture
ClassicTouch(TM) and Modular Wallhugger(R)
 mechanisms for motion upholstered groups
Coil-Flex(TM) and ModuCoil(R) spring assemblies
 for upholstered furniture
Components for office panel systems
Die cast aluminum, fabricated steel, and injection 
 molded plastic bases for office furniture
 and dinettes
Flex-Cord(R) paper covered wire
Hanes construction fabrics
MPI/No-Sag(R) and other foam cushioning
Mechanisms for adjustable height work tables
Metal bed rails for bedroom suites
Molded plastic recliner handles and other
 plastic furniture components
No-Sag(R) rocker springs, seating systems and 
 clips
Perm-A-Lator(R) wire seating insulators
Perma-eze(R) seat and back springs
PETCO weltcord and furniture edgings
Ring-Flex(R) polyethylene foam edgings
SOFA PLUS(TM), MAX(R), and Classic(TM) Series
 sofa sleeper mechanisms
Spring wire
Super Sagless Select(TM) motion mechanisms
Swivel, rocker and glider components for
 motion furniture
Synthetic fiber, densified fiber batting, seat pads 
 and other cushioning materials
System Seating(TM), Seat Pleaser(R) and other
 furniture coils and accessories
Tackit(TM) tackstrips
VWR supplies for upholstery
Wallhugger(R) and Concept(TM) mechanisms for
 reclining chairs
Webline(R) seating systems
Welded steel tubing

     Outside the furnishings industry, the Company produces and sells for home,
industrial and commercial uses a diversified line of components and other
products made principally from steel, steel wire, aluminum, plastics, textile
fibers and woven and nonwoven fabrics.  The Company's diversified products
require


 
manufacturing technologies similar to those used in making furnishings related
products and certain raw materials which the Company produces for its own use.

     The following list is representative of the Company's principal diversified
products:

DIVERSIFIED PRODUCTS
Aluminum die cast custom products and
 aluminum ingot
Bale tie machinery and parts
Cyclo-Index(R) motion controls for
 manufacturing equipment
Flex-O-Lators(R), No-Sag(R) and Pullmaflex 
 automotive seat suspension systems
Formed and welded wire and steel tubing 
 components
Gribetz single needle quilters, multi-needle
 chain stitch quilters, and panel cutters
Hanes industrial and apparel fabrics
Industrial wire
Injection molded plastic products
Mechanical springs
Non-skid pads
Sound insulation materials
Specialty foam products
Textile fiber wiping cloths and other products

     The table below sets out further information concerning sales of each class
of the Company's products:

                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                               SUMMARY OF SALES 



Previously reported amounts have been restated to be consistent with current
product groupings.

     Reference is also made to Note I of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for further segment information.

     The Company sells quilting machines and similar equipment, seating
suspension products and certain other component products in a number of foreign
countries. The Company's international division is involved primarily in the
sale of machinery and equipment designed to manufacture the Company's
innersprings and certain other spring products and the licensing of patents
owned and presently maintained by the Company in foreign countries. Foreign
sales are a minor portion of the Company's business.

     Sources of Raw Materials. The Company uses a variety of raw materials in
manufacturing its products. Some of the Company's most important raw materials
include steel rod (from which steel wire is drawn), coil steel, woven and
nonwoven fabrics, aluminum ingot, aluminum scrap, angle iron, sheet steel,
various woods, textile scrap, foam chemicals, foam scrap, and plastic.


 
          Substantially all of the Company's requirements for steel wire, an
important material in many of the Company's products, are supplied by Company-
owned wire drawing mills.  A substantial portion of the steel rod used by these
wire drawing mills is purchased pursuant to a rod supply agreement with a major
steel rod producer. The Company also produces, at various locations, for its own
consumption and for sale to customers not affiliated with the Company, slit coil
steel, welded steel tubing, textile fibers, dimension lumber and aluminum ingot.

          Numerous supply sources for the raw materials used by the Company are
available.  The Company did not experience any significant shortages of raw
materials during the past year.

          Patents and Trademarks.  The Company holds numerous patents concerning
its various product lines. No single patent or group of patents is material to
the Company's business as a whole.  The Company's more significant trademarks
include those listed with the Company's principal products.

          Research and Development. The Company maintains research, engineering
and testing centers at Carthage, Missouri, and also does research and
development work at several of its other facilities. The Company is unable to
precisely calculate the cost of research and development since the personnel
involved in product and machinery development also spend portions of their time
in other areas. However, the Company believes the cost of research and
development was approximately $6 million in 1994 and $5 million in 1993 and
1992.

          Employees.  The Company has approximately 16,000 employees of whom
approximately 12,500 are engaged in production.  Approximately 37% of the
Company's production employees are represented by labor unions.

          The Company did not experience any material work stoppage related to
the negotiation of contracts with labor unions during 1994.  Management is not
aware of any circumstance which is likely to result in a material work stoppage
related to the negotiations of any contracts expiring during 1995.

          Competition.  The markets for the Company's products are highly
competitive in all aspects.  There are numerous companies offering products
which compete with those products offered by the Company.  The primary
competitive factors in the Company's industry include price, product quality,
customer service and product warranties. The Company believes it is the largest
supplier in the United States of a diverse range of components to the
furnishings industry.

          Government Regulation.  The Company's various operations are subject
to federal, state, and local laws and regulations related to the protection of
the environment, worker safety, and other matters.  Environmental regulations
include those relating to air and water emissions, underground storage tanks,
waste handling, and the like. While the Company cannot forecast policies that
may be adopted by various regulatory agencies, management believes that
compliance with these various laws and regulations will not have a material
adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations
of the Company.

          From time to time, the Company is involved in proceedings related to
environmental matters.  In one instance, the United States Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) ordered one of the Company's subsidiaries to investigate
potential releases into the environment and, if necessary, to perform corrective
action.  The subsidiary successfully appealed the EPA's order.  On June 27,
1994, the EPA indicated it planned to issue a new, similar order. The
subsidiary, the EPA and the Florida Department of Environmental Protection
(FDEP) are negotiating an agreement to investigate and, if necessary, take
corrective action to resolve the dispute.  Estimated costs to perform an agreed
upon investigation and any related corrective actions are not material and have
been provided for in the financial statements as of December 31, 1994.  If
current negotiations with the EPA and the FDEP are unsuccessful, and the EPA
issues a new order, the subsidiary expects it would appeal the new order.  If
this appeal were unsuccessful, the costs to perform any required investigation
and, if necessary, corrective action cannot be reasonably estimated.  One-half
of any costs, including the costs of voluntary actions, would be reimbursed to
the Company under a contractual obligation of a former joint owner of the
subsidiary.  No provision for the costs of performing investigation and
corrective action beyond any agreed upon investigation and remediation mentioned
above has been recorded in the Company's financial statements.  If any such
additional investigation and corrective action is required,


 
management believes the possibility of a material adverse effect on the
Company's consolidated financial condition or results of operations is remote.

ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES

          The Company has approximately 150 locations in North America,
including 32 states in the United States.  The Company's most important physical
properties are its manufacturing plants.   These manufacturing plants include
five wire drawing mills, three welded steel tubing mills and approximately 50
major manufacturing facilities. The balance of the Company's locations are
engaged in assembly, warehousing, sales, administration or research and
development.  In addition, the Company has several locations in foreign
countries.  Its corporate headquarters are located in Carthage, Missouri.

          Most of the Company's major manufacturing plants are owned by the
Company.  The Company also conducts certain of its operations in leased
premises.  Terms of the leases, including purchase options, renewals and
maintenance costs, vary by lease.  For additional information regarding lease
obligations, reference is made to Note E of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

          Properties of the Company include facilities which, in the opinion of
management, are suitable and adequate for the manufacture, assembly and
distribution of its products.

ITEM 3.   LEGAL  PROCEEDINGS

          The Company is a defendant in numerous ordinary, routine workers'
compensation, product liability, vehicle accident, employment termination, and
other claims and legal proceedings, the resolution of which management believes
will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition
or results of operations of the Company.

          The Company is presently party to a small number of proceedings in
which a governmental authority is a party and which involve provisions enacted
regulating the discharge of materials into the environment.  These proceedings
deal primarily with waste disposal site remediation.  Management believes that
potential monetary sanctions, if imposed in any or all of these proceedings, or
any capital expenditures or operating expenses attributable to these
proceedings, will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated
financial condition or results of operations of the Company.  The EPA has
alleged that two of the Company's facilities in Grafton, Wisconsin violated
wastewater pretreatment requirements under the Clean Water Act.  No action is
pending.  The EPA has not requested any specific relief, but has indicated it
intends to bring an action.  Management believes the cost to resolve this matter
will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition
or results of operations of the Company.

ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION  OF  MATTERS  TO A  VOTE  OF  SECURITY  HOLDERS

          Not Applicable.


 
                                   PART  II

ITEM 5.   MARKET  FOR  THE  REGISTRANT'S  COMMON  EQUITY AND  RELATED
          SHAREHOLDER  MATTERS

     Leggett & Platt's common stock is listed on The New York and Pacific Stock
Exchanges with the trading symbol LEG.  The Company's initial public offering
was on March 29, 1967, and the shares were first listed on The New York Stock
Exchange on June 25, 1979.  The table below highlights quarterly and annual
stock market information for the last two years.



Price and volume data reflect composite transactions and prices as reported
daily by The Wall Street Journal.

     At February 24, 1995 the Company had 8,087 shareholders of record.


 
ITEM  6.  SELECTED  FINANCIAL  DATA
 
                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

______________________
A restructuring charge of $20.3 pre-tax and $14.3 after tax, or $.39 per share
is included in 1990.


ITEM  7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
          RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY

   The Company's financial position reflects several important principles and
guidelines of management's capital policy.  These include management's belief
that corporate liquidity must always be adequate to support the Company's
projected internal growth rate.  At the same time, liquidity must assure
management that the Company will be able to withstand any amount of financial
adversity that can reasonably be anticipated.  Management also intends to direct
capital to strategic acquisitions and other investments that provide additional
opportunities for expansion and enhanced profitability.

   Financial planning to meet these needs reflects management's belief that the
Company should never be forced to expand its capital resources, whether debt or
equity, at a time not of its choosing.  Management also believes that financial
flexibility is more important than maximization of earnings through excessive
leverage.  Therefore, management continuously provides for available credit in
excess of projected cash needs and has maintained a guideline for long-term debt
as a percentage of total capitalization in a range of 30% to 40%.

   Internally generated funds provided $419.1 million in capital during the last
three years.  Long-term debt outstanding was 23% of total capitalization at the
end of all three years.  Obligations having scheduled maturities are the base
"layer" of the Company's debt capital.  At the end of 1994, these obligations
totaled $146.6 million, consisting primarily of privately placed institutional
loans and tax-exempt industrial development bonds.  At the end of 1993, debt
with scheduled maturities totaled $122.3 million, which was up from $112.5
million a year earlier.

   Near the end of July 1994, the Company issued $25 million in unsecured
privately placed debt under a medium-term note program.  These notes were issued
with average lives of approximately eight years and fixed interest rates
averaging 7.6%.  Proceeds from the notes were used to repay a portion of the
Company's revolving credit.  In 1993, the Company issued $50 million of medium-
term notes near the end of the third quarter.  These notes were issued with
average lives of approximately nine years and fixed interest rates averaging
5.8%.  Debt of a company acquired in a September 1993 pooling of interests
transaction was repaid with the majority of the proceeds from these notes.  In
1992, the Company also issued $26 million of medium term notes near the
beginning of the


 
fourth quarter.  These notes were issued with average lives of approximately
five years and fixed interest rates averaging 6.2%.  Proceeds of the notes
issued in 1992 were used to repay debt outstanding under the Company's revolving
bank credit agreements.

     In March 1992, substantially all of the $40 million of 6 1/2% convertible
subordinated debentures, which had been outstanding at the end of 1991, were
converted into 2.1 million shares of the Company's common stock. The resulting
increase in shareholders' equity enhanced the Company's flexibility in capital
management.

     In November 1994, Standard & Poor's and Moody's, the nation's leading debt
rating agencies, both increased their ratings of the Company's senior debt.
Standard & Poor's increased its rating to A from A-, and Moody's increased its
rating to A2 from A3.

     The Company's second "layer" of debt capital consists of revolving credit
agreements with seven banks. Over the years, management has renegotiated these
bank credit agreements and established a commercial paper program to keep pace
with the Company's projected growth and to maintain highly flexible sources of
debt capital. The credit under these arrangements has been a long-term
obligation.  If needed, however, the credit is also available for short-term
borrowings and repayments.  In 1994, there was $58.3 million in revolving
debt/commercial paper outstanding at the end of the year, up from $43.5 million
in 1993 and $35.4 million in 1992.  These increases reflected a portion of funds
borrowed to finance cash acquisitions.  Internally generated funds were used, as
available, to reduce debt outstanding during the last three years.  Additional
details of long-term debt outstanding, including scheduled maturities, revolving
credit and commercial paper are discussed in Note D of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

     The following table shows, in millions, the Company's capitalization at the
end of the three most recent years.  It also shows the amount of additional
capital available through the revolving bank credit agreements.  The amount of
cash and cash equivalents is also shown.



     Net capital investments to modernize and expand manufacturing capacity
internally totaled $164.8 million in the last three years.  During this period,
the Company also employed $162.6 million in cash (net of cash acquired) and
issued 2.3 million shares of common stock in acquisitions.  During 1994, the
Company acquired ten businesses for $78.8 million in cash (net of cash acquired)
and .6 million shares of common stock.  Additional details of acquisitions are
discussed in Note B of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  Cash
dividends on the Company's common stock totaled $67.6 million in the last three
years.

     The Company has substantial capital resources to support projected internal
cash needs and additional acquisitions consistent with management's goals and
objectives.  In addition, the Company has the availability of short-term
uncommitted credit from several banks.  However, there was no short-term debt
outstanding at the end of any of the last three years.

     Working capital increased $78.2 million in the last three years.  To gain
additional flexibility in capital management and to improve the rate of return
on shareholders' equity, the Company continuously seeks efficient use of working
capital.  The following table shows the annual turnover on average year-end
working capital, trade receivables and inventories.  The ratios may be affected
by the timing of the Company's acquisitions.


 


     Future commitments under lease obligations are described in Note E and
contingent obligations in connection with environmental and other matters are
discussed in Note J of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The results of operations during the last three years reflect various
elements of the Company's long-term growth strategy, along with general trends
in the economy and the markets the Company serves, both in the furnishings
industry and in a variety of diversified non-furnishings markets.  The Company's
growth strategy continues to include both internal programs and acquisitions
which broaden product lines and provide for increased market penetration and
operating efficiencies.  With a continuing emphasis on the development of new
and improved products and advancements in production technology, the Company is
able to consistently offer high quality products, competitively priced.

     Trends in the general economy were favorable during the last three years.
During 1994, economic growth increased as the year progressed.  Despite higher
interest rates, spending on furnishings and other durable goods increased more
than most economists and industry analysts anticipated.  Demand also improved in
the diversified non-furnishings markets the Company serves.  In 1993, economic
growth increased in the fourth quarter, following more modest growth during most
of the year.  Markets generally reacted favorably to lower long-term interest
rates and increased availability of credit.  During 1992, a post-election
increase in overall confidence led to increased spending and accelerated growth
in the economy.  However, compared with previous first year recoveries from
recessionary lows, economic growth and demand for the Company's furnishings and
diversified products was modest during most of 1992.

     Many forecasters are currently anticipating further 1995 growth in the
economy and the markets the Company serves.  While the rate of growth may be
slower this year, economic conditions should remain healthy, with hopefully
moderate overall inflation.  The long-term outlook for overall business
conditions should also remain favorable if the Federal Reserve Board proves to
be successful in its attempts to restrain inflationary expectations and slow
economic growth.

     The Company's consolidated net sales increased 22% in 1994 and 16% in 1993,
when compared with prior years.  Excluding acquisitions, sales would have
increased 10% in both of the last two years.  These increases primarily
reflected higher unit volumes, plus some price increases implemented in response
to increases in prices for raw materials.

     While the percentage and timing of increases in the Company's selling
prices varied considerably, the largest 1994 increases were concentrated in
aluminum products. In 1993, price increases were concentrated in the Company's
steel and wire products. However, some of the 1993 and additional 1994 cost
increases the Company experienced in operations producing steel products were
not passed along until the end of 1994.

     In 1992, consolidated net sales increased 8% over 1991, due almost entirely
to higher unit volumes.  The Company was able to refrain from raising prices in
1992 as previously weaker economic conditions had reduced inflation for most raw
materials.

     The following table shows various measures of earnings as a percentage of
sales for the last three years.  It also shows the effective income tax rate and
the coverage of interest expense by pre-tax earnings plus interest.


 


     The Company's profit margins, like sales, continued to improve in the last
three years.  The 1994 gross profit margin increased slightly from 1993,
primarily reflecting improved market conditions in the aluminum and foam
industries and gains in overall manufacturing efficiencies on higher volume.
These favorable factors more than offset cost/price pressures the Company
continued to experience in operations producing steel products for the
furnishings industry and diversified non-furnishings markets.  The 1993 gross
profit margin was substantially unchanged from 1992.  Operating efficiencies
resulting from increased sales and production, cost cutting, and constant
attention to cost containment were largely offset by inflation in prices for
some key raw materials.  Reflecting this inflation, LIFO expense reduced the
gross profit margin by 0.2% in both of the last two years.  This was in sharp
contrast to 1992, when LIFO income slightly increased the gross profit margin.
The replacement cost of the LIFO inventory is discussed in Note A of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.

     The pre-tax profit margin in 1994 increased to 10.2%.  This improvement
reflected a 0.4% reduction in total selling, distribution and administrative
expenses, as a percentage of sales.  In addition, interest expense and other
deductions, net of other income, decreased slightly as a percentage of sales.

     The 1993 pre-tax profit margin increased to 9.2% of sales. This improvement
primarily reflected a 0.7% reduction in selling, distribution and administrative
expenses, as a percentage of sales. Increased efficiencies and reduced bad debt
expense contributed to the improvement in operating expense ratios. These
factors and a slight increase in other income more than offset one time charges
related to acquisitions and the Company's implementation of new accounting
statements issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Interest expense,
as a percentage of sales, was reduced 0.4% and further improved the pre-tax
profit margin. Reduced debt outstanding (before 1993 acquisitions) and lower
interest rates were reflected in this improvement.

     The effective income tax rate was 39.1% in both of the last two years and
38.5% in 1992.  In the third quarter of 1993, corporate federal income tax rates
were increased from 34% to 35%, retroactive to January 1, 1993. Additional
details of income taxes for the last three years are discussed in Note H of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Item  8.  FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS  AND  SUPPLEMENTARY  DATA

     The Consolidated Financial Statements and supplementary data included in
this Report begin on page 15.

Item  9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
          FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     Not applicable.


 
                                   PART  III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

        Reference is made to the section entitled "Election of Directors" in the
Company's definitive Proxy Statement for the Company's Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on May 10, 1995, said section being incorporated by
reference, for a description of the directors of the Company.

        The following table sets forth the names, ages and positions of all
executive officers of the Company. Executive officers are elected annually by
the Board of Directors at the first meeting of directors following the Annual
Meeting of Shareholders.

        The description of the executive officers of the Company is as follows:


        Subject to the employment agreements and severance benefit agreements
listed as Exhibits to this Report, officers serve at the pleasure of the Board
of Directors.

        Harry M. Cornell, Jr. has served as the Company's Chief Executive
Officer, Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Board's Executive Committee
for more than the last five years.

        Felix E. Wright was elected President in 1985 and has served as Chief
Operating Officer since 1979.

        Roger D. Gladden was elected Senior Vice President in 1992.  Mr. Gladden
has been President--Commercial Products Group since 1984 and previously served
as Vice President--Administration.

        Michael A. Glauber was elected Senior Vice President, Finance and
Administration in 1990.  Mr. Glauber was elected Vice President--Finance in 1979
and Vice President--Finance and Treasurer in 1980.

        David S. Haffner was elected Senior Vice President and President--
Furniture and Automotive Components Group in 1992.  Mr. Haffner was appointed
President--Furniture Components Group in 1985 and was elected Vice President of
the Company in 1985.

        Robert A. Jefferies, Jr. was elected Senior Vice President, Mergers,
Acquisitions and Strategic Planning in 1990.  Mr. Jefferies formerly served as
Vice President and the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of
the Company from 1977 through 1992.

        Duane W. Potter was elected Vice President in 1978 and Senior Vice
President in 1983.  Mr. Potter has been President--Bedding Components Group
since 1985.


 
ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

        The section entitled "Executive Compensation and Related Matters" in the
Company's definitive Proxy Statement for the Company's Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on May 10, 1995, is incorporated by reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

        The section entitled "Ownership of Common Stock" in the Company's
definitive Proxy Statement for the Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders to
be held on May 10, 1995, is incorporated by reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

        The subsection entitled "Related Transactions" of the section entitled
"Executive Compensation and Related Matters" in the Company's definitive Proxy
Statement for the Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 10,
1995 is incorporated by reference.


 
                                   PART  IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

          1.    Financial Statements
                --------------------

                The Financial Statements listed below are included 
          in this Report:

                *  Consolidated Statements of Earnings for each of the years in
                   the three year period ended December 31, 1994

                *  Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1994 and 1993
 
                *  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the years
                   in the three year period ended December 31, 1994
                
                *  Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity
                   for each of the years in the three year period ended December
                   31, 1994
                   
                *  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                *  Report of Independent Accountants

          2.    Financial Statement Schedules
                -----------------------------

                Report of Independent Accountants on Financial Statement
                Schedule

                Schedule for each of the years in the three year period ended
                December 31, 1994

                VIII -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves

          All other information schedules have been omitted as the required
information is inapplicable, not required, or the information is included in the
financial statements or notes thereto.

          3.    Exhibits - See Exhibit Index.
                --------

          4.    Reports on Form 8-K filed during the last quarter
                -------------------------------------------------
                of 1994:    None.
                --------


 
                  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
                               
                                                                          Page
                                                                          ----

Quarterly Summary of Earnings............................................  15

Consolidated Statements of Earnings......................................  16

Consolidated Balance Sheets..............................................  17

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows....................................  18

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity...............  19

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements...............................  20

Report of Independent Accountants........................................  30


 
                         QUARTERLY SUMMARY OF EARNINGS
                Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and Subsidiaries




 
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
                Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and Subsidiaries

(Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data)



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.


 
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.


 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and Subsidiaries


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.


 
           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                 Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and Subsidiaries
 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.


 
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and Subsidiaries
                                        
(Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data)

December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992

A -- SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION:  The consolidated financial statements include
the accounts of Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and its majority-owned
subsidiaries (the Company).  All significant intercompany transactions and
accounts have been eliminated in consolidation.

     ESTIMATES:  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

     CASH EQUIVALENTS:  Cash equivalents include cash in excess of daily
requirements which is invested in various financial instruments with original
maturities of three months or less.

     INVENTORIES:  All inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market.
Cost includes materials, labor and production overhead.  Cost is determined by
the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for approximately 70% of the inventories at
December 31, 1994 and 1993.  The first-in, first-out (FIFO) method is used for
the remainder.  The FIFO cost of inventories at December 31, 1994 and 1993
approximated replacement cost.

     DEPRECIATION, AMORTIZATION AND ASSET REALIZATION:  Property, plant and
equipment are depreciated by the straight-line method.  The rates of
depreciation range from 8.3% to 25% for machinery and equipment,  2.5% to 6.7%
for buildings and 12.5% to 33% for other items.  Accelerated methods are used
for tax purposes.  The excess cost of purchased companies over net assets
acquired is amortized by the straight-line method over forty years.  Other
intangibles are amortized by the straight-line method over their estimated
lives.  Assets subject to periodic depreciation or amortization are evaluated
for probable realization, and appropriate adjustment of their carrying value is
made when realization is not assured.  The excess cost of purchased companies
over net assets acquired is evaluated using estimated undiscounted cash flows
over the remaining amortization period.

     COMPUTATIONS OF EARNINGS PER SHARE:  Earnings per share is based on the
weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding.
Common stock equivalents result from the assumed issuance of shares under stock
option plans.

     CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISKS, EXPOSURES AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS:  The
Company specializes in manufacturing, marketing, and distributing components and
other related products for the furnishings industry and diversified markets.
The Company's operations are principally in the United States, although the
Company also has subsidiaries in Canada and Europe.

     The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers' financial
conditions and, generally, requires no collateral from its customers, some of
which are highly leveraged.  The Company maintains allowances for potential
credit losses and such losses have generally been within management's
expectations.

     From time to time, the Company will enter into forward exchange contracts
to hedge equipment purchase commitments in foreign currencies.  The amounts
outstanding under the forward contracts at any point in time are not significant
to the Company.  The Company has minimal continuing exposures to other foreign
currency transactions and interest rate fluctuations, none of which have been
hedged by the use of derivative instruments.

     The carrying value of cash and short-term financial instruments
approximates fair value due to the short maturity of those instruments.  The
carrying value of long-term debt approximates fair value due to the use of
variable interest rates and recently issued fixed rate debt.

     INCOME TAXES:  The Company provides for taxes on undistributed earnings of
subsidiaries where appropriate.  The tax effect of most such distributions would
be significantly offset by available foreign tax credits.


 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and Subsidiaries

B -- ACQUISITIONS

     During 1994, the Company acquired certain assets of eight companies in
exchange for $78.8 in cash and 22,378 shares of common stock, net of cash
acquired, in transactions accounted for as purchases. These companies primarily
specialize in manufacturing and distributing components and certain other
products to the furnishings industry. The Company also issued 578,436 shares of
common stock to acquire two companies during the year in transactions accounted
for as poolings of interests. The Company elected not to restate its financial
statements as the effect of the poolings was not material. The pooled companies
specialize in manufacturing and distributing point-of-purchase display racks and
other formed wire products to the furnishings and diversified industries. The
following unaudited pro forma information shows the results of operations for
the twelve months ended December 31, 1994 and 1993 as though the 1994
acquisitions discussed above had occurred on January 1 of each year presented.
The pro forma amounts reflect, where appropriate, purchase accounting
adjustments, interest on incremental borrowings and the tax effects thereof.
This pro forma information is not necessarily indicative of either results of
operations that would have occurred had the acquisitions been made on January 1
of each year or of future results of the combined companies.



     In September 1993, the Company issued 1,579,354 shares of common stock to
acquire Hanes Holding Company (Hanes) in a transaction accounted for as a
pooling of interests.  Hanes' business consists of converting and distributing
woven and nonwoven construction fabrics, primarily in the furnishings industry.
In addition, Hanes is a commission dye/finisher of non-fashion fabrics for the
furnishings and apparel industries.  In another pooling of interests
transaction, the Company issued 68,788 shares of common stock to acquire a
company whose business is manufacturing furniture components for the furnishings
industry.  Prior year financial statements were restated for these poolings of
interests.

     In September 1993, the Company acquired VWR Textiles & Supplies (through
Hanes) which converts and distributes construction fabrics and manufactures and
distributes other soft goods components to the furnishings industry.  The
purchase price of this acquisition was approximately $26.0.  Also in 1993, the
Company acquired full ownership of several wire drawing mills which previously
had been jointly owned.   This transaction involved $33.0 in cash and the
assumption of approximately $3.6 of long-term debt.  In addition, the Company
acquired several smaller companies during 1993 which primarily manufacture and
distribute products to the furnishings industry.

     During 1992, the Company acquired the assets of one small company that
primarily manufactures bedding and furniture components for the furnishings
industry.  The purchase price of this acquisition was approximately $5.8.

     Also during 1992, the Company acquired a business accounted for as a
pooling of interests.  The business primarily manufactures bedding and furniture
components for the furnishings industry.  In exchange for all of the outstanding
capital stock of the business, the Company issued 100,903 shares of its common
stock.  The Company elected not to restate prior year's financial statements as
the effect of the pooling was not material.

     The results of operations of these acquired companies, except the 1993
poolings, have been included in the consolidated financial statements since the
dates of acquisition.


 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and Subsidiaries

C -- ACCRUED EXPENSES AND OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES

     Accrued expenses and other current liabilities at December 31 consist of
the following:

 

D -- LONG-TERM DEBT
 
     Long-term debt, weighted average interest rates and due dates at December
31 are as follows:




 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and Subsidiaries

D -- LONG-TERM DEBT (CONTINUED)

     The revolving credit agreements provide for a maximum line of credit of
$200.0.  For any revolving credit agreement, the Company may elect to pay
interest based on 1) the bank's base lending rate, 2) LIBOR, 3) an adjusted
certificate of deposit rate, or 4) the money market rate, as specified in the
revolving agreements.  Any outstanding balances at the end of the third year of
the revolving credit agreements may be converted into term loans payable in ten
equal semi-annual installments.  Commitment fees during the revolving agreement
period are 3/16 of 1% per annum of the unused credit line, payable on a
quarterly basis.

     Commercial paper is classified as long-term debt since the Company intends
to refinance it on a long-term basis either through continued issuance or unused
credit available under the revolving credit agreements.

     The revolving credit agreements and certain other long-term debt contain
restrictive covenants which, among other restrictions, limit the amount of
additional debt, require working capital to be maintained at specified amounts
and restrict payments of dividends.  Unrestricted retained earnings available
for dividends at December 31, 1994 were approximately $170.9.

     Maturities of long-term debt for each of the five years following 1994 are:
 
 

E -- LEASE OBLIGATIONS

     The Company conducts certain of its operations in leased premises and also
leases most of its automotive and trucking equipment and some other assets.
Terms of the leases, including purchase options, renewals and maintenance costs,
vary by lease.

     Total rental expense entering into the determination of results of
operations was approximately $18.0, $17.4  and $16.8 for the years ended
December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

     Future minimum rental commitments for all long-term noncancelable operating
leases are as follows:



     The above lease obligations expire at various dates through 2010.  Certain
leases contain renewal and/or purchase options.  Aggregate rental commitments
above include renewal amounts where it is the intention of the Company to renew
the lease.


 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and Subsidiaries

F -- CAPITAL STOCK

     At December 31, 1994, the Company had 3,266,540 common shares authorized
for issuance under stock option plans. Generally, options are granted at not
less than quoted market value on the date of grant and become exercisable in
varying installments, beginning 6 to 18 months after the date of grant.
However, options may be granted at less than market value to replace existing
options of an acquired company or in lieu of compensation.  Options exercisable
were 538,786 and 310,999 at December 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

     Other data regarding the Company's stock options is summarized below:



     The Company has also authorized shares for issuance in connection with
certain employee stock benefit plans discussed in Note G.

     In 1993, the Company's shareholders approved an amendment to the Company's
Restated Articles of Incorporation reducing the par value of Common Stock to
$.01 from $1.00. The amendment provided that the stated capital of the Company
would not be affected as of the date of the amendment. Accordingly, stated
capital of the Company exceeds the amount reported as common stock in the
financial statements by approximately $39.0.

     In 1989, the Company declared a dividend distribution of one preferred
stock purchase right (a Right) for each share of common stock. The Rights are
attached to and traded with the Company's common stock. The Rights may only
become exercisable under certain circumstances involving actual or potential
acquisitions of the Company's common stock. Depending upon the circumstances, if
the Rights become exercisable, the holder may be entitled to purchase shares of
Series A junior preferred stock of the Company, shares of the Company's common
stock or shares of common stock of the acquiring entity. The Rights remain in
existence until February 15, 1999, unless they are exercised, exchanged or
redeemed at an earlier date.

G -- EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

     The Company sponsors contributory and non-contributory pension and
retirement plans.  Substantially all employees, other than union employees
covered by multiemployer plans under collective bargaining agreements, are
eligible to participate in the plans.  Retirement benefits under the
contributory plans are based on career average earnings.  Retirement benefits
under the non-contributory plans are based on years of service, employees'
average compensation and social security benefits.  It is the Company's policy
to fund actuarially determined costs as accrued.


 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                  Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and Subsidiaries

G -- EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (CONTINUED)

     Information at December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992 as to the funded status of
Company sponsored defined benefit plans, net pension income from the plans for
the years then ended and weighted average assumptions used in the calculations
are as follows:



     Plan assets are invested in a diversified portfolio of equity, debt and
government securities, including 294,000 shares of the Company's common stock at
December 31, 1994.

     Contributions to union sponsored, multiemployer pension plans were $.2 in
1994, 1993 and 1992.  These plans are not administered by the Company and
contributions are determined in accordance with provisions of negotiated labor


 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and Subsidiaries

G -- EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (Continued)

contracts.  As of 1994, the actuarially computed values of vested benefits for
these plans were equal to or less than the net assets of the plans.  Therefore,
the Company would have no withdrawal liability.  However, the Company has no
present intention of withdrawing from any of these plans, nor has the Company
been informed that there is any intention to terminate such plans.

     Net pension income, including Company sponsored defined benefit plans,
multiemployer plans and other plans, was $.9, $.7 and $.8 in 1994, 1993 and
1992, respectively.

     The Company also has a contributory stock purchase/stock bonus plan (SPSB
Plan), a non-qualified executive stock purchase program (ESPP) and an employees'
discount stock plan (DSP).  The SPSB Plan provides Company pre-tax contributions
of 50% of the amount of employee contributions.  The ESPP provides cash payments
of 50% of the employees' contributions, along with an additional payment to
assist employees in paying taxes on the cash payments.  To the extent possible,
contributions to the ESPP are invested in the Company's common stock through the
DSP.  In addition, the Company matches its contributions when certain
profitability levels, as defined in the SPSB Plan and the ESPP, have been
attained.  The Company's total contributions to the SPSB Plan and the ESPP were
$3.3, $2.5 and $2.2 for 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

     Under the DSP, eligible employees may purchase a maximum of 4,000,000
shares of Company common stock.  The purchase price per share is 85% of the
closing market price on the last business day of each month.  Shares purchased
under the DSP were 207,704, 181,306 and 237,713 during 1994, 1993 and 1992,
respectively.  Purchase prices ranged from $17 to $43 per share.  Since
inception of the DSP in 1982, a total of 2,328,117 shares have been purchased by
employees.

H -- INCOME TAXES

     The components of earnings before income taxes are as follows:

 
 
     Income tax expense is comprised of the following components:




 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and Subsidiaries

H -- INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)

     Deferred income taxes are provided for the temporary differences between
the financial reporting basis and the tax basis of the Company's assets and
liabilities. The major temporary differences that give rise to deferred tax
assets or liabilities at December 31, 1994 and 1993 are as follows:

 

     Deferred tax assets and liabilities included in the consolidated balance
sheet are as follows:

 

     Income tax expense, as a percentage of earnings before income taxes,
differs from the statutory federal income tax rate as follows:



     Tax benefits of approximately $2.0 associated with the Company's
restructuring charge were not recognized during 1990.  These tax benefits became
available during 1992 and were recognized accordingly.
 


 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and Subsidiaries

I -- INDUSTRY SEGMENT INFORMATION

     The Company's operations principally consist of manufacturing, marketing
and distributing components and related finished products for the furnishings
industry.  In addition, the Company supplies a diversified group of industries
with products which are similar in manufacturing technology to its furnishings
operations.  Other than furnishings, no industry segment is significant.

     Operating profit is determined by deducting from net sales the cost of
goods sold and the selling, distribution, administrative and other expenses
attributable to the segment operations.  Corporate expenses not allocated to the
segments include corporate general and administrative expenses, interest expense
and certain other income and deduction items which are incidental to the
Company's operations.  Capital expenditures, as defined herein, include amounts
relating to acquisitions as well as internal expenditures.  The identifiable
assets of industry segments are those used in the Company's operations of each
segment.  Corporate identifiable assets include cash, land, buildings and
equipment used in conjunction with corporate activities and sundry assets.
Previously reported amounts have been restated to be consistent with current
segment groupings.  Financial information by segment is as follows:




 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                 Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and Subsidiaries

J -- CONTINGENCIES

     ENVIRONMENTAL:  From time to time, the Company is involved in proceedings
related to environmental matters.  In one instance, the United States
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) ordered one of the Company's subsidiaries
to investigate potential releases into the environment and, if necessary, to
perform corrective action.  The subsidiary successfully appealed the EPA's
order.  On June 27, 1994, the EPA indicated it planned to issue a new, similar
order.  The subsidiary, the EPA and the Florida Department of Environmental
Protection (FDEP) are negotiating an agreement to investigate and, if necessary,
take corrective action to resolve the dispute.  Estimated costs to perform an
agreed upon investigation and any related corrective actions are not material
and have been provided for in the financial statements as of December 31, 1994.

     If current negotiations with the EPA and the FDEP are unsuccessful, and the
EPA issues a new order, the subsidiary expects it would appeal the new order.
If this appeal were unsuccessful, the costs to perform any required
investigation and, if necessary, corrective action cannot be reasonably
estimated.  One-half of any costs, including the costs of voluntary actions,
would be reimbursed to the Company under a contractual obligation of a former
joint owner of the subsidiary.  No provision for the costs of performing
investigation and corrective action beyond any agreed upon investigation and
remediation mentioned above has been recorded in the Company's financial
statements.  If any such additional investigation and corrective action is
required, management believes the possibility of a material adverse effect on
the Company's consolidated financial condition or results of operation is
remote.

     OTHER RISKS:  The Company obtains insurance for worker's compensation,
automobile, product and general liability, property loss and medical claims.
However, the Company has elected to retain a significant portion of expected
losses through the use of deductibles.  Provisions for losses expected under
these programs are recorded based upon the Company's estimates of the aggregate
liability for claims incurred.  These estimates utilize the Company's prior
experience and actuarial assumptions that are provided by the Company's
insurance carrier.  The total estimated liability for these losses at December
31, 1994 and 1993 was $33.0 and $22.0, respectively, and is included in accrued
expenses.  The increase in the liability from 1993 to 1994 is not indicative of
a change in the Company's loss experience, but rather is due to a change in the
procedure for funding these losses with the Company's insurance carrier.


 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Leggett & Platt, Incorporated:

     In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the
related consolidated statements of earnings, of changes in shareholders' equity
and of cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and Subsidiaries at December 31, 1994
and 1993, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 1994 in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles.  These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management; our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.  We conducted our
audits of these statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.



PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP

St. Louis, Missouri
February 14, 1995


 
                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Dated:  March 28, 1995             LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED
 
 
 
                                   By:     /s/  HARRY M. CORNELL, JR.
                                       ----------------------------------
                                                Harry M. Cornell, Jr.
                                                Chairman of the Board and
                                                Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signature                                    Title                   Date
---------                                    -----                   ----
(a)  PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER:
 
 
 
   /S/  HARRY M. CORNELL, JR.      Chairman of the Board,      March 28, 1995
---------------------------------  Chief Executive Officer
Harry M. Cornell, Jr.              and Director

(b)  PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER AND PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER:
 
 
 
  /S/  MICHAEL A. GLAUBER          Senior Vice President,      March 28, 1995
---------------------------------  Finance & Administration
   Michael A. Glauber

(c)  DIRECTORS:
 
                                           
HERBERT C. CASTEEL  *                       Director
---------------------------------
Herbert C. Casteel
 
ROBERT TED ENLOE, III  *                    Director
---------------------------------
Robert Ted Enloe, III
 
RICHARD T. FISHER  *                        Director
---------------------------------
Richard T. Fisher

FRANK E. FORD, JR.  *                       Director
---------------------------------
Frank E. Ford, Jr.


 
Signature                                    Title                   Date
---------                                    -----                   ----       
 
ROBERT A. JEFFERIES, JR.  *                 Director
---------------------------------
Robert A. Jefferies, Jr.
 
ALEXANDER M. LEVINE  *                      Director
---------------------------------
Alexander M. Levine
 
RICHARD L. PEARSALL  *                      Director
---------------------------------
Richard L. Pearsall

MAURICE E. PURNELL, JR.  *                  Director
---------------------------------
Maurice E. Purnell, Jr.
 
FELIX E. WRIGHT  *                          Director
---------------------------------
Felix E. Wright
 
 
 
*  By     /s/ ERNEST C. JETT                                   March 28, 1995
      ___________________________
      Ernest C. Jett
      Attorney-in-Fact pursuant 
      to Power of Attorney 
      dated as of February 8, 1995
 


 
                                             EXHIBIT INDEX
 


 
 


 


(1)     Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.



                     REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON
                         FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Leggett & Platt, Incorporated

     Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to in our
report dated February 14, 1995, appearing on page 30 of Leggett & Platt,
Incorporated's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994,
also included an audit of the Financial Statement Schedule listed in Item 14-2
in Part IV of this Form 10-K.  In our opinion, this Financial Statement Schedule
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein
when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.



PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP

St. Louis, Missouri
February 28, 1995









                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES 
        SCHEDULE VIII - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
                  For the three years ended December 31, 1994
                             (Amounts in millions)

_____________________

(A)  Portion of reserve balance associated with assets disposed during 1993.

(B)  Uncollectible accounts charged off, net of recoveries.


