
10-K405
d10k405.txt
FORM 10-K




- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

  [X]        ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000

                                      OR

  [_]      TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
               SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

                      For the Transition period from  to

                         Commission File Number 1-7845

                         LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED
            (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

               Missouri                              44-0324630
    (State or other jurisdiction of     (I.R.S. employer identification no.)
    incorporation or organization)

          No. 1 Leggett Road                            64836
          Carthage, Missouri                         (Zip code)
    (Address of principal executive
               offices)

      Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (417) 358-8131

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:



   Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [_]

   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K (Sec. 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part
III of this form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

   The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
Registrant was approximately $3,327,728,221 on March 14, 2001.

   There were 196,519,866 shares of the Registrant's common stock outstanding
as of March 14, 2001.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

   Portions of the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for its Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 9, 2001, are incorporated by reference
into Part III of this report.
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                    PART I

Item 1. Business.

   The Company is a diversified manufacturer of a wide range of engineered
products. It was incorporated in 1901 as the successor to a partnership formed
in 1883 at Carthage, Missouri. That partnership was a pioneer in the
development of steel coil bedsprings. The Company today serves markets for:

  .  Residential Furnishings--components for bedding, furniture and other
     furnishings, as well as related consumer products.

  .  Commercial Furnishings--retail store fixtures, displays, storage and
     material handling systems, components for office and institutional
     furnishings and plastic components.

  .  Aluminum Products--die castings, custom tooling and dies, machining,
     coating and other value added processes and smelting of aluminum ingot.

  .  Industrial Materials--drawn steel wire, specialty wire products and
     welded steel tubing.

  .  Specialized Products--automotive seating suspension, control cable
     systems, and lumbar supports for automotive, office and residential
     applications, and specialized machinery and manufacturing equipment.

   The term "Company," unless the context requires otherwise, refers to
Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and its majority owned subsidiaries.

   General Development of Business. The Company acquired twenty-one businesses
during the year ended December 31, 2000 representing annualized sales of
approximately $450 million. These acquired businesses expanded annualized
sales within the Company's business segments as follows: Residential
Furnishings--$75 million, Commercial Furnishings--$175 million, Aluminum
Products--$10 million, Industrial Materials--$45 million and Specialized
Products--$145 million.

   Reference is also made to Note B of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for further information about the Company's acquisitions.

   Residential Furnishings. The Company's residential furnishings products
include a broad line of components used by manufacturers to make finished
bedding and residential furniture products. Examples of residential
furnishings components manufactured by the Company include (i) innerspring
units for mattresses, and wood frames, coils and modules for boxsprings; (ii)
foam, textile and fiber cushioning materials, woven and non-woven construction
fabrics for bedding, home furnishings and industrial applications; (iii)
springs and seating suspensions for chairs, sofas and other residential
furniture; (iv) steel mechanisms and hardware for reclining chairs, sleeper
sofas and other types of motion furniture; and (v) other furniture supplies
and cut-to-size dimension lumber.

   The Company also manufactures or distributes finished residential
furnishings. These finished products include bed frames, daybeds, headboards,
adjustable electric beds, fashion beds, carpet underlay and non-slip coated
fabrics.

   Most of the Company's customers for residential furnishings manufacture
finished bedding (mattresses and boxsprings) or upholstered and non-
upholstered furniture for residential use. Finished residential furnishings
are sold to bedding and furniture manufacturers for resale, or directly to
retailers and distributors.

   The Company's diverse range of components gives its residential furnishings
manufacturer-customers access to a single source for most of their component
needs. For example, a manufacturer of bedding can come to the Company for
almost every component part of a mattress and boxspring, except the outer
upholstery fabric. This same principle holds true for manufacturers of other
residential furnishings such as upholstered recliner



chairs, sofas and loveseats. Because the Company has the advantage of long
production runs and numerous production and assembly locations, it can
generally produce component products more efficiently than its customers.
Therefore, components customers can focus on the design, style and marketing
of their various residential furnishings products, rather than the production
of components.

   Commercial Furnishings. The Company manufactures a variety of commercial
furnishings products, including both finished products and components.

   Finished commercial furnishings include point-of-purchase displays, store
fixtures and shelving, racking, counters and carts used to store and handle
materials and utility vehicle rack systems. Point-of-purchase displays and
store fixtures, made of wood, metal, wire and plastics, are used by a wide
range of customers, including manufacturers, distributors and retailers of
branded consumer products. The Company has the ability to provide custom
designed full store fixture packages as well as standardized shelving used by
large retailers, grocery stores, discount chains and the like. Commercial
storage products provide for the efficient storage, organization and handling
of materials used in food service, health care and other applications.
Customers for these storage products include retailers, restaurants, light
industrial, and many other diverse businesses.

   Commercial furnishings components include chair controls (devices which
allow office chairs to be adjusted to height, tilt and swivel), chair bases,
columns, backrests, casters and other components used by customers that
manufacture office, institutional and other commercial furnishings. The
Company also produces plastic components for commercial furnishings customers
as well as customers that make lawn care products, power tools, and other
consumer or commercial products.

   Aluminum Products. The Company die casts aluminum components for use in a
number of different industries primarily for non-automotive applications. Some
zinc and magnesium die castings are also produced.

   The Company's die casting products are sold to a diverse group of customers
that manufacture industrial and consumer products. The Company's customers use
these components in their production of gas barbecue grills, outdoor lighting
fixtures, cable line amplifiers, wireless communications systems and other
cable and telecommunication products, computer and electronics products,
electric motors, consumer appliances, power tools, small to mid-size gasoline
engines, mid-to-large size diesel engines, motorcycles, snowmobiles, ATVs,
trucks and automobiles.

   The Company also manufactures and refurbishes dies (also known as molds or
tools) for all types and sizes of die casting machines. These complementary
products are sold to customers that buy the Company's die castings and to
others. The Company also provides extensive secondary machining, coating, sub-
assembly and other value-added services.

   In addition, the Company operates an aluminum smelting plant where aluminum
ingot is produced from aluminum scrap. Some of this aluminum is used by the
Company's die casting operations and the balance is sold to unaffiliated
customers. In late 2000, the Company sold one plant which produced other forms
of aluminum raw materials from scrap.

   Industrial Materials. The Company produces drawn steel wire and welded
steel tubing as well as specialty wire products. Drawn wire and welded steel
tubing are important raw materials used widely in manufacturing the Company's
products. For example, wire is used to make bedding and furniture components,
commercial furnishings, automotive seating components and other products.
Welded steel tubing is used in many of the same types of products, including
furniture actuation mechanisms, store fixtures, displays, shelving and storage
products and finished residential furnishings.

   In addition to supplying the Company's needs for important materials, the
Company sells drawn wire and welded steel tubing to a diverse group of
industrial customers such as manufacturers of lawn and garden equipment,
recreational equipment, mechanical springs, automotive interiors and other
products.



   Specialty wire products using wire drawn by the Company include wire ties
that secure cotton bales and solid waste materials. Customers for these
products include cotton gins, textile companies, recyclers and solid waste
removal businesses. The Company also manufactures and sells tying heads of
various types which customers use to tie wire.

   Specialized Products. Two smaller business units are engaged in
manufacturing specialized products. One concentrates on manufacturing
components primarily for automotive interior applications. The other business
unit designs, builds and sells specialized machinery and equipment. In the
automotive area the Company manufactures seating suspension, lumbar support
and control cable systems. Subcontractors to automobile manufacturers as well
as the manufacturers themselves are the primary customers for these products.
In the machinery area the Company manufactures highly automated quilting
machines for fabrics used to cover mattresses and in other home furnishings
applications, coilers used to fabricate springs of various types, industrial
sewing machines and other equipment designed primarily for the assembly of
bedding, including material handling systems and other products for factory
automation. While manufacturers of bedding are the primary customers for the
Company's machinery, the Company also designs and produces some of these
specialized products for its own use.

   The Company's products are sold and distributed primarily through its own
sales personnel.

   Reference is made to Note J of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for further information concerning sales of each of the Company's
business segments.

   Foreign Operations. The majority of the Company's international operations
are in Canada and primarily manufacture commercial furnishings and components
for the Company's residential furnishings customers and lumbar supports
primarily for the automotive industry. The Company's other international
operations are primarily located in Europe and Mexico and involve (i) the sale
of machinery and equipment designed to manufacture innersprings and other
bedding related components, (ii) aluminum die casting, and (iii) the
production of seating components, lumbar support products, commercial
furnishings and bedding components. In 2000, the Company added facilities in
Austria, Canada, Croatia, France, Germany, Mexico, Spain, Switzerland and the
United Kingdom.

   Reference is made to Note J of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for further information concerning the Company's operations outside
of the United States.

   Raw Materials. The Company uses a variety of raw materials in manufacturing
its products. Some of the Company's most important raw materials include steel
rod, from which steel wire is drawn, woven and nonwoven fabrics, aluminum
ingot, aluminum scrap, angle iron, coil and sheet steel, dimension lumber,
textile scrap, foam chemicals, foam scrap, and plastic resin. Substantially
all of the Company's requirements for steel wire, an important material in
many of the Company's products, are supplied by Company-owned wire drawing
mills. Examples of products produced using steel wire include residential
furnishings such as innersprings and box springs, commercial furnishings such
as displays, shelving and racks and automotive seating systems. The Company
also produces, at various locations, for its own consumption and for sale to
customers not affiliated with the Company, welded steel tubing, textile
fibers, dimension lumber and aluminum ingot from scrap aluminum. Numerous
supply sources for the raw materials used by the Company are available. The
Company did not experience any significant shortages of raw materials during
the past year.

   Patents and Trademarks. The Company holds numerous patents concerning its
various product lines. No single patent or group of patents is material to the
Company's business as a whole. Examples of the Company's more significant
trademarks include SEMI-FLEX(TM), LOK-Fast(TM) and DYNA-Lock(TM) (boxspring
components and foundations); Mira-Coil(R) and Lura-Flex(TM) (mattress
innersprings); Nova-Bond(R) and Flexnet(TM) (insulators for mattresses);
ADJUSTA-MAGIC(R) (adjustable electric beds); Wallhugger(R) and Hi-Style(TM)
(recliner chairs); SUPER SAGLESS(R) (motion and sofa sleeper mechanisms) and
No-Sag(R) (sinuous wire).



   Research and Development. The Company maintains research, engineering and
testing centers at Carthage, Missouri, and also does research and development
work at many of its other facilities. The Company is unable to precisely
calculate the cost of research and development because the personnel involved
in product and machinery development also spend portions of their time in
several different areas. However, the Company believes the cost of research
and development was approximately $19 million in 2000, $17 million in 1999 and
$12 million in 1998.

   Employees. The Company has approximately 34,000 employees of whom
approximately 26,000 are engaged in production. Approximately 29% of the
Company's production employees are represented by labor unions. The Company
did not experience any material work stoppage related to the negotiation of
contracts with labor unions during 2000. Management is not aware of any
circumstances which are likely to result in a material work stoppage related
to the negotiations of any contracts expiring during 2001.

   Competition. There are many companies offering products which compete with
those manufactured and sold by the Company. The markets for the Company's
products are highly competitive in all aspects. Given the diverse range of
components and other products produced by the Company, the number of the
companies competing with respect to any class or type of product varies over
the Company's product range. There are also a number of maker-users
(vertically integrated manufacturers) of many of the products the Company
manufactures. The primary competitive factors in the Company's business
include price, product quality and customer service.

   To the best of the Company's knowledge, it is the largest supplier in the
United States of a diverse range of components to the residential furnishings
industry.

   Seasonality. The Company's business is not significantly seasonal. For
further information, see the discussion of "Seasonality" in Item 7,
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations, beginning on page 11.

   Backlog. The Company's relationship with its customers and its
manufacturing and inventory practices do not provide for the traditional
backlog associated with some manufacturing entities and no backlog data is
regularly prepared or used by management.

   Government Regulation. The Company's various operations are subject to
federal, state, and local laws and regulations related to the protection of
the environment, worker safety, and other matters. Environmental regulations
include those relating to air and water emissions, underground storage tanks,
waste handling, and the like. While the Company cannot forecast policies that
may be adopted by various regulatory agencies, management believes that
compliance with these various laws and regulations will not have a material
adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of
operations of the Company.

Item 2. Properties.

   The Company's most important physical properties are its manufacturing
plants. Facilities manufacturing, assembling or distributing residential
furnishings products are located in over thirty states as well as Canada,
Europe, Asia, Australia, Brazil and Mexico. Commercial furnishings
manufacturing plants and distribution facilities are located in nineteen
states, Canada, Mexico and the United Kingdom. The Aluminum Products segment
has die casting facilities in nine states and Mexico, die and tooling
production facilities in Alabama, Minnesota and Missouri and a smelting
operation in Alabama. Industrial Materials are produced at six wire drawing
mills and three welded steel tubing plants and are manufactured in fifteen
states, Canada and the United Kingdom. Specialized products and machinery are
produced in facilities in the United States, Canada, Mexico, Argentina, China
and Europe.

   Most of the Company's major manufacturing plants are owned by the Company.
The Company also conducts certain operations in leased premises. Terms of the
leases, including purchase options, renewals and maintenance costs, vary by
lease. For additional information regarding lease obligations, reference is
made to Note F of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



   Properties of the Company include facilities which, in the opinion of
management, are suitable and adequate for the manufacture, assembly and
distribution of its products. These properties are located to allow quick and
efficient deliveries and necessary service to the Company's diverse customer
base.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

   The Company is a defendant in various workers' compensation, product
liability, vehicle accident, employment, intellectual property, labor
practices and other claims and legal proceedings, the resolution of which
management believes will not have a material adverse effect on the
consolidated financial condition or results of operations of the Company in
the ordinary course of business.

   The Company is party to a small number of proceedings in which a
governmental authority is a party and which involve laws regulating the
discharge of materials into the environment. These proceedings deal primarily
with waste disposal site remediation. Management believes that potential
monetary sanctions, if imposed in any or all of these proceedings, or any
capital expenditures or operating expenses attributable to these proceedings,
will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial
condition or results of operations of the Company.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

   Not Applicable.

                                    PART II

Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Shareholder
Matters.

STOCK MARKET AND OWNERSHIP DATA

   The Company's common stock is listed on the New York and Pacific stock
exchanges with the trading symbol LEG. The table below highlights quarterly
and annual stock market information for the last two years.


- --------
   Price and volume data reflect composite transactions and prices as reported
daily. The Company was added to the S&P 500 Index in the fourth quarter of
1999 accounting for unusually high volume.



   The Company had 17,107 shareholders of record on March 14, 2001.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data.



   Merger related costs of $16.4 after-tax, or $.09 per basic and diluted
share are included in 1996 earnings from continuing operations.

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations.

Capital Resources and Liquidity

   The Company's financial position reflects management's capital policy
guidelines. These guidelines are intended to ensure that corporate liquidity
is adequate to support the Company's projected growth rate. Also, liquidity is
necessary to finance the Company's ongoing operations in periods of economic
downturn. In a normal operating environment, management intends to direct
capital to ongoing operations, strategic acquisitions and other investments
that provide opportunities for expansion and enhanced profitability.

   The expansion of capital resources--debt and equity--is planned to allow
the Company to take advantage of favorable capital market conditions, rather
than respond to short-term needs. Such financial flexibility is considered
more important than short-term maximization of earnings per share through
excessive leverage. Therefore, management continuously provides for available
credit in excess of near-term projected cash needs and has maintained a
guideline for long-term debt as a percentage of total capitalization in a
range of 30% to 40%.



Total Capitalization

   The following table shows the Company's total capitalization at the end of
the three most recent years. Also, the table shows the amount of unused
committed credit available through the Company's revolving bank credit
agreements and the amount of cash and cash equivalents at the end of the three
most recent years.



   Cash provided by operating activities was $440.8 million, $370.8 million
and $354.9 million for 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively, or a three year
total of $1,166.5 million. The increase in cash provided by operating
activities during 2000 compared to the prior year principally reflects an
increase in EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization), a reduction in current tax expense and a smaller increase in
working capital (excluding acquisitions), partially offset by higher interest
costs. During 1999, the increase in cash provided by operating activities
principally reflected earnings improvements, offset somewhat by higher working
capital requirements.

   Long-term debt outstanding was 34.1%, 30.9% and 26.9% of total
capitalization at the end of 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. As shown in
the preceding table, obligations having scheduled maturities are the primary
source of the Company's debt capital. At the end of 2000, these obligations
consisted primarily of the Company's privately placed medium-term notes and
tax-exempt industrial development bonds. In February 2000, $350 million of
7.65% five-year notes were issued under a $500 million shelf registration
completed in November 1999. These notes were converted to variable rate notes
under an interest rate swap agreement. The proceeds of the offering were used
to pay down commercial paper and to fund the Company's capital expenditures
and acquisition activity.

   In the second and third quarters of 1999, the Company issued a total of
$104 million in medium-term notes, the proceeds of which were used to repay
maturing notes and for acquisitions. In the first and second quarters of 1998,
the Company issued a total of $176 million in medium-term notes. Proceeds from
the notes were used to repay commercial paper outstanding and to provide
financing for acquisitions. A portion of the proceeds were temporarily held in
cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 1998.

   The secondary source of the Company's debt capital consists of revolving
bank credit agreements and commercial paper issuances. Management has
negotiated bank credit agreements and established a commercial paper program
to continuously support the Company's projected growth and to maintain highly
flexible sources of debt capital. The majority of the credit under these
arrangements is a long-term obligation. If needed, however, the credit is
available for short-term borrowings and repayments. To further facilitate the
issuance of debt capital,



the Company has in effect a $500 million shelf registration of debt. The
current shelf registration restored to $500 million the original amount of a
shelf registration previously completed in November 1999. At the end of 2000,
the Company had no commercial paper outstanding. Additional details of long-
term debt, including scheduled maturities, revolving credit and commercial
paper are discussed in Note E of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

 Uses of Capital Resources

   The Company's internal investments to modernize and expand manufacturing
capacity totaled $476.4 million in the last three years. In 2001, management
anticipates internal investments will approximate $150 million, down from the
nearly $170 million spent in 2000. During the last three years, the Company
employed $659.5 million in cash (net of cash acquired) and issued 4.2 million
shares of common stock in acquisitions. During 2000, twenty-one businesses
were acquired for $252.3 million in cash (net of cash acquired) and 268,791
shares or share equivalents. In addition, the Company assumed $123.4 million
of acquisition companies' debt and other liabilities. Of the twenty-one 2000
acquisitions, eight were made in Residential Furnishings, six in Commercial
Furnishings, one in Aluminum Products, two in Industrial Materials and four in
Specialized Products. Additional details of acquisitions are discussed in Note
B of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Additions, by segment, to
property, plant and equipment and purchases of long-lived assets are shown in
Note J of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

   Company purchases of its common stock (net of issuances) totaled $49.2
million in 2000, $77.5 million in 1999, and $8.5 million in 1998. These
purchases were made primarily for employee stock plans, to replace shares
issued in purchase acquisitions and to satisfy contractual obligations. The
Board of Directors annually authorizes management, at its discretion, to buy
up to 2,000,000 shares of Leggett stock for use in employee benefit plans.
This authorization is continuously replenished as shares acquired are reissued
for these benefit plans. In addition, management is authorized, again at its
discretion, to repurchase any shares issued in acquisitions accounted for as
purchases.

   At the end of the third quarter 2000, the Board of Directors authorized
management to buy up to an additional 10,000,000 shares of Leggett stock as
part of the Company's performance improvement plan also announced at that
time. No specific schedule of purchases has been established under this
authorization. The amount and timing of any purchases will depend on
availability of cash, economic and market conditions, acquisition activity and
other factors.

   Cash dividends on the Company's common stock in the last three years
totaled $207.6 million. Over this three-year period, cash dividends per share
have increased at a 15.9% compounded annual rate. As a percent of earnings per
share (diluted), cash dividends per share were 31.8% in 2000, 24.8% in 1999
and 25.4% in 1998.

   Future commitments under lease obligations are described in Note F and
contingencies are discussed in Note K of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.



 Short-term Liquidity

   Working capital, excluding cash and acquisitions, increased over the prior
year by $30.8 million, $96.1 million and $56.9 million for the years 2000,
1999 and 1998, respectively. During the three-year period, the Company also
assumed a total of $143.2 million in working capital through acquisitions.
During the last half of 2000, the Company concentrated on reducing working
capital levels. Due to the softening in market demand discussed below under
"Results of Operations", the desired reduction in inventory has not yet been
achieved. The increase in working capital during 1999 and 1998 was due in
large part to increased same location sales volume, with some inventory build-
up at the end of 1999 due to anticipation of higher prices for certain key raw
materials. The following table shows the annual turnover on average year-end
working capital, trade receivables and inventories. The ratios may be affected
by timing of the Company's acquisitions.



   Receivables turnover in the Aluminum Products segment is lower than in the
other segments due principally to the seasonal nature of its gas barbecue
grill business. Also, aluminum commitments to certain customers result in
carrying higher levels of inventory than the Company's other segments. Recent
acquisitions concentrated in the Commercial Furnishings and Specialized
Products segments also contributed to reductions in working capital turnover
and inventory turnover due to increased production time and extended delivery
schedules in these businesses.

Results of Operations

 Discussion of Consolidated Results

   The results of operations during the last three years reflect various
elements of the Company's long-term growth strategy, along with general
economic trends and the specific market conditions. The Company's growth
strategy continues to include internal initiatives and acquisitions which
provide for increased market penetration and operating efficiencies and
broader product lines. With a continuing emphasis on the development of new
and improved products and advancements in production technologies, the Company
is able to consistently offer high quality products, competitively priced.

   For the years 2000, 1999 and 1998, sales increased 13.2%, 12.1% and 15.9%,
respectively, while same location sales increased .2%, 2.9% and 3.8% for the
same periods. Same location sales growth primarily reflected increases in unit
volumes. Internal growth during 2000 was negatively impacted by reduced market
demand across all segments, particularly in the last half of the year. Selling
prices in 2000 for certain products include some recovery of higher raw
material costs. Trends in the general economy were very favorable during 1999
and 1998, which had a positive impact on unit volume, although 1999 was also
impacted by lower selling prices for certain products. Residential Furnishings
accounted for 36.1% of the 2000 increase in consolidated sales and Commercial
Furnishings accounted for 41.3% of the increase. In 1999, Residential
Furnishings accounted for 41.4% of the consolidated sales increase over 1998
and Commercial Furnishings accounted for 37.9% of the increase.

   The following table shows various measures of earnings as a percentage of
sales for the last three years. It also shows the effective income tax rate
and the ratio of earnings to fixed charges.





   The Company's gross profit margin declined during 2000 after improvements
in each of the previous two years. The decline in 2000 primarily reflected
weakened demand in all of the Company's business segments, as well as lower
than expected performance in the Company's Aluminum Products segment and some
parts of the Residential and Commercial Furnishings segments. Production
cutbacks, plant closure costs and a supplier disruption at a single plant
contributed to reduced plant utilization and lower overhead absorption, which
significantly impacted profit and EBIT margins. Margins were also reduced by
increased medical expenses and higher energy costs. Higher interest expense
during 2000 contributed to the decline in net margin. The lower effective tax
rate in 2000 primarily reflects a reduction in foreign statutory rates.

   The Company has begun implementation of its tactical plan announced at the
end of the third quarter 2000, aimed at improving performance, margins and
shareholder return. The primary objective of the tactical plan is to fix
problems in underperforming businesses. Operations that cannot be fixed will
be consolidated, closed or sold. In addition, the Company is reducing
acquisitions and capital spending in operational areas that are under-
performing. The Company expects to continue this tactical course for several
quarters and possibly longer, as conditions warrant. Once performance
improves, the Company expects to return to its traditional level of
acquisition activity. The Company's strategic, long-term growth plans remain
unchanged.

   The increase in gross profit margin in 1999 reflected several favorable
factors. These included continued increases in production efficiencies,
increased sales of products with above average margins, lower material costs
and better manufacturing overhead absorption. The EBIT margin also increased
due to these factors, offset somewhat by higher operating costs as a
percentage of sales. The higher operating expenses as a percentage of sales,
which include some amount of fixed administrative and other costs, was
impacted by the effect on sales of lower selling prices in certain product
lines and higher operating costs in acquired companies as a percentage of
sales.

 Seasonality

   The percent of consolidated net sales by quarter, excluding the impact of
acquisitions, is as follows for the last three years:



   The Company does not experience significant seasonality, however, as
indicated in the above table, quarter-to-quarter sales can vary in proportion
to the total year by 1-2%. Management estimates that this 1-2% sales impact
can have, at current average net margins and considering overhead absorption,
an approximately 5-10% plus or minus impact on quarter-to-quarter earnings.
The timing of acquisitions and economic factors (e.g. the fourth quarter of
2000) in any year can distort the underlying seasonality in certain of the
Company's businesses. For the Company's businesses in total, the second and
third quarters have proportionately greater sales, while the first and fourth
quarters are lower. This small seasonality has become somewhat more
pronounced, with the fourth quarter particularly showing proportionately lower
sales due to the growth of the store fixtures business of Commercial
Furnishings.

   Residential Furnishings and Commercial Furnishings typically have their
strongest sales in the second and third quarters. Commercial Furnishings
particularly has heavy third quarter sales of its store fixtures products,
with the first and fourth quarters generally lower. Aluminum Products sales
are proportionately greater in the first two calendar quarters due to gas
barbecue grill castings. Industrial Materials sales peak in the third and
fourth quarters from wire products used for baling cotton. Specialized
Products has relatively little quarter-to-



quarter variation in sales, although the automotive business is somewhat
heavier in the first two quarters of the year, and somewhat lower in the third
quarter, due to model changeovers and plant shutdowns in the automobile
industry during the summer.

 Discussion of Segment Results

   A description of the products included in each segment, segment sales,
segment earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) and other segment data
appear in Note J of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Following
is a comparison of EBIT margins (Segment EBIT divided by Total Segment Sales):



   Residential Furnishings sales increased 9.2% in 2000, with same location
growth of 2.4%. Numerous acquisitions accounted for the balance of the growth.
EBIT increased 2.0%, with strong volume and efficiency gains in the first half
of the year offset by softening industry demand, efforts to reduce finished
goods inventory which resulted in lower production, and reduced overhead
absorption and efficiency starting in the third quarter. For 1999, Residential
Furnishings sales were up 9.6%, principally from acquisitions, although volume
growth was also a significant factor. The growth in sales was negatively
impacted by declining selling prices in certain product lines. EBIT increased
10.8% in 1999 versus 1998, and EBIT margin increased slightly as higher volume
improved operating efficiencies and raw material costs were lower.

   Commercial Furnishings sales increased 26.7% in 2000 due to numerous
acquisitions. Same location sales were down 3.0% for the period, as some
customers for store fixture, display, and storage products reduced purchases.
EBIT declined 13.0% in 2000 due to demand shortfalls, reduced margins
attributable to the changing mix of businesses, plant inefficiencies and a
supplier disruption at a store fixture and design firm acquired in 1999. Plant
restructuring costs and integration benefits from acquisitions that have not
been fully realized also had a negative impact on EBIT margins. In 1999,
Commercial Furnishings sales increased 25.0% over the prior year due primarily
to acquisition activity. EBIT in 1999 improved 14.2% over 1998, but EBIT
margin declined due to product mix, lower volume in certain product lines and
the fact that the Company had not yet fully realized the integration benefits
of the substantial acquisition activity in this segment.

   Aluminum Products sales decreased .5% in 2000. Same location sales declined
1.6%, and were partially offset by one acquisition. Starting in the second
quarter, reduced die cast component sales reflected weak market demand for a
variety of consumer and industrial products, including castings for barbecue
grills, diesel truck engine components, small gasoline engines, outdoor
lighting and electrical products. EBIT decreased 30.6%, reflecting
significantly reduced production in the second half of the year, plant under
utilization, higher natural gas costs, smelting losses, and plant closure
costs. In 1999, Aluminum Product sales increased 5.9%, principally from
improved operations. This improvement was moderated by declining aluminum
prices. EBIT increased 61.3% and EBIT margin improved from gains in operating
efficiency and a shift to higher margin products at certain die cast
facilities.

   Industrial Materials sales in 2000 increased 8.4%, with same location
growth of 2.5%. Acquisitions accounted for the balance of the sales growth.
EBIT improved 3.7% in 2000, however, EBIT margins were down reflecting higher
raw materials costs, primarily for steel rod and flat rolled steel used to
make wire and welded steel tubing, and production inefficiencies. In 1999,
Industrial Materials sales were 4.7% higher than 1998, principally reflecting
acquisition related sales. The sales improvement was lower than unit volume
gains as selling prices declined for drawn wire. EBIT improved 35.1% in 1999
and EBIT margin was better reflecting lower raw material prices and improved
operating efficiencies.



   Specialized Product sales increased 32.2% in 2000 due to acquisitions. Same
location sales declined .3%. EBIT increased 36.1%, reflecting acquisitions,
increased sales of specialized machinery with higher margins, and improved
efficiencies. In 1999, Specialized Products sales increased 14.3%, due
primarily to acquisitions. EBIT improved 19.2%, reflecting acquisition growth
and higher automotive sales. EBIT margin was up somewhat from improved
efficiencies and acquisitions.

New Financial Accounting Standards Board Statements

   During 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued a new
accounting standard on "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities" (FASB No. 133). In June 2000, the FASB issued Statement No. 138,
which deferred implementation of FASB No. 133, which will become effective for
the Company beginning January 1, 2001. FASB No. 133 will not have a major
effect on the Company's financial statements since the Company has not engaged
in significant hedging or other activities involving derivative instruments in
the past.

Forward-Looking Statements

   This report and other public reports or statements made from time to time
by the Company or its management may contain "forward-looking" statements
concerning possible future events, objectives, strategies, trends or results.
Such statements are identified either by the context in which they appear or
by use of words such as "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," or the
like.

   Readers are cautioned that any forward-looking statement reflects only the
beliefs of the Company or its management at the time the statement is made. In
addition, readers should keep in mind that, because all forward-looking
statements deal with the future, they are subject to risks, uncertainties and
developments which might cause actual events or results to differ materially
from those envisioned or reflected in any forward-looking statement. Moreover,
the Company does not have and does not undertake any duty to update or revise
any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the
date on which the statement was made. For all of these reasons, forward-
looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual future
events, objectives, strategies, trends or results.

   It is not possible to anticipate and list all of the risks, uncertainties
and developments which may affect the future operations or performance of the
Company, or which otherwise may cause actual events or results to differ from
forward-looking statements. However, some of these risks and uncertainties
include the following: the Company's ability to improve operations and realize
cost savings, future growth of acquired companies, competitive and general
economic and market conditions and risks, such as the rate of economic growth
in the United States, inflation, government regulation, interest rates,
taxation, and the like; risks and uncertainties which could affect industries
or markets in which the Company participates, such as growth rates and
opportunities in those industries, or changes in demand for certain products,
etc.; and factors which could impact costs, including but not limited to the
availability and pricing of raw materials, the availability of labor and wage
rates, and fuel and energy costs.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

(Unaudited)
(Dollar amounts in millions)

Interest Rate

   The table below provides information about the Company's debt obligations
sensitive to changes in interest rates. The Company has no other significant
financial instruments sensitive to changes in interest rates. The Company has
not typically in the past used derivative financial instruments to hedge its
exposure to interest rate changes. However, during 2000, $350 of 7.65% fixed
rate debt maturing in February 2005 and, in 1999, $14 of



6.90% fixed rate debt maturing in June 2004 were issued and converted to
variable rate debt by use of interest rate swap agreements. These swap
agreements, which contain the same payment dates as the original issues, are
used primarily by the Company to manage the fixed/variable interest rate mix
of its debt portfolio, and are included as variable rate debt in the table
below. Substantially all of the debt shown in the table below is denominated
in United States dollars (U.S.$). The fair value of fixed rate debt was not
significantly different from its carrying value as of December 31, 2000, and
was less than its carrying value by $11.2 at December 31, 1999. The fair value
of the fixed rate debt was calculated using the U.S. Treasury Bond rate as of
December 31, 2000 and 1999 for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated
"spread" over such Treasury securities representing the Company's interest
costs under its medium-term note program. The fair value of variable rate debt
is not significantly different from its recorded amount.


- --------
  *The 2001 scheduled maturity is not included in current maturities, as the
  Company intends to refinance this note on a long-term basis either through
  reissuance or unused credit available under its revolving credit
  agreements.

Exchange Rate

   The Company has not typically hedged foreign currency exposures related to
transactions denominated in other than its functional currencies, although
such transactions have not been material in the past. The Company may
occasionally hedge firm commitments for certain machinery purchases, other
fixed expenses or amounts due in foreign currencies related to its acquisition
program. The decision by management to hedge any transactions is made on a
case-by-case basis. The amount of forward contracts outstanding at December
31, 2000 was approximately $8.3 (pay U.S. $/receive Mexican Pesos) and the
highest amount during 2000 was approximately $65.8 (pay U.S. $/receive
Canadian Dollars).

   The Company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long-term
commitment, and does not hedge any translation exposures. The investment in a
foreign subsidiary may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. The
Company's net investment in foreign subsidiaries subject to translation
exposure at December 31 is as follows:





Commodity Price

   The Company does not generally use derivative commodity instruments to
hedge its exposures to changes in commodity prices. The principal commodity
price exposure is aluminum, of which the Company had an estimated $50 and $73
(at cost) in inventory at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The
Company has purchasing procedures and arrangements with customers to mitigate
its exposure to aluminum price changes. No other commodity exposures are
significant to the Company.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

   The Consolidated Financial Statements and supplementary data included in
this Report are listed in Item 14 and begin immediately after Item 14.

Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure.

   Not applicable.

                                   PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

   Reference is made to the section entitled "Election of Directors" in the
Company's definitive Proxy Statement for the Company's Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on May 9, 2001, said sections being incorporated by
reference, for a description of the directors of the Company.

   The following table sets forth the names, ages and positions of all
executive officers of the Company. Executive officers are normally elected
annually by the Board of Directors at the Meeting of Shareholders.





   Subject to the employment agreements and severance benefit agreements
listed as Exhibits to this Report, officers serve at the pleasure of the Board
of Directors.

   Harry M. Cornell, Jr. has served as Chairman of the Company's Board of
Directors since 1982. He has served the Company in various capacities since
1950, including service as Chief Executive Officer from 1960 until 1999 and as
President from 1960 to 1982.

   Felix E. Wright is the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer. He
also serves as Vice Chairman of the Company's Board of Directors. Mr. Wright
has served the Company since 1959 including service as Chief Operating Officer
from 1979 to 1999.

   David S. Haffner was elected Chief Operating Officer of the Company in
1999. He has served as the Company's Executive Vice President since 1995. He
previously served the Company as Senior Vice President from 1992 to 1995. Mr.
Haffner joined the Company in 1983. Mr. Haffner is also President of the
Commercial Furnishings and Specialized Products segments.

   Jack D. Crusa has served the Company in various capacities since 1986,
including service as Vice President and President--Automotive Components for
the last five years. Mr. Crusa became Senior Vice President and President--
Industrial Materials in 1999.

   Bob L. Gaddy was elected Senior Vice President of the Company in 1996.
Since that time, he has also served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
the Aluminum Products segment. Since 1993, Mr. Gaddy has served as Chairman of
the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Pace Industries, Inc., a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Company.

   Karl G. Glassman has been employed by the Company in various capacities
since 1982. Mr. Glassman became Vice President and President--Bedding
Components in 1995 and became a Senior Vice President and President,
Residential Furnishings in 1999.

   Michael A. Glauber has served the Company since 1969. Mr. Glauber was named
Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration in 1990.

   Robert G. Griffin has been employed by the Company since 1992. Mr. Griffin
was named Vice President and Director of Mergers, Acquisitions and Strategic
Planning in 1995, President--Commercial Fixtures and Display Group in 1998 and
Senior Vice President in 1999.

   Robert A. Jefferies, Jr. has served as Senior Vice President, Mergers,
Acquisitions and Strategic Planning of the Company since 1990. He previously
served the Company as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from 1977-
1990.

   Ernest C. Jett was appointed General Counsel in 1997, and was elected Vice
President and Secretary in 1995. He previously served the Company as Assistant
General Counsel from 1979 to 1995 and as Managing Director of the Legal
Department from 1991 to 1997.

   Allan J. Ross has served the Company as Vice President, Accounting since
1993. In May 1996, Mr. Ross was designated by the Board of Directors as the
Company's Principal Accounting Officer.

   Robert A. Wagner has served as Vice President, Mergers, Acquisitions and
Strategic Planning since 1998. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Wagner was
Vice President of Graco Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota from 1991-1997, most
recently serving as Vice President Asia Pacific and President Graco KK in
Yokohama, Japan from 1995-1997.



Item 11. Executive Compensation.

   The section entitled "Executive Compensation and Related Matters" in the
Company's definitive Proxy Statement for the Company's Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on May 9, 2001, is incorporated by reference.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

   The section entitled "Ownership of Common Stock" in the Company's
definitive Proxy Statement for the Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders to
be held on May 9, 2001, is incorporated by reference.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

   The subsection entitled "Related Transactions" of the section entitled
"Executive Compensation and Related Matters" in the Company's definitive Proxy
Statement for the Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May
9, 2001 is incorporated by reference.

                                    PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K.

   1. Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule Covered by Report
of Independent Accountants.

   The Financial Statements listed below are included in this Report:

  . Consolidated Statements of Earnings for each of the years in the three
    year period ended December 31, 2000

  . Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2000 and 1999

  . Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the years in the three
    year period ended December 31, 2000

  . Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity for each of
    the years in the three year period ended December 31, 2000

  . Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

  . Schedule for each of the years in the three year period ended December
    31, 2000

    Schedule II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves

   All other information schedules have been omitted as the required
information is inapplicable, not required, or the information is included in
the financial statements or notes thereto.

   2. Exhibits--See Exhibit Index.

   3. Reports on Form 8-K filed during the last quarter of 2000--A Form 8-K
was filed December 13, 2000, Item 5 "Other Events" reported.



                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS




   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.



                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.



                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.



                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY



   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.



                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

              (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data)
                       December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998

A--Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

   Principles of Consolidation: The consolidated financial statements include
the accounts of Leggett & Platt, Incorporated (Leggett & Platt) and its
majority-owned subsidiaries (the Company). All intercompany transactions and
accounts have been eliminated in consolidation.

   Cash Equivalents: Cash equivalents include cash in excess of daily
requirements which is invested in various financial instruments with original
maturities of three months or less.

   Sales Recognition: The Company primarily recognizes sales upon the shipment
of its products. Exceptions to this policy are not significant and conform to
industry practices. The Company generally bills customers for amounts to cover
shipping and handling costs. These amounts are recognized as revenues and the
related costs are included in operating expenses.

   Inventories: All inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market.
Cost includes materials, labor and production overhead. Cost is determined by
the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for approximately 50% of the inventories
at December 31, 2000 and 1999. The first-in, first-out (FIFO) method is
principally used for the remainder. The FIFO cost of inventories at December
31, 2000 and 1999 approximated replacement cost.

   Depreciation, Amortization and Asset Impairment: Property, plant and
equipment are depreciated by the straight-line method. The rates of
depreciation range from 7% to 25% for machinery and equipment, 3% to 7% for
buildings and 12% to 33% for other items. Accelerated methods are used for tax
purposes. The excess cost of purchased companies over net assets acquired is
amortized by the straight-line method over forty years. Other intangibles are
amortized by the straight-line method over their estimated lives. The rates of
amortization range from 5% to 33%. In accordance with FASB Statement No. 121,
long-lived assets, including intangibles, are evaluated for probable recovery
of their carrying amount. Appropriate adjustment, using current market values,
estimates of discounted future cash flows and other methods, is made when
recovery of the carrying amount is not reasonably assured.

   Concentration of Credit Risks, Exposures And Financial Instruments: The
Company engages in manufacturing, marketing, and distributing engineered
products for markets served by the Company as described in Note J. The
Company's operations are principally in the United States, although the
Company also has manufacturing subsidiaries in Canada, Europe, Mexico, China,
Brazil and Australia and marketing and distribution operations in other areas.

   The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers' financial
conditions and generally requires no collateral from its customers, some of
which are highly leveraged. The Company maintains allowances for potential
credit losses and such losses have generally been within management's
expectations.

   From time to time, the Company will enter into forward exchange contracts
to hedge equipment purchases and other transactions in foreign currencies and
interest rate swaps related to fixed rate debt. The amounts outstanding under
the forward contracts and interest rate swaps at any point in time are not
significant to the Company. The Company has minimal continuing exposures to
other foreign currency transactions and interest rate fluctuations.

   The carrying value of cash and short-term financial instruments
approximates fair value due to the short maturity of those instruments. The
fair value of long-term debt is not significantly different than its carrying
value.



                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


   Other Risks: The Company obtains insurance for workers' compensation,
automobile, product and general liability, property loss and medical claims.
However, the Company has elected to retain a significant portion of expected
losses through the use of deductibles. Provisions for losses expected under
these programs are recorded based upon the Company's estimates of the
aggregate liability for claims incurred. These estimates utilize the Company's
prior experience and actuarial assumptions that are provided by the Company's
insurance carriers.

   Estimates: The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

   Income Taxes: The Company provides for taxes on undistributed earnings of
foreign subsidiaries where appropriate. The tax effect of most distributions
would be significantly offset by available foreign tax credits.

   Foreign Currency Translation: The functional currency for most foreign
operations is the local currency. The translation of foreign currencies into
U.S. dollars is performed for balance sheet accounts using current exchange
rates in effect at the balance sheet date and for income and expense accounts
using monthly average exchange rates. The cumulative effects of translating
the functional currencies into the U.S. dollar are included in comprehensive
income. Foreign entities whose functional currency is the U.S. dollar are not
significant.

B--Acquisitions

   During 2000, the Company acquired 21 businesses in transactions accounted
for as purchases. Purchase acquisitions required the use of $252.3 in cash,
net of cash acquired, and 268,791 shares or share equivalents of common stock
valued at $5.3. These amounts include additional consideration of $9.4 paid
for prior year acquisitions. The excess of the purchase price over the fair
value of the net assets acquired increased goodwill by $166.6. These acquired
businesses manufacture and distribute products primarily to the commercial
furnishings and specialized products markets, as well as the other markets the
Company serves.

   The unaudited pro forma consolidated net sales for the years ended December
31, 2000 and 1999 as though the 2000 acquisitions had occurred on January 1 of
each year presented were $4,455.7 and $4,204.4, respectively. The unaudited
pro forma consolidated net earnings and earnings per share are not materially
different from the amounts reflected in the accompanying financial statements.
These pro forma amounts are not necessarily indicative of either results of
operations that would have occurred had the purchases been made on January 1
of each year or of future results of the combined companies.

   During 1999, the Company acquired 29 businesses in transactions accounted
for as purchases. Purchase acquisitions required the use of $290.1 in cash,
net of cash acquired, and 1,227,500 shares of common stock valued at $25.8.
Options to purchase an additional 39,568 shares of common stock valued at $1.1
were also extended by the Company in substitution for previously existing
options. These amounts include additional consideration of $19.3 paid for
prior year acquisitions. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value
of the net assets acquired increased goodwill by $233.4. These acquired
businesses manufacture and distribute products primarily to the commercial
furnishings and residential furnishings markets, as well as the other markets
the Company serves.

   During 1998, the Company acquired 16 businesses in transactions accounted
for as purchases. These transactions required the use of $117.1 in cash, net
of cash acquired, and 2,741,480 shares of common stock valued at $59.8. The
excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired
increased goodwill by $121.8. The Company also issued 183,892 shares to
acquire one business in a transaction accounted for as a pooling of interests.
The Company elected not to restate its financial statements as the effect of
this pooling was not material. These acquired businesses manufacture and
distribute products primarily to the commercial furnishings and residential
furnishings markets, as well as the other markets the Company serves.



                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


   The results of operations of the above acquired companies have been
included in the consolidated financial statements since the dates of
acquisition. The terms of certain of the Company's acquisition agreements
provide for additional consideration to be paid if the acquired company's
results of operations exceed certain targeted levels. Such additional
consideration may be paid in cash or shares of the Company's common stock, and
is recorded when earned as additional purchase price. The maximum amount of
additional consideration remaining at December 31, 2000 is approximately $110
and will be payable, if earned, through 2004.

C--Earnings Per Share

   Basic and diluted earnings per share were calculated as follows:



D--Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities

   Accrued expenses and other current liabilities at December 31 consist of
the following:





                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


E--Long-Term Debt

   Long-term debt, weighted average interest rates and due dates at December
31 are as follows:



   The Company had interest rate swap agreements on $364 and $14 of its fixed-
rate medium-term notes at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. These swap
agreements, which convert fixed rate debt to variable rate debt, contain the
same payment dates as the original issues, and are used by the Company to
manage the fixed/variable interest rate mix of its debt portfolio.

   At December 31, 2000, the revolving credit agreements provided for a
maximum line of credit of $327.5. For any revolving credit agreement, the
Company may elect to pay interest based on 1) the bank's base lending rate, 2)
LIBOR, 3) an adjusted certificate of deposit rate, or 4) the money market
rate, as specified in the revolving credit agreements. Agreement amounts of
$112.5 and $215.0 will terminate August 27, 2001 and July 31, 2004,
respectively, at which time all outstanding balances will become due.

   Medium-term notes and commercial paper that mature in the current year are
classified as long-term debt since the Company intends to refinance them on a
long-term basis either through continued issuance or unused credit available
under the revolving credit agreements.

   The revolving credit agreements and certain other long-term debt contain
restrictive covenants which, among other restrictions, limit the amount of
additional debt and require net earnings to meet or exceed specified levels of
funded debt.

   Maturities of long-term debt for each of the five years following 2000 are:



F--Lease Obligations

   The Company conducts certain operations in leased premises and also leases
most of its automotive and trucking equipment and some other assets. Terms of
the leases, including purchase options, renewals and maintenance costs, vary
by lease.



                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


   Total rental expense entering into the determination of results of
operations was $42.8, $36.4 and $29.6 for the years ended December 31, 2000,
1999 and 1998, respectively.

   Future minimum rental commitments for all long-term noncancelable operating
leases are as follows:



   The above lease obligations expire at various dates through 2010. Certain
leases contain renewal and/or purchase options. Aggregate rental commitments
above include renewal amounts where it is the intention of the Company to
renew the lease.

G--Capital Stock

 Stock Activity

   Activity in the Company's stock accounts for each of the three years ended
December 31 is as follows:



   The Company issues shares for employee stock plans and acquisitions. The
Company purchases its common stock to meet the requirements of the employee
stock purchase and incentive plans, to replace shares issued in purchase
acquisitions and to satisfy contractual obligations. The Company will also
receive shares in stock option exercises.

 Stock Options

   At December 31, 2000, the Company had 13,770,412 common shares authorized
for issuance under stock option plans. Generally, options become exercisable
in varying installments, beginning 6 to 18 months after the date of grant,
have a maximum term of 5-10 years, and are issued with exercise prices at
market. However, the Company grants below market options under a deferred
compensation program. This program allows senior



                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

managers to receive stock options in lieu of cash salary and bonuses. These
options include a discount feature which does not exceed 15% and have a term
of fifteen years. In October 2000, the Company extended the term from 5 to 10
years for approximately 35% of the outstanding common stock options. At the
time of the extension, the exercise price exceeded the fair market value of
the Company's stock. A summary of the Company's stock option plans as of
December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, and changes during the years ending on those
dates is presented below:



   The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
at December 31, 2000:



   The Company applies the intrinsic value based method of accounting
prescribed by APB Opinion No. 25 and related interpretations in accounting for
stock-based compensation plans. Accordingly, compensation cost for stock
options is measured as the excess, if any, of the quoted market price of the
Company's stock at the date of grant over the amount an employee must pay to
acquire the stock.

   Compensation cost charged against income related to the Company's stock
option grants for each of the years ending December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
was $11.2, $11.5 and $8.9, respectively. Compensation cost includes amounts
for options granted under the deferred compensation plan for senior managers,
which allows the manager to elect stock options in lieu of salary and bonuses.



                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


   The Company's proforma net income and proforma earnings per share, with
related assumptions, are disclosed in the following table. This information is
presented as if compensation cost for the Company's stock-based compensation
plans had been determined based on the estimated fair value of the options at
the grant dates, consistent with the method prescribed by FASB Statement No.
123. Also disclosed are the weighted-average fair value and exercise price of
options granted during the last three years.



   The Company also has authorized shares for issuance in connection with
certain employee stock benefit plans discussed in Note H.

 Par Value Amendment

   In 1993, the Company's shareholders approved an amendment to the Company's
Restated Articles of Incorporation reducing the par value of Common Stock to
$.01 from $1. The amendment provided that the stated capital of the Company
would not be affected as of the date of the amendment. Accordingly, stated
capital of the Company exceeds the amount reported as common stock in the
financial statements by approximately $39.

 Shareholder Protection Rights Plan

   In 1989, the Company declared a dividend distribution of one preferred
stock purchase right (a Right) for each share of common stock. The Rights were
attached to and traded with the Company's common stock. The Rights became
exercisable only under certain circumstances involving actual or potential
acquisitions of the Company's common stock. The Rights expired in February
1999. The Company simultaneously issued substantially identical rights, which
remain in existence until February 2009, unless they are exercised, exchanged
or redeemed at an earlier date. Depending upon the circumstances, if these
Rights become exercisable, the holder may be entitled to purchase shares of
Series A junior preferred stock of the Company, shares of the Company's common
stock or shares of common stock of the acquiring entity.




                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

H--Employee Benefit Plans

   The following table provides information at December 31 as to the Company
sponsored defined benefit pension plans:



   Plan assets are invested in a diversified portfolio of equity, debt and
government securities, including 1,176,000 shares of the Company's common
stock at December 31, 2000.

   Contributions to union sponsored, defined benefit, multiemployer pension
plans were $.8, $.7, and $.2 in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. These plans
are not administered by the Company and contributions are determined in
accordance with provisions of negotiated labor contracts. As of 2000, the
actuarially computed values of vested benefits for these plans were primarily
equal to or less than the net assets of the plans. Therefore, the Company
would have no material withdrawal liability. However, the Company has no
present intention of



                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

withdrawing from any of these plans, nor has the Company been informed that
there is any intention to terminate such plans.

   Net pension expense, including Company sponsored defined benefit plans,
multiemployer plans and other plans, was $2.2, $4.3 and $2.1 in 2000, 1999 and
1998, respectively.

   The Company has a contributory stock purchase/stock bonus plan (SPSB Plan),
a nonqualified executive stock purchase program (ESPP) and an employees'
discount stock plan (DSP). The SPSB Plan provides Company pre-tax
contributions of 50% of the amount of employee contributions. The ESPP
provides cash payments of 50% of the employees' contributions, along with an
additional payment to assist employees in paying taxes on the cash payments.
To the extent possible, contributions to the ESPP are invested in the
Company's common stock through the DSP. In addition, the Company matches its
contributions when certain profitability levels, as defined in the SPSB Plan
and the ESPP, have been attained. The Company's total contributions to the
SPSB Plan and the ESPP were $9.7, $8.5 and $6.9 for 2000, 1999 and 1998,
respectively.

   Under the DSP, eligible employees may purchase a maximum of 19,000,000
shares of Company common stock. The purchase price per share is 85% of the
closing market price on the last business day of each month. Shares purchased
under the DSP were 1,287,437 in 2000, 1,026,479 in 1999, and 894,445 in 1998.
Purchase prices ranged from $13 to $24 per share. Since inception of the DSP
in 1982, a total of 15,414,659 shares have been purchased by employees.

I--Income Taxes

   The components of earnings before income taxes are as follows:



   Income tax expense is comprised of the following components:





                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


   Deferred income taxes are provided for the temporary differences between
the financial reporting basis and the tax basis of the Company's assets and
liabilities. The major temporary differences that give rise to deferred tax
assets or liabilities are as follows:



   Deferred tax assets and liabilities included in the consolidated balance
sheet are as follows:



   Income tax expense, as a percentage of earnings before income taxes,
differs from the statutory federal income tax rate as follows:


J--Segment Information

   Reportable segments are primarily based upon the Company's management
organizational structure. This structure is generally focused on broad end-
user markets for the Company's diversified products. Residential Furnishings
derives its revenues from components for bedding, furniture and other
furnishings, as well as related consumer products. Commercial Furnishings
derives its revenues from retail store fixtures, displays, storage, material
handling systems, components for office and institutional furnishings, and
plastic components. The Aluminum Products revenues are derived from die
castings, custom tooling, secondary machining and coating, and smelting of
aluminum ingot. Industrial Materials derives its revenues from drawn steel
wire, specialty wire products and welded steel tubing sold to trade customers
as well as other Leggett segments. Specialized Products is a combination of
non-reportable segments which derive their revenues from machinery,
manufacturing equipment, automotive seating suspensions, control cable systems
and lumbar supports for automotive, office and residential applications.

   The accounting principles used in the preparation of the segment
information are the same as used for the consolidated financial statements,
except that the segment assets and income reflect the FIFO basis of accounting



                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

for inventory. Certain inventories are accounted for using the LIFO basis in
the consolidated financial statements. The Company evaluates performance based
on earnings from operations before interest and income taxes (EBIT).
Intersegment sales are made primarily at prices that approximate market-based
selling prices. Centrally incurred costs are allocated to the segments based
on estimates of services used by the segment. Certain general and
administrative costs of the Company are allocated to the segments based on
sales. Asset information for the segments includes only inventory, trade
receivables, net property, plant and equipment and unamortized purchased
intangibles. These segment assets are reflected in the segment information at
their estimated average for the year. Long-lived assets as disclosed include
property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangibles, and long-term
assets. Centrally incurred costs and allocated general and administrative
costs include depreciation and other costs related to assets that are not
allocated or otherwise included in the segment assets.

   Summarized financial information concerning the Company's reportable
segments is shown in the following tables:






                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)





                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


   Revenues from external customers, by product line, are as follows:



   The Company's operations outside of the United States are principally in
Canada, Europe and Mexico, none of which are individually material to its
consolidated operations. The geographic information that follows regarding
sales is based on the area of manufacture.





                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Concluded)


K--Contingencies

   The Company is involved in various legal proceedings including matters
which involve claims against the Company under employment, intellectual
property, environmental and other laws. When it appears probable in
management's judgement that the Company will incur monetary damages or other
costs in connection with claims and proceedings, and the costs can be
reasonably estimated, appropriate liabilities are recorded in the financial
statements and charges are made against earnings. No claim or proceeding has
resulted in a material charge against earnings, nor are the total liabilities
recorded material to the Company's financial position. While the results of
any ultimate resolution cannot be predicted, management believes the
possibility of a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated
financial position, results of operations and cash flows from claims and
proceedings is remote.



                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

   To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Leggett & Platt,
Incorporated:

   In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements listed in the index
appearing under Item 14(1) present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and its subsidiaries at
December 31, 2000 and 1999, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2000 in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in
accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of
America, which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management,
and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that
our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP

St. Louis, Missouri
January 31, 2001



                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

                         QUARTERLY SUMMARY OF EARNINGS

                                  (Unaudited)
              (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data)





                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

          SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
                             (Amounts in millions)


- --------
(A) Uncollectible accounts charged off, net of recoveries



                                   SIGNATURES

   Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                          Leggett & Platt, Incorporated

                                          By:     /s/ Felix E. Wrigh___________t
                                                     Felix E. Wright
                                                      President and
                                                 Chief Executive Officer

Dated: March 29, 2001

   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.













                                 EXHIBIT INDEX










- --------
(1) Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.


