
10-K
10-K



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K



   For the transition period from ___________________ to ___________________

                         Commission File Number 1-7845

                         LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)



       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (417) 358-8131

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:



    Indicate  by check  mark whether  the Registrant  (1) has  filed all reports
required to be filed by  Section 13 or 15(d) of  the Securities Exchange Act  of
1934  during  the preceding  12  months (or  for  such shorter  period  that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to  such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes /X/  No / /

    Indicate  by check mark if disclosure  of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K (Sec. 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  / /

    The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of  the
Registrant was approximately $1,582,608,398.

    There were 40,733,066 shares of the Registrant's common stock outstanding as
of February 25, 1994.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

    Portions  of  the Registrant's  definitive  Proxy Statement  for  its Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held  May 11, 1994, are incorporated by reference
into  Part III  of  this report.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

    GENERAL  DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS.   The Company was  incorporated in 1901 as
the successor  to a  partnership  formed in  1883  at Carthage,  Missouri.  That
partnership  was a pioneer in the manufacture and sale of steel coil bedsprings.
Products produced and sold for  the furnishings industry constitute the  largest
portion  of the Company's  business. These include  primarily components used by
companies making furniture and bedding for homes, offices and institutions. Also
in the furnishings area, the Company produces and sells some finished  furniture
and carpet cushioning materials. In addition, a group of diversified products is
produced  and sold. The Company believes it is the largest producer of a diverse
range of  furniture  and bedding  components  in  the United  States.  The  term
"Company,"  unless the  context requires otherwise,  refers to  Leggett & Platt,
Incorporated and its majority owned subsidiaries.

    The Company completed several acquisitions during 1993, primarily businesses
engaged in  manufacturing  components  for  the  furnishings  industry  and  raw
materials used by the Company in the manufacture of its products.

    In  September  1993 the  Company acquired  Hanes Holding  Company ("Hanes"),
headquartered in  Winston-Salem,  North  Carolina.  Hanes  is  a  converter  and
distributor  of  woven  and  nonwoven  construction  fabrics,  primarily  in the
furnishings industry.  Hanes also  is a  commission dye/finisher  of  nonfashion
fabrics  for the furnishings  and apparel industries.  Immediately following the
Company's acquisition  of  Hanes,  the Company  (through  Hanes)  completed  the
acquisition  of VWR  Textiles & Supplies,  Inc., which  converts and distributes
woven and  nonwoven  construction  fabrics and  manufactures  other  soft  goods
components for sale to manufacturers of furniture and bedding.

    Also,  in September 1993 the Company acquired full ownership of several wire
drawing mills which had been previously jointly owned.

    For further information concerning acquisitions reference is made to Note  B
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

    PRODUCTS  AND MARKET.   The Company is engaged  primarily in the manufacture
and distribution of components used by companies that manufacture furniture  and
bedding for homes, offices and institutions. Manufacturers of finished furniture
and  bedding  use  many  component  parts which  can  be  standardized  and more
efficiently produced  in  volumes  beyond  the individual  needs  of  most  such
manufacturers.  It is this  market for component parts  which the Company serves
through its furniture and bedding component product lines.

    The Company's  components  customers  manufacture  bedding  (mattresses  and
boxsprings),  upholstered  furniture and  other  finished products  for  sale to
wholesalers, retailers, institutions and  others. Historically, the  furnishings
industry   has  been  highly  fragmented  and  included  many  relatively  small
companies, widely  dispersed geographically.  Although there  has been  a  trend
toward  consolidation  in  the furnishings  industry,  the industry  as  a whole
remains fragmented to a substantial degree.

    The Company's component products are sold and distributed primarily  through
the Company's sales personnel.

    In  addition  to components,  the  Company manufactures  and  sells finished
products  for  the  furnishings   industry.  These  finished  products   include
sleep-related  finished furniture and  carpet cushioning materials.  Some of the
finished furniture  products are  sold to  bedding and  furniture  manufacturers
which  resell the  finished furniture under  their own labels  to wholesalers or
retailers. Certain finished furniture such as bed frames, fashion beds,  daybeds
and  other select items are also sold  by the Company directly to retailers. The
Company's carpet  cushioning  materials are  sold  primarily to  floor  covering
distributors with some direct contract sales.


    The  following list is representative of  the principal products produced by
the Company in the furnishings industry:

BEDDING COMPONENTS
Lectro-LOK-R-, Web-LOK-TM-, LOK-Fast-TM-,
 Flex-Deck-TM-, and Semiflex-TM- boxspring
 components
Edge and corner stabilizer spring supports
Foam and fiber cushioning materials
Gribetz computerized single needle (Class V)
 and multi-needle chain stitch (Class I-IV)
 quilting machinery, material handling
 systems, panel cutters, tape edge and
 border serging machines
Hanes construction fabrics
Mira-Coil-R-, Super-Lastic-R-,
 Lura-Flex-TM-, Hinge Flex-TM-, and
 Ever-Flex-TM- innerspring assemblies for
 mattresses
Mounted and crated boxsprings and foundation
 units
Nova-Bond-R- and other insulator pads for
 mattresses and boxsprings
Perm-A-Lator-R-, Plasteel-R-,
 Posturizer-TM-, Flexnet-TM- and other
 mattress insulators
Spring and basic wire
Synthetic, wool, cotton, and silk cushioning
 materials
Wood frames and dimension lumber for
 boxspring frames
FINISHED PRODUCTS
Bed frames
Bunk beds made of wood and steel
Daybeds made of brass and wood
Electric beds
Genuine Brass, Lustre Brass-R- and other
 metal fashion beds and headboards
Pedestal bed bases
DURAPLUSH-TM-, Permaloom-R- and other carpet
 cushioning materials
Rollaway beds
Trundle beds
Wood headboards
FURNITURE COMPONENTS
Chair controls, casters and other components
 for office furniture
ClassicTouch-TM- and Modular Wallhugger-R-
 mechanisms for motion upholstered groups
Coil-Flex-TM- and ModuCoil-R- spring
 assemblies for upholstered furniture
Components for office panel systems
Die cast aluminum, fabricated steel, and
 injection molded plastic bases for office
 furniture and dinettes
Flex-Cord-R- paper covered wire
Hanes construction fabrics
Mechanisms for adjustable height work tables
MPI/No-Sag-R- and other foam cushioning
No-Sag-R- seating systems and clips
Metal bed rails for bedroom suites
Molded plastic recliner handles and other
 plastic furniture components
No-Sag-R- rocker springs
Perm-A-Lator-R- wire seating insulators
Perma-eze-R- seat and back springs
PETCO weltcord and furniture edgings
Ring-Flex-R- polyethylene foam edgings
 SOFA PLUS-TM-, MAX-R-, and Classic-TM-
 Series sofa sleeper mechanisms
Spring wire
Swivel, rocker and glider components for
 motion furniture
Synthetic fiber, densified fiber batting,
 seat pads and other cushioning materials
System Seating-TM-, Seat Pleaser-R- and
 other furniture coils and accessories
Tackit-TM- tackstrips
Wallhugger-R- and Concept-TM- mechanisms for
 reclining chairs
Webline-TM- seating systems
Welded steel tubing

    Outside the furnishings industry, the  Company produces and sells for  home,
industrial  and  commercial  uses a  diversified  line of  components  and other
products made principally  from steel, steel  wire, aluminum, plastics,  textile
fibers  and  woven  and  nonwoven fabrics.  The  Company's  diversified products
require manufacturing technologies similar to those used in making furniture and
bedding components and certain raw materials which the Company produces for  its
own use.


    The  following list is representative of the Company's principal diversified
products:

DIVERSIFIED PRODUCTS
Aluminum die cast custom products and
 aluminum ingot
Cyclo-Index-R- motion controls for
 manufacturing equipment
Flex-O-Lators-R- and No-Sag-R- automotive
 seat suspension systems
Gribetz single needle quilters, multi-needle
 chain stitch quilters, and panel cutters
Hanes industrial and apparel fabrics
Industrial wire
Injection molded plastic products
Mechanical springs
Metal and wire shelving for utility vehicles
 and consumer products
Point-of-purchase display racks
Sound insulation materials
Specialty foam products
Textile fiber wiping cloths and other
 products
Welded steel tubing

    The table below sets out further information concerning sales of each  class
of the Company's products:

                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           SUMMARY OF SALES 1993-1988



    Reference  is also  made to  Note I of  the Notes  to Consolidated Financial
Statements for further segment information.

    The Company's international division  is involved primarily  in the sale  of
machinery  and  equipment  designed to  manufacture  the  Company's Mira-Coil-R-
(Continuous Coil)  innersprings  and  certain  other  spring  products  and  the
licensing  of patents owned and presently maintained  by the Company in a number
of foreign  countries. The  Company  also sells  quilting machines  and  similar
equipment  and  certain  other  component products  in  some  foreign countries.
Foreign sales are a minor portion of the Company's business.


    CUSTOMERS.  The Company  has several thousand customers,  most of which  are
engaged  in manufacturing finished  bedding and furniture  products. None of the
Company's customers account  for as much  as 10% of  sales and, in  management's
opinion,  the loss  of any  single customer  would not  have a  material adverse
effect on the Company's business as a whole.

    SOURCES OF RAW MATERIALS.   Steel rod (from which  steel wire is drawn)  and
coil  steel are the Company's most  important raw materials. Other raw materials
used by the Company include aluminum  ingot, aluminum scrap, angle steel,  sheet
steel,  various  woods, textile  scrap, foam  chemicals,  foam scrap,  woven and
nonwoven fabrics and plastic.

    Substantially all of the Company's requirements for steel wire, an important
component in many of the Company's products, are supplied by Company-owned  wire
drawing mills. A substantial portion of the steel rod used by these wire drawing
mills  is purchased pursuant  to a rod  supply agreement with  a major steel rod
producer.  The  Company  also  produces,  at  various  locations,  for  its  own
consumption and for sale to customers not affiliated with the Company, slit coil
steel, welded steel tubing, textile fibers, dimension lumber and aluminum ingot.

    Numerous  supply  sources for  the  raw materials  used  by the  Company are
available. The  Company did  not  experience any  significant shortages  of  raw
materials during the past year.

    PATENTS:  RESEARCH  AND DEVELOPMENT.    The Company  holds  numerous patents
concerning its various product  lines. No single patent  or group of patents  is
material  to the Company's  business as a whole.  The Company's more significant
trademarks include those listed with the Company's principal products.

    The Company maintains research, engineering and testing centers at Carthage,
Missouri, and also does  research and development work  at several of its  other
facilities.  The Company is  unable to precisely calculate  the cost of research
and  development  since  the  personnel   involved  in  product  and   machinery
development  also  spend portions  of their  time in  other areas.  However, the
Company believes  that the  cost  of research  and development  approximated  $5
million in each of the last three years.

    EMPLOYEES.     The  Company  has  approximately  13,000  employees  of  whom
approximately 10,000  are  engaged  in  production.  Approximately  40%  of  the
Company's production employees are represented by labor unions.

    The  Company did  not experience any  material work stoppage  related to the
negotiation of contracts with labor unions during 1993. Management is not  aware
of  any  circumstance which  is likely  to  result in  a material  work stoppage
related to the negotiations of any contracts expiring during 1994.

    COMPETITION.   The markets  for components  and other  products the  Company
produces  are highly  competitive in all  aspects. There  are numerous companies
offering products which compete with those products offered by the Company.  The
Company  believes it is the  largest supplier in the  United States of a diverse
range of furniture and bedding components to the furnishings industry.

    GOVERNMENT REGULATION.   The  Company's various  operations are  subject  to
federal,  state, and local laws and regulations related to the protection of the
environment, worker safety, and other matters. Environmental regulations include
those relating  to air  and water  emissions, underground  storage tanks,  waste
handling,  and the like. While the Company  cannot forecast policies that may be
adopted by various regulatory agencies, management believes that compliance with
these various laws and  regulations will not have  a material adverse effect  on
the  consolidated financial condition  or results of  operations of the Company.
From time to time, the Company is involved in proceedings, or takes remedial  or
other  actions, relating to  environmental matters. In  one instance, the United
States Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") has directed one of the Company's
subsidiaries to  investigate potential  releases into  the environment  and,  if
necessary,  to  perform corrective  action.  The subsidiary  appealed  the EPA's
action.  On   February   4,   1994,  the   EPA   Environmental   Appeals   Board


remanded  the matter to the  EPA for further proceedings.  One-half of any costs
associated with any such investigation or corrective action would be  reimbursed
to  the Company under  a contractual obligation  of a former  joint owner of the
subsidiary.  The  outcome  of  this  matter  cannot  be  reasonably   predicted.
Accordingly,  no provision for the cost of performing any required investigation
and corrective action has been recorded on the books of the Company.  Management
believes  the  cost  to  perform any  investigation  and  corrective  action, if
eventually required, will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated
financial condition or results of operations of the Company.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

    The Company  owns  or leases  approximately  150 facilities  throughout  the
United  States and  Canada. Its corporate  headquarters is  located in Carthage,
Missouri. The  Company's most  important physical  properties are  its owned  or
leased  manufacturing plants.  Such plants  include five  wire drawing  mills in
Missouri, Florida,  Kentucky, Indiana  and  Massachusetts; welded  steel  tubing
mills  in Mississippi and Tennessee; and  an aluminum smelting plant in Alabama.
All of these mills manufacture some products which are either transferred to and
used by the Company's other manufacturing  plants, or are sold to others.  Other
major  manufacturing  plants  are  located  in  Alabama,  Arkansas,  California,
Georgia, Illinois,  Indiana,  Kentucky,  Massachusetts,  Michigan,  Mississippi,
Missouri,  North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania,  Tennessee, Texas, Wisconsin, and
Canada. In  addition,  the  Company owns  or  leases  a large  number  of  other
facilities  located  in approximately  30 states  utilized mainly  for assembly,
warehousing and distribution of Company products.

    Most of the Company's major manufacturing plants are owned by the Company or
are held under operating  leases. Leases expire at  various dates through  2010.
For  additional information  regarding lease  obligations, reference  is made to
Note E of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

    The Company's  machinery, equipment  and buildings  are maintained  in  good
condition and are suitable for its current operations.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    The   Company  is  a  defendant   in  numerous  ordinary,  routine  workers'
compensation, product liability, vehicle  accident, employment termination,  and
other  claims and legal proceedings, the resolution of which Management believes
will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial  condition
or results of operations of the Company.

    The  Company is presently party to a  small number of proceedings in which a
governmental  authority  is  a  party  and  which  involve  provisions   enacted
regulating  the discharge of  materials into the  environment. These proceedings
deal primarily with  waste disposal site  remediation. Management believes  that
potential  monetary sanctions, if imposed in any or all of these proceedings, or
any  capital   expenditures  or   operating  expenses   attributable  to   these
proceedings,  will  not  have  a material  adverse  effect  on  the consolidated
financial condition or results of operations of the Company. The EPA has alleged
that two of the Company's  facilities in Grafton, Wisconsin violated  wastewater
pretreatment  requirements under the Clean Water  Act. No action is pending. The
EPA has not requested any specific relief, but has indicated it intends to bring
an action. Management believes the cost to  resolve this matter will not have  a
material  adverse effect on  the consolidated financial  condition or results of
operations of the Company.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    Not Applicable.


                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND
       RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS

    Leggett & Platt's common stock is listed  on The New York and Pacific  Stock
Exchanges  with the trading symbol LEG. The table below highlights quarterly and
annual stock market information for the last two years.



Price and  volume data  reflect  composite transactions  and closing  prices  as
reported  daily  by The  Wall  Street Journal  adjusted,  as appropriate,  for a
2-for-1 stock split on June 15, 1992.

    At February 25,  1994 the  Company had approximately  6,969 shareholders  of
record.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES



ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
       AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

    The  Company's previously issued financial  statements have been restated to
reflect pooling of interests  acquisitions. Therefore, the following  discussion
and  analysis reflects the Company's capital resources and liquidity and results
of operations as restated for these acquisitions.


CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY

    The Company's financial position  reflects several important principles  and
guidelines  of management's  capital policy.  These include  management's belief
that corporate  liquidity  must always  be  adequate to  support  the  Company's
projected  internal  growth  rate.  At  the  same  time,  liquidity  must assure
management that the Company  will be able to  withstand any amount of  financial
adversity  that can reasonably be anticipated. Management also intends to direct
capital to strategic acquisitions and other investments that provide  additional
opportunities for expansion and enhanced profitability.

    Financial planning to meet these needs reflects management's belief that the
Company  should never be forced to expand its capital resources, whether debt or
equity, at a time not of  its choosing. Management also believes that  financial
flexibility  is more important  than maximization of  earnings through excessive
leverage.

    The Company's primary  source of capital  to meet these  objectives is  from
internally generated funds. Operating activities provided $349.1 million in cash
during  the last three years.  An additional $3.5 million  in cash was generated
from the issuance  of the  Company's common stock.  Cash dividends  paid on  the
stock  were $57.2  million and repurchases  of stock for  the Company's treasury
totaled $3.2 million during the three year period.

    Management continuously  provides  for available  credit  in excess  of  the
Company's worst-case projections. Policy guidelines provide that long-term debt,
composed  of two "layers", will normally be maintained  in a range of 30% to 40%
of total capitalization.  Obligations having scheduled  maturities are the  base
"layer"  of debt capital. At  the end of 1993,  these obligations totaled $122.3
million, consisting  primarily  of  privately  placed  institutional  loans  and
tax-exempt industrial development bonds. At the end of 1992, debt with scheduled
maturities  totaled $112.5  million, which was  down from $135.4  million a year
earlier.

    Near the end of the third quarter of 1993, the Company issued $50 million in
unsecured privately placed debt  under a medium-term  note program. These  notes
were  issued with average  lives of approximately nine  years and fixed interest
rates averaging  5.8%. Debt  of a  company acquired  in a  September pooling  of
interests  transaction was repaid  with the majority of  the proceeds from these
notes. In 1992, the Company also issued approximately $26 million of medium-term
notes near the  beginning of the  fourth quarter. These  notes were issued  with
average  lives of  approximately five years  and fixed  interest rates averaging
6.15%. Proceeds  from  the  notes  issued  in  1992  were  used  to  repay  debt
outstanding under the Company's revolving bank credit agreements.

    Standard & Poor's and Moody's, the nations two leading debt rating agencies,
both increased their ratings of the Company's senior debt in July 1992. Standard
&  Poor's increased its rating to A- from BBB+, and Moody's increased its rating
to A3 from Baa1. In March 1992, substantially  all of the $40 million of 6  1/2%
convertible  subordinated debentures, which  had been outstanding  at the end of
1991, were converted into 2.1 million shares of the Company's common stock.  The
resulting increase in shareholders' equity enhanced the Company's flexibility in
capital management and increased yearly after-tax cash flow by approximately $.7
million.

    The  Company's second "layer"  of debt capital  consists of revolving credit
agreements with six  banks. Over  the years, management  has renegotiated  these
bank  credit agreements to keep pace with  the Company's projected growth and to
maintain a highly  flexible source of  debt capital. When  utilized, the  credit
under these agreements is a long-term obligation. At the same time, however, the
credit is available for short-term borrowings and repayments. In 1993, there was
$43.5  million in  revolving debt outstanding  at the  end of the  year, up from
$35.4 million in 1992. At the end  of 1991, $97.3 million in revolving debt  was
outstanding.  The 1993 increase  in revolving debt reflected  a portion of funds
borrowed to  finance cash  acquisitions  in the  third  quarter. In  the  fourth
quarter  of  1993 and  prior  to recent  acquisitions,  revolving bank  debt was
reduced with internally  generated funds. Additional  details of long-term  debt
outstanding,  including  scheduled  maturities  and  the  revolving  credit, are
discussed in Note D of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


    Net capital  investments  to  modernize and  expand  manufacturing  capacity
internally  totaled $109.0 million in the  last three years. During this period,
acquisitions accounted for by the purchase  method of accounting involved a  net
cash  investment  of  $93.3  million,  plus an  assumption  of  $5.7  million in
long-term debt of the acquired businesses.  In addition, the Company issued  1.8
million  shares of common stock in  three acquisitions accounted for as poolings
of interests during this period.

    The largest acquisitions were completed during the third quarter of 1993. On
September 1, the Company acquired Hanes  Holding Company for 1.6 million  shares
of  common  stock, in  a  pooling of  interests,  and purchased  VWR  Textiles &
Supplies, Inc.  (through  Hanes) for  $26  million  in cash.  The  Company  also
purchased  full ownership  of several wire  drawing mills,  which previously had
been jointly owned. This transaction  involved $33 million, plus the  assumption
of  $3.6  million  in long-term  debt.  Additional details  of  acquisitions are
discussed in Note B of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

    The following table shows, in millions, the Company's capitalization at  the
end  of the  three most  recent years.  It also  shows the  amount of additional
capital available through the revolving bank credit agreements and the Company's
commercial paper program. The amount of cash and cash equivalents is also shown.



    The Company has the additional availability of short-term uncommitted credit
from several banks. However, there was no short-term debt outstanding at the end
of any of the last three years. The Company has substantial capital resources to
support additional capital investments at or above recent levels.

    Working capital increased  $32.5 million in  the last three  years. To  gain
additional  flexibility in capital management and  to improve the rate of return
on shareholders' equity, the Company continuously seeks efficient use of working
capital. The  following table  shows  the annual  turnover on  average  year-end
working capital, trade receivables and inventories.



    Future  commitments  under lease  obligations are  described  in Note  E and
contingent obligations in connection with environmental matters are discussed in
Note J of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

    The results  of  operations during  the  last three  years  reflect  various
elements  of the Company's long-term growth  strategy, along with general trends
in the  economy and  the  furnishings industry.  The Company's  growth  strategy
continues  to  include both  internal programs  and acquisitions,  which broaden
product lines  and  provide  for  increased  market  penetration  and  operating
efficiencies.  With a continuing emphasis on the development of new and improved
products and  advancements in  production  technology, the  Company is  able  to
consistently offer high quality products, competitively priced.


    Trends  in the  general economy  were favorable  during the  last two years.
Economic growth increased in the fourth  quarter of 1993, following more  modest
growth  during most of the year. Consumer  confidence also improved near the end
of the  year,  and final  demand  for  durable goods,  including  furniture  and
bedding,  generally  remained stronger  than the  demand for  non-durable goods.
Consumers reacted  favorably to  lower long-term  interest rates  and  increased
availability of credit. In 1992, a post-election recovery in consumer confidence
quickly  led  to  increased  consumer spending  and  accelerated  growth  in the
economy. However, compared with previous first year recoveries from recessionary
lows, economic improvement  was modest  during most  of 1992.  During 1991,  the
economy  began to recover from recessionary lows early in the year, when the war
in the Middle East ended and consumer confidence temporarily improved.  Consumer
confidence  soon  turned back  down and  the pace  of overall  business remained
depressed at the end of 1991.

    Demand in the furnishings industry followed a pattern similar to the general
economy during  the  last  three  years.  Annual  growth  in  retail  sales  and
manufacturers'  shipments of bedding and furniture was somewhat stronger in 1993
than in 1992. Increased  consumer spending near  the end of  the last two  years
helped offset some of the seasonal slowdown in demand for bedding, furniture and
other furnishings the industry normally experiences. In 1991, industry sales and
shipments  reached recessionary lows in the  first quarter, and recovered slowly
during the remainder of the year.

    Management is  anticipating further  modest growth  in the  economy and  the
markets  the Company  serves in 1994.  Severe winter weather  and the California
earthquake have impacted overall business activity at the beginning of the year,
in several  parts of  the  country. However,  these are  temporary  adversities.
Management  is cautious in its outlook for business generally, primarily because
of concerns about  higher income  tax rates, proposals  for governmental  health
care programs, and inflationary trends.

    Inflation  in the  United States generally  remained modest  during the last
three years. However, the  Company experienced renewed  inflation in prices  for
raw  materials,  principally  steel  and  wire,  throughout  1993.  Modest price
increases were implemented on some Company products during the second and  third
quarters of 1993 to help offset earlier cost increases and the renewed inflation
in  prices for raw materials.  However, some of this  inflation has not yet been
reflected in the Company's selling prices. Therefore, the Company is  continuing
to  experience  cost/price pressures  in affected  product  lines. In  1992, the
Company was able to refrain from  raising prices, as previously weaker  economic
conditions  had  reduced  inflation for  most  raw materials.  During  1991, the
Company implemented  modest  price increases  on  some products  in  the  second
quarter.  Prices for  urethane foam  products were  raised more  than others, in
response to the 1990 acceleration in prices for petrochemicals.

    The Company's consolidated net sales in 1991 were modestly reduced after the
mid-year divestiture of certain urethane foam operations. At the same time,  the
Company's   profitability  improved  through  the  partial  elimination  of  the
operating losses these operations experienced in 1990. The operating results  of
the  Company's restructured Fashion Bed  Group, which manufactures sleep-related
finished furniture, also began  to improve near  the end of  1992. In 1993,  the
Company's overall profitability reflected improved efficiencies in the remaining
foam  operations. The Fashion  Bed Group also  attained improved efficiencies in
1993, but continues to perform below management's expectations.

    The Company's consolidated net  sales in 1993 increased  16% over the  prior
year.  Excluding acquisitions accounted  for as purchases,  sales increased 10%,
reflecting higher unit volumes and modestly  higher prices on some products.  In
1992,  consolidated net  sales increased  8% over  1991, due  almost entirely to
higher unit volumes.  Sales, excluding purchase  acquisitions and  divestitures,
also increased 8% in 1992.


    The  following table shows  various measures of earnings  as a percentage of
sales for the last three years. It also shows the effective income tax rate  and
the coverage of interest expense by pre-tax earnings plus interest.



    The  Company's profit margins, like sales,  continued to improve since 1991.
In 1993,  the  gross  profit  margin  was  substantially  unchanged  from  1992.
Operating  efficiencies  resulting  from increased  sales  and  production, cost
cutting, and  constant attention  to  cost containment  were largely  offset  by
inflation  in prices for some key raw materials. Reflecting this inflation, LIFO
expense reduced the gross profit margin by 0.2% in 1993. This experience was  in
contrast  to the previous  two years, when LIFO  income slightly increased gross
profit margins. The replacement cost of the LIFO inventory is discussed in  Note
A of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

    The  1993 pre-tax profit margin increased to 9.2% of sales. This improvement
primarily reflected a 0.7% reduction in selling, distribution and administrative
expenses, as a percentage of sales. Increased efficiencies and reduced bad  debt
expense  contributed  to  the  improvement in  operating  expense  ratios. These
factors and a slight increase in other income more than offset one time  charges
related   to  recent  acquisitions  and  the  Company's  implementation  of  new
accounting statements issued  by the Financial  Accounting Standards Board.  The
new   accounting  statements  are  mentioned  separately  at  the  end  of  this
discussion, and in Note A of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

    Interest expense, as  a percentage of  sales, was reduced  0.4% in 1993  and
further  improved the  pre-tax profit  margin. Reduced  debt outstanding (before
recent  acquisitions)  and   lower  interest  rates   were  reflected  in   this
improvement.

    The  effective income tax rate was 39.1% in  1993, up from 38.5% in 1992. In
the third quarter  of 1993, corporate  federal income tax  rates were  increased
from  34% to 35%, retroactive  to January 1, 1993.  Additional details of income
taxes for  the  last three  years  are  discussed in  Note  H of  the  Notes  to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

    In  1992, the  gross profit  margin increased to  22.8% of  sales. This 1.4%
increase over 1991 primarily reflected an improvement in operating  efficiencies
and earlier cost cutting at many locations.

    The  1992 pre-tax profit margin  increased to 8.1% of  sales. In addition to
the improvement in the gross profit margin, the pre-tax margin benefitted from a
0.7% reduction  in  selling,  distribution and  administrative  expenses,  as  a
percentage  of  sales.  Improved  operating efficiencies  and  reduced  bad debt
expense were reflected in the lower 1992 operating expense ratios.

    Interest expense, as  a percentage of  sales, was reduced  0.6% in 1992  and
further  improved the pre-tax profit margin.  Reduced debt outstanding and lower
interest rates both contributed to this improvement, which was partially  offset
by  an increase  in other  deductions, net  of other  income. The  1992 earnings
contribution from associated (50% owned) companies was down modestly from 1991.

STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ADOPTED

    The Company  adopted  three accounting  statements  in 1993  issued  by  the
Financial  Accounting Standards Board. The  new statements included Statement of
Financial Accounting  Standards  (SFAS)  No.  106,  "Employers'  Accounting  for
Postretirement  Benefits  Other Than  Pensions;" SFAS  No. 109,  "Accounting for
Income Taxes;"  and  SFAS No.  112,  "Employers' Accounting  for  Postemployment


Benefits."  The  Company fully  expensed  any previously  unrecorded liabilities
related  to  these  accounting  statements  in  1993.  The  Company's  financial
statements, contrary to those of many other companies, have not been impacted in
any  significant way by the implementation of  the new accounting rules. All new
accounting statements issued  by the Financial  Accounting Standards Board  that
could impact the Company were fully implemented by the end of 1993.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

    The  Consolidated Financial  Statements and  supplementary data  included in
this Report begin on page 14.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS
       ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    Not applicable.


                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
    Reference  is  made to  the sections  entitled  "Election of  Directors" and
"Compliance With Section 16(a)  of the Securities Exchange  Act of 1934" in  the
Company's  definitive  Proxy  Statement  for  the  Company's  Annual  Meeting of
Shareholders to be  held on  May 11, 1994,  said section  being incorporated  by
reference, for a description of the directors of the Company.

    The  following  table  sets  forth  the names,  ages  and  positions  of all
executive officers of the  Company. Executive officers  are elected annually  by
the  Board of Directors at  the first meeting of  directors following the Annual
Meeting of Shareholders.

    The description of the executive officers of the Company is as follows:



    Subject to the employment agreements and severance benefit agreements listed
as  Exhibits to  this Report,  officers serve  at the  pleasure of  the Board of
Directors.

    Harry M. Cornell, Jr. has served  as the Company's Chief Executive  Officer,
Chairman  of the Board and Chairman of  the Board's Executive Committee for more
than the last five years.

    Felix E.  Wright was  elected President  in  1985 and  has served  as  Chief
Operating Officer since 1979.

    Roger  D. Gladden was elected Senior Vice President in 1992. Mr. Gladden has
been President -- Commercial Products Group since 1984 and previously served  as
Vice President -- Administration.

    Michael   A.  Glauber  was  elected   Senior  Vice  President,  Finance  and
Administration in 1990.  Mr. Glauber was  elected Vice President  -- Finance  in
1979 and Vice President -- Finance and Treasurer in 1980.

    David  S.  Haffner  was  elected  Senior  Vice  President  and  President --
Furniture and Automotive  Components Group  in 1992. Mr.  Haffner was  appointed
President  -- Furniture Components Group in  1985 and was elected Vice President
of the Company in 1985.

    Robert A.  Jefferies,  Jr.  was  elected  Senior  Vice  President,  Mergers,
Acquisitions  and Strategic Planning  in 1990. Mr.  Jefferies formerly served as
Vice President and the Senior Vice  President, General Counsel and Secretary  of
the Company from 1977 through 1992.

    Duane W. Potter was elected Vice President in 1978 and Senior Vice President
in 1983. Mr. Potter has been President -- Bedding Components Group since 1985.

    Thomas  D. Sherman, prior to joining the  Company on January 1, 1993, served
as Vice President, General Counsel  and Secretary to Coca-Cola Enterprises  Inc.
and engaged in the private practice of law.


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

    The  section entitled  "Executive Compensation  and Related  Matters" in the
Company's definitive  Proxy  Statement  for  the  Company's  Annual  Meeting  of
Shareholders to be held on May 11, 1994, is incorporated by reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

    The section entitled "Ownership of Common Stock" in the Company's definitive
Proxy  Statement for the Company's Annual Meeting  of Shareholders to be held on
May 11, 1994, is incorporated by reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

    The subsection  entitled  "Related  Transactions" of  the  section  entitled
"Executive  Compensation and Related Matters"  in the Company's definitive Proxy
Statement for the Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 11,
1994 is incorporated by reference.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

    1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

    The Financial Statements listed below are included in this Report:

    - Consolidated Statements of  Earnings for each  of the years  in the  three
      year period ended December 31, 1993

    - Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1993 and 1992

    - Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity for each of the
      years in the three year period ended December 31, 1993

    - Consolidated  Statements of Cash Flows for each  of the years in the three
      year period ended December 31, 1993

    - Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

    - Report of Independent Accountants

    2.  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

    Reports of Independent Accountants on Financial Statement Schedules

    Schedules (at December 31, 1993 and 1992,  and for each of the years in  the
three year period ended December 31, 1993)



    All   other  information  schedules  have   been  omitted  as  the  required
information is inapplicable, not required, or the information is included in the
financial statements or notes thereto.

    3.  EXHIBITS -- See Exhibit Index.

    4.  REPORTS ON FORM 8-K FILED DURING THE LAST QUARTER OF 1993: None.


                  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                               



                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

                         QUARTERLY SUMMARY OF EARNINGS




                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS

                             YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31



   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.


                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                                  DECEMBER 31
                                     ASSETS



   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.


                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY



   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.


                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.


                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
                        DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991

A -- SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

    PRINCIPLES  OF CONSOLIDATION:  The consolidated financial statements include
the  accounts  of   Leggett  &  Platt,   Incorporated  and  its   majority-owned
subsidiaries (the Company). The Company's previously issued financial statements
have  been restated to reflect pooling of interests acquisitions as discussed in
Note B.  All  significant  intercompany  transactions  and  accounts  have  been
eliminated in consolidation.

    CASH  EQUIVALENTS:    Cash  equivalents  include  cash  in  excess  of daily
requirements which is invested in various financial instruments with  maturities
of three months or less.

    INVENTORIES:   All inventories  are stated at  the lower of  cost or market.
Cost includes materials, labor  and production overhead.  Cost is determined  by
the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for approximately 70% of the inventories at
December  31, 1993 and 1992.  The first-in, first-out (FIFO)  method is used for
the remainder.  The FIFO  cost of  inventories  at December  31, 1993  and  1992
approximated replacement cost.

    DEPRECIATION  AND  AMORTIZATION:   Property, plant  and equipment  and other
intangibles are depreciated or amortized over their estimated lives, principally
by the straight-line method. Accelerated methods are used for tax purposes.  The
excess  cost of purchased companies over net assets acquired is amortized by the
straight-line method over forty years.

    COMPUTATIONS OF EARNINGS  PER SHARE:   Earnings per  share is  based on  the
weighted  average  number of  common and  common equivalent  shares outstanding.
Common stock equivalents result from the assumed issuance of shares under  stock
option plans.

    CONCENTRATION  OF CREDIT  RISK:   The Company  specializes in manufacturing,
marketing and  distributing  components  and  other  related  products  for  the
furnishings  industry  and  diversified markets.  The  Company  performs ongoing
credit evaluations  of  its  customers'  financial  conditions  and,  generally,
requires  no collateral from its customers,  some of which are highly leveraged.
The Company maintains  allowances for  potential credit losses  and such  losses
generally have been within management's expectations.

    FAIR  VALUE OF FINANCIAL  INSTRUMENTS:  The carrying  value of the Company's
financial instruments approximates market value.

    ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ADOPTED:   During 1993, the  Company adopted three  new
statements  issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. These statements
were: 1) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 106, "Employers'
Accounting for Postretirement Benefits  Other Than Pensions;"  2) SFAS No.  109,
"Accounting  for Income Taxes;" and 3)  SFAS No. 112, "Employers' Accounting for
Postemployment Benefits."  The  adoption of  these  statements did  not  have  a
material effect on the Company's financial position or results of operations.

    RECLASSIFICATIONS:   Certain reclassifications  have been made  to the prior
years' consolidated financial statements to conform to the 1993 presentation.

B -- ACQUISITIONS
    In September 1993, the  Company issued 1,579,354 shares  of common stock  to
acquire  Hanes  Holding Company  (Hanes)  in a  transaction  accounted for  as a
pooling of interests. Options to purchase an additional 45,743 shares of  common
stock  were also extended by the Company in substitution for previously existing
options. Hanes'  business  consists of  converting  and distributing  woven  and
nonwoven  construction  fabrics,  primarily  in  the  furnishings  industry.  In
addition, Hanes is a


                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

B -- ACQUISITIONS (CONTINUED)
commission dye/finisher of non-fashion fabrics  for the furnishings and  apparel
industries.  In  another pooling  of interests  transaction, the  Company issued
68,788  shares  of  common  stock  to  acquire  a  company  whose  business   is
manufacturing  furniture  components  for the  furnishings  industry. Previously
issued financial statements have been restated to reflect the poolings. Separate
results of operations for the years ended  December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991  are
as follows:



    In  September  1993,  the Company  acquired  VWR Textiles  &  Supplies, Inc.
(through  Hanes)  which  converts  and  distributes  construction  fabrics   and
manufactures  and  distributes other  soft goods  components to  the furnishings
industry. The purchase price of  this acquisition was approximately $26.0.  Also
in 1993, the Company acquired full ownership of several wire drawing mills which
previously  had been jointly owned. This  transaction involved $33.0 in cash and
the assumption of approximately $3.6 of long term debt. In addition, the Company
acquired several smaller companies during  1993 which primarily manufacture  and
distribute  products to  the furnishings  industry. The  following unaudited pro
forma information shows the results of  operations for the years ended  December
31, 1993 and 1992 as though the 1993 acquisitions accounted for as purchases had
occurred  on January 1 of  each year presented. These  pro forma amounts reflect
purchase accounting adjustments, interest on incremental borrowings and the  tax
effects  thereof.  This  pro  forma  financial  information  is  not necessarily
indicative of either  results of  operations that  would have  occurred had  the
purchases  been made  on January  1 of  each year  or of  future results  of the
combined companies.



    During 1992,  the Company  acquired the  assets of  one small  company  that
primarily  manufactures  bedding and  furniture  components for  the furnishings
industry. The  purchase  price  of  this  acquisition  was  approximately  $5.8.
Assuming  this acquisition had occurred  at the beginning of  the year, it would
not have had a material impact on net sales, net earnings or earnings per share.

    Also during 1992, the Company acquired a business accounted for as a pooling
of  interests.  The  business  primarily  manufactures  bedding  and   furniture
components  for the furnishings industry. In exchange for all of the outstanding
capital stock of the business, the  Company issued 100,903 shares of its  common
stock.  The Company elected not to  restate prior year's financial statements as
the effect was immaterial.

    During 1991, the  Company acquired the  assets of two  small companies  that
primarily  manufacture  bedding  and furniture  components  for  the furnishings
industry. The  purchase price  of these  acquisitions was  approximately  $10.0.
Assuming  these acquisitions  had occurred  at the  beginning of  the year, they
would not have had a material impact on net sales, net earnings or earnings  per
share.


                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

B -- ACQUISITIONS (CONTINUED)
    The  above acquisitions,  except for the  1993 and 1992  poolings, have been
accounted for  as purchases,  and, where  applicable, the  excess of  the  total
acquisition  cost  over the  fair  value of  the  net assets  acquired  is being
amortized  by  the  straight-line  method  over  forty  years.  The  results  of
operations  of these companies since the dates of acquisition have been included
in the consolidated financial statements.

    The purchase prices as originally reported represent the initial amounts  of
cash  and common stock  of the Company  issued at the  time of the acquisitions.
Some purchase  agreements also  contain provisions  for additional  payments  if
certain  minimum  earnings requirements  are  met. All  such  provisions expired
during 1993. Amounts earned  under the terms of  the agreements are recorded  as
increases in the excess of the total acquisition cost over the fair value of the
net  assets acquired. Such additional payments  were approximately $6.4 and $2.7
during 1993 and 1992, respectively.

C -- ACCRUED EXPENSES AND OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES
    Accrued expenses and other current liabilities at December 31 consist of the
following:



D -- LONG-TERM DEBT
    Long-term debt at December 31 consists of the following:




                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

D -- LONG-TERM DEBT (CONTINUED)
    The revolving credit  agreements provide  for a  maximum line  of credit  of
$160.0.  For  any  revolving credit  agreement,  the  Company may  elect  to pay
interest based on  1) the bank's  base lending  rate, 2) LIBOR,  3) an  adjusted
certificate  of deposit rate, or  4) the money market  rate, as specified in the
revolving agreements. Any outstanding balances at  the end of the third year  of
the  revolving credit agreements may be converted into term loans payable in ten
equal semi-annual installments. Commitment  fees during the revolving  agreement
period  are  3/16 of  1%  per annum  of  the unused  credit  line, payable  on a
quarterly basis.

    The revolving credit  agreements and  certain other  long-term debt  contain
restrictive  covenants  which, among  other  restrictions, limit  the  amount of
additional debt, require working capital  to be maintained at specified  amounts
and restrict payments of dividends. Unrestricted retained earnings available for
dividends at December 31, 1993 were approximately $137.1.

    Maturities of long-term debt for each of the five years following 1993 are:



E -- LEASE OBLIGATIONS
    The  Company conducts certain of its  operations in leased premises and also
leases most of  its automotive  and trucking  equipment and  some other  assets.
Terms of the leases, including purchase options, renewals and maintenance costs,
vary  by lease. Total rental expense  entering into the determination of results
of operations  was approximately  $17.4, $16.8  and $17.0  for the  years  ended
December   31,  1993,  1992  and   1991,  respectively.  Future  minimum  rental
commitments for all long-term noncancelable operating leases are as follows:



    The above lease obligations  expire at various  dates through 2010.  Certain
leases  contain renewal  and/or purchase  options. Aggregate  rental commitments
above include renewal amounts where it is the intention of the Company to  renew
the lease.

F -- CAPITAL STOCK
    At December 31, 1993, the Company had 1,724,973 common shares authorized for
issuance  under stock  option plans.  All options are  granted at  not less than
quoted market value  on the date  of grant and  generally become exercisable  in
varying installments, beginning 6 to 18 months after the date of grant.


                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

F -- CAPITAL STOCK (CONTINUED)
    Other data regarding the Company's stock options is summarized below:



    The  Company  has also  authorized shares  for  issuance in  connection with
certain employee stock benefit plans discussed in Note G.

    In 1989, the Company declared a dividend distribution of one preferred stock
purchase right (a Right) for each share of common stock. The Rights are attached
to and  traded with  the Company's  common  stock. The  Rights may  only  become
exercisable   under   certain  circumstances   involving  actual   or  potential
acquisitions of the Company's common stock. Depending upon the circumstances, if
the Rights become exercisable, the holder may be entitled to purchase shares  of
Series  A junior preferred stock of the  Company, shares of the Company's common
stock or shares of common  stock of the acquiring  entity. The Rights remain  in
existence  until  February 15,  1999, unless  they  are exercised,  exchanged or
redeemed at an earlier date.

    On May 12,  1993 the  Company's shareholders  approved an  amendment to  the
Company's  Restated Articles of Incorporation increasing authorized Common Stock
to 300,000,000 shares  from 100,000,000  shares and  reducing the  par value  of
Common  Stock to $.01 from $1.00. The amendment provided that the stated capital
of the  Company  would  not  be  affected as  of  the  date  of  the  amendment.
Accordingly, stated capital of the Company exceeds the amount reported as common
stock in the financial statements by approximately $39.0.

G -- EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
    The   Company  sponsors   contributory  and   non-contributory  pension  and
retirement plans.  Substantially  all  employees,  other  than  union  employees
covered  by  multiemployer  plans under  collective  bargaining  agreements, are
eligible to participate in the plans. Retirement benefits under the contributory
plans are  based  on career  average  earnings. Retirement  benefits  under  the
non-contributory  plans  are  based  on  years  of  service,  employees' average
compensation and social security  benefits. It is the  Company's policy to  fund
actuarially determined costs as accrued.


                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

G -- EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (CONTINUED)
    Information  at December 31, 1993, 1992 and  1991 as to the funded status of
Company sponsored defined benefit plans, net  pension income from the plans  for
the  years then ended and weighted  average assumptions used in the calculations
are as follows:



    Plan assets are  invested in  a diversified  portfolio of  equity, debt  and
government securities, including 294,000 shares of the Company's common stock at
December 31, 1993.

    Contributions  to union sponsored, multiemployer pension plans were $.2, $.2
and $.4 in 1993, 1992 and  1991, respectively. These plans are not  administered
by the Company and contributions are determined in accordance with provisions of
negotiated  labor  contracts. As  of 1993,  the  actuarially computed  values of
vested benefits for these plans were equal to or less than the net assets of the
plans. Therefore, the Company would  have no withdrawal liability. However,  the
Company has no present intention of withdrawing from any of these plans, nor has
the Company been informed that there is any intention to terminate such plans.

    Net  pension income  (expense), including Company  sponsored defined benefit
plans, multiemployer plans and other plans, was $.7, $.8 and $(.4) in 1993, 1992
and 1991, respectively.

    The Company also has  a contributory stock  purchase/stock bonus plan  (SPSB
Plan), a non-qualified executive stock purchase program (ESPP) and an employees'
discount  stock plan (DSP). The SPSB Plan provides Company pre-tax contributions
of 50% of the amount of employee contributions. The ESPP provides cash  payments
of  50% of  the employees'  contributions, along  with an  additional payment to
assist employees in paying  taxes on the cash  payments. These contributions  to
the  ESPP  are  invested in  the  Company's  common stock  through  the  DSP. In
addition, the Company matches its


                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

G -- EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (CONTINUED)
contributions when certain profitability levels, as defined in the SPSB Plan and
the ESPP, have been attained. The Company's total contributions to the SPSB Plan
and the ESPP were $2.5, $2.2 and $2.0 for 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.

    Under the DSP, eligible employees may purchase a maximum of 4,000,000 shares
of Company common  stock. The purchase  price per  share is 85%  of the  closing
market  price on the last business day of each month. Shares purchased under the
DSP were 181,306, 237,713 and 267,212 during 1993, 1992 and 1991,  respectively.
Purchase  prices ranged from $12 to $43 per share. Since inception of the DSP in
1982, a total of 2,120,413 shares have been purchased by employees.

H -- INCOME TAXES
    The components of earnings before income taxes are as follows:



    Income tax expense is comprised of the following components:



    Deferred income taxes are provided for the temporary differences between the
financial reporting  basis  and  the  tax basis  of  the  Company's  assets  and
liabilities.  The major  temporary differences  that give  rise to  deferred tax
assets or liabilities at December 31, 1993 and 1992 are as follows:




                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

H -- INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)
    Deferred tax assets  and liabilities  included in  the consolidated  balance
sheets are as follows:



    Income tax expense, as a percentage of earnings before income taxes, differs
from the statutory federal income tax rate as follows:



    Tax   benefits  of   approximately  $2.0   associated  with   the  Company's
restructuring charge were not recognized during 1990. These tax benefits  became
available during 1992 and were recognized accordingly.

I -- INDUSTRY SEGMENT INFORMATION
    The  Company's  operations  principally  consist  of  the  manufacturing  of
components and  related  finished  products for  the  furnishings  industry.  In
addition,  the Company supplies a diversified  group of industries with products
which are similar  in manufacturing  technology to  its furnishings  operations.
Other than furnishings, no industry segment is significant.

    The Company's products are sold primarily through its own sales personnel to
customers  in all states of the United States. Foreign sales are a minor portion
of the Company's business.  No single customer  accounts for as  much as 10%  of
sales.

    Operating profit is determined by deducting from net sales the cost of goods
sold   and  the   selling,  distribution,  administrative   and  other  expenses
attributable to the segment operations. Corporate expenses not allocated to  the
segments include corporate general and administrative expenses, interest expense
and  certain  other  income and  deduction  items  which are  incidental  to the
Company's operations. Capital expenditures,  as defined herein, include  amounts
relating  to  acquisitions as  well as  internal expenditures.  The identifiable
assets   of   industry    segments   are   those    used   in   the    Company's


                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

I -- INDUSTRY SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
operations  of each segment.  Corporate identifiable assets  include cash, land,
buildings and  equipment  used in  conjunction  with corporate  activities,  and
sundry assets. Financial information by segment is as follows:



J -- CONTINGENCIES
    From  time  to  time, the  Company  is  involved in  proceedings  related to
environmental  matters.  In  one  instance,  the  United  States   Environmental
Protection  Agency ("EPA")  has directed  one of  the Company's  subsidiaries to
investigate potential  releases  into  the environment  and,  if  necessary,  to
perform  corrective action.  The subsidiary  appealed the  EPA's action  and the
outcome cannot be reasonably predicted. Costs to perform the actions directed by
the EPA, if the outcome is unfavorable, cannot be reasonably estimated. One-half
of any  such  costs would  be  reimbursed to  the  Company under  a  contractual
obligation  of a former joint owner of the subsidiary. No provision for costs of
performing investigation  and corrective  action, if  ultimately required,  have
been  recorded in the Company's financial  statements. If any such investigation
and corrective  action  is  required, management  believes  the  possibility  of
incurring  unreimbursed costs, with  a material adverse  effect on the Company's
consolidated financial condition or results of operations, is remote.


                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Leggett & Platt, Incorporated:

    In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related
consolidated statements of earnings, changes in shareholders' equity and of cash
flows  present  fairly,  in all  material  respects, the  financial  position of
Leggett & Platt,  Incorporated and  its subsidiaries  at December  31, 1993  and
1992,  and the results of their operations and  their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended  December 31, 1993 in conformity with  generally
accepted   accounting   principles.   These   financial   statements   are   the
responsibility of the Company's management; our responsibility is to express  an
opinion  on these  financial statements  based on  our audits.  We conducted our
audits of  these  statements  in accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing
standards  which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance  about  whether  the  financial   statements  are  free  of   material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the  amounts  and  disclosures  in  the  financial  statements,  assessing   the
accounting  principles used  and significant  estimates made  by management, and
evaluating the overall  financial statement  presentation. We  believe that  our
audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.

PRICE WATERHOUSE

St. Louis, Missouri
February 17, 1994


                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant  to  the requirements  of  Section 13  or  15(d) of  the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Dated: March 28, 1994

                                          LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED

                                          By: ____/s/__HARRY M. CORNELL, JR.____
                                                    Harry M. Cornell, Jr.
                                                    CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
                                                 AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

    Pursuant to the requirements  of the Securities Exchange  Act of 1934,  this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.








                                 EXHIBIT INDEX










                      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON
                         FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Leggett & Platt, Incorporated:

    Our  audits  of the  consolidated financial  statements  referred to  in our
report dated  February  17, 1994,  appearing  on page  29  of Leggett  &  Platt,
Incorporated's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993,
also included an audit of the Financial Statement Schedules listed in Item  14-2
in  Part  IV  of this  Form  10-K.  In our  opinion,  these  Financial Statement
Schedules present fairly, in  all material respects,  the information set  forth
therein  when  read  in  conjunction  with  the  related  consolidated financial
statements.

PRICE WATERHOUSE

St. Louis, Missouri
February 17, 1994


                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  SCHEDULE V -- PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993
                             (AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS)




                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  SCHEDULE V -- PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1992
                             (AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS)




                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  SCHEDULE V -- PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1991
                             (AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS)




                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

      SCHEDULE VI -- ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION, DEPLETION AND AMORTIZATION
                        OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993
                             (AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS)




                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
               SCHEDULE VI -- ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION, DEPLETION
               AND AMORTIZATION OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1992
                             (AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS)




                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
               SCHEDULE VI -- ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION, DEPLETION
               AND AMORTIZATION OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1991
                             (AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS)




                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
        SCHEDULE VIII -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
                  FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993
                             (AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS)




                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
            SCHEDULE X -- SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION
                  FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993
                             (AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS)




