ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

General

AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (the "Company," which term, unless the context otherwise requires, refers to AvalonBay
Communities, Inc. together with its subsidiaries) is a Maryland corporation that has elected to be treated as a real estate investment trust ("REIT") for federal income tax purposes. We engage
in the development, redevelopment, acquisition, ownership and operation of multifamily communities in high barrier to entry markets of the United States. These barriers to entry generally include a
difficult and lengthy entitlement process with local jurisdictions and dense urban or suburban areas where zoned and entitled land is in limited supply. Our markets are currently located in the
following regions of the United States: New England, the New York/New Jersey Metro area, the Mid-Atlantic, the Pacific Northwest, and Northern and Southern California. We focus on these
markets because we believe that, over the long-term, a limited new supply of apartment homes and lower housing affordability in these markets will result in higher growth in cash flows
relative to other markets.

At
January 31, 2013, we owned or held a direct or indirect ownership interest in:

•178 operating apartment communities containing 52,427 apartment homes in nine states and the District of Columbia, of
which 155 communities containing 45,056 apartment homes were consolidated for financial reporting purposes, two communities containing 674 apartment homes were held by joint ventures in which we hold
an ownership interest, and 21 communities containing 6,697 apartment homes were owned by the Funds (as defined below). Five of the consolidated communities containing 1,787 apartment homes were under
redevelopment, as discussed below;•23 wholly-owned communities under construction that are expected to contain an aggregate of 6,599 apartment homes when
completed; and•rights to develop an additional 34 communities that, if developed in the manner expected, will contain an estimated 9,602
apartment homes.

The
Company has entered into a material agreement to purchase direct and indirect interests in real estate assets that will significantly change our property holdings and capital
structure. See
"Business—Archstone Acquisition." The closing of the acquisition is expected to occur during the first quarter of 2013 after the filing of this Form 10-K.

We
generally obtain ownership in an apartment community by developing a new community on vacant land or by acquiring an existing community. In selecting sites for development or
acquisition, we favor locations that are near expanding employment centers and convenient to transportation, recreation areas, entertainment, shopping and dining.

Our
consolidated real estate investments consist of the following reportable segments: Established Communities, Other Stabilized Communities and Development/Redevelopment Communities.
Established Communities are generally operating communities that were owned and had stabilized occupancy and operating expenses as of the beginning of the prior year such that
year-over-year









comparisons
are meaningful. Other Stabilized Communities are generally all other operating communities that have stabilized occupancy and operating expenses during the current year, but that were not
owned or had not achieved stabilization as of the beginning of the prior year such that year-over-year comparisons are not meaningful, as well as communities that are planned
for disposition during the current year. Development/Redevelopment Communities consist of communities that are under construction, communities where substantial redevelopment is in progress or is
planned to begin during the current year and communities under lease-up. A more detailed description of these segments and other related information can be found in Note 8, "Segment
Reporting," of the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this report.

Our
principal financial goal is to increase long-term stockholder value through the development, redevelopment, acquisition, operation, and when appropriate, disposition of
apartments in our markets. To help meet this goal, we regularly (i) monitor our investment allocation by geographic market and product type, (ii) develop, redevelop and acquire an
interest in apartment communities in high barrier to entry markets with growing or high potential for demand and high for-sale housing costs, (iii) selectively sell apartment
communities that no longer meet our long-term strategy or when opportunities are presented to realize a portion of the value created through our investment and redeploy the proceeds from
those sales and (iv) endeavor to maintain a capital structure that is aligned with our business risks with a view to maintaining continuous access to cost-effective capital. Our
strategy is to be leaders in multifamily market research, consumer insight and capital allocation, delivering a range of multifamily offerings tailored to serve the needs of the most attractive
customer segments in the best-performing U.S. submarkets. A substantial majority of our current communities are upscale, which generally command among the highest rents in their markets.
However, we also pursue the ownership and operation of apartment communities that target a variety of customer segments and price points, consistent with our goal of offering a broad range of products
and services.

We
operate our apartment communities under three core brandsAvalon, AVA,andEaves by
Avalon.We believe that this branding differentiation allows us to target our product offerings to multiple customer groups and submarkets within our existing geographic
footprint. The"Avalon"brand is our core offering, focusing on upscale apartment living and high end amenities and services in urban and suburban
markets. Our"AVA"brand is designed for people who want to live in or near urban neighborhoods and in close proximity to public transportation,
services, shopping and night-life.AVAapartments are generally smaller, many engineered for roommate living, and feature modern design and
a technology focus. OurEaves by Avalonbrand is designed for renters who seek good quality apartment living, often in a suburban setting, with
practical amenities and services at a more modest price point.

During
the three years ended December 31, 2012, excluding activity for the Funds (as defined below), we acquired four apartment communities. In addition, during this period we
purchased our joint venture partner's interest in one operating community, obtaining a 100% ownership interest in that apartment community. During the same three-year period, excluding
dispositions in which we retained an ownership interest, we disposed of 10 apartment communities and completed the development of 18 apartment communities and the redevelopment of 23 apartment
communities. In addition, in 2011 we exchanged a portfolio of three communities and a parcel of land we owned for a portfolio of six communities and $26,000,000 in cash.

During
this period, we also realized our pro rata share of the gain from the sale of eight communities owned by AvalonBay Value Added Fund, L.P. ("Fund I"), an institutional
discretionary real estate investment fund which we manage and in which we own a 15.2% interest. Fund I acquired communities with the objective of either redeveloping or repositioning them, or taking
advantage of market cycle timing and improved operating performance. From its inception in March 2005 through the close of its investment period in March 2008, Fund I acquired 20 communities. In
addition, Fund I sold one community in 2013 through the date this Form 10-K was filed.









In
September 2008 we formed AvalonBay Value Added Fund II, L.P. ("Fund II"), a second institutional discretionary real estate investment fund which we manage and in which we own a
31.3% interest. In 2012, Fund II acquired its final operating community, which was an active acquisition candidate as of August 2011, the end of the investment period for Fund II. From the
commencement of Fund II through the close of the investment period, Fund II acquired 13 operating communities. Fund II sold one community in 2013 through the date this Form 10-K was
filed. A more detailed description of Fund I and Fund II (collectively, the "Funds") and the related investment activity can be found in the discussion in Note 6, "Investments in Real Estate
Entities," of the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report and in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

Including
sales by unconsolidated entities and entities in which we held a residual profits interest, during 2012 we sold 12 real estate assets, consisting of 11 operating communities
and one land parcel, and recognized a gain in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") of $156,420,000.

A
further discussion of our development, redevelopment, disposition, acquisition, property management and related strategies follows.

Development Strategy.We select land for development and follow established procedures that we believe minimize both the cost and the
risks of
development. As one of the largest developers of multifamily rental apartment communities in high barrier to entry markets of the United States, we identify development opportunities through local
market presence and access to local market information achieved through our regional offices. In addition to our principal executive office in Arlington, Virginia, we also maintain regional offices,
administrative offices or specialty offices in or near the following cities:

•Boston, Massachusetts;•Long Island, New York;•Los Angeles, California;•New York, New York;•Newport Beach, California;•San Francisco, California;•San Jose, California;•Seattle, Washington;•Shelton, Connecticut;•Virginia Beach, Virginia; and•Woodbridge, New Jersey.

After
selecting a target site, we usually negotiate for the right to acquire the site either through an option or a long-term conditional contract. Options and
long-term conditional contracts generally allow us to acquire the target site shortly before the start of construction, which reduces development-related risks and preserves capital.
However, as a result of competitive market conditions for land suitable for development, we have sometimes acquired and held land prior to construction for extended periods while entitlements are
obtained, or acquired land zoned for uses other than residential with the potential for rezoning. For further discussion of our Development Rights, refer to Item 2. "Communities" in this
report.









We
generally act as our own general contractor and construction manager, except for certain mid-rise and high-rise apartment communities where we may elect to use
third-party general contractors as construction managers. We generally perform these functions directly (although we may use a wholly-owned subsidiary) both for ourselves and for the joint ventures
and partnerships of which we are a member or a partner. We believe direct involvement in construction enables us to achieve higher construction quality, greater control over construction schedules and
cost savings. Our development, property management and construction teams monitor construction progress to ensure quality workmanship and a smooth and timely transition into the leasing and operating
phase.

During
periods where competition for development land is more intense, we may acquire improved land with existing commercial uses and rezone the site for multifamily residential use.
During the period that we hold these buildings for future development, any rent received from these operations, which we consider to be incidental, is accounted for as a reduction in our investment in
the development pursuit and not as net income. We have also participated, and may in the future participate, in master planned or other large multi-use developments where we commit to
build infrastructure (such as roads) to be used by other participants or commit to act as construction manager or general contractor in building structures or spaces for third parties (such as
unimproved ground floor retail space, municipal garages or parks). Costs we incur in connection with these activities may be accounted for as additional invested capital in the community or we may
earn fee income for providing these services. Particularly with large scale, urban in-fill developments, we may engage in significant environmental remediation efforts to prepare a site
for construction.

Throughout
this report, the term "development" is used to refer to the entire property development cycle, including pursuit of zoning approvals, procurement of architectural and
engineering designs and the construction process. References to "construction" refer to the actual construction of the property, which is only one element of the development cycle.

Redevelopment Strategy.When we undertake the redevelopment of a community, our goal is to renovate and/or rebuild an existing community
so that our
total investment is generally below replacement cost and the community is well positioned in the market to achieve attractive returns on our capital. We have a dedicated group of associates and
procedures that are intended to control both the cost and risks of redevelopment. Our redevelopment teams, which include redevelopment, construction and property management personnel, monitor
redevelopment progress. We believe we achieve significant cost savings by acting as our own general contractor. More importantly, this helps to ensure quality design and workmanship and a smooth and
timely transition into the lease-up and restabilization phases.

Throughout
this report, the term "redevelopment" is used to refer to the entire redevelopment cycle, including planning and procurement of architectural and engineering designs,
budgeting and actual renovation work. The actual renovation work is referred to as "reconstruction," which is only one element of the redevelopment cycle.

Disposition Strategy.We sell assets that no longer meet our long-term strategy or when market conditions are favorable, and we
redeploy
the proceeds from those sales to develop, redevelop and acquire communities and to rebalance our portfolio across or within geographic regions. This also allows us to realize a portion of the value
created through our investments and provides additional liquidity. We are then able to redeploy the net proceeds from our dispositions in lieu of raising that amount of capital externally. When we
decide to sell a community, we generally solicit competing bids from unrelated parties for these individual assets and consider the sales price of each proposal.

Acquisition Strategy.Our core competencies in development and redevelopment discussed above allow us to be selective in the
acquisitions we target.
Acquisitions allow us to achieve rapid penetration into markets in which we desire an increased presence. Acquisitions (and dispositions) also help us









achieve
our desired product mix or rebalance our portfolio. Portfolio growth also allows for fixed general and administrative costs to be a smaller percentage of overall community Net Operating Income
("NOI"). We are not presently pursuing the formation of a new, third fund, preferring at this time to maintain flexibility in shaping our portfolio of wholly-owned assets through acquisitions and
disposition, although we may acquire investments in existing fund structures in connection with the Archstone Acquisition. Any fund acquired is not expected to limit our ability to acquire investments
for our own account.

Property Management Strategy.We seek to increase operating income through innovative, proactive property management that will result
in higher
revenue from communities while constraining operating expenses. Our principal strategies to maximize revenue include:

•strong focus on resident satisfaction;•staggering lease terms such that lease expirations are better matched to traffic patterns;•balancing high occupancy with premium pricing, and increasing rents as market conditions permit; and•employing revenue management software to optimize the pricing and term of leases.

Constraining
growth in operating expenses is another way in which we seek to increase earnings growth. Growth in our portfolio and the resulting increase in revenue allows for fixed
operating costs to be spread over a larger volume of revenue, thereby increasing operating margins. We constrain growth in operating expenses in a variety of ways, which include, but are not limited
to, the following:

•we use purchase order controls, acquiring goods and services from pre-approved vendors;•we use national negotiated contracts and also purchase supplies in bulk where possible;•we bid third-party contracts on a volume basis;•we strive to retain residents through high levels of service in order to eliminate the cost of preparing an apartment home
for a new resident and to reduce marketing and vacant apartment utility costs;•we perform turnover work in-house or hire third parties, generally depending upon the least costly
alternative;•we undertake preventive maintenance regularly to maximize resident satisfaction and property and equipment life; and•we aggressively pursue real estate tax appeals.

On-site
property management teams receive bonuses based largely upon the net operating income ("NOI") produced at their respective communities. We use and continuously seek
ways to improve technology applications to help manage our communities, believing that the accurate collection of financial and resident data will enable us to maximize revenue and control costs
through careful leasing decisions, maintenance decisions and financial management.

We
generally manage the operation and leasing activity of our communities directly (although we may use a wholly-owned subsidiary) both for ourselves and the joint ventures and
partnerships of which we are a member or a partner.

From
time to time we also pursue or arrange ancillary services for our residents to provide additional revenue sources or increase resident satisfaction. As a REIT, we generally cannot
provide direct services to our residents that are not customarily provided by a landlord, nor can we directly share in the income of a third party that provides such services. However, we can provide
such non-customary services to residents or share in the revenue from such services if we do so through a









"taxable
REIT subsidiary," which is a subsidiary that is treated as a "C corporation" subject to federal income taxes.

Financing Strategy.We maintain a capital structure that provides financial flexibility to ensure we can select cost effective capital
market options
that are well matched to our business risks. We estimate that our short-term liquidity needs will be met from cash on hand, borrowings under our $1,300,000,000 revolving variable rate
unsecured credit facility (the "Credit Facility"), sales of current operating communities and/or issuance of additional debt or equity securities. A determination to engage in an equity or debt
offering depends on a variety of factors such as general market and economic conditions, our short and long-term liquidity needs, the relative costs of debt and equity capital and growth
opportunities. A summary of debt and equity activity for the last three years is reflected on our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows of the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in
Item 8 of this report.

We
have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, joint ventures (including limited liability companies or partnerships) through which we would own an indirect economic
interest of less than 100% of the community or communities owned directly by such joint ventures. Our decision to
either hold an apartment community in fee simple or to have an indirect interest in the community through a joint venture is based on a variety of factors and considerations, including: (i) the
economic and tax terms required by a seller of land or of a community; (ii) our desire to diversify our portfolio of communities by market, submarket and product type; (iii) our desire
at times to preserve our capital resources to maintain liquidity or balance sheet strength; and (iv) our projection, in some circumstances, that we will achieve higher returns on our invested
capital or reduce our risk if a joint venture vehicle is used. Investments in joint ventures are not limited to a specified percentage of our assets. Each joint venture agreement is individually
negotiated, and our ability to operate and/or dispose of a community in our sole discretion may be limited to varying degrees depending on the terms of the joint venture agreement.

In
addition, from time to time, we may offer shares of our equity securities, debt securities or options to purchase stock in exchange for property. We may also acquire properties in
exchange for properties we currently own.

Other Strategies and Activities.

We
have not engaged in trading, underwriting or agency distribution or sale of securities of other issuers and do not intend to do so. At all times we intend to make investments in a
manner so as to









qualify
as a REIT unless, because of circumstances or changes to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (or the Treasury Regulations), our Board of Directors determines that it is no longer in our best
interest to qualify as a REIT.

Archstone Acquisition

In November 2012, we entered into agreements with (i) Equity Residential and its operating partnership, ERP Operating
Partnership LP ("Equity Residential"), (ii) Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc., ("Lehman"), and (iii) Archstone Enterprise LP ("Archstone"), pursuant to which AvalonBay
and Equity Residential will acquire, directly or indirectly, all of the assets, liabilities and ownership interests in joint ventures or other entities owned by Archstone. Under the terms of the
agreements, we will acquire approximately 40% of Archstone's assets and liabilities and Equity Residential will acquire approximately 60% of Archstone's assets and liabilities ("Archstone
Acquisition"). The transaction is expected to close during the first quarter of 2013.

As
disclosed in November 2012, we expect to purchase the following as part of the Archstone Acquisition, which is subject to adjustment up until the transaction
closes:

•66 apartment communities that are expected to be consolidated for financial reporting purposes, containing 22,222
apartment homes, of which six communities are under construction and are expected to contain 1,666 apartment homes upon completion•Three parcels of land, which are expected to be wholly owned, and if developed as anticipated, are expected to contain a
total of 968 apartment homes;•Interests in joint ventures the assets of which consist primarily of real estate, for which our ownership percentage is
expected to be up to 40%, and that are not expected to be consolidated for financial reporting purposes.

The
Company expects to provide the following consideration for the Archstone Acquisition:

•the issuance of 14,889,706 shares of its common stock to Lehman or its designees;•cash payment of $669,000,000 to Lehman or its designees;•the assumption of approximately $3,700,000,000 principal amount of consolidated indebtedness;•the acquisition with Equity Residential of interests in entities that have preferred units outstanding that may be
presented for redemption from time to time. The Company's 40% share of the liquidation value of and accrued dividends on these outstanding Archstone preferred units as of January 31, 2013 was
$132,200,000; and•the assumption with Equity Residential of all other liabilities, known or unknown, of Archstone, other than certain
excluded liabilities. The Company will share in 40% of the cost of these liabilities.

Equity
Residential and we are jointly and severally liable for most obligations to Lehman related to the Archstone Acquisition. If we and Equity Residential fail to close Archstone
Acquisition by March 26, 2013, then Equity Residential and we could be liable for payment of a termination fee of $800,000,000. The closing of the transaction is also subject to customary
closing conditions, which do not include our and Equity Residential's ability to obtain the necessary financing or lender consents for the transaction. Unless otherwise stated, all amounts and
disclosures included in this Form 10-K do not include any impact from the anticipated closing of the Archstone Acquisition.









Tax Matters

We filed an election with our 1994 federal income tax return to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended,
("the Code") and intend to maintain our qualification as a REIT in the future. As a qualified REIT, with limited exceptions, we will not be taxed under federal and certain state income tax laws at the
corporate level on our taxable net income to the extent taxable net income is distributed to our stockholders. We expect to make sufficient distributions to avoid income tax at the corporate level.
While we believe that we are organized and qualified as a REIT and we intend to operate in a manner that will allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT, there can be no assurance that we will be
successful in this regard. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Code for which there are limited judicial and administrative
interpretations and involves the determination of a variety of factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control.

Competition

We face competition from other real estate investors, including insurance companies, pension and investment funds, partnerships and
investment companies and other REITs, to acquire and develop apartment communities and acquire land for future development. As an owner and operator of apartment communities, we also face competition
for prospective residents from other operators whose communities may be perceived to offer a better location or better amenities or whose rent may be perceived as a better value given the quality,
location and amenities that the resident seeks. We also compete against condominiums and single-family homes that are for sale or rent. Although we often compete against large sophisticated developers
and operators for development opportunities and for prospective residents, real estate developers and operators of any size can provide effective competition for both real estate assets and potential
residents.

Environmental and Related Matters

As a current or prior owner, operator and developer of real estate, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental
laws, regulations and ordinances and also could be liable to third parties resulting from environmental contamination or noncompliance at our communities. For some development communities we undertake
extensive environmental remediation to prepare the site for construction, which could be a significant portion of our total construction cost. Environmental remediation efforts could expose us to
possible liabilities for accidents or improper handling of contaminated materials during construction. These and other risks related to environmental matters are described in more detail in
Item 1a., "Risk Factors."

We
believe that more government regulation of energy use, along with a greater focus on environmental protection, may, over time, have a significant impact on urban growth patterns. If
changes in zoning to encourage greater density and proximity to mass transit do occur, such changes could benefit multifamily housing and those companies with a competency in high-density
development. However, there can be no assurance as to whether or when such changes in regulations or zoning will occur or, if they do occur, whether the multifamily industry or the Company will
benefit from such changes.

Other Information

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any document
we file at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may call the SEC at 1-202-551-8090 for further information on
the operation of the Public Reference Room. Our SEC filings are also available to the public from the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.









We
maintain a website at www.avalonbay.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge in the "Investors" section of our website
as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed with or furnished to the SEC. In addition, the charters of our Board's Nominating
and Corporate Governance Committee, Audit Committee and Compensation Committee, as well as our Director Independence Standards, Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics,
Policy Regarding Shareholder Rights Agreement, Policy Regarding Shareholder Approval of Future Severance Agreements, Executive Stock Ownership Guidelines, and Policy for Recoupment of Incentive
Compensation, are available free of charge in that section of our website or by writing to AvalonBay Communities, Inc., Ballston Tower, Suite 800, 671 N. Glebe Rd., Arlington, Virginia
22203, Attention: Chief Financial Officer. To the extent required by the rules of the SEC and the NYSE, we will disclose amendments and waivers relating to these documents in the same place on our
website.

We
were incorporated under the laws of the State of California in 1978. In 1995, we reincorporated in the State of Maryland and have been focused on the ownership and operation of
apartment communities since that time. As of January 31, 2013, we had 2,178 employees.









