ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

General

AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (the "Company," which term, unless the context otherwise requires, refers to AvalonBay
Communities, Inc. together with its subsidiaries) is a Maryland corporation that has elected to be treated as a real estate investment trust ("REIT") for federal income tax purposes. We engage
in the development, redevelopment, acquisition, ownership and operation of multifamily communities located primarily in high barrier to entry markets of the United States. These barriers to entry
generally include a difficult and lengthy entitlement process with local jurisdictions and dense urban or suburban areas where zoned and entitled land is in limited supply. Our primary markets are
located in New England, the New York/New Jersey Metro area, the Mid-Atlantic, the Pacific Northwest, and the Northern and Southern California regions of the United States. We focus on these markets
because we believe that, over the long-term, a limited new supply of apartment homes and lower housing affordability in these markets will result in higher growth in cash flows relative to other
markets.

At
January 31, 2014, we owned or held a direct or indirect ownership interest in:

•244 operating apartment communities containing 72,811 apartment homes in twelve states and the District of Columbia, of
which 214 communities containing 63,514 apartment homes were consolidated for financial reporting purposes, three communities containing 979 apartment homes were held by joint ventures in which we
hold an ownership interest, and 27 communities containing 8,318 apartment homes were owned by the Funds (as defined below). Three of the consolidated communities containing 1,126 apartment homes were
under redevelopment, as discussed below;•29 wholly-owned communities under construction that are expected to contain an aggregate of 8,708 apartment homes when
completed, including one community in which we had an indirect interest expected to contain 103 apartment homes; and•rights to develop an additional 46 communities that, if developed in the manner expected, will contain an estimated 12,986
apartment homes; and•an indirect interest in a joint venture formed with Equity Residential (as defined in this Form 10-K) which owns
direct and indirect interests in assets acquired as part of the Archstone Acquisition, including a direct interest in apartment communities in Germany, an indirect interest in a joint venture which
owns six apartment communities with 1,902 apartment homes in the United States, and two land parcels.

We
generally obtain ownership in an apartment community by developing a new community on vacant land or by acquiring an existing community. In selecting sites for development or
acquisition, we favor locations that are near expanding employment centers and convenient to transportation, recreation areas, entertainment, shopping and dining.

Our
consolidated real estate investments consist of the following reportable segments: Established Communities, Other Stabilized Communities and Development/Redevelopment Communities.









Established
Communities are generally operating communities that were owned and had stabilized occupancy and operating expenses as of the beginning of the prior year such that year-over-year
comparisons are meaningful. Other Stabilized Communities are generally all other operating communities that have stabilized occupancy and operating expenses during the current year, but that were not
owned or had not achieved stabilization as of the beginning of the prior year such that year-over-year comparisons are not meaningful, as well as communities that are planned for disposition during
the current year. Development/Redevelopment Communities consist of communities that are under construction, communities where substantial redevelopment is in progress or is planned to begin during the
current year and communities under lease-up. A more detailed description of these segments and other related information can be found in Note 9, "Segment Reporting," of the Consolidated
Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this report.

Our
principal financial goal is to increase long-term stockholder value through the development, redevelopment, acquisition, operation, and when appropriate, disposition of apartment
communities in our markets. To help meet this goal, we regularly (i) monitor our investment allocation by geographic market and product type, (ii) develop, redevelop and acquire an
interest in apartment communities in high barrier to entry markets with growing or high potential for demand and high for-sale housing costs, (iii) selectively sell apartment communities that
no longer meet our long-term strategy or when opportunities are presented to realize a portion of the value created through our investment and redeploy the proceeds from those sales and
(iv) endeavor to maintain a capital structure that is aligned with our business risks with a view to maintaining continuous access to cost-effective capital. Our strategy is to be leaders in
multifamily market research, consumer insight and capital allocation, delivering a range of multifamily offerings tailored to serve the needs of the most attractive customer segments in the
best-performing U.S. submarkets. A substantial majority of our current communities are upscale, which generally command among the highest rents in their markets. However, we also
pursue the ownership and operation of apartment communities that target a variety of customer segments and price points, consistent with our goal of offering a broad range of products and services.

We
operate our apartment communities under three core brandsAvalon, AVA,andEaves by
Avalon.We believe that this branding differentiation allows us to target our product offerings to multiple customer groups and submarkets within our existing geographic
footprint. The"Avalon"brand is our core offering, focusing on upscale apartment living and high end amenities and services in urban and suburban
markets. Our"AVA"brand is designed for people who want to live in or near urban neighborhoods and in close proximity to public transportation,
services, shopping and night-life.AVAapartments are generally smaller, many engineered for roommate living, and feature modern design and a technology
focus. OurEaves by Avalonbrand is designed for renters who seek good quality apartment living, often in a suburban setting, with practical amenities
and services at a more modest price point.

During
the three years ended December 31, 2013, excluding activity for the Funds (as defined below), we acquired 59 apartment communities, of which 54 were acquired as part of the
Archstone Acquisition (as defined in this Form 10-K). In addition, in conjunction with the Archstone Acquisition, excluding investments in joint ventures formed with Equity Residential, we
acquired interests in three unconsolidated joint ventures, as discussed below, which own an aggregate of 12 apartment communities. During the three years ended December 31, 2013, we disposed of
15 apartment communities, four of which were acquired in the Archstone Acquisition, and completed the development of 26 apartment communities and the redevelopment of 24 apartment communities. During
2012 we also purchased our joint venture partner's interest in one operating community, obtaining a 100% ownership interest in that apartment community. In addition, in 2011 we exchanged a portfolio
of three communities and a parcel of land we owned for a portfolio of six communities and $26,000,000 in cash. In addition, we sold one community in 2014 through the date this Form 10-K was
filed.









In
March 2005, we formed AvalonBay Value Added Fund, L.P. ("Fund I"), a private, discretionary real estate investment vehicle, which we manage and in which we own a 15.2%
interest. Fund I acquired communities with the objective of either redeveloping or repositioning them, or taking advantage of market cycle timing and improved operating performance. From its inception
in March 2005 through the close of its investment period in March 2008, Fund I acquired 20 communities. During the three years ended December 31, 2013, we realized our pro rata share of the
gain from the sale of 16 communities owned by Fund I.

In
September 2008, we formed AvalonBay Value Added Fund II, L.P. ("Fund II"), a second institutional discretionary real estate investment fund which we manage and in which we own
a 31.3% interest. In 2012, Fund II acquired its final operating community, which was an active acquisition candidate as of
August 2011, the end of the investment period for Fund II. From the commencement of Fund II through the close of the investment period, Fund II acquired 13 operating communities. During the three
years ended December 31, 2013, we realized our pro rata share of the gain from the sale of one community owned by Fund II.

In
conjunction with the Archstone Acquisition, excluding joint ventures formed with Equity Residential, we acquired interests in three additional joint ventures, Brandywine Apartments of
Maryland, LLC ("Brandywine"), Archstone Multifamily Partners AC LP (the "U.S. Fund") and Multifamily Partners AC JV LP (the "AC JV").

Brandywine
owns a 305 apartment home community located in Washington, DC, which is managed by a third party. Brandywine is comprised of five members who hold various interests in the
joint venture. In conjunction with the Archstone Acquisition, we acquired a 26.1% equity interest in the venture, and subsequently purchased an additional 2.6% interest, and as of December 31,
2013, hold a 28.7% equity interest in the venture.

The
U.S. Fund was formed in July 2011 and is fully invested. The U.S. Fund owns nine communities containing 1,726 apartment homes, one of which includes a marina containing 229 boat
slips. Through subsidiaries, we acquired and own the general partner of the fund and hold a 28.6% interest in the fund.

The
AC JV is a joint venture in which we acquired Archstone's 20% ownership interest. The AC JV was formed in 2011 and owns two operating apartment communities containing 818
apartment homes in Cambridge, MA and Herndon, VA, and one development community which, if completed as expected, will contain 103 apartment homes in Cambridge, MA. The AC JV partnership agreement
contains provisions that require us to provide a right of first offer ("ROFO") to the AC JV in connection with additional opportunities to acquire or develop additional interests in multifamily real
estate assets within a specified geographic radius of the existing assets, generally one mile or less. We own one land parcel for the development of 301 apartment homes, classified as a Development
Right in Cambridge, MA, acquired as part of the Archstone Acquisition that is subject to the ROFO restrictions. The ROFO restriction expires in 2019.

A
more detailed description of Fund I, Fund II, the U.S. Fund and the AC JV (collectively, the "Funds"), Brandywine and the related investment activity can be found in the discussion in
Note 6, "Investments in Real Estate Entities," of the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report and in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations."

Including
sales by unconsolidated entities and entities in which we held a residual profits interest, during 2013 we sold 16 operating communities and recognized a gain in accordance
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") of $292,684,000.

A
further discussion of our development, redevelopment, disposition, acquisition, property management and related strategies follows.









Development Strategy.We select land for development and follow established procedures that we believe minimize both the cost and the
risks of
development. As one of the largest developers of multifamily rental apartment communities in high barrier to entry markets of the United States, we identify development opportunities through local
market presence and access to local market information achieved through our regional offices. In addition to our principal executive office in Arlington, Virginia, we also maintain regional offices,
administrative offices or specialty offices, including offices that are in or near the following cities:

•Boston, Massachusetts;•Long Island, New York;•Los Angeles, California;•New York, New York;•Newport Beach, California;•San Francisco, California;•San Jose, California;•Seattle, Washington;•Fairfield, Connecticut;•Virginia Beach, Virginia; and•Woodbridge, New Jersey.

After
selecting a target site, we usually negotiate for the right to acquire the site either through an option or a long-term conditional contract. Options and long-term conditional
contracts generally allow us to acquire the target site shortly before the start of construction, which reduces development-related risks and preserves capital. However, as a result of competitive
market conditions for land suitable for development, we have sometimes acquired and held land prior to construction for extended periods while entitlements are obtained, or acquired land zoned for
uses other than residential with the potential for rezoning. For further discussion of our Development Rights, refer to Item 2. "Communities" in this report.

We
generally act as our own general contractor and construction manager, except for certain mid-rise and high-rise apartment communities and certain development communities acquired as
part of the Archstone Acquisition, where we may elect to use third-party general contractors as construction managers. We generally perform these functions directly (although we may use a wholly-owned
subsidiary) both for ourselves and for the joint ventures and partnerships of which we are a member or a partner. We believe direct involvement in construction enables us to achieve higher
construction quality, greater control over construction schedules and cost savings. Our development, property management and construction teams monitor construction progress to ensure quality
workmanship and a smooth and timely transition into the leasing and operating phase.

During
periods where competition for development land is more intense, we may acquire improved land with existing commercial uses and rezone the site for multifamily residential use.
During the period that we hold these buildings for future development, any rent received in excess of expenses
from these operations, which we consider to be incidental, is accounted for as a reduction in our investment in the development pursuit and not as net income. Any expenses relating to these
operations, in excess of any rents received, are accounted for as a reduction in net income. We have also participated, and may in the future participate, in master planned or other large multi-use
developments where we commit to build infrastructure (such as roads) to be used by other participants or commit to act as construction manager or general contractor in building structures or spaces
for









third
parties (such as unimproved ground floor retail space, municipal garages or parks). Costs we incur in connection with these activities may be accounted for as additional invested capital in the
community or we may earn fee income for providing these services. Particularly with large scale, urban in-fill developments, we may engage in significant environmental remediation efforts to prepare a
site for construction.

Throughout
this report, the term "development" is used to refer to the entire property development cycle, including pursuit of zoning approvals, procurement of architectural and
engineering designs and the construction process. References to "construction" refer to the actual construction of the property, which is only one element of the development cycle.

Redevelopment Strategy.When we undertake the redevelopment of a community, our goal is to renovate and/or rebuild an existing
community so that our
total investment is generally below replacement cost and the community is well positioned in the market to achieve attractive returns on our capital. We have a dedicated group of associates and
procedures that are intended to control both the cost and risks of redevelopment. Our redevelopment teams, which include redevelopment, construction and property management personnel, monitor
redevelopment progress. We believe we achieve significant cost savings by acting as our own general contractor. More importantly, this helps to ensure quality design and workmanship and a smooth and
timely transition into the lease-up and restabilization phases.

Throughout
this report, the term "redevelopment" is used to refer to the entire redevelopment cycle, including planning and procurement of architectural and engineering designs,
budgeting and actual renovation work. The actual renovation work is referred to as "reconstruction," which is only one element of the redevelopment cycle.

Disposition Strategy.We sell assets that no longer meet our long-term strategy or when market conditions
are favorable, and we redeploy the proceeds from those sales to develop, redevelop and acquire communities and to rebalance our portfolio across or within geographic regions. This also allows us to
realize a portion of the value created through our investments and provides additional liquidity. We are then able to redeploy the net proceeds from our dispositions in lieu of raising that amount of
capital externally. When we decide to sell a community, we generally solicit competing bids from unrelated parties for these individual assets and consider the sales price of each proposal.

We
acquired 16 assets in the Archstone Acquisition for which outstanding third parties retained an indirect interest with associated tax protection rights which may be triggered if we
sell the assets or repay secured financing thereon; if triggered upon a sale of all 16 assets, the associated tax protection payments are estimated to be approximately $44 million at
December 31, 2013.

Acquisition Strategy.Our core competencies in development and redevelopment discussed above allow us to be selective in the
acquisitions we target.
Acquisitions allow us to achieve rapid penetration into markets in which we desire an increased presence. Acquisitions (and dispositions) also help us achieve our desired product mix or rebalance our
portfolio. Portfolio growth also allows for fixed general and administrative costs to be a smaller percentage of overall community Net Operating Income ("NOI"). We are not presently pursuing the
formation of a new discretionary real estate investment fund, preferring at this time to maintain flexibility in shaping our portfolio of wholly-owned assets through acquisitions and dispositions.

Property Management Strategy.We seek to increase operating income through innovative, proactive property management that will result
in higher
revenue from communities while constraining operating expenses. Our principal strategies to maximize revenue include:

•focusing on resident satisfaction;•staggering lease terms such that lease expirations are better matched to traffic patterns;









•balancing high occupancy with premium pricing, and increasing rents as market conditions permit; and•employing revenue management software to optimize the pricing and term of leases.

Constraining
growth in operating expenses is another way in which we seek to increase earnings growth. Growth in our portfolio and the resulting increase in revenue allows for fixed
operating costs to be spread over a larger volume of revenue, thereby increasing operating margins. We constrain growth in operating expenses in a variety of ways, which include, but are not limited
to, the following:

•we use purchase order controls, acquiring goods and services from pre-approved vendors;•we use national negotiated contracts and also purchase supplies in bulk where possible;•we bid third-party contracts on a volume basis;•we strive to retain residents through high levels of service in order to eliminate the cost of preparing an apartment home
for a new resident and to reduce marketing and vacant apartment utility costs;•we perform turnover work in-house or hire third parties, generally depending upon the least costly alternative;•we undertake preventive maintenance regularly to maximize resident satisfaction and property and equipment life; and•we aggressively pursue real estate tax appeals.

On-site
property management teams receive bonuses based largely upon the NOI produced at their respective communities. We use and continuously seek ways to improve technology
applications to help manage our communities, believing that the accurate collection of financial and resident data will enable us to maximize revenue and control costs through careful leasing
decisions, maintenance decisions and financial management.

We
generally manage the operation and leasing activity of our communities directly (although we may use a wholly-owned subsidiary) both for ourselves and the joint ventures and
partnerships of which we are a member or a partner.

From
time to time we also pursue or arrange ancillary services for our residents to provide additional revenue sources or increase resident satisfaction. As a REIT, we generally cannot
provide direct services to our residents that are not customarily provided by a landlord, nor can we directly share in the income of a third party that provides such services. However, we can provide
such non-customary services to residents or share in the revenue from such services if we do so through a "taxable REIT subsidiary," which is a subsidiary that is treated as a "C corporation" subject
to federal income taxes.

Financing Strategy.We maintain a capital structure that provides financial flexibility to ensure we can select cost effective capital
market options
that are well matched to our business risks. We estimate that our short-term liquidity needs will be met from cash on hand, borrowings under our $1,300,000,000 revolving variable rate unsecured credit
facility (the "Credit Facility"), sales of current operating communities and/or issuance of additional debt or equity securities. A determination to engage in an equity or debt offering depends on a
variety of factors such as general market and economic conditions, our short and long-term liquidity needs, the relative costs of debt and equity capital and growth opportunities. A summary of debt
and equity activity for the last three years is reflected on our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows of the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this report.









We
have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, joint ventures (including limited liability companies or partnerships) through which we would own an indirect economic
interest of less than 100% of the community or communities owned directly by such joint ventures. Our decision to either hold an apartment community in fee simple or to have an indirect interest in
the community through a joint venture is based on a variety of factors and considerations, including: (i) the economic and tax terms required by a seller of land or of a community;
(ii) our desire to diversify our portfolio of communities by market, submarket and product type; (iii) our desire at times to preserve our capital resources to maintain liquidity or
balance sheet strength; and (iv) our projection, in some circumstances, that we will achieve higher returns on our invested capital or reduce our risk if a joint venture vehicle is used.
Investments in joint ventures are not limited to a specified percentage of our assets. Each joint venture agreement is individually negotiated, and our ability to operate and/or dispose of a community
in our sole discretion may be limited to varying degrees depending on the terms of the joint venture agreement.

In
addition, from time to time, we may offer shares of our equity securities, debt securities or options to purchase stock in exchange for property. We may also acquire properties in
exchange for properties we currently own.

Other Strategies and Activities.

We
have not engaged in trading, underwriting or agency distribution or sale of securities of other issuers and do not intend to do so. At all times we intend to make investments in a
manner so as to qualify as a REIT unless, because of circumstances or changes to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (or the Treasury Regulations), our Board of Directors determines that it is no longer
in our best interest to qualify as a REIT.

Archstone Acquisition

On February 27, 2013, pursuant to an asset purchase agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") dated November 26, 2012, by and
among the Company, Equity Residential and its operating partnership, ERP Operating Limited Partnership (together, "Equity Residential"), Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. ("Lehman," which term is
sometimes used in this report to refer to Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc., and/or its relevant subsidiary or subsidiaries), and Archstone Enterprise LP ("Archstone," which has since
changed its name to Jupiter Enterprise LP), we, together with Equity Residential, acquired, directly or indirectly, all of Archstone's assets, including all of the ownership interests in joint
ventures and other entities owned by Archstone, and assumed Archstone's liabilities,









both
known and unknown, with certain limited exceptions. Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, we acquired approximately 40% of Archstone's assets and liabilities and Equity Residential acquired
approximately 60% of Archstone's assets and liabilities (the "Archstone Acquisition").

We
acquired the following as part of the Archstone Acquisition:

•54 operating apartment communities that were consolidated for financial reporting purposes, containing 18,423 apartment
homes, of which four communities containing 1,368 apartment homes were subsequently disposed of during 2013;•six communities that were under construction and/or in lease-up, of which two have been completed with 553 homes and the
other four of which are expected to be completed during 2014 and contain 1,114 apartment homes;•six parcels of land, one of which we sold to the AC JV, which is currently being developed;•options to acquire two additional parcels of land, of which one was acquired in 2013 and will begin construction in 2014;•interests in unconsolidated joint ventures in which we are the general partner or managing member, which joint ventures
own 11 apartment communities containing 2,544 apartment homes, and an interest in an unconsolidated joint venture in which we are a limited partner, which joint venture owns one apartment community
containing 305 apartment homes, as further discussed below; and•a 40% ownership interest in unconsolidated joint venture arrangements with Equity Residential which will hold assets and
liabilities that we and Equity Residential will jointly manage, and that we and Equity Residential intend to sell to or resolve with third parties, and/or subsequently transfer to Equity Residential
or to us.

The
Company provided the following consideration for the Archstone Acquisition:

•the issuance of 14,889,706 shares of the Company's common stock, valued at $1,875,210,000 as of the market's close on the
closing date, February 27, 2013;•cash payment of approximately $760,000,000;•the assumption of consolidated indebtedness with a fair value of approximately $3,732,980,000, as of February 27,
2013, consisting of $3,512,202,000 principal amount of consolidated indebtedness and $220,777,000 representing the amount by which fair value of the aforementioned debt exceeds the principal face
value, $70,479,000 of which excess related to debt the Company repaid concurrent with the Archstone Acquisition;•the acquisition with Equity Residential of interests in entities that have preferred units outstanding, some of which may
be presented for redemption from time to time. The Company's 40% share of the fair value of the collective obligations, including accrued dividends on these outstanding Archstone preferred units as of
February 27, 2013, was approximately $67,500,000; and•the assumption with Equity Residential of all other liabilities, known or unknown, of Archstone, other than certain
excluded liabilities. The Company shares 40% of the responsibility for these liabilities.

Tax Matters

We filed an election with our 1994 federal income tax return to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended,
("the Code") and intend to maintain our qualification as a REIT in the future. As a qualified REIT, with limited exceptions, we will not be taxed under federal









and
certain state income tax laws at the corporate level on our taxable net income to the extent taxable net income is distributed to our stockholders. We expect to make sufficient distributions to
avoid income tax at the corporate level. While we believe that we are organized and qualified as a REIT and we intend to operate in a manner that will allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT, there
can be no assurance that we will be successful in this regard. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Code for which there are limited
judicial and administrative interpretations and involves the determination of a variety of factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control.

Competition

We face competition from other real estate investors, including insurance companies, pension and investment funds, partnerships and
investment companies and other REITs, to acquire and develop apartment communities and acquire land for future development. As an owner and operator of apartment communities, we also face competition
for prospective residents from other operators whose communities may be perceived to offer a better location or better amenities or whose rent may be perceived as a better value given the quality,
location and amenities that the resident seeks. We also compete against condominiums and single-family homes that are for sale or rent. Although we often compete against large, sophisticated
developers and operators for development opportunities and for prospective residents, real estate developers and operators of any size can provide effective competition for both real estate assets and
potential residents.

Environmental and Related Matters

As a current or prior owner, operator and developer of real estate, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental
laws, regulations and ordinances and also could be liable to third parties resulting from environmental contamination or noncompliance at our communities. For some development communities we undertake
extensive environmental remediation to prepare the site for construction, which could be a significant portion of our total construction cost. Environmental remediation efforts could expose us to
possible liabilities for accidents or improper handling of contaminated materials during construction. These and other risks related to environmental matters are described in more detail in
Item 1a., "Risk Factors."

We
believe that more government regulation of energy use, along with a greater focus on environmental protection, may, over time, have a significant impact on urban growth patterns. If
changes in zoning to encourage greater density and proximity to mass transit do occur, such changes could benefit multifamily housing and those companies with a competency in high-density development.
However, there can be no assurance as to whether or when such changes in regulations or zoning will occur or, if they do occur, whether the multifamily industry or the Company will benefit from such
changes.

Other Information

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any document
we file at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may call the SEC at 1-202-551-8090 for further information on the operation of the Public
Reference Room. Our SEC filings are also available to the public from the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.

We
maintain a website at www.avalonbay.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those
reports, filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge in the "Investors" section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports
are filed with or furnished to the









SEC.
In addition, the charters of our Board's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, Audit Committee and Compensation Committee, as well as our Director Independence Standards, Corporate
Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Policy Regarding Shareholder Rights Agreement, Policy Regarding Shareholder Approval of Future Severance Agreements, Executive Stock
Ownership Guidelines, and Policy for Recoupment of Incentive Compensation, are available free of charge in that section of our website or by writing to AvalonBay Communities, Inc., Ballston
Tower, Suite 800, 671 N. Glebe Rd., Arlington, Virginia 22203, Attention: Chief Financial Officer. To the extent required by the rules of the SEC and the NYSE, we will disclose amendments and
waivers relating to these documents in the same place on our website.

We
were incorporated under the laws of the State of California in 1978. In 1995, we reincorporated in the State of Maryland and have been focused on the ownership and operation of
apartment communities since that time. As of January 31, 2014, we had 2,900 employees.









