ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (the “Company,” which term, unless the context otherwise requires,
refers to AvalonBay Communities, Inc. together with its subsidiaries) is a Maryland corporation
that has elected to be treated as a real estate investment trust, (“REIT”), for federal income tax
purposes. We engage in the development, redevelopment, acquisition, ownership and operation of
multifamily communities in high barrier to entry markets of the United States. These barriers to
entry generally include a difficult and lengthy entitlement process with local jurisdictions and
dense urban or suburban areas where zoned and entitled land is in limited supply. Our markets are
located in New England, the New York/New Jersey metro area, the Washington DC Metro area, the
Midwest, the Pacific Northwest, and the Northern and Southern California regions of the United
States. We focus on these markets because we believe that over the long-term, a limited new supply
of apartment homes and lower housing affordability in these markets will result in higher growth in
cash flows relative to other markets.

At January 31, 2010, we owned or held a direct or indirect ownership interest in:

•164 operating apartment communities containing 47,631 apartment homes in ten states and
the District of Columbia, of which, 140 were consolidated communities containing 42,108
apartment homes, three communities containing 983 apartment homes were held by joint
ventures in which we own an interest, and 21 communities containing 4,540 apartment homes
were owned by the Funds (as defined below). Seven of the consolidated communities
containing 2,615 apartment homes were under redevelopment, as discussed below;

•seven communities under construction that are expected to contain an aggregate of 2,438
apartment homes when completed; and

•rights to develop an additional 28 communities that, if developed in the manner
expected, will contain an estimated 7,180 apartment homes.

We generally obtain ownership in an apartment community by developing a new community on vacant
land or by acquiring an existing community. In selecting sites for development or acquisition, we
favor locations that are near expanding employment centers and convenient to transportation,
recreation areas, entertainment, shopping and dining.

Our consolidated real estate investments consist of the following reportable segments: Established
Communities, Other Stabilized Communities and Development/Redevelopment Communities. Established
Communities are generally operating communities that were owned and had stabilized occupancy and
operating expenses as of the beginning of the prior year such that year-over-year comparisons are
meaningful. Other Stabilized Communities are generally all other operating communities that have
stabilized occupancy and operating expenses during the current year, but that had not achieved
stabilization as of the beginning of the prior year such that year-over-year comparisons are not
meaningful as well as communities that are planned for disposition during the current year.
Development/Redevelopment Communities consist of communities that are under construction,
communities where substantial redevelopment is in progress or is planned to begin during the
current year and communities under lease-up. A more detailed description of these segments and
other related information can be found in Note 9, “Segment Reporting,” of the Consolidated
Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this report.

Our principal financial goal is to increase long-term stockholder value through the development,
acquisition, operation and, when appropriate, disposition of apartments in our markets. To help
fulfill this goal, we regularly (i) monitor our investment allocation by geographic market and
product type, (ii) develop, redevelop and acquire an interest in apartment communities in high barrier to entry markets with growing or high potential
for demand and






high for-sale housing costs, (iii) selectively sell apartment communities that no
longer meet our long-term strategy or when opportunities are presented to realize a portion of the
value created through our investment and redeploy the proceeds from those sales, and (iv) endeavor
to maintain a capital structure that is aligned with our business risks with a view to maintaining
continuous access to cost-effective capital. Our time-tested strategy is to be leaders in customer insight, market research and capital allocation, delivering a range of multifamily offerings tailored to serve the needs of the most attractive customer segments in the best-performing US submarkets.  A substantial majority of our current communities are
upscale, which generally command among the highest rents in their markets. However, we also pursue
the ownership and operation of apartment communities that target a variety of customer segments and
price points, consistent with our goal of offering a broad range of products and services.

During the three years ended December 31, 2009, excluding activity for the Funds (as defined
below), we acquired one apartment community. This community’s financial results are consolidated
for financial reporting purposes. During the same three-year period, excluding dispositions in
which we retained an ownership interest, we disposed of 19 apartment communities, disposed of one
investment in a real estate joint venture and completed the development of 30 apartment communities
and the redevelopment of 10 apartment communities.

During this period, we also realized gains from the sale of a community owned by AvalonBay Value
Added Fund, L.P. (“Fund I”), an institutional discretionary investment fund, which we manage and in
which we own a 15.2% interest. Fund I acquired communities with the objective of either
redeveloping or repositioning them, or taking advantage of market cycle timing and improved
operating performance. From its inception in March 2005 through the close of its investment period
in March 2008, Fund I acquired 20 communities. Fund I sold one community in 2008.

In September 2008, we formed AvalonBay Value Added Fund II, L.P. (“Fund II”), an additional
institutional discretionary investment fund which we manage and in which we currently own a 31.3%
interest. After adding additional equity commitments in the second quarter of 2009, a total of five
institutional investors and the Company collectively committed $400,000,000, of which our
commitment is $125,000,000. During 2009, Fund II acquired two communities. A more detailed
description of Fund I and Fund II (collectively, the “Funds”) and the related investment activity
can be found in the discussion under Item I., “Business — General — Financing Strategy” and Note
6, “Investments in Real Estate Entities” of the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this
report.

During 2009, we sold seven real estate assets, resulting in a gain in accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) of $65,946,000.

A further discussion of our development, redevelopment, disposition, acquisition, property
management and related strategies follows.






Development Strategy.We select land for development and follow established procedures that we
believe minimize both the cost and the risks of development. As one of the largest developers of
multifamily rental apartment communities in high barrier to entry markets of the United States, we
identify development opportunities through local market presence and access to local market
information achieved through our regional offices. In addition to our principal executive office
in Alexandria, Virginia, we also maintain regional offices, administrative offices or specialty
offices in or near the following cities:

•Boston, Massachusetts;

•Chicago, Illinois;

•Long Island, New York;

•Los Angeles, California;

•New York, New York;

•Newport Beach, California;

•San Francisco, California;

•San Jose, California;

•Seattle, Washington;

•Shelton, Connecticut;

•Virginia Beach, Virginia; and

•Woodbridge, New Jersey.

We will be moving our principal executive office to Arlington, Virginia by June 2010.

After selecting a target site, we usually negotiate for the right to acquire the site either
through an option or a long-term conditional contract. Options and long-term conditional contracts
generally allow us to acquire the target site shortly before the start of construction, which
reduces development-related risks and preserves capital. However, as a result of competitive
market conditions for land suitable for development, we have sometimes acquired and held land prior
to construction for extended periods while entitlements are obtained, or acquired land zoned for
uses other than residential with the potential for rezoning. For further discussion of our
Development Rights, refer to Item 2., “Communities” in this report.

We generally act as our own general contractor and construction manager, except for certain
mid-rise and high-rise apartment communities where we may elect to use third-party general
contractors or construction managers. We generally perform these functions directly (although we
may use a wholly owned subsidiary) both for ourselves and for the joint ventures and partnerships
of which we are a member or a partner. We believe this enables us to achieve higher construction
quality, greater control over construction schedules and significant cost savings. Our development,
property management and construction teams monitor construction progress to ensure quality
workmanship and a smooth and timely transition into the leasing and operating phase.

During periods where competition for development land is more intense, we may acquire improved land
with existing commercial uses and rezone the site for multi-family residential use. During the
period that we hold these buildings for future development, the net revenue from these operations,
which we consider to be incidental, is accounted for as a reduction in our investment in the
development pursuit and not as net income. We have also participated, and may in the future
participate, in master planned or other large multi-use developments where we commit to build
infrastructure (such as roads) to be used by other participants or commit to act as construction
manager or general contractor in building structures or spaces for third parties (such as municipal
garages or parks). Costs we incur in connection with these activities may be accounted for as
additional invested capital in the community or we may earn fee income for providing these
services. Particularly with large scale, urban in-fill developments, we may engage in significant
environmental remediation efforts to prepare a site for construction.

Throughout this report, the term “development” is used to refer to the entire property development
cycle, including pursuit of zoning approvals, procurement of architectural and engineering designs
and the construction process. References to “construction” refer to the actual construction of the
property, which is only one element of the development cycle.

Redevelopment Strategy. When we undertake the redevelopment of a community, our goal is to
renovate and/or rebuild an existing community so that our total investment is generally below
replacement cost and the community is well positioned in the market to achieve attractive returns
on our capital. We have established a dedicated group






of associates and procedures to control both the cost and risks of redevelopment. Our redevelopment
teams, which include key redevelopment, construction and property management personnel, monitor
redevelopment progress. We believe we achieve significant cost savings by acting as our own
general contractor. More importantly, this helps to ensure quality design and workmanship and a
smooth and timely transition into the lease-up and restabilization phases.

Throughout this report, the term “redevelopment” is used to refer to the entire redevelopment
cycle, including planning and procurement of architectural and engineering designs, budgeting and
actual renovation work. The actual renovation work is referred to as “reconstruction,” which is
only one element of the redevelopment cycle.

Disposition Strategy.We sell assets that no longer meet our long-term strategy or when market
conditions are favorable, and we redeploy the proceeds from those sales to develop, redevelop and
acquire communities and to rebalance our portfolio across or within geographic regions. This also
allows us to realize a portion of the value created through our investments and provides additional
liquidity. We are then able to redeploy the net proceeds from our dispositions in lieu of raising
that amount of capital externally. When we decide to sell a community, we solicit competing bids
from unrelated parties for these individual assets and consider the sales price of each proposal.

Acquisition Strategy.Our core competencies in development and redevelopment discussed above allow
us to be selective in the acquisitions we target. Acquisitions allow us to achieve rapid
penetration into markets in which we desire an increased presence. Acquisitions (and dispositions)
also help us achieve our desired product mix or rebalance our portfolio. In September 2008, we
formed Fund II, which serves as the exclusive vehicle through which we acquire additional
investments in apartment communities until the earlier of September 2011 or until 90% of its
committed capital is invested, subject to limited exceptions. As of December 31, 2009, Fund II had
acquired two communities.

Property Management Strategy. We seek to increase operating income through innovative, proactive
property management that will result in higher revenue from communities while constraining
operating expenses. Our principal strategies to maximize revenue include:

•strong focus on resident satisfaction;

•staggering lease terms such that lease expirations are better matched to traffic
patterns;

•balancing high occupancy with premium pricing, and increasing rents as market conditions
permit; and

•managing community occupancy for optimal rental revenue levels.

Constraining growth in operating expenses is another way in which we seek to increase earnings
growth. Growth in our portfolio and the resulting increase in revenue allows for fixed operating
costs to be spread over a larger volume of revenue, thereby increasing operating margins. We
constrain growth in operating expenses in a variety of ways, which include the following, among
others:

•we use purchase order controls, acquiring goods and services from pre-approved vendors;

•we purchase supplies in bulk where possible;

•we bid third-party contracts on a volume basis;

•we strive to retain residents through high levels of service in order to eliminate the
cost of preparing an apartment home for a new resident and to reduce marketing and vacant
apartment utility costs;

•we perform turnover work in-house or hire third parties, generally depending upon the
least costly alternative;

•we undertake preventive maintenance regularly to maximize resident satisfaction and
property and equipment life; and

•we aggressively pursue real estate tax appeals.

On-site property management teams receive bonuses based largely upon the net operating income
(“NOI”) produced at their respective communities. We use and continuously seek ways to improve
technology applications to help manage our communities, believing that the accurate collection of
financial and resident data will enable us to maximize revenue and control costs through careful
leasing decisions, maintenance decisions and financial management.






We generally manage the operation and leasing activity of our communities directly (although we may
use a wholly owned subsidiary) both for ourselves and the joint ventures and partnerships of which
we are a member or a partner.

From time to time we also pursue or arrange ancillary services for our residents to provide
additional revenue sources or increase resident satisfaction. In general, as a REIT we cannot
directly provide services to our tenants that are not customarily provided by a landlord, nor can
we share in the income of a third party that provides such services. However, we can provide such
non-customary services to residents or share in the revenue from such services if we do so through
a “taxable REIT subsidiary,” which is a subsidiary that is treated as a “C corporation” and is
therefore subject to federal income taxes.

Financing Strategy.We maintain a capital structure that provides financial flexibility to ensure
we can select cost effective capital market options that are well matched to our business risks. We
estimate that our short-term liquidity needs will be met from cash on hand, borrowings under our
$1,000,000,000 revolving variable rate unsecured credit facility (the “Credit Facility”), sales of
current operating communities and/or issuance of additional debt or equity securities. A
determination to engage in an equity or debt offering depends on a variety of factors such as
general market and economic conditions, including interest rates, our short and long-term liquidity
needs, the adequacy of our expected liquidity sources, the relative costs of debt and equity
capital and growth opportunities. A summary of debt and equity activity for the last three years
is reflected on our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows of the Consolidated Financial Statements
set forth in Item 8 of this report.

We have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, joint ventures (including
limited liability companies or partnerships) through which we would own an indirect economic
interest of less than 100% of the community or communities owned directly by such joint ventures.
Our decision whether to hold an apartment community in fee simple or to have an indirect interest
in the community through a joint venture is based on a variety of factors and considerations,
including: (i) the economic and tax terms required by a seller of land or of a community; (ii) our
desire to diversify our portfolio of communities by market, submarket and product type; (iii) our
desire at times to preserve our capital resources to maintain liquidity or balance sheet strength;
and (iv) our projection, in some circumstances, that we will achieve higher returns on our invested
capital or reduce our risk if a joint venture vehicle is used. Investments in joint ventures are
not limited to a specified percentage of our assets. Each joint venture agreement is individually
negotiated, and our ability to operate and/or dispose of a community in our sole discretion may be
limited to varying degrees depending on the terms of the joint venture agreement.

From its inception in 2005 until the investment period closed in March 2008, Fund I was the
exclusive vehicle through which we invested in the acquisition of apartment communities, subject to
certain exceptions. In September 2008, we formed Fund II. Fund II now serves as the exclusive
vehicle through which we invest in the acquisition of apartment communities, subject to certain
exceptions, until the earlier of September 2011 or until 90% of its committed capital is invested.
These exceptions include significant individual asset and portfolio acquisitions, properties
acquired in tax-deferred transactions and acquisitions that are inadvisable or inappropriate for
Fund II. Fund II does not restrict our development activities, and will terminate after a term of
ten years, subject to two one-year extensions. Fund II has equity commitments from five
institutional investors who, with the Company, collectively committed $400,000,000, of which our
commitment is $125,000,000. A significant portion of the investments made in the Funds by investors
have been or will be made through an entity that qualifies, or that will qualify as a REIT and in
which we also own an equity interest. As of January 31, 2010, Fund II has made two investments,
for a total of $104,330,000 invested. In February 2010, Fund II purchased its third community for a
purchase price of $31,250,000.

In addition, we may, from time to time, offer shares of our equity securities, debt securities or
options to purchase stock in exchange for property.

Other Strategies and Activities. While we emphasize equity real estate investments in rental
apartment communities, we have the ability to invest in other types of real estate, mortgages
(including participating or convertible mortgages), securities of other REITs or real estate
operating companies, or securities of technology companies that relate to our real estate
operations or of companies that provide services to us or our residents, in each case consistent
with our qualification as a REIT. In addition, we own and lease retail space at our communities
when either (i) the highest and best use of the space is for retail (e.g., street level in an urban
area) or (ii) we believe the retail space will enhance the attractiveness of the community to
residents. As of December 31, 2009, we had a






total of 456,260 square feet of rentable retail space, excluding retail space within communities
currently under construction. Gross rental revenue provided by leased retail space in 2009 was
$8,915,000 (1.0% of total revenue). If we secure a development right and believe that its best
use, in whole or in part, is to develop the real estate with the intent to sell rather than hold
the asset, we may, through a taxable REIT subsidiary, develop real estate for sale. At present,
through a taxable REIT subsidiary that is a 50% partner in Aria at Hathorne, LLC, we have an
economic interest in the development of for-sale town homes that have a total projected capital
cost of $23,621,000. This for-sale development is on a site that is adjacent to our Avalon Danvers
community and that is zoned for for-sale development. Any investment in securities of other
entities, and any development of real estate for sale, is subject to the percentage of ownership
limitations, gross income tests, and other limitations that must be observed for REIT
qualification.

We have not engaged in trading, underwriting or agency distribution or sale of securities of other
issuers and do not intend to do so. At all times we intend to make investments in a manner so as
to qualify as a REIT unless, because of circumstances or changes to the Internal Revenue Code (or
the Treasury Regulations), our Board of Directors determines that it is no longer in our best
interest to qualify as a REIT.

Tax Matters

We filed an election with our 1994 federal income tax return to be taxed as a REIT under the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (“the Code”), as amended, and intend to maintain our qualification as
a REIT in the future. As a qualified REIT, with limited exceptions, we will not be taxed under
federal and certain state income tax laws at the corporate level on our taxable net income to the
extent taxable net income is distributed to our stockholders. We expect to make sufficient
distributions to avoid income tax at the corporate level. While we believe that we are organized
and qualified as a REIT and we intend to operate in a manner that will allow us to continue to
qualify as a REIT, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in this regard.
Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the
Internal Revenue Code for which there are limited judicial and administrative interpretations and
involves the determination of a variety of factual matters and circumstances not entirely within
our control.

Competition

We face competition from other real estate investors, including insurance companies, pension and
investment funds, partnerships and investment companies and other REITs, to acquire and develop
apartment communities and acquire land for future development. As an owner and operator of
apartment communities, we also face competition for prospective residents from other operators
whose communities may be perceived to offer a better location or better amenities or whose rent may
be perceived as a better value given the quality, location and amenities that the resident seeks.
We also compete against condominiums and single-family homes that are for sale or rent. Although
we often compete against large sophisticated developers and operators for development opportunities
and for prospective residents, real estate developers and operators of any size can provide
effective competition for both real estate assets and potential residents.

Environmental and Related Matters

As a current or prior owner, operator and developer of real estate, we are subject to various
federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances and also could be liable to
third parties resulting from environmental contamination or noncompliance at our communities. For
some development communities, we undertake extensive environmental remediation to prepare the site
for construction, which could be a significant portion of our total construction cost.
Environmental remediation efforts could expose us to possible liabilities for accidents or improper
handling of contaminated materials during construction. These and other risks related to
environmental matters are described in more detail in Item 1a., “Risk Factors”.

We believe that more government regulation of energy use, along with a greater focus on
environmental protection may, over time, have a significant impact on urban growth patterns. If
changes in zoning to encourage greater density and proximity to mass transit do occur, such changes
could benefit multifamily housing and those companies with a competency in high-density
development. However, there can be no assurance as to whether or






when such changes in regulations or zoning will occur or, if they do occur, whether the multifamily industry or the
Company will benefit from such changes.

Other Information

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC.
You may read and copy any document we file at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street,
N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may call the SEC at 1-202-551-8090 for further information on
the operation of the Public Reference Room. Our SEC filings are also available to the public from
the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. In addition, you may read our SEC fillings at the offices of the
New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), which is located at 11 Wall Street, New York, New York 10005.
Our SEC filings are available at the NYSE because our common stock is listed on the NYSE.

We maintain a website at www.avalonbay.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished
pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge in the “Investor
Relations” section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed
with or furnished to the SEC. In addition, the charters of our Board’s Nominating and Corporate
Governance Committee, Audit Committee and Compensation Committee, as well as our Corporate
Governance Guidelines and Code of Conduct, are available free of charge in that section of our
website or by writing to AvalonBay Communities, Inc., 2900 Eisenhower Avenue, Suite 300,
Alexandria, Virginia 22314, Attention: Chief Financial Officer. To the extent required by the
rules of the SEC and the NYSE, we will disclose amendments and waivers relating to these documents
in the same place on our website.

We were incorporated under the laws of the State of California in 1978. In 1995, we reincorporated
in the State of Maryland and have been focused on the ownership and operation of apartment
communities since that time. As of January 31, 2010, we had 1,877 employees.








