ITEM 1.BUSINESS



General



AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (the “Company,” which term, unless the context otherwise requires, refers to AvalonBay Communities, Inc. together with its subsidiaries) is a Maryland corporation that has elected to be treated as a real estate investment trust (“REIT”) for federal income tax purposes.  We engage in the development, redevelopment, acquisition, ownership and operation of multifamily communities in high barrier to entry markets of the United States.  These barriers to entry generally include a difficult and lengthy entitlement process with local jurisdictions and dense urban or suburban areas where zoned and entitled land is in limited supply.  Our markets are located in New England, the New York/New Jersey Metro area, the Washington DC Metro area, the Midwest, the Pacific 
Northwest, and the Northern and Southern California regions of the United States.  We focus on these markets because we believe that, over the long-term, a limited new supply of apartment homes and lower housing affordability in these markets will result in higher growth in cash flows relative to other markets.



At January 31, 2011, we owned or held a direct or indirect ownership interest in:



●173 operating apartment communities containing 51,693 apartment homes in ten states and the District of Columbia, of which 142 communities containing 43,052 apartment homes were consolidated for financial reporting purposes, four communities containing 1,194 apartment homes were held by joint ventures in which we hold an ownership and/or residual profits interest, and 27 communities containing 7,447 apartment homes were owned by the Funds (as defined below).  Nine of the consolidated communities containing 3,348 apartment homes were under redevelopment, as discussed below;



●fourteen communities under construction that are expected to contain an aggregate of 3,334 apartment homes when completed; and



●rights to develop an additional 26 communities that, if developed in the manner expected, will contain an estimated 7,313 apartment homes.



We generally obtain ownership in an apartment community by developing a new community on vacant land or by acquiring an existing community.  In selecting sites for development or acquisition, we favor locations that are near expanding employment centers and convenient to transportation, recreation areas, entertainment, shopping and dining.



Our consolidated real estate investments consist of the following reportable segments: Established Communities, Other Stabilized Communities and Development/Redevelopment Communities.  Established Communities are generally operating communities that were owned and had stabilized occupancy and operating expenses as of the beginning of the prior year such that year-over-year comparisons are meaningful. Other Stabilized Communities are generally all other operating communities that have stabilized occupancy and operating expenses during the current year, but that were not owned or had not achieved stabilization as of the beginning of the prior year such that year-over-year comparisons are not meaningful, as well as communities that are planned for disposition during the current year. Development/Redevelopment Communities consist
 of communities that are under construction, communities where substantial redevelopment is in progress or is planned to begin during the current year and communities under lease-up.  A more detailed description of these segments and other related information can be found in Note 9, “Segment Reporting,” of the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this report.




Our principal financial goal is to increase long-term stockholder value through the development, acquisition, operation and, when appropriate, disposition of apartments in our markets.  To help fulfill this goal, we regularly (i) monitor our investment allocation by geographic market and product type, (ii) develop, redevelop and acquire an interest in apartment communities in high barrier to entry markets with growing or high potential for demand and high for-sale housing costs, (iii) selectively sell apartment communities that no longer meet our long-term strategy or when opportunities are presented to realize a portion of the value created through our investment and redeploy the proceeds from those sales, and (iv) endeavor to maintain a capital structure that is aligned with our business risks with a view to maintaining con
tinuous access to cost-effective capital. Our strategy is to be leaders in market research and capital allocation, delivering a range of multifamily offerings tailored to serve the needs of the most attractive customer segments in the best-performing US submarkets. A substantial majority of our current communities are upscale, which generally command among the highest rents in their markets.  However, we also pursue the ownership and operation of apartment communities that target a variety of customer segments and price points, consistent with our goal of offering a broad range of products and services.



During the three years ended December 31, 2010, excluding activity for the Funds (as defined below), we did not acquire any apartment communities.  During the same three-year period, excluding dispositions in which we retained an ownership interest, we disposed of 18 apartment communities and completed the development of 26 apartment communities and the redevelopment of 11 apartment communities.



During this period, we also realized our pro rata share of the gain from the sale of one community owned by AvalonBay Value Added Fund, L.P. (“Fund I”), an institutional discretionary real estate investment fund, which we manage and in which we own a 15.2% interest. Fund I acquired communities with the objective of either redeveloping or repositioning them, or taking advantage of market cycle timing and improved operating performance.  From its inception in March 2005 through the close of its investment period in March 2008, Fund I acquired 20 communities. Fund I sold one community in 2008.



In September 2008, we formed AvalonBay Value Added Fund II, L.P. (“Fund II”), an additional institutional discretionary real estate investment fund which we manage and in which we currently own a 31.3% interest. After adding additional equity commitments in the second quarter of 2009, a total of five institutional investors and the Company collectively committed $400,000,000, of which our commitment is $125,000,000. From its formation through December 31, 2010, Fund II acquired eight communities. A more detailed description of Fund I and Fund II (collectively, the “Funds”) and the related investment activity can be found in the discussion under Item I., “Business – General – Financing Strategy” and Note 6, “Investments in Real Estate Entities,” of the Consolidated Financial St
atements in Item 8 of this report.



During 2010, we sold four real estate assets, resulting in a gain in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) of $71,399,000.



A further discussion of our development, redevelopment, disposition, acquisition, property management and related strategies follows.




Development Strategy.  We select land for development and follow established procedures that we believe minimize both the cost and the risks of development.  As one of the largest developers of multifamily rental apartment communities in high barrier to entry markets of the United States, we identify development opportunities through local market presence and access to local market information achieved through our regional offices.  In addition to our principal executive office in Arlington, Virginia, we also maintain regional offices, administrative offices or specialty offices in or near the following cities:



●Boston, Massachusetts;

●Chicago, Illinois;

●Long Island, New York;

●Los Angeles, California;

●New York, New York;

●Newport Beach, California;

●San Francisco, California;

●San Jose, California;

●Seattle, Washington;

●Shelton, Connecticut;

●Virginia Beach, Virginia; and

●Woodbridge, New Jersey.



After selecting a target site, we usually negotiate for the right to acquire the site either through an option or a long-term conditional contract.  Options and long-term conditional contracts generally allow us to acquire the target site shortly before the start of construction, which reduces development-related risks and preserves capital.  However, as a result of competitive market conditions for land suitable for development, we have sometimes acquired and held land prior to construction for extended periods while entitlements are obtained, or acquired land zoned for uses other than residential with the potential for rezoning.  For further discussion of our Development Rights, refer to Item 2., “Communities” in this report.



We generally act as our own general contractor and construction manager, except for certain mid-rise and high-rise apartment communities where we may elect to use third-party general contractors or construction managers.  We generally perform these functions directly (although we may use a wholly owned subsidiary) both for ourselves and for the joint ventures and partnerships of which we are a member or a partner. We believe this enables us to achieve higher construction quality, greater control over construction schedules and significant cost savings. Our development, property management and construction teams monitor construction progress to ensure quality workmanship and a smooth and timely transition into the leasing and operating phase.



During periods where competition for development land is more intense, we may acquire improved land with existing commercial uses and rezone the site for multi-family residential use.  During the period that we hold these buildings for future development, the net revenue from these operations, which we consider to be incidental, is accounted for as a reduction in our investment in the development pursuit and not as net income.  We have also participated, and may in the future participate, in master planned or other large multi-use developments where we commit to build infrastructure (such as roads) to be used by other participants or commit to act as construction manager or general contractor in building structures or spaces for third parties (such as municipal garages or parks).  Costs we incur in connect
ion with these activities may be accounted for as additional invested capital in the community or we may earn fee income for providing these services.  Particularly with large scale, urban in-fill developments, we may engage in significant environmental remediation efforts to prepare a site for construction.



Throughout this report, the term “development” is used to refer to the entire property development cycle, including pursuit of zoning approvals, procurement of architectural and engineering designs and the construction process.  References to “construction” refer to the actual construction of the property, which is only one element of the development cycle.



Redevelopment Strategy.  When we undertake the redevelopment of a community, our goal is to renovate and/or rebuild an existing community so that our total investment is generally below replacement cost and the community is well positioned in the market to achieve attractive returns on our capital.  We have established a dedicated group of associates and procedures to control both the cost and risks of redevelopment.  Our redevelopment teams, which include key redevelopment, construction and property management personnel, monitor redevelopment progress.  We believe we achieve significant cost savings by acting as our own general contractor.  More importantly, this helps to ensure quality design and workmanship and a smooth and tim
ely transition into the lease-up and restabilization phases.




Throughout this report, the term “redevelopment” is used to refer to the entire redevelopment cycle, including planning and procurement of architectural and engineering designs, budgeting and actual renovation work. The actual renovation work is referred to as “reconstruction,” which is only one element of the redevelopment cycle.



Disposition Strategy.We sell assets that no longer meet our long-term strategy or when market conditions are favorable, and we redeploy the proceeds from those sales to develop, redevelop and acquire communities and to rebalance our portfolio across or within geographic regions.  This also allows us to realize a portion of the value created through our investments and provides additional liquidity.  We are then able to redeploy the net proceeds from our dispositions in lieu of raising that amount of capital externally. When we decide to sell a community, we generally solicit competing bids from unrelated parties for these individual assets and consider the sales price of each proposal.



Acquisition Strategy.  Our core competencies in development and redevelopment discussed above allow us to be selective in the acquisitions we target.  Acquisitions allow us to achieve rapid penetration into markets in which we desire an increased presence.  Acquisitions (and dispositions) also help us achieve our desired product mix or rebalance our portfolio.  In September 2008, we formed Fund II, which serves as the exclusive vehicle through which we acquire additional investments in apartment communities until the earlier of August 2011 or until 90% of its committed capital is invested, subject to certain exceptions.  As of December 31, 2010, Fund II had acquired eight communities. We may also from time to time engage in acquis
itions and/or dispositions of single communities or portfolios of multiple properties (including by way of tax deferred like-kind exchanges) to adjust our investment allocation by geographic market and product type.



Property Management Strategy.  We seek to increase operating income through innovative, proactive property management that will result in higher revenue from communities while constraining operating expenses. Our principal strategies to maximize revenue include:



●strong focus on resident satisfaction;

●staggering lease terms such that lease expirations are better matched to traffic patterns;

●balancing high occupancy with premium pricing, and increasing rents as market conditions permit; and

●managing community occupancy for optimal rental revenue levels.



Constraining growth in operating expenses is another way in which we seek to increase earnings growth.  Growth in our portfolio and the resulting increase in revenue allows for fixed operating costs to be spread over a larger volume of revenue, thereby increasing operating margins.  We constrain growth in operating expenses in a variety of ways, which, among others, include the following:



●we use purchase order controls, acquiring goods and services from pre-approved vendors;

●we purchase supplies in bulk where possible;

●we bid third-party contracts on a volume basis;

●we strive to retain residents through high levels of service in order to eliminate the cost of preparing an apartment home for a new resident and to reduce marketing and vacant apartment utility costs;

●we perform turnover work in-house or hire third parties, generally depending upon the least costly alternative;

●we undertake preventive maintenance regularly to maximize resident satisfaction and property and equipment life; and

●we aggressively pursue real estate tax appeals.



On-site property management teams receive bonuses based largely upon the net operating income (“NOI”) produced at their respective communities.   We use and continuously seek ways to improve technology applications to help manage our communities, believing that the accurate collection of financial and resident data will enable us to maximize revenue and control costs through careful leasing decisions, maintenance decisions and financial management.




We generally manage the operation and leasing activity of our communities directly (although we may use a wholly owned subsidiary) both for ourselves and the joint ventures and partnerships of which we are a member or a partner.



From time to time we also pursue or arrange ancillary services for our residents to provide additional revenue sources or increase resident satisfaction.  In general, as a REIT we cannot directly provide services to our tenants that are not customarily provided by a landlord, nor can we share in the income of a third party that provides such services.  However, we can provide such non-customary services to residents or share in the revenue from such services if we do so through a “taxable REIT subsidiary,” which is a subsidiary that is treated as a “C corporation” subject to federal income taxes.



Financing Strategy.  We maintain a capital structure that provides financial flexibility to ensure we can select cost effective capital market options that are well matched to our business risks. We estimate that our short-term liquidity needs will be met from cash on hand, borrowings under our $1,000,000,000 revolving variable rate unsecured credit facility (the “Credit Facility”), sales of current operating communities and/or issuance of additional debt or equity securities.  A determination to engage in an equity or debt offering depends on a variety of factors such as general market and economic conditions, including interest rates, our short and long-term liquidity needs, the adequacy of our expected liquidity sources, the relative costs of de
bt and equity capital and growth opportunities.  A summary of debt and equity activity for the last three years is reflected on our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows of the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this report.



We have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, joint ventures (including limited liability companies or partnerships) through which we would own an indirect economic interest of less than 100% of the community or communities owned directly by such joint ventures. Our decision whether to hold an apartment community in fee simple or to have an indirect interest in the community through a joint venture is based on a variety of factors and considerations, including:  (i) the economic and tax terms required by a seller of land or of a community; (ii) our desire to diversify our portfolio of communities by market, submarket and product type; (iii) our desire at times to preserve our capital resources to maintain liquidity or balance sheet strength; and (iv) our projection, in some circumstances, that we will ac
hieve higher returns on our invested capital or reduce our risk if a joint venture vehicle is used.  Investments in joint ventures are not limited to a specified percentage of our assets.  Each joint venture agreement is individually negotiated, and our ability to operate and/or dispose of a community in our sole discretion may be limited to varying degrees depending on the terms of the joint venture agreement.



We established the Funds to engage in acquisition programs through discretionary real estate investment funds.  We believe this investment format provides the following attractive attributes:  (i) this format provides third party joint venture equity as an additional source of financing to expand and diversify our portfolio; (ii) the use of a discretionary investment fund structure provides additional sources of income in the form of property management and asset management fees and, potentially, incentive distributions if the performance of the Funds exceeds certain thresholds; and (iii) this format provides visibility into the transactions occurring in multi-family assets that helps us with other investment decisions related to our wholly-owned portfolio.



From its inception in 2005 until the investment period closed in March 2008, Fund I was the exclusive vehicle through which we invested in the acquisition of apartment communities, subject to certain exceptions.  In September 2008, we formed Fund II.  Fund II now serves as the exclusive vehicle through which we invest in the acquisition of apartment communities, subject to certain exceptions, until the earlier of August 2011 or until 90% of its committed capital is invested.  These exceptions include significant individual asset and portfolio acquisitions, properties acquired in tax-deferred transactions and acquisitions that are inadvisable or inappropriate for Fund II.  Fund II does not restrict our development activities, and will terminate after a term of ten years, subject to two one-year ex
tensions.  Fund II has equity commitments from five institutional investors who, with the Company, collectively committed $400,000,000, of which our commitment is $125,000,000. A significant portion of the investments made in the Funds by investors have been or will be made through an entity that qualifies as a REIT and in which we also own an equity interest.  As of January 31, 2011, Fund II has made nine investments, for a total of $571,235,000 invested. As of January 31, 2011, equity investors had contributed $233,700,000 of their committed capital to Fund II.



In addition, we may, from time to time, offer shares of our equity securities, debt securities or options to purchase stock in exchange for property.  We may also acquire properties in exchange for properties we currently own.




Other Strategies and Activities



We have not engaged in trading, underwriting or agency distribution or sale of securities of other issuers and do not intend to do so.  At all times we intend to make investments in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT unless, because of circumstances or changes to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (or the Treasury Regulations), our Board of Directors determines that it is no longer in our best interest to qualify as a REIT.



Tax Matters



We filed an election with our 1994 federal income tax return to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (“the Code”), as amended, and intend to maintain our qualification as a REIT in the future.  As a qualified REIT, with limited exceptions, we will not be taxed under federal and certain state income tax laws at the corporate level on our taxable net income to the extent taxable net income is distributed to our stockholders.  We expect to make sufficient distributions to avoid income tax at the corporate level.  While we believe that we are organized and qualified as a REIT and we intend to operate in a manner that will allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in this regard.  Qualification as a REIT involves t
he application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Code for which there are limited judicial and administrative interpretations and involves the determination of a variety of factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control.



As we discussed in "Federal Income Tax Considerations and Consequences of Your Investment - Expiration of Certain Reduced Tax Rate Provisions" of our Prospectus Supplement dated November 5, 2010, several U.S. federal income tax rates were scheduled to increase in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2010.  However, under recently enacted legislation, Congress has temporarily extended the following rates for taxable years beginning before January 1, 2013: (1) the 15% maximum rate for long-term capital gains applicable to individuals, trusts and estates, (2) the 15% maximum rate for qualified dividend income applicable to individuals, trusts and estates; and (3) the 28% backup withholding rate.



Competition



We face competition from other real estate investors, including insurance companies, pension and investment funds, partnerships and investment companies and other REITs, to acquire and develop apartment communities and acquire land for future development.  As an owner and operator of apartment communities, we also face competition for prospective residents from other operators whose communities may be perceived to offer a better location or better amenities or whose rent may be perceived as a better value given the quality, location and amenities that the resident seeks.  We also compete against condominiums and single-family homes that are for sale or rent.  Although we often compete against large sophisticated developers and operators for development opportunities and for prospective residents, real esta
te developers and operators of any size can provide effective competition for both real estate assets and potential residents.




Environmental and Related Matters



As a current or prior owner, operator and developer of real estate, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances and also could be liable to third parties resulting from environmental contamination or noncompliance at our communities.  For some development communities, we undertake extensive environmental remediation to prepare the site for construction, which could be a significant portion of our total construction cost.  Environmental remediation efforts could expose us to possible liabilities for accidents or improper handling of contaminated materials during construction.  These and other risks related to environmental matters are described in more detail in Item 1a., “Risk Factors”.



We believe that more government regulation of energy use, along with a greater focus on environmental protection may, over time, have a significant impact on urban growth patterns. If changes in zoning to encourage greater density and proximity to mass transit do occur, such changes could benefit multifamily housing and those companies with a competency in high-density development. However, there can be no assurance as to whether or when such changes in regulations or zoning will occur or, if they do occur, whether the multifamily industry or the Company will benefit from such changes.



Other Information



We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC.  You may read and copy any document we file at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  You may call the SEC at 1-202-551-8090 for further information on the operation of the Public Reference Room.  Our SEC filings are also available to the public from the SEC’s website atwww.sec.gov.



We maintain a website atwww.avalonbay.com.  Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge in the “Investors” section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed with or furnished to the SEC.  In addition, the charters of our Board's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, Audit Committee and Compensation Committee, as well as our Director Independence Standards, Corporate Governance Guidelines, Policy Regarding Shareholder Rights Agreement and Code of Conduct, are available free of charge in that section of our website or by w
riting to AvalonBay Communities, Inc., Ballston Tower, 671 N. Glebe Rd., Arlington, Virginia 22203, Attention:  Chief Financial Officer.  To the extent required by the rules of the SEC and the NYSE, we will disclose amendments and waivers relating to these documents in the same place on our website.



We were incorporated under the laws of the State of California in 1978. In 1995, we reincorporated in the State of Maryland and have been focused on the ownership and operation of apartment communities since that time. As of January 31, 2011, we had 1,993 employees.








