 Item 1A - Risk Factors



We describe below certain risks that could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, business reputation or business prospects.  These risk factors may change from time to time and may be amended, supplemented or superseded by updates to the risk factors contained in our future periodic reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and reports on other forms we file with the SEC.  All forward-looking statements about our future results of operations or other matters made by us in this Annual Report, in our Annual Report to Lowe’s Shareholders and in our subsequently filed reports to the SEC, as well as in our press releases and other public communications, are qualified by the risks described below.



You should read these risk factors in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” inItem 7and our consolidated financial statements and related notes inItem 8.  There also may be other factors that we cannot anticipate or that are not described in this Annual Report generally because we do not currently perceive them to be material.  Those factors could cause results to differ materially from our expectations.  In connection with any investment decision with respect to our securities, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this report and our other filings with the SEC.



We may be unable to adapt our business concept in a rapidly evolving retail environment to address the changing shopping habits, demands and demographics of our customers, or realize the intended benefits of organizational change initiatives.

The home improvement retail environment, like the retail environment generally, is rapidly evolving, and adapting our business concept to respond to our customers’ changing shopping habits and demands and their changing demographics is critical to our future success.  Our success is dependent on our ability to identify and respond to the economic, social, style and other trends that affect demographic and consumer preferences in a variety of our merchandise categories and service offerings.  Customers’ expectations about how they wish to research, purchase and receive products and services have also evolved.  It is difficult to predict the mix of products and services that our customers will demand.  Failure to identify such trends, adapt our business concept, and implement change, growth, and productivity initiatives successfully could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for the home improvement products and services we sell, the rate of growth of our business, our market share and results of operations.



We may not be able to realize the benefits of our strategic initiatives focused on omni-channel sales and marketing presence if we fail to deliver the capabilities required to execute on them.

Our interactions with customers have evolved into an omni-channel experience as they increasingly are using computers, tablets, mobile phones and other electronic devices to shop in our stores and online and provide feedback and public commentary about all aspects of our business.  Omni-channel retail is quickly evolving, and we must anticipate and meet our customers’ expectations and counteract new developments and technology investments by our competitors.  Our customer-facing technology systems must appeal to our customers, function as designed and provide a consistent customer experience.  The success of our strategic initiatives to adapt our business concept to our customers’ changing shopping habits and demands and changing demographics will require us to deliver large, complex programs requiring integrated planning, initiative prioritization and program sequencing.  These initiatives will require new competencies in many positions, and our management, employees and contractors will have to adapt and learn new skills and capabilities.  To the extent they are unable









or unwilling to make these transformational changes, we may be unable to realize the full benefits of our strategic initiatives and expand our relevant market access.  Failure to realize the benefits of amounts we invest in new technologies, products, or

services could result in the value of those investments being written down or written off.  In addition, to support our strategic

initiatives and the related technology investments needed to implement our strategic investments, we must attract and retain a

large number of skilled professionals, including technology professionals.  The market for these professionals is increasingly

competitive.  Our results of operations, financial condition or business prospects could also be adversely affected if we fail to provide a consistent experience for our customers, regardless of sales channel, if our technology systems do not meet our customers’ expectations, if we are unable to counteract new developments and innovations implemented by our competitors or if we are unable to attract, retain and manage the talent succession of additional personnel at various levels of the Company who have the skills and capabilities we need to implement our strategic initiatives and drive the changes that are essential to successfully adapting our business concept in the rapidly changing retail environment.



Our business and our reputation could be adversely affected by cybersecurity incidents and the failure to protect customer, employee, vendor or Company information or to comply with evolving regulations relating to our obligation to protect our systems, assets and such information.



In the United States alone, we may be subject to regulation at both the federal and state level.  In order to maintain our compliance with such laws as they come to fruition, we may sustain increased costs in order to continually evaluate our policies and processes and adapt to new requirements that are or become applicable to us.  As the regulatory environment relating to retailers’ and other companies’ obligation to protect personal information becomes stricter, a material failure on our part to comply with applicable regulations could subject us to fines, other regulatory sanctions or government investigation, and potentially to lawsuits brought by private individuals, regulators or states’ attorney general.



We could be adversely affected by the failure to adequately protect and maintain our intellectual property rights or by claims of third parties that we infringe their intellectual property rights.

Our proprietary rights in our trademarks, trade names, service marks, domain names, copyrights, patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights are valuable assets of our business.  We rely on a combination of trademark law, patent law, copyright law, trade secret protections and contractual arrangements, such as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements, to protect our proprietary rights.  Maintenance and, when necessary, enforcement of our intellectual property rights require expenditure of financial and managerial resources, and despite our efforts, we may not always be able to effectively protect all such rights.  We may not be able to prevent or even discover every instance of unauthorized third party uses of our intellectual property or dilution of our brand names, such as when a third party uses trademarks that are identical or similar to our own.









Additionally, our trade secrets are vulnerable to public disclosure by our own employees or as a result of a breach of or damage to our systems, which could result in theft of our proprietary property.  We may also be subject to intellectual property infringement lawsuits, brought by third parties against us claiming that our operations, products or services infringe third party rights (whether meritorious or not), including patent and trademark rights, which can be time consuming and costly to defend or settle and may cause significant diversion of management attention and result in substantial monetary damages, injunctive orders against us, unfavorable royalty-bearing licensing agreements or bad publicity.



We are subject to payments-related risks that could increase our operating costs, expose us to fraud, subject us to potential liability and potentially disrupt our business.



As customer-facing technology systems become an increasingly important part of our omni-channel sales and marketing strategy, the failure of those systems to perform effectively and reliably could keep us from delivering positive customer experiences.

Access to the Internet from computers, tablets, smart phones and other mobile communication devices has empowered our customers and changed the way they shop and how we interact with them.  Our websites, including Lowes.com and Lowesforpros.com, are a sales channel for our products, and are also a method of making product, project and other relevant information available to our customers that impacts our in-store sales.  Additionally, we have multiple affiliated websites and mobile apps through which we seek to inspire, inform, cross-sell, establish online communities among and otherwise interact with our customers.  Performance issues with these customer-facing technology systems, including temporary outages caused by distributed denial of service, ransomware or other cyber-attacks, or a complete failure of one or more of them without a disaster recovery plan that can be quickly implemented, could quickly destroy the positive benefits they provide to our home improvement business and negatively affect our customers’ perceptions of Lowe’s as a reliable online vendor and source of information about home improvement products and services.



If we fail to hire, train, manage and retain qualified sales associates and specialists with expanded skill sets or corporate support staff with the capabilities of delivering on strategic objectives, we could lose sales to our competitors, and our labor costs, resulting from operations or the execution of corporate strategies, could be negatively affected.











Positively and effectively managing our public image and reputation is critical to our business success, and, if our public image and reputation are damaged, it could negatively impact our relationships with our customers, vendors and store associates and specialists and, consequently, our business and results of operations.

Our public image and reputation are critical to ensuring that our customers shop at Lowe’s, our vendors want to do business with Lowe’s and our sales associates and specialists want to work for Lowe’s.  We must continue to manage, preserve and grow Lowe’s public image and reputation.  Any negative incident can erode trust and confidence quickly, and adverse publicity about us could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers’ confidence, reduce demand for our products and services, affect our relationships with current and future vendors, impact our results of operations and affect our ability to retain and recruit store associates and specialists.  The significant expansion in the use of social media over recent years has compounded the potential scope of the negative publicity that could be generated by such negative incidents.



Strategic transactions, such as our acquisition of RONA and Maintenance Supply Headquarters, involve risks, and we may not realize the expected benefits because of numerous uncertainties and risks.



Failure to achieve and maintain a high level of product and service quality could damage our image with customers and negatively impact our sales, profitability, cash flows and financial condition.

Product and service quality issues could result in a negative impact on customer confidence in Lowe’s and our brand image.  If our product and service offerings do not meet applicable safety standards or our customers’ expectations regarding safety or quality, we could experience lost sales and increased costs and be exposed to legal, financial and reputational risks.  Actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns could expose us to litigation, as well as government enforcement action, and result in costly product recalls and other liabilities.  As a result, Lowe’s reputation as a retailer of high-quality products and services, including both national and Lowe’s private brands, could suffer and impact customer loyalty.



Our business could be affected by uncharacteristic or significant weather conditions, including natural disasters, could impact our operations.

Natural disasters, such as hurricanes and tropical storms, fires, floods, tornadoes, and earthquakes; unseasonable, or

unexpected or extreme weather conditions; or similar disruptions and catastrophic events can affect consumer spending and

confidence and consumers’ disposable income, particularly with respect to home improvement or construction projects, and

could have an adverse effect on our financial performance.  These types of events can also adversely affect our work force and

prevent associates and customers from reaching our stores and other facilities.  They can also disrupt or disable operations of stores, support centers, and portions of our supply chain and distribution network, including causing reductions in the availability of inventory and disruption of utility services.  In addition, these events may affect our information systems, resulting in disruption to various aspects of our operations, including our ability to transact with customers and fulfill orders and to communicate with our stores.  As a consequence of these or other catastrophic or uncharacteristic events, we may experience interruption to our operations, increased costs, or losses of property, equipment or inventory, which would adversely affect our revenue and profitability.



We have many competitors who could take sales and market share from us if we fail to execute our merchandising, marketing and distribution strategies effectively, or if they develop a substantially more effective or lower cost means of meeting customer needs, resulting in a negative impact on our business and results of operations.

We operate in a highly competitive market for home improvement products and services and have numerous large and small, direct and indirect competitors.  The principal competitive factors in our industry include convenience, customer service, quality and price of merchandise and services, in-stock levels, and merchandise assortment and presentation.  We face growing









competition from online and omni-channel retailers who have a similar product or service offering.  Customers are increasingly able to quickly comparison shop and determine real-time product availability and price using digital tools.  Further, online and omni-channel retailers continue to focus on delivery services, as customers are increasingly seeking faster, guaranteed delivery times and low-price or free shipping, and we must make investments to keep up with our customers’ evolving shopping preferences.  Our ability to be competitive on delivery times, delivery costs, and delivery options depends on many factors, including successful implementation of our initiatives related to supply chain transformation.  Our failure to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the markets for home improvement products and services could affect our financial performance.  Moreover, changes in the promotional pricing and other practices of our competitors, including the effects of competitor liquidation activities, may impact our results.



Our inability to effectively and efficiently manage and maintain our relationships with selected suppliers of brand name products could negatively impact our business operations and financial results.

We form strategic relationships with selected suppliers to market and develop products under a variety of recognized and respected national and international brand names.  We also have relationships with certain suppliers to enable us to sell proprietary products which differentiate us from other retailers.  The inability to effectively and efficiently manage and maintain our relationships with these suppliers could negatively impact our business operations and financial results.



Failure of a key vendor or service provider that we cannot quickly replace could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We rely upon a number of vendors as the sole or primary source of some of the products we sell.  We also rely upon many independent service providers for technology solutions and other services that are important to many aspects of our business.  Many of these vendors and service providers have certain products or specialized skills needed to support our business concept and our strategies.  If these vendors or service providers discontinue operations or are unable to perform as expected or if we fail to manage them properly or we are unable to replace them quickly, our business could be adversely affected, at least temporarily, until we are able to replace them.



If our domestic or international supply chain or our fulfillment network for our products is ineffective or disrupted for any reason, or if these operations are subject to trade policy changes, our results of operations could be adversely affected.



Financial instability among key vendors, political instability and labor unrest in source countries or elsewhere in our supply chain, changes in the total costs in our supply chain (fuel, labor and currency exchange rates), port labor disputes and security, the outbreak of pandemics, weather-related events, natural disasters, work stoppages, shipping capacity restraints, changes in trade policy, retaliatory trade restrictions imposed by either the United States or a major source country, tariffs or duties, fluctuations in currency exchange rates and transport availability, capacity and costs are beyond our control and could negatively impact our business if they seriously disrupted the movement of products through our supply chain or increased their costs.  Additionally, as we add fulfillment capabilities or pursue strategies with different fulfillment requirements, our fulfillment network becomes increasingly complex and operating it becomes more challenging.  If our fulfillment network does not operate properly or if a vendor fails to deliver on its commitments, we could experience delays in inventory, increased delivery costs or merchandise out-of-stocks that could lead to lost sales and decreased customer confidence, and adversely affect our results of operations.



Failure to effectively manage our third-party installers could result in increased operational and legal risks and negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We use third-party installers to provide installation services to our customers, and, as the general contractor, we are subject to regulatory requirements and risks applicable to general contractors, including the management of the permitting, licensing and









quality of our third-party installers.  Our failure to effectively manage such requirements, the third-party installers, and our internal processes regarding installation services could result in lost sales, fines and lawsuits, as well as damage to our reputation, which could negatively affect our business.



Operating internationally presents unique challenges, including some that have required us to adapt our store operations, merchandising, marketing and distribution functions to serve customers in Canada.  Our business and results of operations could be negatively affected if we are unable to effectively address these challenges.

We operate stores in Canada.  Expanding and operating internationally presents unique challenges that may increase the anticipated costs and risks of operation and expansion and slow the anticipated rate of expansion.  Our future operating results in Canada or in other countries or regions in which we may operate in the future could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, including unfavorable political or economic factors, adverse tax consequences, volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, increased difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights, costs and difficulties of managing international operations, challenges with identifying and contracting with local suppliers and other risks created as a result of differences in culture, laws and regulations.  These factors could restrict our ability to operate our international businesses profitably and therefore have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial position.  In addition, our reported results of operations and financial position could also be negatively affected by exchange rates when the activities and balances of our foreign operations are translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.



We must comply with various and multiple laws and regulations that differ substantially in each area where we operate.  Changes in existing or new laws and regulations or regulatory enforcement priorities, or our inability to comply with such laws and regulations, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.



Future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements, negatively affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We are, and in the future will become, involved in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of our business.  Some of these proceedings may raise difficult and complicated factual and legal issues and can be subject to uncertainties and complexities.  The timing of the final resolutions to lawsuits, regulatory inquiries and governmental and other legal proceedings is typically uncertain.  Additionally, the possible outcomes of, or resolutions to, these proceedings could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments.  Furthermore, defending against these proceedings may require a diversion of management’s attention and resources.  None of the legal proceedings in which we are currently involved, individually or collectively, are considered material.



Our financial performance could be adversely affected if our management information systems are seriously disrupted or we fail to properly maintain, improve, upgrade and expand those systems.

Our efforts to provide an omni-channel experience for our customers include investing in, maintaining and making ongoing improvements of our existing management information systems that support operations, such as sales, inventory replenishment, merchandise ordering, project design and execution, transportation, receipt processing and fulfillment.  Our systems are subject to damage or interruption as a result of catastrophic events, power outages, viruses, malicious attacks and telecommunications failures, and as a result we may incur significant expense, data loss as well as an erosion of customer confidence.  Additionally, we continually make investments in our systems which may introduce disruption.  Our financial performance could be adversely affected if our management information systems are seriously disrupted or we fail to properly maintain, improve, upgrade and expand those systems.











Liquidity and access to capital rely on efficient, rational and open capital markets and are dependent on Lowe’s credit strength.  Our inability to access capital markets could negatively affect our business, financial performance and results of operations.

We have relied on the public debt markets to fund portions of our capital investments and the commercial paper market and bank credit facilities to fund our working capital needs.  Our access to these markets depends on our strong credit ratings, the overall condition of debt capital markets and our operating performance.  Disruption in the financial markets or an erosion of our credit strength or declines on our credit rating could impact negatively our ability to meet capital requirements or fund working capital needs.



Our sales are dependent upon the health and stability of the general economy.  Adverse changes in economic factors specific to the home improvement industry may negatively impact the rate of growth of our total sales and comparable sales.

Many U.S. and global economic factors may adversely affect our financial performance.  These include, but are not limited to, periods of slow economic growth or recession, decreasing housing turnover or home price appreciation, volatility and/or lack of liquidity from time to time in U.S. and world financial markets and the consequent reduced availability and/or higher cost of borrowing to Lowe’s and its customers, slower rates of growth in real disposable personal income that could affect the rate of growth in consumer spending, high rates of unemployment, consumer debt levels, outbreak of pandemics, fluctuations in fuel and energy costs, inflation or deflation of commodity prices, natural disasters and acts of both domestic and international terrorism.  Sales of many of our product categories and services are driven by the activity level of home improvement projects.  Adverse development in these factors could result in a decrease in home improvement activity which could reduce demand for our products and services.



In addition, although we are monitoring the effects of a widespread outbreak of a contagious respiratory illness caused by a novel coronavirus first identified in Wuhan, China (COVID-19), we cannot predict whether, for how long, or the extent to which the outbreak may disrupt our supply chain, operations, sales, and/or product shipments and home installations.  A prolonged outbreak could negatively impact our vendors and customers, cause interruptions to our operations, including the reduction of store operating hours, temporary store closures and reduced store traffic, and adversely affect our results of operations.  More generally, a widespread health crisis could adversely affect the U.S. economy, resulting in an economic downturn that could decrease consumer confidence and affect demand for our products and therefore impact our results, including our business and financial outlook for fiscal 2020.  Any adverse impact on our results of operations, business or financial outlook could be material.



















