ITEM 1.BUSINESS

INTRODUCTION



Overview



American Express Company, together with its consolidated
    subsidiaries (“American Express,” the
    “Company,” “we,” “us” or
    “our”), is a global service company that provides
    customers with access to products, insights and experiences that
    enrich lives and build business success. Our principal products
    and services are charge and credit payment card products and
    travel-related services offered to consumers and businesses
    around the world. We were founded in 1850 as a joint stock
    association. We were incorporated in 1965 as a New York
    corporation. American Express Company and its principal
    operating subsidiary, American Express Travel Related Services
    Company, Inc. (“TRS”), are bank holding companies
    under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the “BHC
    Act”), subject to the supervision and examination by the
    Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the
    “Federal Reserve”).



Our headquarters are located in New York, New York in lower
    Manhattan. We also have offices in other locations in North
    America, as well as throughout the world.



We are principally engaged in businesses comprising four
    reportable operating segments: U.S. Card Services,
    International Card Services, Global Commercial Services, and
    Global Network & Merchant Services, all of which we
    describe below. Corporate functions and auxiliary businesses,
    including the Company’s Enterprise Growth Group, publishing
    business, as well as other company operations, are included in
    Corporate & Other.



Securities
    Exchange Act Reports and Additional Information



We maintain an Investor Relations Web site on the Internet athttp://ir.americanexpress.com.We make available free of charge, on or through this Web site,
    our annual, quarterly and current reports and any amendments to
    those reports as soon as reasonably practicable following the
    time they are electronically filed with or furnished to the
    Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). To access
    these materials, just click on the “SEC Filings” link
    under the caption “Financial Information/Filings” on
    our Investor Relations homepage.



You can also access our Investor Relations Web site through our
    main Web site at www.americanexpress.com by clicking on the
    “About American Express” link, which is located at the
    bottom of our homepage. Information contained on our Investor
    Relations Web site and our main Web site is not incorporated by
    reference into this report or any other report filed with or
    furnished to the SEC.



    Highlights



Compared with 2009, we delivered:



•total revenues net of interest expense of $27.8 billion, up
    13% from $24.5 billion•income from continuing operations of $4.1 billion, up 90%
    from $2.1 billion







*Some of the statements in
    this report constitute forward-looking statements. You can
    identify forward-looking statements by words such as
    “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,”
    “optimistic,” “intend,” “plan,”
    “aim,” “will,” “may,”
    “should,” “could,” “would,”
    “likely,” “estimate,” “predict,”
    “potential,” “continue” or other similar
    expressions. We discuss certain factors that affect our business
    and operations and that may cause our actual results to differ
    materially from these forward-looking statements under
    “Item 1A. Risk Factors” below. You are cautioned not
    to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements,
    which speak only as of the date on which they are made. We
    undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any
    forward-looking statements.







•net income of $4.1 billion, up 90% from $2.1 billion•diluted earnings per share based on net income of $3.35, up 118%
    from $1.54•return on average equity of 27.5%, compared with 14.6%.



The Company’s results for 2010 reflected strong spending
    growth and improved credit performance. Throughout the year
    cardmember spending volumes grew both in the United States and
    internationally, and across all of the Company’s
    businesses. Cardmember spending levels in 2010 reached record
    levels at the end of the year. Improving credit trends
    contributed to the reduction in loan and receivable write-offs
    and the reduction of loss reserve levels over the course of 2010
    when compared to 2009. It is expected that theyear-over-yearbenefits from improving credit trends will decrease over the
    course of 2011. While the Company invested at historically high
    levels in 2010, it intends to maintain the flexibility to scale
    back on investments as business conditions change and the
    benefits realized from improving credit trends lessen.



Despite improvement in parts of the economic environment,
    challenges clearly remain for the Company, both in the United
    States and in many other key regions. These challenges include
    weak job creation, volatile consumer confidence, consumer
    behavior, an uncertain housing market, and the regulatory and
    legislative environment, including the uncertain impact of the
    Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of
    2009 (the “CARD Act”), of the recently enacted
    Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
    (“Dodd-Frank”) and of the proceeding against the
    Company recently brought by the Department of Justice
    (“DOJ”) and certain state attorneys general alleging a
    violation of the U.S. antitrust laws. In addition, as
    previously discussed, the Company will stop receiving quarterly
    litigation payments from MasterCard International, Inc.
    (“MasterCard”) and Visa Inc. (“Visa”) at the
    end of the second and fourth quarters of 2011, respectively, andyear-over-yearcomparisons will be more difficult to maintain in light of the
    strong 2010 results.



In 2011, the Company will be particularly focused on several
    initiatives designed to help us accomplish our long-term growth
    goals: providing greater value to merchants; adding more women,
    minorities and younger adults to our customer base; accelerating
    our growth outside the U.S.; making significant progress in the
    Enterprise Growth Group; and increasing our share of online
    spending across all products while transforming our
    customers’ digital experience.



We also continue to seek more ways to turn existing capabilities
    and relationships into new fee services. In the past eighteen
    months, we launched or expanded several key initiatives,
    including Business Insights, which provides analytics and
    consulting services to help merchants attract more customers and
    increase sales, and AcceptPay, which simplifies the invoicing
    and payment process for small businesses. Overall, we set an
    aggressive goal to generate $3 billion in annual fee-based
    revenues for the Company by the end of 2014.



For a complete discussion of our 2010 financial results,
    including financial information regarding each of our reportable
    operating segments, see pages 20-120 of our 2010 Annual
    Report to Shareholders, which are incorporated herein by
    reference. For a discussion of our principal sources of revenue,
    see pages 72-73 of the 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders.



Products
    and Services



The Company’s range of products and services includes:



•charge and credit card products•expense management products and services•consumer and business travel services•stored value products such as Travelers Cheques and other
    prepaid products•network services•merchant acquisition and processing,point-of-sale,servicing and settlement, and marketing and information products
    and services for merchants; and







•fee services, including market and trend analyses and related
    consulting services, fraud prevention services, and the design
    of customized customer loyalty and rewards programs.



The Company’s products and services are sold globally to
    diverse customer groups, including consumers, small businesses,
    mid-sized companies and large corporations. These products and
    services are sold through various channels, including direct
    mail, on-line applications, targeted direct and third-party
    sales forces, and direct response advertising.



The Company’s products and services generate the following
    types of revenue for the Company:



•Discount revenue, the Company’s largest revenue source,
    which represents fees charged to merchants when cardmembers use
    their cards to purchase goods and services on the Company’s
    network;•Net card fees, which represent revenue earned for annual charge
    card memberships;•Travel commissions and fees, which are earned by charging a
    transaction or management fee for airline or other
    travel-related transactions;•Other commissions and fees, which are earned on foreign exchange
    conversions and card-related fees and assessments;•Other revenue, which represents insurance premiums earned from
    cardmember travel and other insurance programs, revenues arising
    from contracts with Global Network Services’ partners
    (including royalties and signing fees), publishing revenues and
    other miscellaneous revenue and fees; and•Interest and fees on loans, which principally represents
    interest income earned on outstanding balances, and card fees
    related to the cardmember loans portfolio.



Our general-purpose card network, card-issuing and
    merchant-acquiring and processing businesses are global in
    scope. We are a world leader in providing charge and credit
    cards to consumers, small businesses and corporations. These
    cards include cards issued by American Express as well as cards
    issued by third-party banks and other institutions that are
    accepted on the American Express network (collectively,
    “Cards”). Our Cards permit our cardmembers
    (“Cardmembers”) to charge purchases of goods and
    services in most countries around the world at the millions of
    merchants that accept Cards bearing our logo. At
    December 31, 2010, we had total worldwideCards-in-forceof 91.0 million (including Cards issued by third parties).
    In 2010, our worldwide billed business (spending on American
    Express®Cards, including Cards issued by third parties) was
    $713 billion.



The Company has also recently created an Enterprise Growth Group
    to focus on generating alternative sources of revenue on a
    global basis, both organically and through acquisitions, in
    areas such as online and mobile payments and fee-based services.
    For a discussion concerning our Enterprise Growth Group, please
    see “Corporate & Other” below.



Our business as a whole has not experienced significant seasonal
    fluctuations, although travel sales generally tend to be highest
    in the second and fourth quarters. Travelers Cheque sales and
    Travelers Cheques outstanding tend to be greatest each year in
    the summer months, peaking in the third quarter. American
    Express®Gift Card sales are highest in the months of November and
    December; and Card billed business tends to be moderately higher
    in the fourth quarter than in other quarters.



Spend-Centric
    Model is Competitive Advantage



Despite the continuing challenges of the current economic
    environment, we believe our “spend-centric” business
    model (which focuses on generating revenues primarily by driving
    spending on our Cards and secondarily by finance charges and
    fees) continues to give us significant competitive advantages.
    Average spending on our Cards, which is substantially higher on
    a per-card basis for us versus our competitors, represents
    greater value to merchants in the form of loyal customers and
    higher sales. This enables us to earn premium discount rates and
    thereby invest in greater value-added services for merchants and
    Cardmembers. As a result of the higher revenues generated from
    higher spending Cardmembers, we have the flexibility to invest
    in more attractive rewards and other incentives to Cardmembers,
    and targeted marketing and other





programs and investments for merchants, all of which in turn
    create incentives for Cardmembers to spend more on their Cards.
    The significant investments we make in rewards and other
    compelling value propositions for Cardmembers drive Card usage
    at merchants and encourage Cardmember loyalty. This business
    model, along with our closed-loop network, in which we are both
    the Card issuer and, in most instances, the merchant acquirer,
    gives us a competitive advantage that we seek to leverage to
    provide more value to Cardmembers, merchants and our
    Card-issuing partners.



The
    American Express Brand



Our brand and its attributes—trust, security, integrity,
    quality and customer service—are key assets of the Company.
    We continue to focus on our brand by educating employees about
    these attributes and by incorporating them into our programs,
    products and services. Our brand has consistently been rated one
    of the most valuable brands in the world in published studies,
    and we believe it provides us with a significant competitive
    advantage.



We believe our brand and its attributes are critical to our
    success, and we invest heavily in managing, marketing and
    promoting it. In addition, we place significant importance on
    trademarks, service marks and patents, and diligently protect
    our intellectual property rights around the world.

GLOBAL
    NETWORK & MERCHANT SERVICES



The Global Network & Merchant Services
    (“GNMS”) segment operates a global general-purpose
    charge and credit card network for both proprietary Cards and
    Cards issued under the global network services business. It also
    manages merchant services globally, which includes signing
    merchants to accept Cards as well as processing and settling
    Card transactions for those merchants. This segment also offers
    merchantspoint-of-sale,servicing and settlement, fraud prevention services, and
    marketing and information products and services.



Cards bearing our logo are issued by our principal operating
    subsidiary, TRS, by the Company’s U.S. bank
    subsidiaries, American Express Centurion Bank (“Centurion
    Bank”) and American Express Bank, FSB (“AEBFSB”),
    and by other operating and bank subsidiaries outside the United
    States. They are accepted at all merchant locations worldwide
    that accept American Express-branded Cards. In addition,
    depending on the product, Cards bearing our logo are generally
    accepted at ATM locations worldwide that accept Cards. TRS and
    its subsidiaries, including Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, issue the
    majority of Cards on our network.



Our Global Network Services (“GNS”) business
    establishes and maintains relationships with banks and other
    institutions around the world that issue Cards and, in certain
    countries, acquire local merchants on the American Express
    network. GNS is key to our strategy of broadening the Cardmember
    and merchant base for our network worldwide.



Our Global Merchant Services (“GMS”) business provides
    us with access to rich transaction data through our closed-loop
    network, which encompasses relationships with both the
    Cardmember and the merchant. This capability helps us acquire
    new merchants, deepen relationships with existing merchants,
    process transactions, and provide targeted marketing, analytical
    and other value-added services to merchants in our network. In
    addition, it allows us to analyze trends and spending patterns
    among various segments of our customer base.



Global
    Network Services



We continue to pursue a strategy, through our GNS business, of
    inviting U.S. and foreign banks and other institutions to
    issue Cards and acquire merchants on the American Express
    network. By leveraging our global infrastructure and the appeal
    of the American Express brand, we broaden our Cardmember and
    merchant base for our network worldwide. The GNS business has
    established 129 card-issuingand/ormerchant-acquiring arrangements with banks and other
    institutions in 131 countries.





In 2010, GNS signed four new partners to issue Cardsand/oracquire merchants on the American Express network. Additionally,
    GNS partners launched approximately 77 new products during 2010,
    bringing the total number of American Express-branded GNS
    partner products to approximately 1,000.



GNS focuses on partnering with qualified third-party banks and
    other financial institutions that choose to issue Cards accepted
    on our global networkand/oracquire merchants on our network. Although we customize our
    network arrangements to the particular country and each
    partner’s requirements, as well as to our strategic plans
    in that marketplace, all GNS arrangements are designed to help
    issuers develop products for their highest-spending and most
    affluent customers and to support the value of American Express
    Card acceptance to merchants. We choose to partner with
    institutions that share a core set of attributes compatible with
    the American Express brand, such as commitment to high quality
    standards and strong marketing expertise, and we require
    adherence to our product, brand and service standards.**



As discussed below, while GNS has added significant partners in
    2010, a core strategy of GNS is to build and invest in deeper
    and more meaningful relationships with its existing partners.



With approximately 1,000 different Card products launched on our
    network so far by our partners, GNS is an increasingly important
    business that is strengthening our brand visibility around the
    world, driving more transaction volume onto our merchant network
    and increasing the number of merchants accepting the American
    Express Card. GNS enables us to expand our network’s global
    presence generally without assuming additional Cardmember credit
    risk or having to invest a large amount of resources, as our GNS
    partners already have established attractive customer bases they
    can target with American Express-branded products, and are
    responsible for managing the credit risk associated with the
    Cards they issue. Since 1999,Cards-in-forceissued by GNS partners have grown at a compound annual growth
    rate of 24%, and totaled over 29 million Cards at the end
    of 2010. Outside the United States, 75% of new Cards issued in
    2010 were Cards issued by GNS partners. Spending on GNS Cards
    has grown at a compound annual rate of 25% since 1999.Year-over-yearspending growth on these Cards in 2010 was 28%, with total
    spending equal to $92 billion.



In assessing whether a given country should be proprietary, GNS,
    or some combination thereof, we consider a wide range of
    country-specific factors including the stability and
    attractiveness of returns, the size of the affluent segment, the
    strength of available marketing and credit data, the size of
    co-brand opportunities and how best can we create strong
    merchant value.



GNS
    Arrangements



Although the structures and details of each of the GNS
    arrangements vary, all of them generate revenues for us from the
    Card transaction volumes they drive on the American Express
    network. Gross revenues we receive per dollar spent on a Card
    issued by a GNS partner are generally lower than those from our
    proprietary Card-issuing business. However, because the GNS
    partner is responsible for most of the operating costs and risk
    of its Card-issuing business, our operating expenses and credit
    losses are generally lower than those in our proprietary
    Card-issuing business. The GNS business model generates an
    attractive earnings stream and risk profile that requires a
    lower level of capital support. The return on equity in our GNS
    business can thus be significantly higher than that of our
    proprietary Card-issuing business. In addition, since the
    majority of GNS costs are fixed, the GNS business is highly
    scalable. GNS partners benefit from their association with the
    American Express brand and their ability to gain attractive
    revenue streams and expand and differentiate their product
    offerings with innovative marketing programs.



Our GNS arrangements fall into the following three main
    categories: Independent Operator Arrangements, Network Card
    License Arrangements and Joint Venture Arrangements.







** The use of the term
    “partner” or “partnering” does not mean or
    imply a formal legal partnership, and is not meant in any way to
    alter the terms of American Express’ relationship with
    third-party issuers and merchant acquirers.





Independent
    Operator Arrangements



cards-in-force.



We bear the credit risk arising from the IO partner’s
    potential failure to meet its settlement obligations to us. We
    mitigate this risk by partnering with institutions that we
    believe are financially sound and will meet their obligations,
    and by monitoring their financial health, their compliance with
    the terms of their relationship with us and the political,
    economic and regulatory environment in which they operate. In
    addition, depending on an IO partner’s credit rating and
    other indicators of financial health, we may require an IO
    partner to post a letter of credit, bank guarantee or other
    collateral to reduce this risk.



Examples of countries where we have entered into IO arrangements
    include Brazil, Russia, China, Indonesia, Turkey, Ecuador,
    Greece, South Korea, Pakistan, Croatia, Peru, Portugal and
    Vietnam. Through our IO partnerships, we believe we can
    accelerate growth in Cardmember spending,Cards-in-forceand merchant acceptance in these countries.



Network
    Card License Arrangements



The second type of GNS arrangement is known as a network card
    license (“NCL”). At the end of 2010, we had 61 of
    these arrangements in place worldwide. We pursue these
    arrangements to increase our brand presence and gain share in
    countries in which we have a proprietary Card-issuingand/ormerchant acquiring business and, in a few cases, those in which
    we have IO partners. In an NCL arrangement, we grant the
    third-party financial institution a license to issue American
    Express-branded Cards. The NCL issuer owns the customer
    relationships for all Cards it issues, provides customer service
    to its Cardmembers, authorizes transactions, manages billing and
    credit, is responsible for marketing the Cards, and designs Card
    product features (including rewards and other incentives for
    Cardmembers), subject to meeting certain standards. We operate
    the merchant network, route and process Card transactions from
    the merchant’spoint-of-salethrough submission to the issuer, and settle with issuers. The
    NCL is the type of arrangement we have implemented with banks in
    the United States, United Kingdom, Australia and Japan.



GNS’ revenues in NCL arrangements are driven by a variety
    of factors, including the level of Cardmember spending,
    royalties, currency conversions and licensing fees paid by the
    partner and fees charged to the Card issuer based on charge
    volume, and our provision of value-added services such as
    Cardmember insurance products and other Card features and
    benefits for the issuer’s Cards. As indicated above, the
    NCL issuer bears the credit risk for the issued Cards, as well
    as the Card marketing and acquisition costs, Cardmember fraud
    risks and costs of rewards and other loyalty initiatives. We
    bear the risk arising from the NCL partner’s potential
    failure to meet its settlement obligations to us. We mitigate
    this risk by partnering with institutions that we believe are
    financially sound and will meet their obligations, and by
    monitoring their financial health, their compliance with the
    terms of their relationship with us and the political, economic
    and regulatory environment in which they operate. In addition,
    depending on an NCL issuer’s credit rating and





other indicators of financial health, we may require an NCL
    issuer to post a letter of credit, bank guarantee or other
    collateral to reduce this risk.



Examples of NCL arrangements include our relationships with Bank
    of America in the United States, Lloyds TSB Bank in the United
    Kingdom and Westpac Banking Corporation in Australia.



Joint
    Venture Arrangements



The third type of GNS arrangement is a joint venture
    (“JV”) arrangement. We have utilized this type of
    arrangement in Switzerland and Belgium, as well as in other
    countries. In these countries, we join with a third-party to
    establish a separate business in which we have a significant
    ownership stake. The JV typically signs new merchants to the
    American Express network and issues local currency Cards that
    carry our logo. In a JV arrangement, the JV is responsible for
    the Cardmember credit risk and bears the operating and marketing
    costs. Unlike the other two types of GNS arrangements, we share
    management, risk, and profit and loss responsibility with our JV
    partners. Income is generated by discount revenues, card fees
    and net spread revenues. The economics of the JV are similar to
    those of our proprietary Card-issuing business, which we discuss
    under “U.S. Card Services,” and we receive a
    portion of the JV’s income depending on, among other
    things, the level of our ownership interest. Our subsidiary,
    AEOCC Ltd., purchases card receivables from certain of the GNS
    JVs from time to time.



GNS
    Business Highlights



Outside the United States we signed a number of agreements in
    2010 to enhance our presence in countries where we already do
    business and further expanded our global presence into new
    geographic areas.



Some of the highlights of our GNS business outside the United
    States in 2010 include:



•Announcement of a new card partnership with Sberbank, a leading
    retail bank in Russia, for the issuance of American Express
    branded-cards in Russia•Expansion of our card-issuing partnership with China Merchants
    Bank through the launch of American Express consumer Cards that
    bear the Centurion image•Announcement of the launch of the Pantai American
    Express®Credit Card with Maybank in Malaysia, the first medical co-brand
    credit card with a leading healthcare service provider in
    Malaysia•Renewal by Credit Saison of its signature product line in Japan
    and introduction of four new Saison American Express Cards with
    the Centurion image•Launch of the Blue from American Express Card in Georgia, with
    our partner, Bank of Georgia•Launch of the Blue from American Express Card in Kazakhstan,
    with our partner, Kazkommertsbank•Launch of the American
    Express®Gold Card in Armenia, with our partner, ACBA Credit Agricole.



GNS continues to expand the airline co-brand products issued
    through GNS relationships, launching 8 new airline co-brands in
    2010 bringing the total to 52 airline co-brand products. Some of
    the key airline co-brand launches outside the United States in
    2010 include:



•Hana SK Skypass American
    Express®Card and the Hana SK Skypass Corporate American
    Express®Card with HanaSK Card Co., Ltd. in Korea•Lotte Skypass from American Express with Lotte Bank in South
    Korea•Miles & More Brussels Airlines products with our
    partner Alpha Card in Belgium•AAdvantage from Bank of America Europe Card Services (MBNA) in
    the United Kingdom•Aeroflot Card from American Express with our partner Russian
    Standard Bank in Russia•La Tarjeta Distancia American
    Express®Platinum and Elite with Banco de Guayaquil in Ecuador.







Some of the highlights of our GNS business in the United States
    in 2010 include:



•Announcement of a new partnership for Macy’s and
    Bloomingdale’s credit cards to be co-branded exclusively
    with American Express and issued by Citibank•Announcement of a new partnership with Regions Bank in the
    U.S. to launch the Regions
    ReservesmAmerican
    Express®Card, developed for Regions Bank’s Private Banking clients
    and issued by Bank of America.



Global
    Merchant Services



We operate a GMS business, which includes signing merchants to
    accept Cards, accepting and processing Card transactions, and
    settling with merchants that accept Cards for purchases made by
    Cardmembers with Cards (“Charges”). We also provide
    marketing information, and other programs and services to
    merchants, leveraging the capabilities provided by our
    investments in our closed-loop structure, as well aspoint-of-saleproducts, servicing, and fraud prevention services.



Our objective is for Cardmembers to be able to use the Card
    wherever and however they desire, and to increase merchant
    coverage in key geographic areas and in selected new industries
    that have not traditionally accepted the Card. We add new
    merchants to our network through a number of sales channels: a
    proprietary sales force, third-party sales and service agents,
    strategic alliances with banks and processors, the Internet,
    telemarketing and inbound “Want to Honor” calls (i.e.,
    where merchants desiring to accept the Card contact us
    directly). As discussed in the “Global Network
    Services” section, our IO partners and JVs also add new
    local merchants to the American Express network.



During 2010, we continued expanding our integrated American
    Express
    OnePoint®solution for small- and medium-sized merchants in the United
    States. Under this program, third-party service agents provide
    payment processing services to merchants on our behalf for Card
    transactions, while we retain the acceptance contract with
    participating merchants, manage merchant pricing decisions and
    negotiations, and receive the same transactional information we
    always have received through our closed-loop network. This
    program simplifies card processing for small- and medium-sized
    merchants by providing them with a single source for statements,
    settlement and customer service. We are now following a similar
    strategy to our OnePoint solution in Spain through our
    arrangement with La Caixa, one of Spain’s largest
    acquirers.



GMS continues to significantly expand the number of merchants
    that accept our Card products as well as the kinds of businesses
    that accept the Card. Over the last several years, we have
    focused our efforts on increasing the use of our Cards for
    everyday spending. In 1990, 64% of our U.S. billings came
    from the travel and entertainment sectors and 36% came from
    retail and other sectors. That proportion has now been more than
    reversed. In 2010, U.S. non-travel and entertainment
    billings represented approximately 71.5% of the U.S. billed
    business on American Express Cards. This shift resulted, in
    part, from the growth, over time, in the types of merchants that
    began to accept charge and credit cards in response to
    consumers’ increased desire to use these cards for more of
    their purchases, our focus on expanding Card acceptance to meet
    Cardmembers’ needs, and increased competition from our
    competitors for travel and entertainment sector spending.



During 2010, we continued our efforts to bring Card acceptance
    to industries where cash or checks are the predominant form of
    payment. For example, we have made headway in promoting Card
    acceptance in industries such as pharmaceuticals, construction,
    industrial supply, insurance and advertising. Card acceptance
    agreements signed in 2010 in the United States include:



•Mercury Insurance Group, a leading insurance company•BDO USA, LLP, a leading professional services firm providing
    assurance, tax, financial advisory and consulting services•Applied Medical, a global medical device company that develops,
    manufactures and markets medical devices used in surgical
    procedures.







Internationally, among others, Card acceptance agreements were
    reached with:



•Centro de Recaudaciones de Impuestos Municipales (CRIM), the tax
    collections governmental agency in Puerto Rico & the
    Caribbean•Municipio de Naucalpan in Mexico•AAMI, one of Australia’s largest and highest profile
    general insurance companies•Ageas Insurance Solutions in the United Kingdom.



Additionally, we continued our drive to expand Card acceptance
    for retail and everyday spending categories outside the United
    States. For example, during 2010, we announced Card acceptance
    agreements with:



•Seven Eleven, now accepting the Card in Mexico•Best Buy, now accepting the Card in the United Kingdom•Kaiser’s Tengelmann AG, now an accepting supermarket
    merchant in Germany.



Globally, acceptance of general-purpose charge and credit cards
    continues to increase. As in prior years, during 2010, we
    continued to grow merchant acceptance of Cards around the world
    and to refine our approach to calculating merchant coverage in
    accordance with changes in the marketplace. Management estimates
    that, as of the end of 2010, our merchant network in the United
    States accommodated more than 90% of our Cardmembers’
    general-purpose charge and credit card spending, and our
    international merchant network as a whole accommodated
    approximately 80% of our Cardmembers’ general-purpose
    charge and credit card spending. These percentages are based on
    comparing our Cardmembers’ spending on our network
    currently with our estimate of what our Cardmembers would spend
    on our network if all merchants that accept general-purpose
    credit and charge cards accepted American Express Cards.



We earn “discount” revenue from fees charged to
    merchants for accepting Cards as payment for goods or services
    sold. The merchant discount is the fee charged to the merchant
    for accepting Cards and is generally expressed as a percentage
    of the amount charged on a Card. In some instances, an
    additional flat transaction fee is assessed. The merchant
    discount is generally deducted from the amount of the payment
    that the “merchant acquirer” (in most cases, including
    for all U.S. merchants, TRS or one of its subsidiaries)
    pays to a merchant for Charges submitted. A merchant acquirer is
    the entity that contracts for Card acceptance with the merchant,
    accepts transactions from the merchant, pays the merchant for
    these transactions and submits the transactions to the American
    Express network, which submits the transactions to the
    appropriate Card issuer. When a Cardmember presents the Card for
    payment, the merchant creates a record of charge for the
    transaction and submits it to the merchant acquirer for payment.
    To the extent that TRS or one of its subsidiaries is the
    merchant acquirer, the merchant discount is recorded by us as
    discount revenue at the time the transaction is received by us
    from the merchant.



Where we act as the merchant acquirer and the Card presented at
    a merchant is issued by a third-party bank or financial
    institution, such as in the case of our GNS partners, we will
    make financial settlement to the merchant and receive the
    discount revenue. In our role as the operator of the Card
    network, we will also receive financial settlement from the Card
    issuer, who receives an issuer rate (i.e., the individually
    negotiated amount that Card issuers receive for transactions
    charged on our network with Cards they issue, which is usually
    expressed as a percentage of the charged amount). The difference
    between the discount revenue (received by us in the form of the
    merchant discount) and the issuer rate received by the Card
    issuer generates a return to us. In cases where American Express
    is the Card issuer and the merchant acquirer is a third-party
    bank or financial institution (which can be the case in a
    country in which the IO is the local merchant acquirer), we
    receive an individually negotiated issuer rate in our settlement
    with the merchant acquirer, which is recorded by us as discount
    revenue. By contrast with networks such as Visa and MasterCard,
    there is no collectively set interchange rate on the American
    Express network.





The following diagrams depict the relationships among the
    parties in apoint-of-saletransaction effected on the American Express network where we
    act as both the Card issuer and merchant acquirer (the
    “3-Party Model”) and under an NCL arrangement where
    third-party financial institutions act as Card issuers (the
    “NCL Model”):







The merchant discount we charge reflects the value we deliver to
    the merchant and generally represents a premium over the rates
    charged for acceptance of many cards issued on other networks.
    We deliver greater value to merchants in a variety of ways,
    including through higher spending by our Cardmembers relative to
    users of cards issued on competing card networks, our product
    and network features and functionality, our marketing expertise
    and programs, information services, fraud prevention services,
    and other investments which enhance the merchant value
    propositions associated with acceptance of the Card.



The merchant discount varies, among other factors, with the
    industry in which the merchant does business, the
    merchant’s Charge volume, the timing and method of payment
    to the merchant, the method of submission of Charges and, in
    certain instances, the geographic scope of the Card acceptance
    agreement signed with us (local or global) and the Charge amount.



In prior years, we experienced some reduction in our global
    weighted average merchant discount rate. The average discount
    rate was 2.55 percent and 2.54 percent for 2010 and
    2009, respectively. Over time, certain repricing initiatives,
    changes in the mix of business and volume-related pricing
    discounts and investments will likely result in some erosion of
    the average discount rate.



While most merchants that accept our Cards understand our
    merchant discount pricing in relation to the value provided, we
    do encounter a relatively small number of merchants that accept
    our Cards, but tell their customers that they prefer to accept
    another type of payment or otherwise seek to suppress use of the
    Card. Subject to local legal requirements (such as, by way of
    example, Dodd-Frank), we respond to this issue vigorously to
    ensure that our Cardmembers are able to use their Card where and
    when they want to and to protect the American Express brand. We
    have made progress limiting Card suppression by focusing on
    acquiring merchants where Cardmembers want to use the Card;
    continuing to enhance the value we provide to merchants through
    programs such as DailyWish and American Express Selects, which
    enable merchants of





any size to gain valuable exposure and additional sales by
    providing exclusive offers and experiences to American Express
    Cardmembers; developing and providing new and innovative
    business insights, marketing programs and fraud prevention tools
    using information available through our closed-loop network;
    providing better and earlier communication of our value
    proposition; and, when appropriate, exercising our right to
    terminate Card acceptance agreements with merchants who seek to
    suppress the use of our Card products. We have a client
    management organization which is dedicated to growing our
    merchant customers’ business and finding ways to enhance
    effectiveness of our relationship with these key business
    partners. Most importantly, we recognize that it is the
    merchant’s choice whether or not to accept American Express
    cards and that all merchants have numerous options given the
    intense competition from new and traditional forms of payment.
    Therefore, we dedicate substantial resources to delivering
    superior and differentiated value to attract and retain our
    merchant customers.



The laws of a number of states in the U.S. and certain
    countries outside the U.S. prohibit surcharging credit card
    purchases. American Express’ Card acceptance agreements
    with merchants generally do not prohibit surcharging so long as
    it is permitted by law and a merchant does not discriminate
    against the Card by surcharging higher amounts on purchases with
    the Card than on purchases with other cards, or by imposing a
    surcharge only on Card purchases, but not on purchases made with
    other cards. American Express also does not prohibit merchants
    from offering discounts to customers who pay with cash, check or
    Automated Clearing House (i.e., inter-bank transfers or
    “ACH”). In addition, American Express does not
    prohibit U.S. merchants from offering discounts or in-kind
    incentives to customers who pay with particular forms of payment
    in accordance with the provisions of Dodd-Frank, which was
    enacted in July 2010. For information concerning the proceeding
    against us recently brought by the DOJ and certain state
    attorneys general alleging violation of the U.S. antitrust
    laws with regard to certain provisions of our merchant
    agreements that are designed to protect our Cardmembers and our
    brand against discrimination at the point of sale, please see
    “Corporate Matters” within “Legal
    Proceedings” beginning on page 91.



GMS is focused on understanding and addressing factors that
    influence merchant satisfaction, including developing and
    executing innovative programs that increase Card usage at
    merchants, using technology resources, enhancing operational
    efficiencies and merchants’ ease of doing business with us,
    providing a suite of online servicing tools, making our United
    States operating procedures easily available to merchants on our
    Web site, applying our closed-loop capabilities and deep
    marketing expertise, and strengthening our relationships with
    merchants through an expanding roster of services that helps
    them meet their business goals.



We also offer our merchant customers a full range ofpoint-of-salesolutions, including integratedpoint-of-saleterminals, software, online solutions, and direct links that
    allow merchants to accept American Express Cards (as well as
    credit and debit cards issued on other networks and checks).
    Virtually all proprietarypoint-of-salesolutions support direct processing (i.e., direct connectivity)
    to American Express, which can lower a merchant’s cost of
    Card acceptance and enhance payment efficiency.



In November 2010, we acquired Accertify Inc., a leading provider
    of solutions that help merchants combat fraudulent online and
    other card-not-present transactions. Launched in 2007, Accertify
    provides a hosted software application that offers an extra
    level of security for transactions over any of the major payment
    networks, including American Express, Visa, MasterCard, Discover
    and PayPal, or any other alternative payment method. Accertify
    also offers merchants the option to outsource theirend-to-endfraud management process. With the acquisition of Accertify,
    American Express is able to broaden its fraud prevention
    services to merchants for transactions that take place on all
    networks. Accertify’s capabilities are incremental and
    complementary to American Express’ fraud solutions already
    offered to merchants for transactions on the American Express
    network.



In November 2010, we also announced the launch of American
    Express
    SafeKeysm,

    an online fraud prevention solution, which licenses Visa’s3-DSecure
    Protocol, a technology embraced by the payments industry as a
    global standard for payment authentication.



We continue to focus our commitment to driving global
    interoperability in payment card specifications, making it
    easier for merchants to accept our Cards, for Cardmembers to
    have a more seamless experience at





the point of sale, and for issuers who have more than one
    network relationship to have a standard across their card
    products.



We are an owner-member of EMVCo, the standards body that
    manages, maintains, and enhances specifications for chip-based
    payment cards and acceptance devices, includingpoint-of-saleterminals. Our participation in this company helps to drive
    secure and interoperable payments globally for transactions made
    with chip cards by aligning and progressing the EMV
    specifications. Further, as EMVCo’s scope expands to
    include emerging payment technologies such as contactless cards
    and mobile phones, our participation will facilitate our
    products and specifications being universally compatible and
    ready for merchant acceptance.



We continue to focus our efforts in areas that make use and
    acceptance of the Card more convenient for merchants and
    Cardmembers. For instance, American Express offers a contactless
    payment feature embedded in certain cards, to provide a fast,
    easy-to-use alternative to cash, check, debit or other payment
    forms, particularly for making everyday purchases at merchants
    where speed and convenience is important. In the U.S., top
    quick-service restaurants, movie theaters, drug and convenience
    stores and major retail chains readily accept American Express
    contactless payments. Similarly, Automatic Bill Payment focuses
    on providing convenience by allowing merchants to bill
    Cardmembers on a regular basis for recurring charges approved by
    the Cardmember such as insurance premiums, newspaper
    subscriptions, health club memberships, commutation costs and
    telecommunication services. Additionally, to provide extra
    convenience and speed at the point of sale, low value
    transactions (under $25 in the U.S.) do not require a signature.



Wherever we manage both the acquiring relationship with
    merchants and the Card-issuing side of the business, there is a
    “closed-loop,” which distinguishes our network from
    the bankcard networks, in that we have access to information at
    both ends of the Card transaction. We maintain direct
    relationships with both our Cardmembers and our merchants, and
    we handle all key aspects of those relationships.



Our relationships allow us to analyze information on Cardmember
    spending. This enables us to provide targeted marketing and
    other information services for merchants and special offers and
    services to Cardmembers through a variety of channels. Recently,
    we created a business within GMS called American
    Express®Business Insights, which offers products and services derived
    from our strong business model and closed loop network. Business
    Insights combines aggregated, non-personally identifiable data
    and trend analysis to provide specialized business planning and
    marketing expertise to our customers. At the same time, we
    protect the confidentiality of information on Cardmember
    spending, and comply with our privacy and firewall policies and
    applicable legal requirements.



We work closely with our Card-issuing and merchant-acquiring
    bank partners to maintain key elements of this closed-loop,
    which permits them to customize marketing efforts, deliver
    greater value to their Cardmembers and help us to direct
    increased business to merchants who accept the Card.



As the merchant acquirer, we have certain exposures that arise
    if a billing dispute between a Cardmember and a merchant is
    settled in favor of the Cardmember. Drivers of this liability
    are returns in the normal course of business, disputes over
    fraudulent charges, the quality or non-delivery of goods and
    services and billing errors. Typically, we offset the amount due
    to the Cardmember against payments for the merchant’s
    current or future Charge submissions. We can realize losses when
    a merchant’s offsetting Charge submissions cease, such as
    when the merchant decides to no longer accept the Card,
    commences a bankruptcy proceeding or goes out of business. We
    actively monitor our merchant base to assess the risk of this
    exposure. When appropriate, we will take action to reduce the
    net exposure to a given merchant by holding cash reserves funded
    through Charge payable holdbacks from a merchant, lengthening
    the time between when the merchant submits a Charge for payment
    and when we pay the merchant requiring the merchant to secure a
    letter of credit or a parent company guarantee, or implementing
    other appropriate risk management tools. We also establish
    reserves on our balance sheet for these contingencies in
    accordance with relevant accounting rules.



With the increase in electronic transmission of payment card
    transaction data over merchants’point-of-salesystems, American Express and other card networks recognized the
    necessity for merchants and merchant processors to secure this
    data against accidental or intentional compromise using a
    standard protocol that applies to all card types. We and
    Discover Financial Services, JCB Co., Ltd., MasterCard Worldwide
    and





Visa formed PCI Security Standards Council, LLC (“PCI
    SSC”), an independent standards-setting organization. PCI
    SSC’s role is to manage the Payment Card Industry
    (“PCI”) Data Security Standard, and more recently the
    PCI PIN Entry Device (“PED”) Security Requirements and
    the Payment Application Data Security Standard, which focus on
    improving payment card account security throughout the
    transaction process. By establishing PCI SSC, we and the other
    founders have developed common standards that are more
    accessible and efficient for participants in the payment card
    industry. All our merchants and service providers that store,
    process and transmit payment card data are required to comply
    with the PCI Data Security Standard. PCI SSC is dedicated to
    driving greater education, awareness and adoption of these
    security standards to ensure that all stakeholders involved in
    the payment process conduct their business responsibly.



In some markets outside the United States, particularly in Asia,
    third-party processors and some bankcard acquirers offer
    merchants the capability of converting credit card transactions
    from the local currency to the currency of the cardholder’s
    residence (i.e., the cardholder’s billing currency) at thepoint-of-sale,and submitting the transaction in the cardholder’s billing
    currency, thus bypassing the traditional foreign currency
    conversion process of the card network. This practice is known
    as “dynamic currency conversion.” If a merchant
    utilizes a dynamic currency conversion process, the merchant and
    processor share any fee assessed or spread earned for converting
    the transaction at thepoint-of-sale,thus reducing or eliminating revenue for card issuers and card
    networks relating to the conversion of foreign charges to the
    cardholder’s billing currency. This practice is still not
    widespread, and it remains uncertain whether its use will expand
    over time. Our policy generally requires merchants to submit
    Charges and be paid in the currency of the country in which the
    transaction occurs, and we convert the transaction to the
    Cardmember’s billing currency.



Global
    Network & Merchant Services —
    Competition



Our global card network, including our Global Merchant Services
    and Global Network Services businesses, competes in the global
    payments industry with other card networks, including, among
    others, Visa, MasterCard, Diners Club International (which was
    acquired by Discover Financial Services), and Discover
    (primarily in the United States). We are the third largest
    general-purpose charge and credit card network based on charge
    volume, behind Visa and MasterCard, which we believe are larger
    than we are in most countries. In addition, apart from such
    network services, a range of companies globally, including
    merchant acquirers and processors, carry out some activities
    similar to those performed by our GMS and GNS businesses. No
    single entity participates on a global basis in the full range
    of activities that are encompassed by our closed-loop business
    model.



The principal competitive factors that affect the network and
    merchant service businesses include:



•the number ofCards-in-forceand amount of spending on these Cards•the quantity and quality of the establishments where the Cards
    can be used•the economic attractiveness to card issuers and merchants of
    participating in the network•the success of marketing and promotional campaigns•reputation and brand recognition•innovation and investment in systems, technology, product and
    service offerings, particularly in on-line commerce•the quality of customer service•the security of Cardmember and merchant information•the impact of existing litigation, legislation and government
    regulation•the cost of Card acceptance relative to the value provided.



Another aspect of network competition is the recent emergence
    and rapid growth of alternative payment mechanisms and systems,
    which include aggregators (such as PayPal), wireless payment
    technologies





(including using mobile telephone networks to carry out
    transactions), prepaid systems and systems linked to payment
    cards, and bank transfer models.



New technologies, together with the portability provided by
    smartphones and tablets and evolving consumer behavior with
    social networking, are rapidly changing the way people interact
    with each other and transact business all around the world. In
    this connection, traditional and non-traditional competitors
    such as mobile telecommunications companies are working to
    deliver digital and mobile payment services for both consumers
    and merchants. While we estimate that we have the largest share
    of online spending of any major card issuer and more global
    online billings volume than PayPal, the competition remains
    fierce for capturing online spend in the ever-increasing digital
    world.



To the extent alternative payment mechanisms and systems, such
    as aggregators, continue to successfully expand, discount
    revenues and our ability to access transaction data through our
    closed-loop network, and potentially other revenues could be
    negatively impacted. In the United States, alternative payment
    vehicles that seek to redirect customers to payment systems
    based on ACH continue to emerge and grow, and existing debit
    networks also continue to expand both on- and off-line and are
    making efforts to develop online PIN functionality, which could
    further reduce the relative use of charge and credit cards
    online. For a discussion concerning our involvement in the
    emerging payments area, please see “Enterprise Growth”
    beginning on page 34 below.



Some of our competitors have attempted to replicate our
    closed-loop functionality, such as Visa, with its Visa Incentive
    Network. Although it remains to be seen how effective Visa will
    be, efforts by Visa and other card networks and payment
    providers to replicate the closed-loop speak to its continued
    value and to the intensely competitive environment in which we
    operate.



Global
    Network & Merchant Services —
    Regulation



Local regulations governing the issuance of charge and credit
    cards have not been a significant factor impacting GNS’
    arrangements with banks and qualifying financial institutions,
    because such banks and institutions generally are already
    authorized to issue general-purpose cards and, in the case of
    our IO arrangements, to operate merchant-acquiring businesses.
    Accordingly, our GNS partners have generally not had difficulty
    obtaining appropriate government authorization in the countries
    in which we have chosen to enter into GNS arrangements. As a
    service provider to regulated U.S. banks, our GNS business
    is subject to review by certain federal bank regulators,
    including the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance
    Corporation (“FDIC”), the Office of the Comptroller of
    the Currency (“OCC”) and the Office of Thrift
    Supervision (“OTS”).



As the operator of a general-purpose card network, we are also
    subject to certain provisions of the Currency and Foreign
    Transactions Reporting Act and the accompanying regulations
    issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury (collectively
    referred to as the “Bank Secrecy Act”), as amended by
    the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the “Patriot Act”). We
    conduct due diligence on our GNS partners to ensure that they
    have implemented and maintain sufficient anti-money laundering
    (“AML”) controls to prevent our network from being
    used for money laundering or terrorist financing purposes. As a
    result of American Express Company and TRS each being bank
    holding companies, our business is also subject to further
    regulation and regulatory oversight by the Federal Reserve. For
    additional information about our regulatory status, please see
    “Supervision and Regulation — General”
    beginning on page 38 below.



In recent years, regulators in several countries outside the
    United States have focused on the fees involved in the operation
    of card networks, including interchange fees paid to card
    issuers and the fees merchants are charged to accept cards.
    Regulators in the United Kingdom, Canada, New Zealand, Poland,
    Italy, Switzerland, Hungary, the European Union, Australia,
    Brazil, Mexico and Venezuela, among others, have conducted
    investigations that are either ongoing, concluded, or on appeal.



The interchange fee, which is the collectively set fee paid by
    the bankcard merchant acquirer to the card issuing bank in
    “four party” payment networks, like Visa and
    MasterCard, is generally the largest component of the merchant
    service charge payable by merchants for bankcard debit and
    credit card acceptance in these





systems. By contrast, the American Express network does not have
    interchange fees. Although the regulators’ focus has
    primarily been on Visa and MasterCard as the dominant card
    networks and their operations on a multilateral basis, antitrust
    actions and government regulation relating to merchant pricing
    could ultimately affect all networks. Lower interchangeand/ormerchant discount revenue may lead card issuers to look for
    other sources of revenue from consumers such as higher annual
    card fees or interest charges, as well as to reduce costs by
    scaling back or eliminating rewards programs.











In 2002, the Commission granted an exemption to Visa regarding
    its MIFs for cross-border consumer card transactions within
    Europe. This exemption expired on December 31, 2007 and in
    March 2008 the Commission opened formal antitrust proceedings
    against Visa Europe Limited in relation to Visa’s MIFs for
    such transactions. The Commission indicated that the MasterCard
    decision should “provide Visa with guidance for the way
    ahead,” although it stated that “every MIF must be
    examined on its own merits.” In 2010, the Commission
    accepted Visa Europe’s pledge to cut its cross-border debit
    card MIF to 20 basis points for four years. The
    Commission’s investigation into Visa Europe’s credit
    and deferred debit card MIF for cross-border transactions
    remains ongoing.



Developments at the EU level may affect how the competition
    authorities in the Member States of the EU view domestic
    interchange and the progress of ongoing investigations. In 2007,
    for example, consistent with the Commission’s findings of
    that year in its case against MasterCard, the competition
    regulator in Poland found insufficient basis for Visa and
    MasterCard interchange fees and ordered the associations and
    their members to stop their current interchange setting
    practices. However, the banks appealed that decision, and in
    November 2008 the decision was overturned. The Polish
    Competition Authority has appealed that ruling. More recently,
    the Office of Fair Trading in the United Kingdom indicated that
    it was delaying further consideration of its cases against
    MasterCard and Visa pending the outcome of the appeal of the
    European Commission’s decision against MasterCard.



In 2010, national parliaments in Hungary and France enacted
    legislation to cap interchange fees or point of sale service
    charges without government sponsorship for these measures.
    Although in both cases the legislation has been either repealed
    or struck down on procedural grounds, it is possible there may
    be further attempts to enact regulation of merchant fees or
    interchange with direct or indirect impacts on American Express.



In August 2009, Visa and MasterCard settled an anti-trust case
    with the New Zealand regulatory authorities regarding whether
    the setting of interchange rates constituted price fixing and
    whether other scheme rules lessened competition. The settlement
    results in changes to the Visa and MasterCard scheme rules,
    which will set maximum interchange rates and also allow
    bilateral setting of lower interchange rates between issuers and
    acquirers, as well as remove the schemes’ no surcharging
    rules. On April 17, 2010, each of the schemes released
    their maximum interchange rates. It is difficult to assess at
    this time the extent to which the changes to interchange could
    adversely impact our revenues and profitability in New Zealand.



Regulators have also considered network rules that prohibit
    merchants from surcharging card purchases. In Australia, we have
    seen selective, but increasing, merchant surcharging on our
    Cards in certain industries







The Canadian Competition Bureau has commenced an application
    against Visa and MasterCard under the price maintenance
    provisions of the Canadian Competition Act seeking a remedial
    order prohibiting Visa and MasterCard from entering into,
    enforcing or imposing terms that restrain merchants from certain
    business practices, including encouraging use of lower cost
    methods of payment and discouraging use of credit cards with
    higher card acceptance fees, declining acceptance of certain
    credit cards and surcharging customers who use Visa and
    MasterCard credit cards. While the Competition Bureau did not
    name American Express in its application, this action evidences
    the strong regulatory and judicial focus on this area, which
    could have indirect implications for American Express.



The Canadian Department of Finance requires Amex Bank of Canada
    as well as other payment networks, issuers and acquirers to
    adhere to the Code of Conduct for the Credit and Debit Card
    Industry in Canada which among other things requires increased
    transparency and disclosure of fees in merchant agreements and
    monthly statements, requires 90 days notice of merchant fee
    increases or introduction of new fees and gives merchants the
    right to cancel their contract without penalty after receiving
    such notice, allows differential discounting by merchants
    between forms of payment and payment networks and requires that
    merchants provide their express consent to accept new products
    or services.

U.S. CARD
    SERVICES



As a significant part of our proprietary Card-issuing business,
    our U.S. banking subsidiaries, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB,
    issue a wide range of Card products and services to consumers
    and small businesses in the United States. Our consumer travel
    business, which provides travel services to Cardmembers and
    other consumers, complements our core Card business, as does our
    Global Payment Options business.



The proprietary Card business offers a broad set of card
    products to attract our target customer base. As we continue to
    focus on premium products, the Company’s priority will be
    to drive billed business and average spend per card rather than
    achieve broad growth incards-in-force.Core elements of our strategy are:



•focusing on acquiring and retaining high-spending, creditworthy
    Cardmembers•designing Card products with features that appeal to specific
    customer segments•using strong incentives to drive spending on our various Card
    products, including our Membership
    Rewards®program and other rewards features•using loyalty programs such as Delta SkyMiles, sponsored by our
    co-brand and other partners to drive spending•developing and nurturing wide-ranging relationships with
    co-brand and other partners







•promoting and using incentives for Cardmembers to use their
    Cards in new and expanded merchant categories, including
    everyday spend and traditional cash and check categories•providing exceptional customer service.



In August 2010, J.D. Power and Associates released its
    annual nationwide credit card satisfaction study and ranked
    American Express highest in overall satisfaction among 10 of the
    largest card issuers in the United States, for the fourth
    consecutive year.



Consumer and
    Small Business Services



We offer individual consumer charge Cards such as the American
    Express®Card, the American
    Express®Gold Card, the Platinum
    Card®,

    and the
    Centurion®Card, as well as the
    ZYNC®Card from American Express; revolving credit Cards such as Blue
    from American
    Express®,

    Blue
    Cash®Card from American Express, Blue Sky from American
    Expresssm,

    and Blue Sky Preferred from American
    Expresssm;

    and a variety of Cards sponsored by and co-branded with other
    corporations and institutions, such as the Delta
    SkyMiles®Credit Card from American Express,
    True-Earnings®Card exclusively for Costco members, Starwood Preferred
    Guest®Credit Card and JetBlue Card from American Express.



Centurion
    Bank and AEBFSB as Issuers of Certain Cards



We have two U.S. bank subsidiaries, Centurion Bank and
    AEBFSB, which are wholly owned subsidiaries of TRS. Each bank is
    an FDIC insured depository institution. The activities of
    Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are subject to examination by their
    respective regulators. Both banks take steps to maintain
    compliance programs to address the various safety and soundness,
    internal control and compliance requirements, including
    anti-money laundering requirements that apply to them. You can
    find a further discussion of the anti-money laundering
    initiatives affecting us under “Corporate &
    Other” below.



Certain additional information regarding each bank is set forth
    in the table below:



Centurion BankAEBFSBType of BankUtah-chartered industrial bankFederal savings bankRegulatory SupervisionRegulated, supervised and regularly examined by the Utah
    Department of Financial Institutions and the FDICRegulated, supervised and regularly examined by the OTS, a
    bureau of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, until
    July 21, 2011*; thereafter regulated, supervised and
    regularly examined by the OCC, a bureau of the U.S. Department
    of the Treasury.Types of cards issued•   Consumer credit cards•   Consumer charge cards•   Consumer credit cards (including all
    Co-brand credit cards)•   Consumer charge cards•   All
    OPEN®credit cards and charge cardsMarketing methodsPrimarily direct mail and other remote marketing channels•   Direct mail and other remote marketing
    channels•   In-person selling and third-party
    co-brand partnersRisk-based capital adequacy requirements**, based on Tier One
    risk-based capital, total risk-based capital and Tier One core
    capital ratios at December 31, 2010Well capitalizedWell capitalized***











*July 21, 2011 is the “transfer date” of the
    OTS’s supervisory responsibility for federal savings banks
    to the OCC under Section 311 of Dodd-Frank. The Treasury
    Secretary may extend the transfer date for up to six additional
    months upon finding that an orderly implementation process is
    not feasible by July 21, 2011.**The risk-based capital standards for both the FDIC and OTS are
    substantively identical. Currently, a bank generally is deemed
    to be well capitalized if it maintains a Tier One
    risk-based capital ratio of at least 6%, a total risk-based
    capital ratio of at least 10% and a leverage ratio of at least
    5%. For further discussion regarding capital adequacy, including
    changes to capital adequacy rules, please see “Supervision
    and Regulation — General — Capital
    Adequacy” beginning on page 41.***Since January 2009, AEBFSB has committed to maintain a Total
    capital ratio of no less than 15%.



Charge
    Cards



Our charge Cards, which generally carry no preset spending
    limits, are primarily designed as a method of payment and not as
    a means of financing purchases of goods or services. Charges are
    approved based on a variety of factors including a
    Cardmember’s current spending patterns, payment history,
    credit record, and financial resources. Cardmembers generally
    must pay the full amount billed each month, and no finance
    charges are assessed on the balance. Charge Card accounts that
    are past due are subject, in most cases, to a delinquency
    assessment and, if not brought to current status, may be
    cancelled. The no preset-spending limit andpay-in-fullnature of these products attract high-spending Cardmembers.



The charge Cards also offer several ways for eligible U.S.
    Cardmembers to pay off certain of their purchases over time. The
    Sign &
    Travel®Feature permits eligible U.S. Cardmembers to extend payment
    for airline tickets, cruise ship tickets and other travel
    charges purchased with our charge Cards. The Extended Payment
    Option permits eligible U.S. Cardmembers to extend payment
    for eligible charges above a certain dollar amount.



As part of our effort to deliver additional value for existing
    Cardmembers and to attract new high-spending customers to
    American Express, we launched in 2010 the following three new
    benefits for our Platinum
    Card®and Centurion
    Card®that will provide our consumer and
    OPEN®Cardmembers with improved value and service while traveling:



•a $200 airline fee credit that allows Cardmembers to enroll and
    receive up to $200 annually on incidental fees on their airline
    of choice•a 20% travel bonus benefit that gives back to Cardmembers 20% of
    the points they redeem for travel when they use Membership
    Rewards®Pay With Points•a special version of the new American Express Travel iphone
    application.



We also announced in December 2010 that we will eliminate
    foreign currency transaction fees for U.S. consumer and
    small business Cardmembers who make international purchases with
    their Platinum
    Cards®or
    Centurion®Cards, which is expected to be effective towards the end of the
    first quarter of 2011.



In September 2010, we also announced that Continental Airlines
    will no longer participate in the Airport Club Access program
    for Centurion and Platinum Cardmembers or the Membership Rewards
    points transfer program as of October 1, 2011. However,
    Cardmembers will still be able to redeem points for travel on
    Continental
    Airlines®through Membership Rewards Pay with
    Points®.

    While Continental Airlines was a significant participant in the
    Airport Club Access Program and key redemption partner in our
    Membership Rewards points transfer program, we continue to
    strengthen our relationships with our Cardmembers by enhancing
    the value we provide through our premium offerings and benefits,
    including those listed above.



In May 2010, we launched the
    ZYNC®Card from American Express, a new charge Card with a low annual
    fee of $25. Cardmembers get core charge Card features and
    protections on the base card with the added flexibility to
    select bundles of rewards and benefits called “Packs”
    that are tailored to specific lifestyle interests and spending
    habits in categories such as music, fashion, food, travel and
    more.





Revolving
    Credit Cards



We offer a variety of revolving credit Cards. These Cards have a
    range of different payment terms, interest rate and fee
    structures, rewards programs and Cardmember benefits. Revolving
    credit Card products, such as Blue from American Express, Blue
    Cash from American Express and Blue Sky from American Express,
    provide Cardmembers with the flexibility to pay their bill in
    full each month or carry a monthly balance on their Cards to
    finance the purchase of goods or services. Along with charge
    Cards and co-brand Cards, these revolving credit Cards attract
    affluent Cardmembers and promote increased relevance for our
    expanding merchant network.



In 2010, we launched Blue Sky Preferred from American Express,
    which offers double Blue
    Skysmpoints on hotel, dining and car rental purchases which can be
    redeemed towards travel anywhere, anytime, on any airline with
    no blackout dates or restrictions. In addition, Cardmembers
    receive an annual $100 Airline Allowance for use on airline
    incidental fees (e.g., checked baggage fees, in-flight meals,
    etc.). Blue Sky
    PreferredsmCard is the first proprietary lending product in the Blue Card
    family with an annual fee, diversifying the revenue streams of
    this portfolio.



Co-brand
    Cards





During 2010, we introduced several new innovations to our
    existing products. For example, we launched the First Bag Free
    benefit which allows Gold, Platinum and Reserve Delta SkyMiles
    Credit Card Cardmembers to check their first bag for free on
    Delta Air Lines operated flights. We also launched two new
    benefits on the Starwood Preferred Guest Credit Card and the
    Starwood Preferred Guest Business Credit Card that provides a 5
    night / 2 stay credit so Cardmembers earn elite status
    faster and an exclusive Sheraton Hotels and Resorts offer.



Co-brand
    Partnerships with Financial Services Institutions



We also issue Cards that are marketed under co-brand partnership
    arrangements with financial services partners. Such partnerships
    involve the offering of a standard product (issued by TRS or one
    of its subsidiaries) to customers of the financial services
    partner, generally co-branded with the partner’s name on
    the Card. Under these arrangements, we may make payments to the
    financial services partners that are primarily based on the
    number of accounts acquiredand/orretained through the arrangementand/orthe
    amount of Cardmember spending on such Cards. The duration of
    such arrangements generally ranges from three to seven years.



Card
    Pricing and Account Management



Certain Cards, particularly charge Cards, charge an annual fee
    that varies based on the type of Card and the number of Cards
    for each account. We also offer many revolving credit Cards with
    no annual fee but on which we assess finance charges for
    revolving balances. Depending on the product, we also charge





Cardmembers an annual program fee to participate in the
    Membership Rewards programs and fees for account performance
    (e.g., late fees) or for certain services (e.g., additional
    copies of account statements). We apply standards and criteria
    for creditworthiness to each Cardmember through a variety of
    means both at the time of initial solicitation or application
    and on an ongoing basis during the Card relationship. We use
    sophisticated credit models and techniques in our risk
    management operations. For a further description of our risk
    management policies, please see “Risk Management”
    appearing on page 48 of our 2010 Annual Report to
    Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by
    reference.



Membership
    Rewards®Program



The Membership Rewards program from American Express allows
    Cardmembers to earn one point for virtually every dollar charged
    on eligible, enrolled American Express Cards, and then redeem
    points for a wide array of rewards, including travel, retail
    merchandise, dining and entertainment, financial services and
    even donations to benefit tens of thousands of charities. Points
    generally have no expiration date and there is no limit on the
    number of points one can earn. A large majority of spending by
    eligible Cardmembers earns points under this program.



The U.S. Membership Rewards program has over 150 redemption
    partners and features over 500 merchandise brands. Membership
    Rewards program tiers are aligned with specific Card products to
    better meet Cardmember lifestyle and reward program usage needs.
    American Express Cardmembers participate in one of three
    Membership Rewards program tiers based on the Credit or Charge
    Card they have in their wallet. For those Cardmembers with
    American Express Cards, such as Blue from American Express and
    ZYNC from American Express, we have the Membership Rewards
    Express®program. American Express Charge Cardmembers with American
    Express Green and Gold Cards have the Membership
    Rewards®program. Platinum
    Card®members and
    Centurion®Cardmembers are enrolled in the Membership Rewards
    First®program.



During the year, we enhanced our Membership
    Rewards®program with the introduction of new reward options designed to
    meet customer demand and provide Cardmembers with greater
    breadth and variety as well as utility. For example, we launched
    a new benefit that allows Membership Rewards points to be used
    for purchases on Amazon.com at the point of sale. In addition to
    this redemption option at Amazon, we have added a number of new
    partners to the program that give Cardmembers a broader range of
    opportunities to redeem points, such as Universal Studios Theme
    Parks, Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts, Victoria’s Secret,
    Ruby Tuesday and Zynga. In addition, Cardmembers now have the
    ability to pay for their annual membership fee with Membership
    Rewards points. We believe our Membership Rewards point bank is
    a substantial asset and a competitive advantage, and is moving
    towards becoming a valued virtual currency.



When a Cardmember enrolled in the Membership Rewards program
    uses the Card, we establish reserves to cover the cost of
    estimated future reward redemptions for points earned to date.
    When a Membership Rewards program enrollee redeems a reward
    using Membership Rewards points, we make a payment to the
    Membership Rewards program partner providing the reward pursuant
    to contractual arrangements. Membership Rewards expense is
    driven by Cardmember charge volume, customer participation in
    the program, and contractual arrangements with redemption
    partners. At year end, we estimated that current Cardmembers
    will ultimately redeem approximately 90% of their points. For
    more information on our Membership Rewards program, see
    “Critical Accounting Policies — Reserves for
    Membership Rewards Costs” appearing on page 25 of our
    2010 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is
    incorporated herein by reference.



Membership Rewards continues to be an important driver of
    Cardmember spending and loyalty. We believe, based on historical
    experience, that Cardmembers enrolled in rewards programs yield
    higher spend, stronger credit performance and greater profit for
    us. By offering a broader range of redemption choices, we





have given our Cardmembers more flexibility in the use of their
    rewards points and have favorably affected our average cost per
    point. We continually seek to optimize the overall economics of
    the program and make changes to enhance its value to
    Cardmembers. Our program is also valuable to merchants that
    become redemption partners as we bring them high-spending
    Cardmembers and new marketing channels to reach these
    Cardmembers.



Cardmember
    Special Services and Programs



Throughout the world, our Cardmembers have access to a variety
    of fee-free and fee-based special services and programs,
    depending on the type of Cards they have. Examples of these
    special services and programs include:



•the Membership
    Rewards®program•Automatic Flight Insurance•Premium Return Protection•Premium Baggage Protection•Global
    Assist®Hotline•CreditSecure®•Extended Warranty•Account Protector•Car Rental Loss and Damage Insurance Plan•Online Fraud Protection Guarantee•Purchase Protection Plan•Credit Card Registry•Emergency Card Replacement•My Free Credit Score and Report•Return Protection•Identity Theft Assistance•Manage Your Card Account Online•Event Ticket Protection Plan•Online Year-End Summary•Platinum Office Program•American Express Roadside Assistance Services•Online Money Manager•American Express Bill
    Pay®•Exclusive Access to Cardmember Events•Advanced Ticket Sales





OPEN



In addition to our U.S. Consumer Card business, through
    AEBFSB we are also a leading provider of financial services to
    small businesses (generally, firms with less than
    100 employeesand/orannual sales up to $10 million). American Express OPEN
    (“OPEN”) offers small business owners a wide range of
    tools, services and savings designed to meet their evolving
    needs, including:



•charge and credit cards•fee-based business solutions to help everyday business
    operations such as
    AcceptPay®,

    InsuranceEdgesmand SearchManager•rewards on eligible spend and business relevant redemptions•retail and travel protections such as purchase protection and
    baggage insurance•travel services•3%–10% or more discounts at select suppliers of travel,
    business services, and products through OPEN
    Savings®•expense management reporting•enhanced online account management capabilities•resources to help grow and manage a business through the award
    winning community-driven website, OPEN
    Forum®



All American Express
    OPEN®Cardmembers are automatically enrolled in OPEN
    Savings®,

    a program that offers discounts for all OPEN customers on travel
    and other major business expenses simply by using their American
    Express OPEN Card at participating companies. These savings may
    be combined with any existing discounts or offers.





Some of the highlights of our OPEN business in 2010 include:



•Launch of InsuranceEdge, an integrated solution designed to help
    small business owners research, review, compare and purchase
    commercial insurance appropriate for their business needs.•Launch of SearchManager, a solution that simplifies the way
    business owners can manage their online advertising campaigns.•Launch of a new mobile platform for OPEN Forum.•Expansion of the OPEN Savings program through new partnerships
    with AirTran Airways, OfficeMax, Hewlett Packard and Firedog
    tech support.•Launch and development of the first ever Small Business
    Saturdaysm,

    a day to support local businesses that create jobs, boost the
    economy and preserve neighborhoods around the country by
    providing an incentive for Cardmembers to spend at their local
    businesses.•Expansion of OPEN for Government Contracts: Victory in
    Procurement®(VIP) for Small Business by holding proprietary events across
    the U.S. designed to help business owners access government
    contracts as a means to grow their business.



Card-Issuing
    Business — Competition



Our proprietary Card business encounters substantial and intense
    competition in the United States and internationally. As a card
    issuer, we compete in the United States with financial
    institutions (such as Citibank, Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase,
    and Capital One Financial) that issue general-purpose charge and
    revolving credit cards, and Discover Financial Services, which
    issues the Discover Card on the Discover Business Services
    network. We also encounter competition from businesses that
    issue their own cards or otherwise extend credit to their
    customers, such as retailers and airline associations, although
    these cards are generally accepted only at limited locations.
    Because of continuing consolidations among banking and financial
    services companies and credit card portfolio acquisitions by
    major card issuers, there are now a smaller number of
    significant issuers. The largest competing issuers have
    continued to grow, in several cases by acquiring card
    portfolios, and also by cross-selling through their retail
    branch networks.



In recent years, we have encountered increasingly intense
    competition in the small business sector, as competitors have
    targeted OPEN’s customer base and our leadership position
    in providing financial services and other fee-based solutions to
    small businesses. Competing card issuers offer a variety of
    products and services to attract cardholders, including premium
    cards with enhanced services or lines of credit, airline
    frequent flyer program mileage credits, cash rebates and other
    reward or rebate programs, services for small business owners,
    “teaser” promotional interest rates for both credit
    card acquisition and balance transfers, and co-branded
    arrangements with partners that offer benefits to cardholders.



point-of-sale





be different than it has been in developed markets. Instead of
    migrating from cash to checks to plastic, technology and
    consumer behaviors in these markets may result in the skipping
    of one or more steps to alternative payment mechanisms such as
    mobile payments. For a further discussion of the evolving
    competitive landscape in the payments industry, please see
    “Global Network & Merchant
    Services—Competition” beginning on page 13
    above.



The principal competitive factors that affect the card-issuing
    business include:



•features and the quality of the services, including rewards
    programs, provided to Cardmembers•the number, spending characteristics and credit performance of
    Cardmembers•the quantity, diversity, and quality of the establishments that
    accept Cards•the cost of Cards to Cardmembers•pricing, payment and other Card account terms and conditions•the number and quality of other payment cards and other forms of
    payment available to Cardmembers•the nature and quality of expense management data capture and
    reporting capability•the success of targeted marketing and promotional campaigns•reputation and brand recognition•the ability of issuers to manage credit and interest rate risk
    throughout the economic cycle•the ability of issuers to implement operational and cost
    efficiencies•the quality of customer service.



Financing
    Activities



The Company meets its financing needs through a variety of
    sources, including cash or assets that are readily convertible
    into cash, direct and third-party distributed deposits,
    unsecured medium- and long-term notes, asset securitizations,
    securitized borrowings through a conduit facility and long-term
    committed bank borrowing facilities in certainnon-U.S. markets.



American Express Credit Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary
    of TRS, along with its subsidiaries (“Credco”),
    acquires or finances the majority of charge Card receivables
    arising from the use of corporate Cards issued in the United
    States and consumer and corporate Cards issued in certain
    currencies outside the United States. Credco funds the
    acquisition or financing of receivables principally through the
    sale of medium- and long-term notes. Centurion Bank and AEBFSB
    finance their revolving credit receivables and consumer and
    small business charge card receivables, in part, through the
    sale of medium-term notes and by offering consumer deposits in
    the United States. TRS, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB also fund
    receivables through asset securitization programs. The cost of
    funding Cardmember receivables and loans is a major expense of
    Card operations.



(You can find a discussion of our securitization and other
    financing activities on pages 41-44 under the caption
    “Financial Review,” and Note 7 on
    pages 85-87 of our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders,
    which portions we incorporate herein by reference.) In addition,
    please see“Difficult conditions in the global capital
    markets and economy generally, as well as political conditions
    in the United States and elsewhere, may materially adversely
    affect our business and results of operations”and“Adverse capital and credit market conditions may
    significantly affect the Company’s ability to meet
    liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital”in “Item 1A—Risk Factors” below.



Deposit
    Programs



Our banking subsidiaries offer deposits to individuals through
    third-party brokerage networks as well as directly to consumers.
    As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately
    $29.7 billion in total consumer





deposits. The majority of the Company’s outstanding
    U.S. retail deposits have been raised through third-party
    channels. As part of its funding strategy, a majority of the
    deposits raised during 2010 were sourced directly by the Company
    with consumers through Personal Savings from American Express.
    Our deposit-taking activities compete with other deposit-taking
    organizations that source deposits through telephone, internet
    and other electronic delivery channels, brokerage networks,and/orthrough branch locations. We compete primarily in the deposit
    sectors on the basis of rates and our brand reputation for
    safety and service. We seek to obtain the deposits of new
    customers as well as existing card customers by offering
    attractive rates and marketing our name brand.



direct-to-consumer



Card-Issuing
    Business — Regulation



The charge card and consumer lending businesses are subject to
    extensive regulation. In the United States, we are subject to a
    number of federal laws and regulations, including:



•the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (which generally prohibits
    discrimination in the granting and handling of credit)•the Fair Credit Reporting Act (“FCRA”), as amended by
    the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act (“FACT
    Act”) (which, among other things, regulates use by
    creditors of consumer credit reports and credit prescreening
    practices and requires certain disclosures when an application
    for credit is rejected)•the Truth in Lending Act (“TILA”) (which, among other
    things, requires extensive disclosure of the terms upon which
    credit is granted), including the amendments to TILA that were
    adopted through the enactment of the Fair Credit and Charge Card
    Disclosure Act (which mandates certain disclosures on credit and
    charge card applications)•the Fair Credit Billing Act (which, among other things,
    regulates the manner in which billing inquiries are handled and
    specifies certain billing requirements)•the Electronic Funds Transfer Act (which regulates disclosures
    and settlement of transactions for electronic funds transfers
    including those at ATMs)•the CARD Act (which prohibits certain acts and practices in
    connection with consumer credit card accounts)







•The Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (Title X of
    Dodd–Frank) (which provides for the creation of the
    Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, a new consumer financial
    services regulator)•Regulation Z (which was recently amended by the Federal
    Reserve to extensively revise the open end consumer credit
    disclosure requirements and to implement the requirements of the
    CARD Act)•federal and state laws and regulations that generally prohibit
    engaging in unfair and deceptive business practices.



Certain federal privacy-related laws and regulations govern the
    collection and use of customer information by financial
    institutions (see “Corporate & Other”
    below). Federal legislation also regulates abusive debt
    collection practices. In addition, a number of states, the
    European Union, and many foreign countries in which we operate
    have significant consumer credit protection and disclosure and
    privacy-related laws (in certain cases more stringent than the
    laws of the United States). Bankruptcy and debtor relief laws
    affect us to the extent that such laws result in amounts owed
    being classified as delinquentand/orcharged off as uncollectible. As stated above, card issuers and
    card networks are subject to certain provisions of the Bank
    Secrecy Act as amended by the Patriot Act, with regard to
    maintaining effective anti-money laundering programs. For a
    discussion of these and other regulations and legislation that
    impact our business, please see “Supervision and
    Regulation — General” within
    “Corporate & Other” below.









American
    Express Consumer Travel Network — USA



The American Express Consumer Travel Network — USA
    provides travel, financial and Cardmember services to consumers
    through American Express-owned travel service offices, call
    centers, participating American Express Representatives
    (independently owned travel agency locations that operate under
    the American Express brand) and the Consumer Travel Web site.
    U.S. Consumer Travel has distinguished itself in the luxury
    segment through its Platinum Travel Services and Centurion
    Travel Services, which service the needs of our premium
    Cardmembers and support the exclusive travel benefits that we
    provide for them. These exclusive travel benefits include the
    International Airline Program, which offers international first-
    and or business-class companion tickets on one of 22 world class
    airlines, and the Fine Hotels & Resorts program, which
    is a luxury hotel program offering room upgrades and value-added
    amenities.



®

®

®

®

Travel Weekly’s



Our Consumer Travel Web site, americanexpress.com/travel, offers
    a full range of travel rates and discounts on airfares, hotels,
    car rentals, last-minute deals, cruises and full vacation
    packages. The Web site offers unique American Express Cardmember
    benefits such as an American Express Travel Office locator,
    Travel Specialist finder tools, double Membership
    Rewards®points, and travel planning resources and destination content.
    In addition, Cardmembers are able to Pay With Points by
    redeeming Membership Rewards points for some categories of
    travel through our Web site, as well as through our call centers
    and Travel Offices.



In January 2010, we launched americanexpressfhr.com, allowing
    Platinum Cardmembers to book Fine Hotels & Resorts
    online for the first time. The web site provides details on the
    700+ hotels in the program, including hotel overviews, photos,
    room type descriptions, dining and service information, and any
    special offer details. This site offers our Cardmembers another
    option for booking luxury travel with American Express. In 2010,
    Consumer Travel launched a new ad campaign, “Left
    Behind,” highlighting the unique benefits we offer our
    cardmembers and what they miss out on when they don’t book
    travel through our Consumer Travel Network. In addition, our
    lodging marketing initiatives focused on the lowest rate
    guarantee for all hotel bookings made through Consumer
    Travel’s online site.



American
    Express Consumer Travel Network — USA —
    Competition



Consumer Travel competes with a variety of different competitors
    including traditional “brick and mortar” travel
    agents, credit card issuers offering products with significant
    travel benefits, online travel agents and travel suppliers that
    distribute their products to consumers directly via the Internet
    or telephone-based customer service centers. In recent years we
    have experienced an increasing presence of “niche”
    players that are seeking to capitalize on the growth in the
    luxury travel segment by combining luxury travel offers with
    concierge-type services.





INTERNATIONAL
    CARD SERVICES



We issue our charge and credit Cards in numerous countries
    around the globe. Our geographic scope is widespread and we
    focus primarily on those countries that we believe offer us the
    greatest financial opportunity. For a discussion of Cards issued
    internationally through our GNS partner relationships, please
    see the section “Global Network Services” above.



®



As in the United States, the Membership Rewards programs are a
    strong driver of Cardmember spending in the international
    consumer business. We have more than 1,500 redemption partners
    across our international business, with an average of
    approximately 84 partners in each country; approximately 30% of
    these partners are in the travel industry. Cardmembers can
    redeem their points with more than 40 airlines and over 175
    hotels. Our redemption options include travel, retail
    merchandise, entertainment, shopping and recreation gift
    certificates, experiences, financial services and charity
    rewards. In 2010, we continued to enhance our rewards programs
    in several countries, offering more flexible choices that enable
    Cardmembers to redeem Membership Rewards points more quickly.



We continue to build on the Company’s strengths and look
    for further opportunities to increase our presence
    internationally. In December 2010, we announced that we entered
    into an agreement to acquire Loyalty Partner, a leading
    marketing services company known for the loyalty programs it
    operates in Germany, Poland and India. Loyalty Partner also
    provides analytics, operating platforms and consulting services
    that help merchants grow their businesses. The acquisition will
    deepen our merchant relationships in select countries, add more
    than 34 million consumers to the company’s
    international customer base and expand its range of rewards and
    loyalty marketing services. The acquisition is part of the
    Company’s drive to build and diversify its fee service
    revenues and expand its international presence. The purchase,
    which has received regulatory approval, is expected to close in
    the first quarter of 2011. The transaction, which values the
    company at $660 million (subject to currency movement and
    other adjustments), consists of an upfront cash purchase price
    of $566 million and an additional $94 million equity
    interest that the Company will acquire over the next five years
    at a value based on business performance.



Membership Travel Services International provides premium travel
    and concierge services to our Platinum and Centurion Customers,
    through 24 exclusively dedicated call centers in 23
    international countries. Additionally, Membership Travel
    Services operates 16 proprietary Travel Service Offices in
    Mexico, Italy and Argentina to provide all Cardmembers with
    travel and general card service assistance. We also provide to
    our cardmembers certain foreign exchange, travelers cheque
    services and other cardmember-related services in Travel Service
    Offices in Mexico, Argentina and Italy. We have taken steps to
    enhance our capabilities to sell





exclusively negotiated benefits and luxury travel packages with
    preferred suppliers through the Fine Hotels & Resorts
    Program, American Express Vacations and American Express’
    International Airline Program. Our International Airline
    Program, which is exclusively available to Platinum Card and
    Centurion Cardmembers, allows these Cardmembers to receive
    complimentary companion tickets or a class upgrade when flying
    on qualifying international flights in business or first class.



We expanded the flexibility of payment for travel and concierge
    services by allowing International Consumer Cardmembers to use
    their Membership Rewards points to pay for their travel
    purchases in 15 countries outside the U.S.



International
    Proprietary Consumer Card — Competition



Compared to the United States, consumers outside the United
    States use general-purpose charge and credit cards for a smaller
    percentage of their total payments, with some large emerging
    market countries just beginning to transition to card usage in
    any meaningful way. Although our geographic scope is widespread,
    we generally do not have significant share in the countries in
    which we operate internationally. Our proprietary Card-issuing
    business is subject to competition from multinational banks,
    such as Citibank, HSBC and Banco Santander, as well as many
    local banks and financial institutions. Globally, we view
    Citibank and Banco Santander as our strongest competitors, as
    they currently offer card products in a large number of
    countries.



International
    Proprietary Consumer Card — Regulation



As discussed elsewhere in thisForm 10-K,regulators in 2010 continued to propose and enact a variety of
    regulatory changes to the payments landscape in many of our key
    countries. We expect this activity to continue in 2011.
    Regulators continue to consider developments in the United
    States and other jurisdictions to help inform their policy.
    While the nature of the proposals varies, regulators in a number
    of countries have been focused on pricing, disclosure,
    responsible lending and other card practices and we expect this
    to continue in 2011. For example, in the United Kingdom the
    government adopted a new policy by way of a “white
    paper” setting out several requirements around card
    practices. In the European Economic Area, member states have
    implemented or are in the process of implementing European
    Directive 2008/48/EC on credit agreements for consumers
    (commonly referred to as the Consumer Credit Directive), which
    in some countries will have impacts on charge cards in addition
    to credit cards. Member states have also implemented the Payment
    Services Directive, which regulates the conduct of business of
    payment service providers, including card issuers.



As a consequence, these and perhaps other regulators may
    consider and implement additional card practice regulation in
    2011. We continue to evaluate our business planning in light of
    changing market circumstances and the evolving political,
    economic, regulatory and media environment.

GLOBAL
    COMMERCIAL SERVICES



In our Global Commercial Services (“GCS”) segment, we
    provide expense management services to companies and
    organizations worldwide through Global Commercial Card and
    Global Business Travel Services. American Express is a leading
    global issuer of commercial cards and is also a leading global
    travel management company for businesses. During 2010, we added
    or retained several major Commercial Card clients in the United
    States and internationally, including Eaton, GlaxoSmithKline,
    Pfizer, Eastman Kodak, PPG, Xerox, Oracle, and McDonalds.
    Additionally, in 2010, we added or retained several American
    Express Business Travel clients in the United States and
    internationally, including: HCSC (Health Care Services); AXA
    Canada LTD.; University of Nottingham; FIS; Automatic Data
    Processing Inc.; Motorola Mobility; and Symantec Corporation.





GCS offers a wide range of expense management products and
    services to companies worldwide, including:



•A comprehensive offering of Corporate Card Programs, such as:



–Corporate Cards: issued to individuals through a corporate
    account established by their employer and which many business
    customers use to manage travel and entertainment
    (“T&E”) spending–Corporate Meeting Cards: provided primarily to corporate meeting
    planners as a tool to help companies control their meeting and
    event expenses–Business Travel Accounts (“BTA”): centrally billed to
    and paid directly by corporate clients, BTAs can be used by
    companies to pay for their employees’ travel expenses



•A suite ofBusiness-to-Business(or “B2B”) Payment Solutions, including:



–Corporate Purchasing Card: an account established by companies
    to pay for everyday and large-ticket business expenses such as
    office and computer supplies–vPayment: provides fast and efficient payment for
    business-related purchases and permits the processing of
    transactions with effective fraud controls–Buyer Initiated Payments: an electronic solution for companies
    looking to automate their payment processes.



•American Express Global Business Travel, which helps businesses
    manage and optimize their travel expenses through a variety of
    travel-related products, services and solutions.



Global
    Commercial Card



Global Commercial Card (“GCC”) offers a range of
    expense management solutions to companies worldwide through our
    Corporate Card Programs and ourBusiness-to-BusinessPayment Solutions.



Corporate
    Card Programs



The American
    Express®Corporate Card is a charge card that individuals may obtain
    through a corporate account established by their employer for
    business purposes. Through our Corporate Card Program, companies
    can manage their T&E spending and everyday business
    expenses and improve negotiating leverage with suppliers, among
    other benefits. We use our direct relationships with merchants
    to offer Corporate Card clients superior data about company
    spending, as well as streamlined dispute resolution. We issue
    local currency Corporate Cards in 44 countries and international
    dollar/euro Corporate Cards in 108 countries. We also offer
    Corporate Cards issued through our GNS partner relationships in
    an additional 30 countries. In 2010, we introduced international
    dollar/euro Corporate Cards in an additional 24 countries and
    launched a ruble-based Business Travel Account to Russian
    customers, the first product of its kind in Russian currency.



With the heightened focus on cost containment, many companies
    increasingly are interested in our Corporate Meeting Card
    program, which helps businesses control meeting-related
    expenses. It allows clients to capture meeting spending,
    simplify the payment process, and gain access to data to support
    negotiations with suppliers.



American Express also partners with many other companies around
    the world to offer a number of co-brand Corporate Cards in
    various countries. These products, typically suited for
    mid-sized companies, provide savings on everyday business
    spendingand/orair
    travel. To date, American Express has 15 Corporate Card co-brand
    partnerships worldwide. In 2010, we added the American
    Express®Cathay Pacific Corporate Card, the first co-branded airline
    corporate card in Hong Kong. We also continued to enhance our
    existing co-brand portfolios through the launch of the American
    Express®/ Business

    ExtrAA®Corporate Platinum Card in the United States in 2010.





Business-to-BusinessPayment Solutions



We also offer a series ofBusiness-to-BusinessPayment Solutions to help companies manage B2B spending. This
    type of spending by companies helps to diversify our spend mix.
    These solutions provide a variety of benefits to companies,
    including cost savings, process efficiency, improved cash flow
    and increased visibility, and control and security over business
    expenses. The Corporate Purchasing Card helps large corporations
    and mid-sized companies manage their everyday spending. It is
    used to pay for everyday goods and business expenses, such as
    office supplies, industrial supplies and business equipment in
    27 countries around the world.



vPayment, which offers companies single-use virtual account
    numbers, allows GCC customers to make payments with enhanced
    controls, data capture and reconciliation capabilities. Charges
    are authorized for a specified amount during a specified amount
    of time. The solution automates reconciliation, eliminates
    manual check requests, interfaces easily with a customer’s
    enterprise resource planning (ERP), procurement and accounts
    payable systems, and can be used at one or more stages of theprocurement-to-payablesprocess.



Buyer Initiated Payments allows American Express to pay B2B
    suppliers electronically on behalf of our clients, permitting
    them to manage payments, extend their own days payable
    outstanding (or “float”), and increase their cash on
    hand. Buyer Initiated Payments is currently available to
    companies in the United States and will be offered to companies
    in Canada in 2011. This solution is best suited for mid- to
    large-sized companies that want to transition rapidly to
    electronic payments, reduce supplier inquiries, convert from
    paper to electronic payments, and optimize cash flow. In 2010,
    American Express and SAP AG announced an effort to develop an
    integrated corporate payments solution for joint GCC and SAP
    customers in the United States. The solution will integrate
    SAP’s software solutions into American Express’ Buyer
    Initiated Payments platform to enable“plug-and-play”functionality when integrating Buyer Initiated Payments into the
    client’s Enterprise Resource Planning system, thereby
    reducing the roadblocks that often delay or deter companies from
    adopting electronic payments.



Mid-sized
    Companies



In addition to providing Corporate Card Programs and ourBusiness-to-BusinessPayment Solutions to large and global organizations, GCC markets
    its products and services to mid-sized companies (defined in the
    United States as firms with annual revenues of $10 million
    to $1 billion worldwide). GCC is focused on continuing to
    expand its business with mid-sized companies, which represent
    significant growth opportunities. Businesses of this size often
    do not have a corporate card program. However, once enrolled,
    mid-sized companies typically put a significant portion of their
    business spending on the Corporate Card because they can gain
    control, savings and employee benefits.



In 2010, together with our partner, Concur Technologies Inc., we
    launched Concur Breeze in the United States, a cost-effective
    andeasy-to-manageonline expense reporting service for mid-sized clients that
    automates and streamlines the submission, review, approval and
    departmental allocation of all business expenses. We also
    launched similar versions of this product targeted to mid-sized
    clients in the United Kingdom, Netherlands, Germany and
    Australia in 2010.



GCC offers the Savings at
    Work®Program to mid-sized companies in the United States, as well as
    similar programs globally, which provides companies with cash
    backand/ordiscounted pricing on everyday business products and services,
    such as car rentals, hotels, restaurants and courier services.
    Corporate Cardmembers can also take advantage of our Membership
    Rewards program to earn points that can be redeemed for air
    travel and hotel stays, as well as retail, home, and recreation
    items. Membership Rewards is a powerful tool for encouraging
    Corporate Card usage, leading to greater control and savings.



Online
    Capabilities



GCC offers companies and individual cardmembers the ability to
    manage their Corporate Card Programs on a 24/7 basis through a
    suite of secure web-based online tools. American Express @
    Work®provides clients’ authorized users online access to global
    management information to help them gain visibility into their





spending patterns, as well as the ability to make changes to
    their Corporate Card, Corporate Purchasing Card, Business Travel
    Account (“BTA”) and Corporate Meeting Card accounts.
    Cardmembers can use the online Manage Your Card Account (MYCA)
    tool to manage their individual Card account.



Global
    Commercial Card—Competition



The commercial payments sector is dynamic and highly
    competitive, with competition increasingly intense at both the
    card network and card issuer levels. At the network level, we
    have experienced increasing competition including intense price
    competition, aggressive expansion into new and emerging
    segments, efforts to transitionbusiness-to-businessspend from cash and check to cards and electronic invoicing and
    payment vehicles, and expanding marketing and advertising
    budgets for commercial services. Both Visa and MasterCard
    continue to support card issuers such as U.S. Bank,
    JPMorgan Chase, and Citibank to build and support data
    collection and reporting necessary to satisfy customer
    requirements. Moreover, in the current economic environment, the
    interest in expense management tools is particularly strong, as
    clients aim to capture data, analyze trends and make decisions
    that enhance their cash flow and profitability. Commercial card
    issuers have increasingly acquired technology offerings to
    enhance data capture capabilities and reporting functionality.
    In addition, many issuers attempt to leverage their banking
    relationships and capabilities to secure and retain card
    business. Global servicing, data quality, technological
    functionality and simplicity, customer experience, and price and
    other financial terms are among the key competitive factors in
    the commercial card business.



Global
    Commercial Card—Regulation





Global
    Business Travel



American Express Global Business Travel (“Global Business
    Travel”) provides globally integrated solutions, both
    online and offline, to help organizations manage and optimize
    their travel investments and service their traveling employees.
    With clients ranging from small businesses to multinational
    corporations, these solutions include travel reservation advice
    and transaction processing through a global network that is
    available 24 hours per day; travel expense management
    policy consultation; meeting management, supplier negotiation
    and consultation; advisory services, management information
    reporting, data analysis and benchmarking; and group and
    incentive travel services.



In 2010, we launched several new programs to support our
    corporate clients. These included the launch of
    aXcentissmin key countries globally, which focuses on delivering
    localized, flexible and comprehensive travel management programs
    to small and mid-sized companies with up to $10 million in
    annual travel spending; the entry into a new strategic alliance
    with Concur Technologies Inc., which allows us to offer global
    clients a comprehensive,end-to-endcorporate travel and expense management program, expanding on
    GCC’s pre-existing partnership with Concur; and the launch
    of an online, interactive travel management scorecard to measure
    travel program effectiveness. We continue to evaluate our
    economic model and invest in new products, services and
    technologies to enhance the value that we deliver to our
    customers and address





ongoing travel industry challenges and opportunities. For
    example, we have substantially reduced our reliance on
    commission revenues from suppliers (such as airlines or hotels),
    and now generate revenues primarily from customers who pay for
    the services that we provide.



These services include solutions designed to provide our clients
    with savings, control, services and traveler care. For example,
    we offer customers savings and benefits through the Preferred
    Extrasmsupplier value programs and advisory services, which provide
    preferred supplier rates and consulting solutions in all areas
    of T&E expense management. We also provide comprehensive
    travel expenses insights through global data with our
    aXis@work®solution, which provides real time global data through a single
    on-line interface, enabling clients to gain real time visibility
    into their spending patterns and make real time adjustments to
    their programs and policies for maximum bottom line benefit.



In 2010, we further developed our comprehensive cost-saving
    travel management offerings, including products such as
    mobileXtend, a mobile travel solution that provides travelers
    with various support services. Global Business Travel has moved
    many of its business processes and customer servicing online. In
    the United States, approximately 57.5% of all Global Business
    Travel transactions continue to be processed online. In
    addition, the volume of online transactions is growing in other
    countries around the world.



Global
    Business Travel — Competition



Global Business Travel continues to face intense competition in
    the United States and internationally from numerous traditional
    and online travel management companies, as well as from direct
    sales by airlines and other travel suppliers. Competition among
    travel management companies is mainly based on price, service,
    value creation, convenience, global capabilities and proximity
    to the customer. Competition also comes from corporate customers
    themselves, as some companies have become accredited as in-house
    corporate travel agents. New entrants could also represent
    additional competition along the end to end travel value chain,
    which could impact competition in the medium to long term.



For many years, travel management companies have faced pressure
    on revenues from airlines, as most carriers have stopped paying
    “base” commissions to travel agents for tickets sold
    and significantly reduced other forms of travel agent
    compensation. Carriers have also increased the number of
    transactions they book directly through their Web sites and
    other means. These trends have reduced the revenue opportunities
    for travel management companies because they do not receive
    distribution revenue from directly booked transactions. In
    recent years, the airline industry has undergone bankruptcies,
    restructurings, consolidations and other similar events
    including expanded grants of antitrust immunity to airline
    alliances. This immunity enables airlines to closely coordinate
    their international operations and to launch highly integrated
    joint ventures in transatlantic and other markets. These types
    of structural changes may result in additional challenges to
    travel management companies. For additional information
    concerning these issues, please see “Risk
    Factors —We have agreements with business partners
    in a variety of industries, including the airline industry, that
    represent a significant portion of our business” on
    page 87 below.



Overall, intense competition among travel management companies,
    the ongoing trends of increasing direct sales by airlines, the
    rise of low-cost carriers and ongoing reductions in or
    elimination of airline commissions and fees, continue to put
    pressure on revenue and profitability for travel agents.



Over the last few years we have evolved our business model to
    permit us to charge customers for the services we provide and
    the value we create, and restructured our expense base through
    the rationalization of our call center locations and the
    transitioning of many of our services online. We continue to
    look for new ways to enhance the value we deliver for our
    customers both online and offline. Additionally, we are focusing
    on developing new and innovative products, services and
    technologies, which enhance the value we deliver to our
    customers and suppliers and address ongoing travel industry
    challenges and opportunities.



Global
    Business Travel — Regulation



The Global Business Travel business is subject to domestic and
    international laws applicable to the provision of travel
    services, including licensure requirements, as well as laws and
    regulations regarding





passenger screening and registration such as the Secure Flight
    Rule issued by the U.S. Transportation Security
    Administration. Additionally, we are subject to U.S. state
    data security and breach notification laws and regulations, as
    well as significant data protection laws in the European Union
    and many foreign countries in which we operate. We are also
    subject to bankruptcy and debtor relief laws that can affect our
    ability to collect amounts owed to us.

CORPORATE &
    OTHER



Corporate & Other consists of corporate functions and
    auxiliary businesses, including the Company’s Enterprise
    Growth Group, the Company’s publishing business, as well as
    other company operations. We also discuss information relevant
    to the Company as a whole in this section.



Enterprise
    Growth Group



The Enterprise Growth Group was established to create a digital
    services platform for the company, to expand alternative mobile
    and online payment services, form new partnerships and build new
    revenue streams beyond the traditional card and travel
    businesses. The Enterprise Growth Group will leverage the assets
    and capabilities that exist today and build or acquire the
    talent, businesses and platforms required to deliver new forms
    of growth in the digital world. The Group consists of four core
    business units: Online and Mobile Payments, Emerging Markets,
    Fee Based Services and Global Payment Options (formerly known as
    Global Prepaid).



The Enterprise Growth Group also includes Serve Virtual
    Enterprises, Inc. or “Serve” (formerly known as
    Revolution Money). Since acquiring Serve about a year ago, we
    have been working to transition it from a separate business unit
    into an enterprise wide platform to support future digital
    initiatives. In early 2011, we plan to launch this next
    generation payment platform, rebranded and retooled, as a first
    step toward delivering more alternative payment options,
    includingpeer-to-peerpayments, mobile capabilities, prepaid products, virtual
    currencies and international remittances.



Online
    and Mobile Payments



The Online and Mobile business unit is responsible for
    developing new online and mobile payment capabilities that can
    expand the role we play in the digital world. The team is
    focused on working with the right partners to roll out easy to
    use digital payment solutions for consumers, businesses and
    sellers.



Emerging
    Markets



The Emerging Markets team is responsible for expanding our
    presence in countries like India and China by embracing new
    online and mobile payment technologies and introducing payment
    forms, such as prepaid, that fall outside of our core charge and
    credit cards. This business unit is focused on growing our
    businesses organically, as well as identifying acquisition
    targets and strategic partnerships that can significantly
    increase international revenues.



Fee Based
    Services



The Fee Based Services team within the Enterprise Growth Group,
    as well as our existing businesses, is tasked with identifying
    ways to capitalize on the existing assets of American Express by
    creating business models that can generate new, non-payment
    revenue streams. The Fee Based Services team is responsible for
    supporting our LoyaltyEdge offering, a new business line that
    assists partners, like Delta Airlines, with developing,
    operating, and improving their own loyalty programs.



Global
    Payment Options (formerly known as Global Prepaid)



Global Payment Options (“GPO”) offers a wide range of
    prepaid products across the globe, including the American
    Express®Gift Card, available in over 100,000 locations in the
    U.S. and Canada. Sales of gift cards





continued to rise in 2010, reflecting the growing popularity of
    these products and our efforts to increase buying convenience
    for customers.



GPO also offers a variety of incentive prepaid cards, such as
    prepaid rebate and reward card products, as well as prepaid
    reloadable cards. In May, we launched PASS from American
    Express®,

    a prepaid reloadable card, which is sold and marketed to parents
    as a payment tool for teens and young adults that is an
    alternative to cash, credit or debit cards. In addition we
    launched a prepaid travel card in Australia in August and Brazil
    in December.



In addition, we have been in the business of issuing and selling
    travelers cheques since 1891. We sell the American
    Express®Travelers Cheque (“Travelers Cheque” or
    “Cheque”) as a safe and convenient alternative to
    cash. Travelers Cheques are currently available in
    U.S. dollars and four foreign currencies, including Euros.
    We also issue and sell other forms of paper travelers cheques,
    including American
    Express®Gift Cheques (“Gift Cheques”), which are available in
    U.S. and Canadian dollars. Sales of Travelers Cheques
    continued to decline in 2010.



During 2010 we formed a strategic partnership with the Bank of
    China to launch the American Express Chinese Yuan Travelers
    Cheques, the world’s first Yuan prepaid travel product and
    available for international travelers visiting China from
    certain key countries around the world.



We sell American Express prepaid products through a variety of
    channels, including sales directly to customers via phone and
    the Internet. Travelers Cheques and Gift Cheques are sold
    primarily through a broad network of selling outlets worldwide,
    including American Express travel offices, limited independent
    agents and third-party financial institutions. Gift cards are
    available at americanexpress.com, in most malls and retail
    locations and in many bank branches.



The Global Foreign Exchange Services division (“GFES”)
    of GPO consists of retail and wholesale foreign exchange
    services and FX International Payments (“FXIP”). Other
    than in Australia and Singapore, where we operate foreign
    exchange offices in city locations and through selected partner
    locations, we concentrate our retail foreign exchange business
    in key international airports, for example at London Heathrow in
    the United Kingdom, Barajas Madrid in Spain and Changi Airport
    in Singapore. For corporate clients, our FXIP online product
    allows companies and financial institutions to make cross-border
    payments in major foreign currencies at competitive exchange
    rates.



For fiscal periods ended on or prior to December 31, 2010,
    the results of operations of GFES were included within the GCS
    reportable operating segment. Effective January 1, 2011,
    the results of operations of GFES will be reported as part of
    GPO within the Corporate & Other Segment. This
    organizational change is part of the Company’s strategy to
    accelerate the growth of foreign-exchange related activities in
    new payment areas.



Global
    Payment Options — Competition



Our products compete with a wide variety of financial payment
    products including cash, foreign currency, checks, other brands
    of travelers cheques, debit, prepaid and ATM cards, store
    branded gift cards, other network branded cards and other
    payment cards.



The principal competitive factors affecting the prepaid sector
    are:



•the number and location of merchants willing to accept the form
    of payment•the availability to the consumer of other forms of payment•the amount of fees charged to the consumer•the compensation paid to, and frequency of settlement by,
    selling outlets•the accessibility of sales and refunds for the products•the success of marketing and promotional campaigns•the ability to service the customer satisfactorily, including
    for lost or stolen instruments.







Global
    Payment Options — Regulation



As an issuer of travelers cheques and prepaid cards and a
    provider of foreign exchange services, we are regulated in the
    United States under the “money transmitter” or
    “sale of check” laws in effect in most states. These
    laws require travelers cheque (and, where applicable, prepaid
    card) issuers, as well as providers of foreign exchange
    services, to obtain licenses, to meet certain safety and
    soundness criteria, to hold outstanding proceeds of sale in
    highly rated and secure investments, and to provide detailed
    reports. We invest the proceeds from sales of our Travelers
    Cheques and prepaid cards in accordance with applicable law,
    predominantly in highly rated debt securities consisting
    primarily of intermediate- and long-term federal, state and
    municipal obligations. Many states examine licensees annually.



In addition, federal anti-money laundering regulations require,
    among other things, the registration of traveler cheque issuers
    and the providers of foreign exchange services as “Money
    Service Businesses” and compliance with applicable
    anti-money laundering recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
    Outside the United States, there are varying licensing and
    anti-money laundering requirements, including some that are
    similar to those in the United States.



Travelers cheque issuers are required by the laws of many states
    to comply with state unclaimed and abandoned property laws under
    which such issuers must pay to states the face amount of any
    travelers cheque that is uncashed or unredeemed after a period
    of time, usually 15 years. The abandoned property laws of
    numerous states also apply to prepaid cards in a variety of ways.



In May 2009, the CARD Act amended provisions of the Electronic
    Funds Transfer Act to impose new restrictions on the terms of
    gift cards and certain other prepaid cards, including
    restrictions on the fees that may be charged, expiration dates,
    and consumer disclosures. The Federal Reserve issued final
    regulations to implement the CARD Act gift card provisions that
    became effective in August 2010. Congress thereafter passed
    legislation that extended the August 2010 effective date of the
    CARD Act gift card provisions to January 2011 for gift cards
    produced prior to April 1, 2010, provided certain
    conditions are met. We continue to monitor state legislative
    activity restricting the terms of gift cards. In certain states
    where regulation continues to restrict fees and has made it
    unprofitable for us to offer gift cards, we have limited or
    withdrawn from selling these cards.



In June 2010, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, an
    enforcement agency of the U.S. Department of the Treasury,
    issued a notice of proposed rule making that proposes a
    number of changes to its regulation of the prepaid industry. In
    general, the proposed rule redefines the term “stored
    value” more broadly and renames this group of products
    “prepaid access.” The three traditional categories of
    stored value participants, “issuers, sellers and redeemers
    of stored value,” are now consolidated into two groups,
    “providers and sellers of prepaid access.” With
    limited exceptions, the proposed rule imposes suspicious
    activity reporting, customer identification, and record keeping
    requirements on the two newly defined groups, which could mean
    non-bank program managers and retailers would have to develop
    and maintain AML programs that were not previously required. The
    public comment period for the proposed rule closed on
    August 27, 2010. We are awaiting issuance of the final rule
    and will analyze its impact on our current products once the
    final rule is issued.



Please see “Global Network & Merchant
    Services — Regulation”on page 14 for a
    discussion of the Federal Reserve’s proposed rules under
    Dodd-Frank to establish, among other things, interchange fee
    limitation rules for debit or prepaid gift card transactions,
    and to prohibit exclusive network routing restrictions for
    electronic debit transactions (which applies to all prepaid
    cards).



American
    Express Publishing



Through American Express Publishing, we publish: luxury
    lifestyle magazines such as Travel +
    Leisure®,

    Food &
    Wine®,

    Departures®and Black
    Ink®;

    travel resources such as
    SkyGuide®;

    business resources such as the American Express Appointment Book
    and SkyGuide Executive Travel, a business traveler supplement; a
    variety of general interest, cooking, travel, wine, cocktail,
    financial and time management books; branded membership
    services; a growing roster of international and electronic
    editions of our magazines, and branded mobile applications; as
    well as directly sold and licensed products. American Express
    Publishing also has a





custom publishing group and is expanding its service-driven Web
    sites and applications for mobile devices such as:
    travelandleisure.com, foodandwine.com, departures.com,
    tlgolf.com, tlfamily.com and eskyguide.com. We have an agreement
    with Time Inc. under which it manages our publishing business,
    and we share profits relating to this business.



The
    Global Services Group



The Global Services Group (“Global Services”) was
    created to heighten the company’s focus on customer service
    and to ensure all business operations are managed as effectively
    and efficiently as possible. We have organized support functions
    by process rather than business unit, which the Company expects
    will streamline costs, reduce duplication of work, better
    integrate skills and expertise, and improve customer service.



Global Services is comprised principally of the following
    divisions:



World
    Service



Our U.S. and international service organizations have been
    consolidated under World Service. Our customer service units
    have worked over a number of years to ensure outstanding service
    to customers, while at the same time improving operating
    margins. As mentioned earlier in this Report, J.D. Power
    and Associates released its annual nationwide credit card
    satisfaction study and ranked American Express highest in
    overall satisfaction among 10 of the largest card issuers in the
    United States for the fourth consecutive year.



Global
    Business Services



The Global Business Services division is principally comprised
    of procurement, real estate, human resources processing and
    financial processing. These internal process-driven activities
    have been consolidated to simplify and standardize processes for
    increased quality, efficiency and cost savings.



Global
    Credit Administration



Global Credit Administration (“GCA”) is responsible
    for theend-to-endmanagement of our credit, collections, and fraud operations
    around the world. GCA aims to strike the right balance between
    helping Cardmembers in need through a range of workout programs,
    and taking actions to prevent spending that will not be paid
    back to American Express.



Technologies



We continue to make significant investments, both in the United
    States and internationally, in our Card systems and
    infrastructure to allow faster introduction and greater
    customization of products. We also are using technology to
    develop and improve our service capabilities to continue to
    deliver a high quality customer experience. For example, we
    maintain a service delivery platform that our employees use in
    the Card business to support a variety of customer servicing and
    account management activities such as account maintenance,
    updating of Cardmember information, the addition of new Cards to
    an account and resolving customer satisfaction issues. In
    international markets, we are enhancing our global platforms and
    capabilities, such as in revolving credit.



We continue to leverage the Internet to lower costs, improve
    service quality and enhance our business model. During 2010, we
    continued to broaden our focus to use the Internet to drive
    revenue and build our brand, while continuing to migrate
    transaction volumes at lower costs. We also continue to have
    more online customer service interactions in the United States
    than we do by telephone or in person.



As of year-end, customers had enrolled approximately
    30 million Cards globally in our online account management
    capability known as the “Manage Your Card Account”
    service. This service enables Cardmembers to review all of their
    card transactions online, pay their American Express bills
    electronically, view and service their Membership Rewards
    program accounts and conduct various other functions quickly and
    securely online. We now have an online presence in 24 countries
    around the world, including the United Kingdom, Australia,
    Italy, France, Mexico and Japan. We continue to devote
    substantial resources to our technology





platform to ensure the highest level of data integrity, security
    and privacy. We are one of the founders of PCI SSC, an
    independent standards-setting organization that manages the
    evolution of technical data security standards. We also are an
    owner-member of EMVCo, the standards body that manages,
    maintains, and enhances specifications for chip-based payment
    cards and acceptance devices, includingpoint-of-saleterminals. (For a discussion of these organizations, see the
    “Global Merchant Services” section above.)



We have outsourced most of our technology infrastructure
    management and application development and maintenance to third
    party service providers to enable us to benefit from their
    expertise while lowering our information technology costs per
    transaction. However, our internal IT organization continues to
    retain the Company’s key technology competencies, including
    information technology strategy, information security, managing
    strategic relationships with technologies’ partners, data
    center operations, technology architecture and engineering,
    oversight of application and database development and
    maintenance, and managing the technology portfolios of our
    businesses.

Supervision
    and Regulation — General



Overview



Federal and state banking laws, regulations and policies
    extensively regulate the Company, TRS, Centurion Bank and
    AEBFSB, including prescribing standards relating to capital,
    earnings, liquidity, dividends, the repurchase or redemption of
    shares, loans or extension of credit to affiliates and insiders,
    internal controls, information systems, internal audit systems,
    loan documentation, credit underwriting, asset growth and
    impaired assets, among other things. Such laws and regulations
    are intended primarily for the protection of depositors, other
    customers and the federal deposit insurance funds, as well as to
    minimize systemic risk, and not for the protection of our
    shareholders or creditors. Following the financial crisis of
    2008, supervisory efforts to apply these laws, regulations and
    policies have become more intense.



American Express Company and TRS are bank holding companies
    under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (“BHC Act”)
    and have elected to be treated as financial holding companies
    under the BHC Act. As a bank holding company under the BHC Act,
    the Company is subject to supervision and examination by the
    Federal Reserve. Under the system of “functional
    regulation” established under the BHC Act, the Federal
    Reserve supervises the Company, including all of its non-bank
    subsidiaries, as an “umbrella regulator” of the
    consolidated organization and generally defers to the primary
    U.S. regulators of the Company’s U.S. depository
    institution subsidiaries, as applicable. Bank regulatory
    agencies have broad examination and enforcement power over bank
    holding companies and their subsidiaries, including the power to
    impose substantial fines, limit dividends, restrict operations
    and acquisitions and require divestitures. Bank holding
    companies and banks, as well as subsidiaries of both, are
    prohibited by law from engaging in practices that the relevant
    regulatory authority deems unsafe or unsound.



Many aspects of our business are also subject to rigorous
    regulation by other U.S. federal and state regulatory
    agencies and securities exchanges and bynon-U.S. governmentagencies or regulatory bodies and securities exchanges. Certain
    of our public disclosure, internal control environment and
    corporate governance principles are subject to the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”) and
    related regulations and rules of the SEC and the New York Stock
    Exchange, Inc. As a global financial institution, to the extent
    that different regulatory systems impose overlapping or
    inconsistent requirements on the conduct of our business, we
    face complexity and additional costs in our compliance efforts.



The
    Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
    Act



Dodd-Frank, which was enacted in July 2010, significantly
    restructures the financial regulatory regime in the United
    States, including through the creation of a new systemic risk
    oversight body, the Financial Stability Oversight Council
    (“FSOC”). The FSOC will oversee and coordinate the
    efforts of the primary U.S. financial regulatory agencies
    (including the Federal Reserve, the SEC, the U.S. Commodity
    Futures Trading Commission, the OCC and the FDIC) in
    establishing regulations to address financial stability
    concerns. Dodd-Frank directs the FSOC to make recommendations to
    the Federal Reserve as to supervisory requirements and
    prudential standards applicable to bank holding companies with
    $50 billion or more in total consolidated





assets, which includes the Company, and other systemically
    important financial institutions. The standards include capital,
    leverage, liquidity and risk-management requirements. Dodd-Frank
    mandates that the requirements applicable to systemically
    important financial institutions be more stringent than those
    applicable to other financial companies.



The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
    Consumer Protection Act may have a significant adverse impact on
    our business, results of operations and financial
    condition”

Banks, card issuers and card network
    operators generally are the subject of increasing global
    regulatory focus, which may impose costly new compliance burdens
    on our Company and lead to decreased transaction volumes and
    revenues through our network”



Consumer
    Financial Protection Act of 2010



As mentioned above, the CFPA provides for the creation of the
    Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “Bureau”), a
    new consumer financial services regulator. As of July 21,
    2011, but subject to a possible six-month extension, our
    marketing and sale of consumer financial products and our
    compliance with certain federal consumer financial laws,
    including the CFPA and the Truth in Lending Act, will be
    supervised and examined by the Bureau. On that date, the Bureau
    will assume responsibility from our current banking regulators
    for supervision and examination of Centurion Bank, AEBFSB, and
    their affiliates, including the Company, with respect to such
    federal consumer financial laws. The Bureau will have authority
    to take enforcement actions against us for violation of those
    laws and also will have exclusive rulemaking authority for such
    federal consumer financial laws. In the interim, the federal
    banking agencies have been vigorously enforcing consumer
    protection laws.



The Bureau also will be directed to prohibit “unfair,
    deceptive or abusive” acts and practices and to ensure that
    all consumers have access to markets for consumer financial
    products and services, and that such markets are fair,
    transparent and competitive. The new legislation also weakens
    federal preemption available to federal savings associations,
    including AEBFSB, and gives state attorneys general the ability
    to enforce applicable federal consumer protection laws.



Financial
    Holding Company Status and Activities



The BHC Act limits the nonbanking activities of bank holding
    companies. Unless a bank holding company has qualified as a
    “financial holding company,” its nonbanking activities
    are restricted to those that the Federal Reserve has determined
    are “so closely related to banking as to be a proper
    incident thereto.” An eligible bank holding company may
    elect to be a financial holding company, which is authorized to
    engage in a broader range of financial activities. A financial
    holding company may engage in any activity that has been
    determined by rule or order to be financial in nature,
    incidental to such financial activity, or (with prior Federal
    Reserve approval) complementary to a financial activity and that
    does not pose a substantial risk to the safety or soundness of a
    depository institution or to the financial system generally.
    American Express





engages in various activities permissible only for a bank
    holding company that has elected to be treated as a financial
    holding company, including in particular providing travel agency
    services, acting as a finder and engaging in certain insurance
    underwriting and agency services.





Please see “Our business is subject to significant and
    extensive government regulation and supervision which could
    adversely affect our results of operations and financial
    condition” in “Item 1A—Risk
    Factors” below.



Heightened
    Prudential Requirements for Large Bank Holding
    Companies



As discussed above, Dodd-Frank creates a new systemic risk
    oversight body, the FSOC, to identify, monitor and address
    potential threats to U.S. financial stability.
    Additionally, Dodd-Frank imposes heightened prudential
    requirements on bank holding companies with at least
    $50 billion in total consolidated assets, including the
    Company, and requires the Federal Reserve to establish
    prudential standards for such large bank holding companies that
    are more stringent than those applicable to other bank holding
    companies, including standards for risk-based capital
    requirements and leverage limits, liquidity, risk-management
    requirements, resolution plans (referred to as “living
    wills”), credit exposure reporting, and concentration. The
    Federal Reserve has discretionary authority to establish
    additional prudential standards, on its own or at the
    FSOC’s recommendation, regarding contingent capital,
    enhanced public disclosures, short-term debt limits and
    otherwise as it deems appropriate.



Dodd-Frank requires the Federal Reserve to conduct annual
    analyses of bank holding companies with at least
    $50 billion in total consolidated assets to evaluate
    whether the companies have sufficient capital on a total
    consolidated basis necessary to absorb losses as a result of
    adverse economic conditions. In addition, such large bank
    holding companies, including the Company, must conduct similar
    so-called “stress tests” on a semiannual basis.
    Furthermore, such large bank holding companies may be required
    to maintain adebt-to-equityratio of no more than 15 to 1 upon a determination by the FSOC
    that the company poses a grave threat to the financial stability
    of the U.S. and the imposition of such requirement is
    necessary to mitigate the posed threat.



As noted above, Dodd-Frank will require us to prepare and
    provide to regulators a resolution plan that must, among other
    things, ensure that our depository institution subsidiaries are
    adequately protected from risks arising from our other
    subsidiaries. The establishment and maintenance of this
    resolution plan may, as a practical matter, present additional
    constraints on transactions and business arrangements between
    our bank and non-bank subsidiaries.





Activities
    and Acquisitions



The BHC Act requires a bank holding company to obtain the prior
    approval of the Federal Reserve before: (1) it may acquire
    direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of
    any bank or savings and loan association, if after such
    acquisition, the bank holding company will directly or
    indirectly own or control more than 5% of any class of the
    voting securities of the institution; (2) it or any of its
    subsidiaries, other than a bank, may acquire all or
    substantially all of the assets of any bank or savings and loan
    association; or (3) it may merge or consolidate with any
    other bank holding company.



The Federal Reserve must approve certain additional capital
    contributions to an existingnon-U.S. investmentand certain direct and indirect acquisitions by the Company of
    an interest in anon-U.S. company,including in a foreign bank, as well as the establishment by
    Centurion Bank of foreign branches in certain circumstances.
    Additionally, a provision of Dodd-Frank that became effective on
    the day of enactment requires bank holding companies with total
    consolidated assets equal to or greater than $50 billion to
    provide the Federal Reserve with written notice prior to
    acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting
    shares of any company (other than an insured depository
    institution) that is engaged in financial activities described
    in section 4(k) of the BHC Act and that has total
    consolidated assets of $10 billion or more, subject to
    certain exceptions. Moreover, another provision of Dodd-Frank
    that is effective on the transfer date of July 21, 2011,
    but subject to a possible six-month extension, requires
    financial holding companies to obtain Federal Reserve approval
    prior to acquiring a nonbank company with total consolidated
    assets in excess of $10 billion.



The Change in Bank Control Act prohibits a person, entity, or
    group of persons or entities acting in concert, from acquiring
    “control” of a bank holding company such as the
    Company unless the Federal Reserve has been given prior notice
    and has not objected to the transaction. Under Federal Reserve
    regulations, the acquisition of 10% or more of a class of voting
    stock of the Company would generally create a rebuttable
    presumption of acquisition of control of the Company.



In addition, under the BHC Act, any company is required to
    obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve before acquiring
    control of the Company, which, among other things, includes the
    acquisition of ownership of or control over 25% or more of any
    class of voting securities of the Company or the power to
    exercise a “controlling influence” over the Company.
    In the case of an acquirer that is a bank or bank holding
    company, the BHC Act requires approval of the Federal Reserve
    for the acquisition of ownership or control of any voting
    securities of the Company, if the acquisition results in the
    bank or bank holding company controlling more than 5% of the
    outstanding shares of any class of voting securities of the
    Company.



Source of
    Strength



Federal Reserve policy historically has required bank holding
    companies to act as a source of strength to their bank
    subsidiaries and to commit capital and financial resources to
    support those subsidiaries. Dodd-Frank makes this a statutory
    requirement and extends it to all insured depository institution
    subsidiaries beginning on July 21, 2011, subject to a
    possible six-month extension. Therefore, the Company is expected
    to act as a source of strength to Centurion Bank and AEBFSB and
    to commit capital and financial resources to support both
    institutions. Such support may be required at times when, absent
    this requirement, we otherwise might determine not to
    provide it.



Capital loans by a bank holding company to any of its subsidiary
    banks are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to
    certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary banks. In the
    event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, any
    commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank
    regulator to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be
    assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of
    payment.



Capital
    Adequacy



The Company, TRS, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are required to
    comply with the applicable capital adequacy guidelines
    established by the federal banking regulators. There are two
    risk-based measures of





capital adequacy for bank holding companies that have been
    promulgated by the Federal Reserve, as well as a leverage
    measure.



The Company currently calculates its risk-based capital ratios
    under guidelines adopted by the Federal Reserve, based on the
    1998 Capital Accord (“Basel I”) of the Basel Committee
    on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”). In
    June 2004, the Basel Committee published new international
    guidelines for determining regulatory capital (“Basel
    II”). In December 2007, the U.S. bank regulatory
    agencies jointly adopted a final rule based on Basel II. The
    Company, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are required to transition to
    the Basel II based guidelines no later than January 1,
    2013, unless extended by its regulators. In December 2010, the
    Basel Committee released its final framework for strengthening
    international capital and liquidity regulation, now officially
    identified by the Basel Committee as “Basel III”.
    Basel III, when implemented by the U.S. banking agencies
    and fully phased-in, will require bank holding companies and
    their bank subsidiaries to maintain substantially more capital,
    with a greater emphasis on common equity. Each Basel Accord is
    discussed below.





For additional information regarding our capital ratios, please
    see “Consolidated Capital Resources and Liquidity” on
    pages 39-41 of our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders,
    which information is incorporated herein by reference.



Basel
    I



The Company, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB currently calculate
    regulatory capital ratios under Basel I, as adopted by the
    applicable federal bank regulatory agencies. Under Basel I,
    as adopted, the minimum guideline for the ratio of total capital
    to risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance-sheet
    items, such as standby letters of credit) is 8%. At least half
    of the total capital must be composed of Tier 1 capital,
    which includes common equity, undivided profits, minority
    interests in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries
    (including, for bank holding companies but not banks, trust
    preferred securities), non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock
    and for bank holding companies (but not banks) a limited amount
    of cumulative perpetual preferred stock, less goodwill and
    certain other intangible assets. Tier 2 capital may consist
    of, among other things, qualifying subordinated debt,
    mandatorily convertible debt securities, other preferred stock
    and trust preferred securities and a limited amount of the
    allowance for loan losses. Non-cumulative perpetual preferred
    stock, trust preferred securities and other so-called
    “restricted core capital elements” are generally
    limited to 25% of Tier 1 capital. The minimum guideline for
    the ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets is 4%.





The risk-based capital rules state that the capital guidelines
    are minimum standards based primarily on broad credit-risk
    considerations and do not take into account the other types of
    risk a banking organization may be exposed to (e.g., interest
    rate, market, liquidity and operational risks). The Federal
    Reserve may, therefore, set higher capital requirements for
    categories of banks (e.g., systematically important firms), or
    for an individual bank, as situations warrant.



Basel
    II



The U.S. Basel II final rule became effective on
    April 1, 2008. The Company, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are
    required to transition to the Basel II-based guidelines by
    January 1, 2013,unless extended by its regulators. The
    final rule provides for a series of three transitional periods
    during which the Company must calculate its risk-based capital
    ratios under both the Basel I-based guidelines and the new Basel
    II-based guidelines, with the minimum capital requirements
    during the transitional periods being the greater of the
    required capital as calculated under the final rule and a
    designated percentage of required capital as calculated under
    Basel I. Prior to beginning the three transitional periods, we
    must complete a satisfactory parallel-run period of no less than
    four consecutive calendar quarters during which we will be
    required to confidentially report regulatory capital under both
    the Basel I and Basel II regulations. Under the final rule,
    we must begin the first transitional period for capital
    calculation under the final rule no later than January 1,
    2013, unless this time is extended by the Federal Reserve.



Dodd-Frank appears to require the Federal Reserve to adopt
    regulations imposing a continuing “floor” of the Basel
    I-based capital guidelines in cases where the Basel II-based
    capital requirements and any changes in capital regulations
    resulting from Basel III otherwise would permit lower
    requirements. In December 2010, the Federal Reserve published
    for comment proposed regulations implementing this requirement.



Leverage
    Requirement



Basel I and Basel II do not include a leverage requirement
    as an international standard. However, the Federal Reserve has
    established minimum leverage ratio guidelines for bank holding
    companies (and, as further discussed below, Basel III will
    impose a leverage requirement as an international standard). The
    Federal Reserve’s existing guidelines provide for a minimum
    ratio of Tier 1 capital to average total assets, less
    goodwill and certain other intangible assets (the “Leverage
    Ratio”), of 3% for bank holding companies that meet certain
    specified criteria, including having the highest regulatory
    rating. All other bank holding companies generally are required
    to maintain a Leverage Ratio of at least 4%.



Basel
    III



The Basel III final capital framework, among other things:



•introduces as a new capital measure “Common Equity
    Tier 1”,or “CET1”, specifies that
    Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 and “Additional
    Tier 1 capital” instruments meeting specified
    requirements, defines CET1 narrowly by requiring that most
    adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and
    not to the other components of capital, and expands the scope of
    the adjustments as compared to existing regulations;•when fully phased in on Jan. 1, 2019, requires banks to
    maintain:



–as a newly adopted international standard, a minimum ratio of
    CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a 2.5%
    “capital conservation buffer”, which is added to the
    4.5% CET1 ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively
    resulting in a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of
    at least 7% (there is no comparable CET1 requirement under Basel
    I or II)–a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets
    of at least 6.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer, which is
    added to the 6.0% Tier 1 capital ratio as that buffer is
    phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum Tier 1
    capital ratio of 8.5% upon full implementation (the current
    requirement is 6.00% for a well capitalized bank)







–a minimum ratio of Total (that is, Tier 1 plus
    Tier 2) capital to risk-weighted assets of at least
    8.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer, which is added to
    the 8.0% total capital ratio as that buffer is phased in,
    effectively resulting in a minimum total capital ratio of 10.5%
    upon full implementation (the current requirement is 10% for a
    well capitalized bank) and–as a newly adopted international standard, a minimum leverage
    ratio of 3%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to
    balance sheet exposures plus certain off-balance sheet exposures
    (as the average for each quarter of the month-end ratios for the
    quarter) and



•provides for a “countercyclical capital buffer”,
    generally to be imposed when national regulators determine that
    excess aggregate credit growth becomes associated with a buildup
    of systemic risk, that would be a CET1 add-on to the capital
    conservation buffer in the range of 0% to 2.5% when fully
    implemented (potentially resulting in total buffers of between
    2.5% and 5%).



The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses
    during periods of economic stress. Banking institutions with a
    ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but
    below the conservation buffer (or below the combined capital
    conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, when the
    latter is applied) will face constraints on dividends, equity
    repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the
    shortfall.



The implementation of the Basel III final framework will
    commence January 1, 2013. On that date, banking
    institutions will be required to meet the following minimum
    capital ratios:



•3.5% CET1 to risk-weighted assets;•4.5% Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets; and•8.0% Total capital to risk-weighted assets.



The Basel III final framework provides for a number of new
    deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for
    example, the requirement that mortgage servicing rights,
    deferred tax assets dependent upon future taxable income and
    significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities
    be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category
    exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such categories in the aggregate
    exceed 15% of CET1. The amount of these assets that is not
    deducted from CET1 will be risk weighted at 250%.



Implementation of the deductions and other adjustments to CET1
    will begin on January 1, 2014 and will be phased-in over a
    five-year period (20% per year). The implementation of the
    capital conservation buffer will begin on January 1, 2016
    at 0.625% and be phased in over a four-year period (increasing
    by that amount on each subsequent January 1, until it
    reaches 2.5% on January 1, 2019).







Liquidity
    Ratios under Basel III



30-day



Prompt
    Corrective Action





The FDIA generally prohibits an FDIC-insured depository
    institution from making any capital distribution (including
    payment of dividends) or paying any management fee to its
    holding company if the depository institution would thereafter
    be undercapitalized. Undercapitalized depository institutions
    are subject to restrictions on borrowing from the Federal
    Reserve and to growth limitations, and are required to submit a
    capital restoration plan. For a capital restoration plan to be
    acceptable, any holding company must guarantee the capital plan
    up to an amount equal to the lesser of 5% of the depository
    institution’s assets at the time it became undercapitalized
    and the amount of the capital deficiency at the time it fails to
    comply with the plan. In the event of the holding company’s
    bankruptcy, such guarantee would take priority over claims of
    its general unsecured creditors. If a depository institution
    fails to submit an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is
    significantly undercapitalized.



Significantly undercapitalized depository institutions may be
    subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including
    orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately
    capitalized, requirements to reduce total assets and cessation
    of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. Critically
    undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to
    appointment of a receiver or conservator.





Dividends



The Company and TRS as well as Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are
    limited by banking statutes and regulations in their ability to
    pay dividends. In general, federal and applicable state banking
    laws prohibit, without first obtaining regulatory approval,
    insured depository institutions, such as Centurion Bank and
    AEBFSB, from making dividend distributions if such distributions
    are not paid out of available recent earnings or would cause the
    institution to fail to meet capital adequacy standards. In
    addition to specific limitations on the dividends that
    subsidiary banks can pay to their holding companies, federal
    regulators could prohibit a dividend that would constitute an
    unsafe or unsound banking practice in light of the financial
    condition of the banking organization.



Dividend payments by the Company and TRS to shareholders are
    subject to the oversight of the Federal Reserve. It is Federal
    Reserve policy that bank holding companies generally should pay
    dividends on common stock to common shareholders only out of net
    income available to common shareholders over the past year and
    only if the prospective rate of earnings retention appears
    consistent with the organization’s current and expected
    future capital needs, asset quality, and overall financial
    condition. Moreover, bank holding companies should not maintain
    dividend levels that place undue pressure on the capital of
    depository institution subsidiaries or that may undermine the
    bank holding company’s ability to be a source of strength
    to its banking subsidiaries. The Federal Reserve could prohibit
    a dividend by the Company or TRS that would constitute an unsafe
    or unsound banking practice in light of the financial condition
    of the banking organization.





Transactions
    between Centurion Bank or AEBFSB and Their Respective
    Affiliates



Certain transactions (including loans and credit extensions from
    Centurion Bank and AEBFSB) between Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, on
    the one hand, and their affiliates (including the Company, TRS
    and their non-bank subsidiaries), on the other hand, are subject
    to quantitative and qualitative limitations, collateral
    requirements, and other restrictions imposed by statute and
    Federal Reserve regulation. Effective July 21, 2012
    (subject to a six-month extension) Dodd-Frank significantly
    expands the coverage and scope of the limitations on affiliate
    transactions within a banking organization and changes the
    procedure for seeking exemptions from these restrictions.
    Transactions subject to these restrictions are generally
    required to be made on an arms-length basis. These restrictions
    generally do not apply to transactions between a depository
    institution and its subsidiaries.



FDIC
    Insurance Assessments



Centurion Bank and AEBFSB accept deposits, and those deposits
    are insured by the FDIC up to the applicable limits. The
    FDIC’s deposit insurance fund (“Deposit Insurance
    Fund”) is funded by assessments on insured depository
    institutions, which currently depend on the risk category of an
    institution and the amount of





insured deposits that the institution holds. The FDIC may
    increase or decrease the assessment rate schedule on a
    semi-annual basis.



As part of its efforts to rebuild the Deposit Insurance Fund,
    the FDIC required insured depository institutions, including
    Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, to prepay their estimated assessments
    for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 on December 30, 2009.



Dodd-Frank requires the FDIC to amend its regulations to base
    insurance assessments on the average consolidated total assets
    less the average tangible equity of the insured depository
    institution during the assessment period (the “new
    assessment base”). The FDIC has approved a final rule,
    effective April 1, 2011, that implements the required
    change to the assessment base and changes the assessment rate
    calculation for large insured depository institutions, including
    Centurion Bank and AEBFSB. Effective April 1, 2011, the
    assessment rates will be subject to adjustments based upon the
    insured depository institution’s ratio of
    (1) long-term unsecured debt to the new assessment base,
    (2) long-term unsecured debt issued by another insured
    depository institution to the new assessment base, and
    (3) brokered deposits to the new assessment base. However,
    effective April 1, 2011, the adjustments based on brokered
    deposits to the new assessment base will not apply so long as
    the institution is well capitalized and has a composite CAMELS
    rating of 1 or 2. Additionally, the rules permit the FDIC to
    impose additional discretionary assessment rate adjustments.
    These changes could have an adverse effect on our results of
    operations and financial condition. Furthermore, future changes
    to deposit insurance assessments also could have an adverse
    effect on our results of operation and financial condition.



Dodd-Frank also requires the FDIC to increase the reserve ratio
    for the Deposit Insurance Fund from 1.15 percent to reach a
    minimum of 1.35 percent of estimated insured deposits by
    September 30, 2020. On December 20, 2010, the FDIC
    issued a final rule setting the increased reserve ratio at
    2 percent. This increase will result in increased costs for
    Centurion Bank and AEBFSB. In addition, Dodd-Frank eliminates
    the ceiling (1.5 percent of insured deposits) on the size
    of the Deposit Insurance Fund and makes the payment of dividends
    from the Deposit Insurance Fund by the FDIC discretionary.



Under the FDIA, the FDIC may terminate the insurance of an
    institution’s deposits upon a finding that the institution
    has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or
    unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any
    applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by
    the FDIC. We do not know of any practice, condition or violation
    that might lead to termination of deposit insurance at either of
    our insured depository institution subsidiaries.



FDIC
    Powers upon Insolvency of Insured Depository
    Institutions



If the FDIC is appointed the conservator or receiver of an
    insured depository institution, such as Centurion Bank or
    AEBFSB, upon its insolvency or in certain other events, the FDIC
    has the power: (1) to transfer any of the depository
    institution’s assets and liabilities to a new obligor
    without the approval of the depository institution’s
    creditors; (2) to enforce the terms of the depository
    institution’s contracts pursuant to their terms; or
    (3) to repudiate or disaffirm any contract or lease to
    which the depository institution is a party, the performance of
    which is determined by the FDIC to be burdensome and the
    disaffirmation or repudiation of which is determined by the FDIC
    to promote the orderly administration of the depository
    institution.



In addition, under federal law, the claims of holders of
    U.S. deposit liabilities and certain claims for
    administrative expenses against an insured depository
    institution would be afforded a priority over other general
    unsecured claims against the institution, including claims of
    debt holders of the institution and depositors innon-U.S. offices,in the liquidation or other resolution of the institution by a
    receiver. As a result, whether or not the FDIC ever sought to
    repudiate any debt obligations of Centurion Bank or AEBFSB, the
    debt holders would be treated differently from, and could
    receive substantially less, if anything, than the depositors in
    U.S. offices of the depository institution.





Orderly
    Liquidation Authority under Dodd-Frank



Dodd-Frank creates Orderly Liquidation Authority
    (“OLA”), a resolution regime for systemically
    important non-bank financial companies, including bank holding
    companies, under which the Treasury Secretary may appoint the
    FDIC as receiver to liquidate such a company if the company is
    in danger of default and presents a systemic risk to
    U.S. financial stability. This determination by the
    Treasury Secretary must come after supermajority recommendations
    by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC and consultation by the
    Treasury Secretary with the President. OLA is similar to the
    FDIC resolution model for depository institutions, with certain
    modifications to reflect differences between depository
    institutions and non-bank financial companies and to reduce
    disparities between the treatment of creditors’ claims
    under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and in an OLA proceeding as
    compared to disparities that would exist in the resolution by
    the FDIC of an insured depository institution.



An Orderly Liquidation Fund will fund OLA liquidation
    proceedings through borrowings from the U.S. Department of
    Treasury and risk-based assessments made, first, on entities
    that receive more in the resolution than they would have
    received in liquidation to the extent of such excess, and
    second, if necessary, on bank holding companies with total
    consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as the
    Company, and on certain other non-bank financial companies. If
    an orderly liquidation is triggered, the Company could face
    assessments for the Orderly Liquidation Fund. It is not possible
    to determine the level of any such future assessments.



Cross-Guarantee
    Provisions



Under the “cross-guarantee” provision of the Financial
    Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989
    (“FIRREA”), insured depository institutions, such as
    Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, may be liable to the FDIC with
    respect to any loss incurred or reasonably anticipated to be
    incurred by the FDIC in connection with the default of, or FDIC
    assistance to, any commonly controlled insured depository
    institution. Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are commonly controlled
    within the meaning of the FIRREA cross-guarantee provision.



Community
    Reinvestment Act



Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are subject to the provisions of the
    CRA. Under the terms of the CRA, the primary federal regulator
    of a depository institution is required, in connection with its
    examination of the depository institution, to assess such
    depository institution’s record in meeting the credit needs
    of the communities served by that depository institution,
    including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. Furthermore,
    such assessment also is required of any depository institution
    that has applied to, among other things, merge or consolidate
    with or acquire the assets or assume the liabilities of a
    federally regulated financial institution or to open or relocate
    a branch office. In the case of a bank holding company applying
    for approval to acquire a bank or bank holding company, the
    Federal Reserve will assess the record of each subsidiary
    depository institution of the applicant bank holding company in
    considering the application. In addition, as discussed
    previously, the failure of the Company’s subsidiary
    depository institutions to maintain satisfactory CRA ratings
    could result in restrictions on the Company’s and TRS’
    ability to engage in activities in reliance on financial holding
    company authority.



Privacy,
    Fair Credit Reporting



We use information about our customers to develop and make
    available relevant, personalized products and services.
    Customers are given choices about how we use and disclose their
    information, and we give them notice regarding the measures we
    take to safeguard this information. Regulatory activity in the
    areas of privacy and data security continues to increase
    worldwide, spurred by advancements in technology and related
    concerns about the rapid and widespread dissemination and use of
    information. Our regulatory examiners, as well as our auditors,
    are increasingly focused on ensuring that our privacy and data
    security/access control policies and practices are adequate to
    inform our customers of our data uses and to protect their
    personal data.





As noted above, as part of our efforts to enhance payment
    account data security, in 2006, we and several other payment
    card networks formed the PCI SSC, an independent
    standards-setting organization to manage the evolution of the
    PCI Data Security Standard, which helps organizations that
    process card payments to prevent credit/charge card security
    breaches and fraud through increased controls around data and
    its exposure to compromise.



The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (“GLBA”) became effective
    on July 1, 2001. The GLBA requires consumer notice of a
    financial institution’s privacy policies and practices and
    affords customers the right to “opt out” of the
    institution’s disclosure of their personal financial
    information to nonaffiliated third parties (with limited
    exceptions). This legislation does not preempt state laws that
    afford greater privacy protections to consumers, and several
    states have adopted such legislation. For example, in 2003
    California enacted that state’s Financial Information
    Privacy Act, which requires (with limited exceptions)
    “opt-in” consent from customers before their data may
    be disclosed to nonaffiliated third parties.



In addition, various federal banking regulatory agencies, and as
    many as 46 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico
    and the Virgin Islands, have enacted security breach laws and
    regulations, requiring varying levels of consumer notification
    in the event of a data security breach. Data breach laws are
    also becoming more prevalent in other parts of the world where
    we operate, including Japan, Mexico and Germany. In many
    countries that have yet to impose automatic data breach
    notification requirements, regulators have increasingly used the
    threat of significant sanctions and penalties by data protection
    authorities to encourage voluntary notification and discourage
    data breaches.



Beyond these data breach laws, we are subject to the GLBA’s
    requirements to safeguard customer information, and to a growing
    number of state laws (including in Massachusetts and Nevada)
    that impose broad-ranging data security obligations regarding
    the protection of customer and employee data. In 1995, the
    European Parliament and Council passed European Directive
    95/46/EC on the protection of individuals with regard to the
    processing of personal data and on the free movement of such
    data (commonly referred to as the Data Protection Directive),
    which obligates the controller of an individual’s personal
    data to, among other things, take the necessary technical and
    organizational steps to protect personal data. Compliance with
    these various laws could result in higher technology,
    administrative and other costs for the Company. In July 2010, we
    submitted for review by relevant European data protection
    authorities our draft binding corporate rules for processing of
    data within the American Express group which, once approved,
    will enable a more efficient basis on which to transfer data
    within our group. The European Commission is currently assessing
    the need for further changes to the European Union’s data
    protection regime.



We continue our efforts to safeguard the data entrusted to us in
    accordance with applicable law and our internal data protection
    policies, including taking steps to reduce the potential for
    identity theft or other fraud, while seeking to collect and use
    data properly to achieve our business objectives. We also have
    undertaken measures to assess the level of access to customer
    data by our employees and our partners and service providers,
    and to ensure that such access is limited to the least
    privileged level necessary to perform their job or function for
    the Company.



The FCRA regulates the disclosure of consumer credit reports by
    consumer reporting agencies and the use of consumer credit
    report information by banks and other companies. Among other
    things, FCRA places restrictions (with limited exceptions) on
    the sharing and use of certain personal financial and
    creditworthiness information of our customers with and by our
    affiliates.



FCRA was significantly amended by the enactment in December 2003
    of the FACT Act. The FACT Act requires any company that receives
    information concerning a consumer from an affiliate, subject to
    certain exceptions, to permit the consumer to opt out from
    having that information used to market the company’s
    products to the consumer. In November 2007, the federal banking
    agencies issued a final rule implementing the affiliate
    marketing provisions of the FACT Act. Companies subject to
    oversight by these agencies were required to comply with the
    rules by October 1, 2008. The Company has implemented
    various mechanisms to allow our customers to opt out of
    affiliate sharing and of marketing by the Company and our
    affiliates, and it continues to review and enhance these
    mechanisms to ensure compliance with applicable law and a
    favorable customer experience.





The FACT Act further amended the FCRA by adding several new
    provisions designed to prevent or decrease identity theft and to
    improve the accuracy of consumer credit information. The federal
    banking agencies and the Federal Trade Commission
    (“FTC”) published a final rule in November 2007
    requiring financial institutions to implement a program
    containing reasonable policies and procedures to address the
    risk of identity theft and to identify accounts where identity
    theft is more likely to occur. Companies subject to oversight by
    the federal banking agencies originally were required to comply
    with the rule by November 1, 2008, but the FTC suspended
    enforcement of its rule through December 31, 2010 pending
    legislation to clarify the law’s scope. On
    December 18, 2010, the President signed the Red Flag
    Program Clarification Act of 2010 into law. The Company’s
    internal policies and standards, as well as our enterprise-wide
    data security and fraud prevention programs, comply with the new
    identity theft requirements.





The CARD
    Act



In May 2009, the CARD Act was enacted to prohibit certain
    practices for consumer credit card accounts. The CARD Act, among
    other requirements, prohibits issuers from treating a payment as
    late for any purpose, including increasing the APR or imposing a
    fee, unless a consumer has been provided a “reasonable
    amount of time” to make the payment. It also requires
    issuers to apply payment amounts in excess of the minimum
    payment first to the balance with the highest APR and then to
    balances with lower APRs. In addition, the Act prohibits an
    issuer from increasing the APR on outstanding balances, except
    in limited circumstances such as when a promotional rate
    expires, a variable rate adjusts, or an account is seriously
    delinquent or completes a workout arrangement. These
    requirements became effective on February 22, 2010.



The CARD Act also requires issuers to maintain reasonable
    written policies to consider a consumer’s income or assets
    and current obligations prior to opening an account or
    increasing a credit line. This required minor adjustments to our
    account opening decisioning and line increase decisioning
    processes. This requirement became effective on
    February 22, 2010, and to date has not had any significant
    impact on these decisions. In addition, applicants for new
    accounts who are under the age of 21 must demonstrate an
    independent ability to make the required minimum periodic
    payments. On October 19, 2010, the Federal Reserve proposed
    clarifications to its rules implementing the CARD Act, which
    would include a requirement that applicants who are 21 and over
    must also demonstrate an independent ability to make the
    required monthly minimum payments. Issuers would not be
    permitted to consider household income or assets, but only the
    individual income or assets of the applicant. If adopted as
    proposed, this rule may decrease the number of applications for
    our Cards that are approved for applicants who do not have
    sufficient individual income, even





though their household income may be sufficient for approval.
    Since August 22, 2010, the CARD Act requires that penalty
    fees be reasonable and proportional. While the Company has
    adjusted penalty fees (late fees and returned payment fees)
    accordingly, this requirement is not expected to have any
    significant impact on results of operations.



Also, since August 22, 2010, the CARD Act requires issuers
    to periodically reevaluate APR increases to determine if a
    decrease is appropriate. The first of these reevaluations must
    be completed in February 2011. The obligation to periodically
    reevaluate APR increases is ongoing, and it is uncertain how
    these provisions will be interpreted or amended by the new
    Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Therefore, while the
    ultimate impact of this requirement is uncertain at this time,
    it could have a significant impact on our results of operations.



The Federal Reserve also amended its rules on the format and
    content of consumer credit card disclosures. The amendments
    required revisions to the format and content of all main types
    of open-end consumer credit disclosures, including applications
    and solicitations, account-opening disclosures, and periodic
    billing statements. These amendments became effective on
    July 1, 2010.



Certain provisions of the CARD Act also apply to stored value
    and prepaid products sold on or after August 22, 2010. In
    March 2010, the Federal Reserve amended its Regulation E to
    impose new restrictions on the ability to impose dormancy,
    inactivity or service fees with respect to gift certificates,
    store gift cards and general-use prepaid cards issued primarily
    for personal use. Such fees may only be imposed under certain
    conditions. Additionally, the rules prohibit the sale or
    issuance of a gift certificate, store gift card or general-use
    prepaid card that has an expiration date of less than five years
    after either the date a certificate or card is issued or the
    date on which funds were last loaded. The rules also require
    implementation of policies and procedures to give consumers a
    reasonable opportunity to purchase a certificate or card with at
    least five years before the certificate or card expiration date,
    prohibit any fees for replacing an expired certificate or card
    or refunding the remaining balance as long as the underlying
    funds remain valid, and require additional disclosures for any
    fee other than a dormancy, inactivity or service fee.



While the Company has made certain changes to our product terms
    and practices designed to comply with the CARD Act, the
    long-term impact of the CARD Act on the Company’s business
    practices and revenues will depend upon a number of factors,
    including our ability to successfully implement our business
    strategies, consumer behavior and the actions of the
    Company’s competitors, which are difficult to predict at
    this time. If the Company is not able to lessen the impact of
    the changes required by the CARD Act, it will have a material
    adverse effect on results of operations.



Anti-Money
    Laundering Compliance







Over the last several years, the industry has seen increased
    regulatory scrutiny of the AML compliance programs of financial
    institutions, with emphasis on record keeping and reporting
    requirements such as the requirement to identify and report
    suspicious activity, leading to enforcement actions and
    increased penalties for non-compliance. To meet this increased
    scrutiny, we continue to enhance our enterprise-wide AML
    compliance program. Our AML compliance programs primarily
    consist of risk-based policies, procedures and controls that are
    reasonably designed to prevent, detect and report money
    laundering.



We have significant operations in the European Union, including
    a number of regulated businesses. We monitor developments in EU
    legislation, as well as in the other countries in which we
    operate, to ensure that we are in a position to comply with all
    applicable legal requirements, including European Union
    directives applicable to payment institutions, credit providers,
    insurance intermediaries and other financial institutions.



Office of
    Foreign Assets Control Regulation



The United States has imposed economic sanctions that affect
    transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and
    others. These are typically known as the “OFAC” rules,
    and they are administered by the U.S. Department of
    Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control
    (“OFAC”). The OFAC-administered sanctions take many
    different forms. Generally, however, they contain one or more of
    the following elements: (i) restrictions on trade with or
    investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions
    against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a
    sanctioned country and prohibitions on
    “U.S. persons” engaging in financial transactions
    relating to making investments in, or providing
    investment-related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned
    country; and (ii) a blocking of assets in which the
    government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned
    country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property
    subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the
    possession or control of U.S. persons). Blocked assets
    (e.g., property or bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn,
    set off or transferred in any manner without a license from
    OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious
    legal and reputational consequences.



Compensation
    Practices





Additionally, on February 7, 2011, the FDIC approved a
    notice of proposed rulemaking pursuant to Dodd-Frank on
    incentive-based compensation practices. The proposed rule is a
    joint rulemaking by the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC, the
    OTS, the SEC, the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the
    National Credit Union Administration, which each must
    independently approve the proposed rule before it is published
    for comment. Under the proposed rule, all financial institutions
    with total consolidated assets of $1 billion or more (such
    as the Company, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB) would be prohibited
    from offering incentive-based compensation arrangements that
    encourage inappropriate risk taking by offering
    “excessive” compensation or





compensation that could lead the company to material financial
    loss. All covered institutions would be required to provide
    federal regulators with additional disclosures to determine
    compliance with the proposed rule and also to maintain policies
    and procedures to ensure compliance. Additionally, for covered
    institutions with at least $50 billion in total
    consolidated assets, such as the Company, the proposed rule
    requires that at least 50% of certain executive officers’
    incentive-based compensation be deferred for a minimum of three
    years and provides for the adjustment of deferred payments to
    reflect actual losses or other measures of performance that
    become known during the deferral period. Moreover, the board of
    directors of a covered institution with at least
    $50 billion in total consolidated assets must identify
    employees who have authority to expose an institution to
    substantial risk, evaluate and document the incentive-based
    compensation methods used to balance risk and financial rewards
    for the identified employees, and approve incentive-based
    compensation arrangements for those employees after
    appropriately considering other available methods for balancing
    risk and financial rewards. The form and timing of any final
    rule cannot be determined at this time.



Our compensation practices are affected by Dodd-Frank amendments
    to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange
    Act”) requiring a non-binding“say-on-pay”vote to be provided at least once every three years at a
    shareholders’ meeting and a non-binding shareholder vote to
    be provided at least once every six years to determine the
    frequency ofsay-on-payvotes. These votes must be provided at meetings of shareholders
    occurring after January 21, 2011. In addition, Dodd-Frank
    requires proxy statement disclosure of compensation arrangements
    requiring payments to named executive officers upon a change in
    control (“golden parachutes”) if shareholders are
    voting on a merger or similar transaction, as well as a separate
    non-binding vote to approve golden parachute compensation
    arrangements that had not previously been subject to asay-on-payvote. The golden parachute disclosure and vote is required in
    proxy statements and other schedules and forms initially filed
    on or after April 25, 2011.



The scope and content of these policies and regulations on
    executive compensation are continuing to develop and are likely
    to continue evolving in the near future. It cannot be determined
    at this time whether compliance with such policies and
    regulations will adversely affect the ability of American
    Express and its subsidiaries to hire, retain and motivate its
    and their key employees.



Foreign
    Corrupt Practices Act



FOREIGN
    OPERATIONS



We derive a significant portion of our revenues from the use of
    our Card products, Travelers Cheques, travel and other financial
    products and services in countries outside the United States and
    continue to broaden the use of these products and services
    outside the United States. (For a discussion of our revenue by
    geographic region, see Note 25 to our Consolidated
    Financial Statements, which you can find onpages 114-116of our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders and which is
    incorporated herein by reference.)





Our revenues can be affected by political and economic
    conditions in these countries (including the availability of
    foreign exchange for the payment by the local Card issuer of
    obligations arising out of local Cardmembers’ spending
    outside such country, for the payment of Card bills by
    Cardmembers who are billed in other than their local currency,
    and for the remittance of the proceeds of Travelers Cheque
    sales). Substantial and sudden devaluation of local
    Cardmembers’ currency can also affect their ability to make
    payments to the local issuer of the Card in connection with
    spending outside the local country.



As a result of our foreign operations, we are exposed to the
    possibility that, because of foreign exchange rate fluctuations,
    assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the
    U.S. dollar may be realized in amounts greater or less than
    the U.S. dollar amounts at which they are currently
    recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Examples of
    transactions in which this may occur include the purchase by
    Cardmembers of goods and services in a currency other than the
    currency in which they are billed; the sale in one currency of a
    Travelers Cheque denominated in a second currency; and, in most
    instances, investments in foreign operations. These risks,
    unless properly monitored and managed, could have an adverse
    effect on our operations. For more information on how we manage
    risk relating to foreign exchange, see “Risk
    Management — Market Risk Management Process” onpages 48-49of our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is
    incorporated herein by reference.

SALE OF
    AMERICAN EXPRESS BANK LTD. / DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS



On September 18, 2007, we entered into an agreement to sell
    our international banking subsidiary, American Express Bank Ltd.
    (“AEBL”), to Standard Chartered PLC (“Standard
    Chartered”), and to sell American Express International
    Deposit Company (“AEIDC”) through a put/call agreement
    to Standard Chartered 18 months after the close of the AEBL
    sale. The sale of AEBL was completed on February 29, 2008.
    In the third quarter of 2008, AEIDC qualified to be reported as
    a discontinued operation and the sale of AEIDC was completed on
    September 10, 2009.



For all periods presented, all of the operating results, assets
    and liabilities, and cash flows of AEBL (except for certain
    components of AEBL that were not sold) and AEIDC have been
    removed from the Corporate & Other segment and are
    presented separately in discontinued operations in the
    Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. The Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial Statements have been adjusted to
    exclude discontinued operations unless otherwise noted.



You can find more information regarding this transaction in
    Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, appearing
    on page 75 of our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders, which
    is incorporated herein by reference.

SEGMENT
    INFORMATION AND CLASSES OF SIMILAR SERVICES



You can find information regarding the Company’s reportable
    operating segments, geographic operations and classes of similar
    services in Note 25 to our Consolidated Financial
    Statements, which appears onpages 114-116of our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders, which Note is
    incorporated herein by reference.

EXECUTIVE
    OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY



Set forth below in alphabetical order is a list of all our
    executive officers as of February 25, 2011. None of our
    executive officers has any family relationship with any other
    executive officer, and none of our executive officers became an
    officer pursuant to any arrangement or understanding with any
    other person. Each executive





officer has been elected to serve until the next annual election
    of officers or until his or her successor is elected and
    qualified. Each officer’s age is indicated by the number in
    parentheses next to his or her name.



DOUGLAS E. BUCKMINSTER —President, International Consumer and Small Business Services





Mr. Buckminster (50) has been President, International
    Consumer and Small Business Services of the Company since
    November 2009. Prior thereto he had been Executive Vice
    President, International Consumer Products and Marketing since
    July 2002.



KENNETH I. CHENAULT —Chairman and Chief Executive Officer





Mr. Chenault (59) has been Chairman since April 2001
    and Chief Executive Officer since January 2001.



L. KEVIN COX —Executive Vice President, Human Resources





Mr. Cox (46) has been Executive Vice President, Human
    Resources of the Company since April 2005. Prior thereto, he had
    been Executive Vice President of The Pepsi Bottling Group since
    September 2004.



EDWARD P. GILLIGAN —Vice Chairman





Mr. Gilligan (51) has been Vice Chairman of the
    Company and head of the Company’s Global Consumer and Small
    Business Card Issuing, Network and Merchant businesses since
    October 2009. Prior thereto, he had been Vice Chairman of the
    Company and head of the Company’s Global Business to
    Business Group since July 2007. Prior thereto, he had been Group
    President, American Express International & Global
    Corporate Services since July 2005. Prior thereto, he had been
    Group President, Global Corporate Services since June 2000 and
    Group President, Global Corporate Services &
    International Payments, since July 2003.



WILLIAM H. GLENN —President, Global Merchant Services





Mr. Glenn (53) has been President, Global Merchant
    Services since June 2007. Prior thereto, he had been President
    of Merchant Services North America and Global Merchant Network
    Group since September 2002.



ASH GUPTA —Chief Risk Officer and President, Risk and Information
    Management





Mr. Gupta (57) has been President of Risk, Information
    Management and Banking Group and Chief Risk Officer since July
    2007. Prior thereto, he had been Executive Vice President and
    Chief Risk Officer of the Company since July 2003.



JOHN D. HAYES —Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer





Mr. Hayes (56) has been Executive Vice President since
    May 1995 and Chief Marketing Officer of the Company since August
    2003.



DANIEL T. HENRY —Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer





Mr. Henry (61) has been Executive Vice President and
    Chief Financial Officer of the Company since October 2007. Since
    February 2007, Mr. Henry had been serving as Executive Vice
    President and Acting Chief Financial Officer of the Company.
    Prior thereto, he had been Executive Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer, U.S. Consumer, Small Business and
    Merchant Services since October 2005 and Executive Vice
    President and Chief Financial Officer, U.S. Consumer and
    Small Business Services since August 2000.



LOUISE M. PARENT —Executive Vice President and General Counsel





Ms. Parent (60) has been Executive Vice President and
    General Counsel since May 1993.



THOMAS SCHICK —Executive Vice President, Corporate and External Affairs





Mr. Schick (64) has been Executive Vice President,
    Corporate and External Affairs since March 1993.







DANIEL H. SCHULMAN —Group President, Enterprise Growth





Mr. Schulman (53) has been Group President, Enterprise
    Growth since August 2010. Mr. Schulman joined American
    Express from Sprint Nextel Corporation, where he served as
    President of the Prepaid group from 2009 until August 2010.
    Before joining Sprint, Mr. Schulman was the founding CEO of
    Virgin Mobile USA, a mobile virtual operator, acquired by Sprint
    in 2009. Prior to that he was CEO of priceline.com and spent the
    early part of his career with AT&T, where he ultimately led
    the company’s consumer long distance business.



STEPHEN J. SQUERI —Group President, Global Services





Mr. Squeri (51) has been Group President, Global
    Services, since October 2009. From May 2005 to October 2009, he
    served as Executive Vice President and Chief Information
    Officer. In addition, from July 2008 to September 2010, he was
    the head of Corporate Development, overseeing mergers and
    acquisitions activities for the Company. Prior thereto, he had
    been President, Global Commercial Card — Global
    Corporate Services since January 2002.

EMPLOYEES



We had approximately 61,000 employees on December 31,
    2010.

GUIDE
    3 — STATISTICAL DISCLOSURE BY BANK HOLDING
    COMPANIES



The accompanying supplemental information should be read in
    conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the
    Company’s 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders, which
    information is incorporated herein by reference (“Annual
    Report”). This information excludes discontinued operations
    unless otherwise noted.



Upon adoption of new GAAP governing transfers of financial
    assets and consolidation of variable interest entities
    (“VIEs”), the Company was required to change its
    accounting for the American Express Credit Account Master Trust
    (the “Lending Trust”), a previously unconsolidated
    VIE, which is now consolidated. As a result, beginning
    January 1, 2010, the securitized cardmember loans and
    related debt securities issued to third parties by the Lending
    Trust are included on the Company’s Consolidated Balance
    Sheet. The Company continues to consolidate the American Express
    Issuance Trust (the “Charge Trust”). Prior period
    results have not been revised for the change in accounting for
    the Lending Trust. Refer to Note 1 “Summary of
    Significant Accounting Policies” on page 72 and
    Note 7 “Asset Securitizations” on page 85 of
    the Annual Report for further discussion.





DISTRIBUTION
    OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES, AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY; INTEREST
    RATES AND INTEREST DIFFERENTIAL



The following tables provide a summary of the Company’s
    consolidated average balances including major categories of
    interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities along
    with an analysis of net interest earnings. Consolidated average
    balances, interest, and average yields are segregated between
    U.S. andnon-U.S. offices.Assets, liabilities, interest income and interest expense are
    attributed to U.S. andnon-U.S. basedon location of the office recording such items.



201020092008AverageInterestAverageAverageInterestAverageAverageInterestAverageYears Ended December 31,(Millions, except
    percentages)Balance(a)IncomeYieldBalance(a)IncomeYieldBalance(a)IncomeYieldInterest-earning assetsInterest-bearing deposits in other banks(b)(c)U.S.$16,276$400.2%$7,090$130.2%$8,814$1361.5%Non-U.S.2,203231.01,724281.61,402191.4Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to
    resellU.S.—————————Non-U.S.309123.912364.9122108.2Short-term investment securitiesU.S.1,21420.210,523280.34,926731.5Non-U.S.34910.319510.53126.5Cardmember loans(d)(e)U.S.47,7005,40711.326,1142,98411.436,9624,46412.1Non-U.S.8,4191,35616.18,6961,44616.610,6701,64915.5Other loansU.S.4137.314032.117542.3Non-U.S.410184.4527387.26467411.5Taxable investment securities(f)U.S.11,2251371.213,1984573.55,8413335.6Non-U.S.247135.3285186.0382246.1Non-taxable investment securities(f)U.S.5,9992526.35,9892866.86,5653347.6Other assets(g)Primarily U.S.52328n.m.48523n.m.33679n.m.Total interest-earning assets(h)$94,915$7,2927.8%$75,089$5,3317.3%$76,872$7,2019.6%U.S.82,9785,86963,5393,79463,6195,423Non-U.S.11,9371,42311,5501,53713,2531,778









201020092008AverageAverageAverageYears Ended December 31,(Millions, except
    percentages)Balance(a)Balance(a)Balance(a)Non-interest-earning assetsCash and due from banks(c)U.S.$1,805$1,063$1,179Non-U.S.640429448Cardmember receivables, netU.S.18,04517,05620,220Non-U.S.16,25313,81216,500Other receivables, netU.S.1,8252,1492,349Non-U.S.1,2271,2491,279Reserves for cardmember and other loans lossesU.S.(3,696)(2,556)(1,923)Non-U.S.(612)(564)(432)Other assets(i)U.S.11,90012,2889,699Non-U.S.1,9072,1312,205Total non-interest-earning assets49,29447,05751,524U.S.29,87930,00031,524Non-U.S.19,41517,05720,000Assets of discontinued operations—755,745Total assets$144,209$122,221$134,141U.S.112,85793,53995,143Non-U.S.31,35228,60733,253Assets of discontinued operations—755,745Percentage of total average assets attributable tonon-U.S.activities21.7%23.4%24.8%











(a)Averages based on month end balances, except reserves for
    cardmember and other receivables/loans, which are based on
    quarter end averages.



(b)Amounts include (i) average interest-bearing restricted
    cash balances of $1,570 million, $417 million, and
    $214 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which
    are included in other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets,
    and (ii) the associated interest income.



(c)“Interest bearing deposits in other banks” and
    “cash and due from banks” have been revised for book
    overdraft misclassifications in 2009 and 2008, as described in
    Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies” on page 72 of the Annual Report.



(d)Card fees related to cardmember loans included in interest
    income were $115 million, $107 million, and
    $95 million in U.S. and $105 million, $79 million
    and $51 million innon-U.S.for
    2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.



(e)Average non-accrual loans were included in the average loan
    balances used to determine the average yield on loans in amounts
    of $839 million, $554 million and $8 million in
    U.S. as well as $11 million, $15 million and
    $6 million innon-U.S.for
    2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.



(f)Average yields foravailable-for-saleinvestment securities have been calculated using total amortized
    cost balances and do not include changes in fair value recorded
    in other comprehensive (loss) income. Average yield on
    non-taxable investment securities is calculated on a
    tax-equivalent basis using the U.S. federal statutory tax rate
    of 35 percent.



(g)Amounts include (i) average equity securities balances,
    which are included in investment securities on the Consolidated
    Balance Sheets, and (ii) the associated dividend income.
    The average yield on other assets has not been shown as it would
    not be meaningful.



(h)The average yield on total interest-earning assets is adjusted
    for the impacts of items mentioned in (f) above.



(i)Includes premises and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation.










AverageInterestAverageAverageInterestAverageAverageInterestAverage

Years Ended December 31,(Millions, except
    percentages)Balance(a)ExpenseRateBalance(a)ExpenseRateBalance(a)ExpenseRate



Interest-bearing liabilities

Customer deposits

U.S.$27,373$5221.9%$19,638$3932.0%$12,130$3663.0%

Non-U.S.693243.5798324.01,432886.1

Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to
    repurchase

U.S.———48——1,493533.5

Non-U.S.—————————

Short-term borrowings(b)

U.S.1,06640.42,145311.412,4903993.2

Non-U.S.1,066——80160.7942313.3

Long-term debt(b)

U.S.66,1211,8112.754,0321,6583.154,4082,4914.6

Non-U.S.2,202401.81,463553.81,968824.2

Other liabilities(c)

Primarily U.S.29222n.m.28432n.m.27745n.m.



Total interest-bearing liabilities$98,813$2,4232.5%$79,209$2,2072.8%$85,140$3,5554.2%



U.S.94,8522,35976,1472,11480,7983,354

Non-U.S.3,961643,062934,342201

Non-interest-bearing liabilities

Travelers Cheques outstanding

U.S.5,2725,6236,289

Non-U.S.254330410

Accounts payable(d)

U.S.6,6665,8547,172

Non-U.S.3,7573,1462,699

Other liabilities(d)

U.S.10,96210,2989,311

Non-U.S.3,7323,1305,484



Total non-interest-bearing liabilities30,64328,38131,365



U.S.22,90021,77522,772

Non-U.S.7,7436,6068,593

Liabilities of discontinued operations—615,561



Total liabilities129,456107,651122,066



U.S.117,75297,922103,570

Non-U.S.11,7049,66812,935

Liabilities of discontinued operations—615,561



Total shareholders’ equity14,75314,57012,075



Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity$144,209$122,221$134,141



Percentage of total average liabilities attributable tonon-U.S.activities9.0%9.0%10.6%

Interest rate spread5.3%4.5%5.4%



Net interest income and net average yield on interest-earning
    assets(e)$4,8695.3%$3,1244.3%$3,6465.0%











(a)Averages based on month end balances.(b)Interest expense incurred on derivative instruments in
    qualifying hedging relationships has been reported along with
    the related interest expense incurred on the hedged debt
    instrument.







(c)Amounts include (i) average deferred compensation liability
    balances which are included in other liabilities on the
    Consolidated Balance Sheets, and (ii) the associated
    interest expense. The average rate on other liabilities has not
    been shown as it would not be meaningful.(d)“Accounts payable” and “other liabilities”
    have been revised for book overdraft misclassifications in 2009
    and 2008, as further described in Note 1 “Summary of
    Significant Accounting Policies” on page 72 of the
    Annual Report.(e)Net average yield on interest-earning assets is defined as net
    interest income divided by average total interest-earning assets
    as adjusted for the items mentioned in note (f) on page 58.



CHANGES
    IN NET INTEREST INCOME -VOLUME AND RATE ANALYSIS (a)



The following table presents the amount of changes in interest
    income and interest expense due to changes in both average
    volume and average rate. Major categories of interest-earning
    assets and interest-bearing liabilities have been segregated
    between U.S. andnon-U.S. offices.Average volume/rate changes have been allocated between the
    average rate and average volume variances on a consistent basis
    based upon the respective percentage changes in average balances
    and average rates.



2010 versus 20092009 versus 2008Increase (Decrease) due to change in:Increase (Decrease) due to change in:AverageAverageNetAverageAverageNetYears Ended December 31,(Millions)VolumeRateChangeVolumeRateChangeInterest-earning assetsInterest-bearing deposits in other banks(b)U.S.$17$10$27$(27)$(96)$(123)Non-U.S.8(13)(5)459Securities purchased under agreements to resellNon-U.S.9(3)6—(4)(4)Short-term investment securitiesU.S.(25)(1)(26)83(128)(45)Non-U.S.1(1)—11(12)(1)Cardmember loansU.S.2,467(44)2,423(1,310)(170)(1,480)Non-U.S.(46)(44)(90)(305)102(203)Other loansU.S.(2)2—(1)—(1)Non-U.S.(8)(12)(20)(14)(22)(36)Taxable investment securitiesU.S.(70)(250)(320)404(280)124Non-U.S.(4)(1)(5)(5)(1)(6)Non-taxable investment securitiesU.S.(12)(22)(34)(17)(31)(48)Other assetsPrimarily U.S.23535(91)(56)Change in interest income2,337(376)1,961(1,142)(728)(1,870)





2010 versus 20092009 versus 2008Increase (Decrease) due to change in:Increase (Decrease) due to change in:AverageAverageNetAverageAverageNetYears Ended December 31,(Millions)VolumeRateChangeVolumeRateChangeInterest-bearing liabilitiesCustomer depositsU.S.155(26)129227(200)27Non-U.S.(4)(4)(8)(39)(17)(56)Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to
    repurchaseU.S.———(51)(2)(53)Short-term borrowingsU.S.(16)(11)(27)(330)(38)(368)Non-U.S.2(8)(6)(5)(20)(25)Long-term debtU.S.371(218)153(17)(816)(833)Non-U.S.28(43)(15)(21)(6)(27)Other liabilitiesPrimarily U.S.1(11)(10)1(14)(13)Change in interest expense537(321)216(235)(1,113)(1,348)Change in net interest income$1,800$(55)$1,745$(907)$385$(522)









(a)Refer to the notes on pages 58 and 59 for additional information.(b)“Interest bearing deposits in other banks” has been
    revised for book overdraft misclassifications in 2009 and 2008,
    as described in Note 1 “Summary of Significant
    Accounting Policies” on page 72 of the Annual Report.



INVESTMENT
    SECURITIES PORTFOLIO



The following table presents the fair value of the
    Company’savailable-for-saleinvestment securities portfolio. Refer to Note 6
    “Investment Securities” on page 83 in the Annual
    Report for additional information.



December 31,(Millions)201020092008State and municipal obligations$5,797$6,250$5,631U.S. Government agency obligations3,4136,7453,185U.S. Government treasury obligations2,4565,5661,981Corporate debt securities1,4451,335218Retained subordinated securities—3,599744Mortgage-backed securities27618075Equity securities475530544Foreign government bonds and obligations999281Other494067Totalavailable-for-salesecurities$14,010$24,337$12,526







The following table presents an analysis of remaining
    contractual maturities and weighted average yields foravailable-for-saleinvestment securities. Yields on tax-exempt obligations have
    been computed on a tax-equivalent basis as discussed earlier.



2010Due after 1Due after 5Due in 1throughthroughDue afterDecember 31,(Millions, except percentages)year or less5 years10 years10 yearsTotalState and municipal obligations(a)$3$71$257$5,466$5,797U.S. Government agency obligations2,953458—23,413U.S. Government treasury obligations2,42747182,456Corporate debt securities81559040—1,445Mortgage-backed securities(a)——3273276Foreign government bonds and obligations5511—3399Total fair value(b)$6,253$1,134$307$5,792$13,486Weighted average yield(c)0.7%2.4%7.2%6.4%3.5%









(a)The expected payments on state and municipal obligations and
    mortgage-backed securities may not coincide with their
    contractual maturities because the issuers have the right to
    call or prepay certain obligations.(b)Excludes equity securities and other securities included in the
    prior table above as these are not debt securities with
    contractual maturities.(c)Average yields foravailable-for-saleinvestment securities have been calculated using the effective
    yield on the date of purchase.



As of December 31, 2010, U.S. Government treasury and
    agency obligations were the only investments that exceeded
    10 percent of shareholders’ equity.



LOANS AND
    CARDMEMBER RECEIVABLES PORTFOLIOS



The following table presents gross loans, net of unearned
    income, and gross cardmember receivables by customer type
    segregated between U.S. andnon-U.S.,based on the domicile of the borrowers. Allowance for losses is
    presented beginning on page 67. Refer to Note 4
    “Accounts Receivable and Loans” on page 78 and
    Note 5 “Reserves for Losses” on page 81 in
    the Annual Report for additional information.



December 31,(Millions)20102009200820072006LoansU.S. loansCardmember(a)$51,565$23,507$32,684$43,253$33,543Other(b)444614491132Non-U.S.loansCardmember(a)9,2859,2659,52711,1559,685Other(b)392487913716885Total loans$61,286$33,305$43,268$55,215$44,245Cardmember receivablesU.S. cardmember receivablesConsumer(c)$19,155$17,750$17,822$21,418$20,586Commercial(d)6,4395,5875,2696,2615,897Non-U.S.cardmember receivablesConsumer(c)6,8526,1495,7697,2436,484Commercial(d)4,8204,2574,1285,1504,400Total cardmember receivables$37,266$33,743$32,988$40,072$37,367









(a)Represents loans to individual and small business consumers.(b)Other loans at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 primarily
    represent small business installment loans, a store card
    portfolio whose billed business is not processed on the
    Company’s network, and small business loans associated with
    the acquisition of Corporate Payment Services. Other loans at
    December 31, 2008,





also included a loan to an affiliate in discontinued operations.
    2007 and prior periods primarily represent small business
    installment loans.(c)Represents receivables from individual and small business charge
    card consumers.(d)Represents receivables from corporate charge card clients.



MATURITIES
    AND SENSITIVITIES TO CHANGES IN INTEREST RATES



The following table presents contractual maturities of loans and
    cardmember receivables by customer type and segregated between
    U.S. andnon-U.S. borrowers,and distribution between fixed and floating interest rates for
    loans due after one year based upon the stated terms of the loan
    agreements.



2010Within1-5AfterDecember 31,(Millions)1 year(a)(b)years(b)(c)5 years(c)TotalLoansU.S. loansCardmember$51,410$155$—$51,565Other9152044Non-U.S.loansCardmember9,274389,285Other3893—392Total loans$61,082$176$28$61,286Loans due after one year at fixed interest rates17628204Loans due after one year at variable interest rates———Total loans$176$28$204Cardmember receivablesU.S. cardmember receivablesConsumer$19,131$24—$19,155Commercial6,439——6,439Non-U.S.cardmember ReceivablesConsumer6,852——6,852Commercial4,820——4,820Total cardmember receivables$37,242$24$—$37,266









(a)Cardmember loans have no stated maturity and are therefore
    included in the due within one year category. However, many of
    the Company’s cardmembers will revolve their balances,
    which may extend their repayment period beyond one year for
    balances due at December 31, 2010.(b)Cardmember receivables are immediately due upon receipt of
    cardmember statements and have no stated interest rate and are
    included within the due within one year category. Receivables
    due after one year represent long-term modification programs or
    Troubled Debt Restructurings (TDRs), wherein the terms of a
    receivable have been modified for cardmembers that are
    experiencing financial difficulties and a long-term concession
    (more than 12 months) has been granted to the borrower.(c)Cardmember and other loans due after one year primarily
    represent installment loans and approximately $166 million
    of TDRs.







CARDMEMBER
    LOAN AND CARDMEMBER RECEIVABLE CONCENTRATIONS



The following table presents the Company’s exposure to any
    concentration of gross cardmember loans and cardmember
    receivables which exceeds 10 percent of total cardmember
    loans and cardmember receivables. Cardmember loan and cardmember
    receivable concentrations are defined as cardmember loans and
    cardmember receivables due from multiple borrowers engaged in
    similar activities that would cause these borrowers to be
    impacted similarly to certain economic or other related
    conditions.



December 31,(Millions)2010(a)Individuals$86,857Commercial(b)$11,259Total on-balance sheet$98,116Unused lines of credit-individuals(c)$225,830









(a)Refer to Note 22 “Significant Credit
    Concentrations” on page 110 in the Annual Report for
    additional information on concentrations, including exposure to
    the airline industry, and for a discussion of how the Company
    manages concentration exposures. Certain distinctions between
    categories require management judgment.(b)Includes corporate charge card receivables of $641 million
    from financial institutions, $21 million from U.S.
    Government agencies and $10.6 billion from other corporate
    institutions.(c)Because charge card products have no preset spending limit, the
    associated credit limit on cardmember receivables is not
    quantifiable. Therefore, the quantified unusedline-of-creditamounts only include the approximate credit line available on
    cardmember loans (including both for on-balance sheet loans and
    loans previously securitized).



RISK
    ELEMENTS



The following table presents the amounts of non-performing loans
    and cardmember receivables that are either non-accrual, past
    due, or restructured, segregated between U.S. andnon-U.S. borrowers.Past due loans are loans that are contractually past due
    90 days or more as to principal or interest payments.
    Restructured loans and cardmember receivables are those that
    meet the definition of “Troubled Debt Restructurings”.



December 31,(Millions)2010(a)2009200820072006LoansNon-accrual loans(b)U.S.(c)$628$480$8$8$112Non-U.S.1214655Total non-accrual loans6404941413117Loans contractually 90 days past-due and still accruing
    interestU.S.(d)90102692558277Non-U.S.99151166149133Total loans contractually 90 days past-due and still
    accruing interest189253858707410Restructured loans(d)(e)U.S.1,0767064034773Non-U.S.1115244166Total restructured loans1,08772142788139Total non-performing loans$1,916$1,468$1,299$808$666Cardmember receivablesRestructured cardmember receivables(d)(e)U.S.114941414—Total restructured cardmember receivables$114$94$141$4$—









(a)The increase in impaired loans was due to the adoption of new
    GAAP effective January 1, 2010, which resulted in the
    consolidation of the Lending Trust as discussed further in
    Note 1 “Summary of Significant







Accounting Policies” on page 72 of the Annual Report.
    As a result of these changes, amounts as of December 31,
    2010 include impaired loans and receivables for both the Charge
    Trust and Lending Trust; correspondingly, amounts as of
    December 31, 2009 only include impaired loans and
    receivables for the Charge Trust and the seller’s interest
    portion of the Lending Trust. Amounts as of both balance sheet
    dates also include impaired loans and receivables associated
    with other non-securitized portfolios.



(b)The Company’s policy is generally to cease accruing
    interest income once a related cardmember loan is 180 days
    past due at which time the cardmember loan is written off. The
    Company establishes loan loss reserves for estimated
    uncollectible interest receivable balances prior to write-off.
    Beginning with 2009, certain cardmember loans placed with
    outside collection agencies are put on non-accrual status.



(c)As of December 31, 2009, these amounts primarily include
    certain cardmember loans placed with outside collection
    agencies. Non-accrual loans at December 31, 2006 and 2005
    included a single loan to a U.S. commercial airline of
    approximately $104 million and $266 million,
    respectively, which was paid off in full during the second
    quarter of 2007. The loan was put on non-accrual status in the
    third quarter of 2005.



(d)Represents long-term and short-term modification programs or
    TDRs, wherein the terms of a loan or receivable have been
    modified for cardmembers that are experiencing financial
    difficulties and a concession has been granted to the borrower.
    The Company may modify cardmember loans and receivables and such
    modifications may include reducing the interest rate/delinquency
    fees on the loans and receivables and/or placing the cardmember
    on a fixed payment plan not exceeding 60 months. If the
    cardmember does not comply with the modified terms, then the
    loan or receivable agreement reverts back to its original terms.



(e)Certain reclassifications of prior year amounts have been made
    to conform to the current presentation.



IMPACT OF
    NON-PERFORMING LOANS ON INTEREST INCOME



The following table presents the gross interest income for both
    non-accrual and restructured loans for 2010 that would have been
    recognized if such loans had been current in accordance with
    their original contractual terms, and had been outstanding
    throughout the period or since origination if held for only part
    of 2010. The table also presents the interest income related to
    these loans that was actually recognized for the period. These
    amounts are segregated between U.S. andnon-U.S. borrowers.



2010Year Ended December 31,(Millions)U.S.Non-U.S.TotalGross amount of interest income that would have been recorded in
    accordance with the original contractual terms(a)$143$3$146Interest income actually recognized16117Total interest revenue foregone$127$2$129









(a)Based on the contractual rate that was being charged at the time
    the loan was restructured or placed on non-accrual status.



POTENTIAL
    PROBLEM RECEIVABLES



This disclosure presents outstanding amounts as well as specific
    reserves for certain receivables where information about
    possible credit problems of borrowers causes management to have
    serious doubts as to the ability of such borrowers to comply
    with the present repayment terms. At December 31, 2010, the
    Company did not identify any potential problem loans or
    receivables within the cardmember loans and receivables
    portfolio that were not already included in “Risk
    Elements” above.



CROSS-BORDER
    OUTSTANDINGS



Cross-border disclosure is based upon the Federal Financial
    Institutions Examination Council’s (“FFIEC”)
    guidelines governing the determination of cross-border risk. The
    Company has adopted the FFIEC guidelines for its cross-border
    disclosure starting with 2009 reporting.





The primary differences between the FFIEC and Guide 3 guidelines
    for reporting cross-border exposure are:i) available-for-saleinvestment securities are reported based on amortized cost for
    FFIEC instead of fair value for Guide 3; ii) net local
    country claims are reduced by local country liabilities
    (regardless of currency denomination) excluding any debt that is
    funding the local assets through a foreign domiciled subsidiary
    for FFIEC compared to Guide 3 where only amounts in the same
    currencies are offset and such debt noted above is a reduction
    to local country claims; iii) the FFIEC methodology
    includesmark-to-marketexposures of derivative assets which are excluded under Guide 3;
    and iv) investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries are
    included under FFIEC but excluded under Guide 3.



The following table presents the aggregate amount of
    cross-border outstandings from borrowers or counterparties for
    each foreign country that exceeds 1 percent of consolidated
    total assets for any of the periods reported below. Cross-border
    outstandings include loans, receivables, interest-bearing
    deposits with other banks, other interest-bearing investments
    and other monetary assets that are denominated in either dollars
    or other non-local currency.



The table separately presents the amounts of cross-border
    outstandings by type of borrower including governments and
    official institutions, banks and other financial institutions
    and other, along with an analysis of local country assets net of
    local country liabilities.



GovernmentsBanks andNet localTotaland officialother financialcountrycross-borderCross-borderTotalYears Ended December 31,(Millions)institutionsinstitutionsOtherclaimsoutstandingscommitments(b)exposureAustralia2010$—$37$1$4,225$4,263—$4,2632009—1,02613,8694,896—4,8962008—27853,6863,969—3,969United Kingdom2010$2$1,582$345$800$2,729—$2,7292009—9593141,2642,537—2,5372008—8443792,2863,509—3,509Canada2010$—$258$3$2,212$2,473—$2,473200942531,6671,699—1,6992008578231,4512,241—2,241France2010$—$45$8$824$877—$8772009—1,13678762,019—2,0192008—1,21398002,022—2,022Netherlands2010$—$7$221$—$228—$2282009—35188—223—2232008—8862231831,292—1,292Other countries(a)2010$1$501$283$2,389$3,174—$3,1742009152232,1562,385—2,3852008—1,0032271,9843,214—3,214









(a)In 2010, only Mexico cross-border outstandings are between
    0.75 percent and 1.0 percent of consolidated total
    assets. Italy and Sweden were also included within 2009 or 2008
    as they exceeded the threshold, to be consistent with prior year
    presentation.(b)Generally, all charge and credit cards have revocable lines of
    credit, and therefore, are not disclosed as cross-border
    commitments. Refer to loan concentrations on page 64 for
    amount of unused lines of credit.







SUMMARY
    OF LOAN LOSS EXPERIENCE



ANALYSIS
    OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES



The following table summarizes the changes to the Company’s
    allowance for cardmember loan losses. The table segregates such
    changes between U.S. andnon-U.S. borrowers.



Years Ended December 31,(Millions, except
    percentages)20102009200820072006Cardmember loansAllowance for loan losses at beginning of year —
    U.S. loans$2,541$2,164$1,457$836$727Reserves established for consolidation of a variable interest
    entities2,531————U.S. loans — adjusted balance5,0722,1641,457836727Non-U.S.loans727406374335269Total allowance for losses — beginning of year5,7992,5701,8311,171996Cardmember lending provisions(a)U.S. loans1,2913,2763,4902,179993Non-U.S.loans236990741582630Total cardmember lending provisions1,5274,2664,2312,7611,623Write-offsU.S. loans(3,614)(2,914)(2,816)(1,630)(946)Non-U.S.loans(573)(810)(708)(655)(600)Total write-offs(4,187)(3,724)(3,524)(2,285)(1,546)RecoveriesU.S. loans468230207198108Non-U.S.loans10097949779Total recoveries568327301295187Net write-offs(b)(c)(3,619)(3,397)(3,223)(1,990)(1,359)Other(d)U.S. loans(64)(215)(174)(126)(46)Non-U.S.loans344(95)15(43)Total other(61)(171)(269)(111)(89)Allowance for loan losses at end of yearU.S. loans3,1532,5412,1641,457836Non-U.S.loans493727406374335Total allowance for losses3,646$3,268$2,570$1,831$1,171Net write-offs / average cardmember loans
    outstanding(b)(c)(e)5.6%8.5%5.5%3.5%3.3%











(a)Refer to Note 5 “Reserves for Losses” on
    page 81 in the Annual Report for a discussion of
    management’s process for evaluating allowance for loan
    losses.



(b)In the third quarter of 2008, the Company revised its method of
    reporting the cardmember lending net write-off rate.
    Historically, the net write-off rate has been presented using
    net write-off amounts for principal, interest, and fees.
    However, industry convention is generally to include only the
    net write-offs related to principal in write-off rate
    disclosures. The write-off rate for 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007 is
    a principal only write-off rate consistent with industry
    convention. The write-off rate for 2006 reflects principal only
    write-offs in the U.S. and total write-offs (principal,
    interest, and fees) outside the U.S. as principal only write-off
    information was not available outside the U.S. for 2006.



(c)For purposes of calculating the net write-off rate in accordance
    with (b) above, net write-offs were $3.3 billion,
    $2.9 billion, $2.6 billion, $1.6 billion,
    $1.2 billion for2010-2006,respectively.



(d)Includes $160 million of reserves in 2009, that were
    removed in connection with securitizations during the year. The
    offset is in the allocated cost of the associated retained
    subordinated securities. This amount also includes foreign
    currency translation adjustments. The prior years included
    foreign currency translation and other adjustments primarily
    related to the reclassification of waived fee reserves to a
    contra-cardmember loan.



(e)Average cardmember loans are based on month end balances.





The following table summarizes the changes to the Company’s
    allowance for other loan losses. The table segregates such
    changes between U.S. andnon-U.S. borrowers.Years Ended December 31,(Millions, except
    percentages)20102009200820072006Other loansAllowance for loan losses at beginning of yearU.S. loans$2$15$12$16$19Non-U.S.loans2524332419Total allowance for losses2739454038Provisions for other loan losses(a)U.S. loans351041Non-U.S.loans2245534121Total provisions for other loan losses2550634522Write-offsU.S. loans(4)(19)(8)(9)(6)Non-U.S.loans(34)(50)(72)(36)(19)Total write-offs(38)(69)(80)(45)(25)RecoveriesU.S. loans11112Non-U.S.loans810764Total recoveries911876Net write-offs(29)(58)(72)(38)(19)Other(b)U.S. loans—————Non-U.S.loans1(4)3(2)(1)Total other1(4)3(2)(1)Allowance for loan losses at end of yearU.S. loans22151216Non-U.S.loans2225243324Total allowance for losses$24$27$39$45$40Net write-offs/average other loans outstanding(c)6.5%8.7%8.8%4.0%1.2%(a)Provisions for other loan losses are determined based on a
    specific identification methodology and models that analyze
    specific portfolio statistics.(b)Includes primarily foreign currency translation adjustments.(c)The net write-off rate presented is on a worldwide basis and is
    based on write-offs of principal and fees. Average other loans
    are based on month end balances.68




The following table summarizes the changes to the Company’s
    allowance for losses on cardmember receivables. The table
    segregates such changes between U.S. andnon-U.S. borrowers.Years Ended December 31,(Millions, except
    percentages)20102009200820072006Cardmember receivablesAllowance for losses at beginning of yearU.S. receivablesConsumer$256$474$844$666$659Commercial931131049996Total U.S. receivables349587948765755Non-U.S.receivablesConsumer148173167188166Commercial4950342821Totalnon-U.S.receivables197223201216187Total allowance for losses5468101,149981942Provisions for losses(a)U.S. receivablesConsumer296492899824567Commercial1051061309668Total U.S. provisions4015981,029920635Non-U.S.receivablesConsumer148196255170264Commercial4663795036Totalnon-U.S.provisions194259334220300Total provisions for losses5958571,3631,140935Write-offsU.S. receivablesConsumer(528)(984)(1,326)(748)(671)Commercial(128)(154)(142)(111)(84)Total U.S. write-offs(656)(1,138)(1,468)(859)(755)Non-U.S.receivablesConsumer(222)(261)(214)(208)(193)Commercial(77)(81)(57)(43)(39)Totalnon-U.S.write-offs(299)(342)(271)(251)(232)Total write-offs(955)(1,480)(1,739)(1,110)(987)69




Years Ended December 31,(Millions, except
    percentages)20102009200820072006Cardmember receivablesRecoveriesU.S. receivablesConsumer$227$268$115$139$121Commercial5029272220Total U.S. recoveries277297142161141Non-U.S.receivablesConsumer5537343227Commercial251511109Totalnon-U.S.recoveries8052454236Total recoveries357349187203177Net write-offs(b)(598)(1,131)(1,552)(907)(810)Other(c)U.S. receivablesConsumer(58)6(58)(37)(10)Commercial(41)(1)(6)(2)(1)Total U.S. other(99)5(64)(39)(11)Non-U.S.receivablesConsumer(45)3(69)(15)(76)Commercial(13)2(17)(11)1Totalnon-U.S.other(58)5(86)(26)(75)Total other(157)10(150)(65)(86)Allowance for losses at end of yearU.S. receivablesConsumer193256474844666Commercial799311310499Total U.S. receivables272349587948765Non-U.S.receivablesConsumer84148173167188Commercial3049503428Totalnon-U.S.receivables114197223201216Total allowance for losses$386$546$810$1,149$981Net write-offs / average cardmember receivables
    outstanding(d)1.7%3.6%4.1%2.4%2.4%Net loss ratio as a percentage of charge volume(e)0.24%0.24%









(a)Refer to Note 5 “Reserves for Losses” on
    page 81 in the Annual Report for a discussion of
    management’s process for evaluating allowance for
    receivable losses.(b)In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company revised the time
    period in which past due cardmember receivables in U.S. Card
    Services are written off to 180 days past due, consistent
    with applicable regulatory guidance. Previously, receivables
    were written off when 360 days past billing. The net
    write-offs for 2008 include approximately $341 million
    resulting from this write-off methodology change.(c)Includes foreign currency translation and other adjustments
    primarily related to the reclassification of waived fee reserves
    to a contra-cardmember receivable.(d)The net write-off rate presented is on a worldwide basis and is
    based on write-offs of principal and fees. The U.S. Card
    Services write-off rate was 1.6 percent, for 2010. Averages
    are based on month end balances.(e)The net loss ratio represents the worldwide ratio of charge card
    write-offs consisting of principal (resulting from authorized
    and unauthorized transactions) and fee components, less
    recoveries, on cardmember receivables expressed as a percent of
    gross amounts billed to customers. As a result of the change
    discussed in (b) above, the Company stopped calculating the
    worldwide net loss ratio beginning in 2008 based on
    360 days past billing methodology.





ALLOCATION
    OF ALLOWANCE FOR LOSSES



The following table presents an allocation of the allowance for
    losses for loans and cardmember receivables and the percent of
    loans and cardmember receivables in each category of total loans
    and cardmember receivables, respectively, by customer type. The
    table segregates loans and cardmember receivables and related
    allowances for losses between U.S. andnon-U.S. borrowers.



December 31,(Millions, except percentages)20102009200820072006Percent ofPercent ofPercent ofPercent ofPercent ofloans/loans/loans/loans/loans/receivablesreceivablesreceivablesreceivablesreceivablesin eachin eachin eachin eachin eachcategorycategorycategorycategorycategoryAllowance forto totalto totalto totalto totalto totallosses at end of yearloans/loans/loans/loans/loans/applicable toAmountreceivablesAmountreceivablesAmountreceivablesAmountreceivablesAmountreceivablesLoansU.S. loansCardmember$3,15384%$2,54171%$2,16476%$1,45779%$83676%Other2—2—15112—16—Non-U.S.loansCardmember4931572728406223742033522Other221251241331242$3,670100%$3,295100%$2,609100%$1,876100%$1,211100%Cardmember receivablesU.S. cardmember receivablesConsumer$19352%$25653%$47454%$84453%$66655%Commercial7917931711316104169916Non-U.S.cardmember receivablesConsumer841814818173171671818817Commercial30134912501334132812$386100%$546100%$810100%$1,149100%$981100%





CUSTOMER
    DEPOSITS



The following table presents the average balances and average
    interest rates paid for types of customer deposits segregated
    between U.S. andnon-U.S. offices.Refer to Note 9 “Customer Deposits” on
    page 89 in the Annual Report for additional information.



201020092008AverageAverageAverageAverageAverageAverageYears Ended December 31,(Millions, except
    percentages)Balance(a)RateBalance(a)RateBalance(a)RateU.S. customer depositsSavings$12,6571.1%$7,9770.8%$3,2152.5%Time14,4622.711,4122.98,7373.3Other(b)2540.62490.5178—Total U.S. customer deposits27,3731.919,6382.012,1303.0Non-U.S.customer deposits(c)Other foreign time & savings5024.56124.81,2056.0Other foreign demand1911.01861.32276.6TotalNon-U.S.customer deposits6933.57984.01,4326.1Total customer deposits$28,0661.9%$20,4362.1%$13,5623.3%









(a)Averages are based on month end balances.(b)Other U.S. customer deposits include primarily
    non-interest-bearing and interest-bearing demand deposits.(c)Prior year numbers have been revised to conform to current year
    presentation.







TIME
    CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT OF $100,000 OR MORE



The following table presents the amount of time certificates of
    deposit of $100,000 or more issued by the Company in its
    U.S. offices, further segregated by time remaining until
    maturity.



By remaining maturity as of December 31, 2010Over 3 monthsOver 6 months3 monthsbut withinbut withinOver(Millions)or less6 months12 months12 monthsTotalU.S. time certificates of deposits ($100,000 or more)$105$107$197$280$689





As of December 31, 2010, time certificates of deposit and
    other time deposits in amounts of $100,000 or more issued bynon-U.S. officeswas $291 million.



RETURN ON
    EQUITY AND ASSETS



The following table presents the Company’s return on
    average total assets, return on average shareholders’
    equity, dividend payout ratio, and average shareholders’
    equity to average total assets ratio.



Years Ended December 31,(Millions, except percentages and per share
    amounts)201020092008Net income$4,057$2,130$2,699Net income per share — basic(a)$3.37$1.54$2.33Dividends declared per share$0.72$0.72$0.72Return on average total assets(b)2.8%1.8%2.0%Return on average shareholders’ equity(c)27.5%14.6%22.3%Dividend payout ratio(d)21.4%46.8%30.9%Average shareholders’ equity to average total assets ratio10.2%12.0%9.1%









(a)Effective January 1, 2009, guidance for determining whether
    instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are
    participating securities requires that restricted stock awards
    be included in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per
    share (“EPS”) pursuant to the two-class method.
    Accordingly, the Company has retrospectively adjusted EPS for
    2008.(b)Based on the year’s net income as a percentage of average
    total assets calculated using month end average balances.(c)Based on the year’s net income as a percentage of average
    shareholders’ equity calculated using month end average
    balances.(d)Calculated on the year’s dividends declared per share as a
    percentage of the year’s net income per basic share.







SHORT-TERM
    BORROWINGS



The following table presents amounts and weighted average rates
    for categories of short-term borrowings. Refer to Note 10,
    “Debt” on page 89 in the Annual Report for
    additional information.



Years Ended December 31,(Millions, except
    percentages)201020092008Commercial paperBalance at the end of the year$645$975$7,272Monthly average balance outstanding during the year$900$1,990$10,638Maximum month-end balance during the year$1,398$5,201$14,634Stated rate at December 31(a)0.16%0.19%2.20%Weighted average rate during the year0.22%1.50%2.90%Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase
    agreements(b)Balance at the end of the year$—$—$470Monthly average balance outstanding during the year$—$48$1,493Maximum month-end balance during the year$—$86$2,972Stated rate at December 31(a)—%—%1.30%Weighted average rate during the year—%0.76%3.58%Other short-term borrowingsBalance at the end of the year$2,769$1,369$1,251Monthly average balance outstanding during the year$1,231$956$2,794Maximum month-end balance during the year$2,769$1,369$4,244Stated rate at December 31(a)1.23%0.85%1.90%Weighted average rate during the year (c)0.19%0.70%4.33%









(a)For floating rate debt issuances, the stated interest rates are
    based on the floating rates in effect as of December 31,
    2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.(b)Includes term federal funds purchased and overnight federal
    funds purchased.(c)Does not include non-interest-bearing short-term borrowings
    (i.e. book overdrafts).



Short-term borrowings, including commercial paper and federal
    funds purchased, are defined as any debt instrument with an
    original maturity of 12 months or less. Federal funds
    purchased represent overnight and term funds as well as Federal
    Home Loan Bank advances. Commercial paper generally is issued in
    amounts not less than $100,000 and with maturities of
    270 days or less. Other short-term borrowings include
    certain book overdrafts (i.e., primarily timing differences
    arising in the ordinary course of business), short-term
    borrowings from banks, as well as interest-bearing amounts due
    to merchants in accordance with merchant service agreements.



