Item 1A.Risk Factors

In your evaluation of our company and business, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed and the price of our stock could decline. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as our ability to collect receivables, overall U.S. and global economic and industry conditions, geopolitical events, changes in laws or accounting rules, fluctuations in interest and exchange rates, terrorism, international conflicts, major health concerns, climate change or other disruptions of expected economic and business conditions. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may materially harm our business, financial condition or operating results and result in a decline in the price of our stock.

Risks Relating to Our Business

We depend on government agencies as our primary customer and if our reputation or relationships with these agencies were harmed, our future revenues and growth prospects would be adversely affected.

We generated81%,76%and79%of our total revenues during fiscal 2016, the 11-month period ended January 1, 2016, and fiscal 2015, respectively, from contracts with the U.S. Government (including all branches of the U.S. military), either as a prime contractor or a subcontractor to other contractors engaged in work for the U.S. Government. We generated more than10%of our total revenues during fiscal 2016, the 11-month period ended January 1, 2016, and fiscal 2015 from the U.S. Army. We expect to continue to derive most of our revenues from work performed under U.S. Government contracts. Our reputation and relationship with the U.S. Government, and in particular with the agencies of the DoD and the U.S. Intelligence Community, are key factors in maintaining and growing our revenues. Negative press reports or publicity, which could pertain to employee or subcontractor misconduct, conflicts of interest, poor contract performance, deficiencies in services, reports, products or other deliverables, information security breaches or other aspects of our business, regardless of accuracy, could harm our reputation, particularly with these agencies. If our reputation is negatively affected, or if we are suspended or debarred from contracting with government agencies for any reason, the amount of business with government and other customers would decrease and our future revenues and growth prospects would be adversely affected.

A decline in the U.S. Government budget, changes in spending or budgetary priorities or delays in contract awards may significantly and adversely affect our future revenues and limit our growth prospects.

Revenues under contracts with the DoD, either as a prime contractor or subcontractor to other contractors, represented approximately56%of our total revenues for fiscal 2016. Levels of DoD spending are difficult to predict and subject to significant risk. Our operating results could be adversely affected by spending caps or changes in the budgetary priorities of the U.S. Government or the DoD, as well as delays in program starts or the award of contracts or task orders under contracts. Current U.S. Government spending levels for defense-related programs may not be sustained and future spending and program authorizations may not increase or may decrease or shift to programs in areas in which we do not provide services or are less likely to be awarded contracts. Such changes in spending authorizations and budgetary priorities may occur as a result of uncertainty surrounding the federal budget, increasing political pressure and legislation, shifts in spending priorities from defense-related programs as a result of competing demands for federal funds, the number and intensity of military conflicts or other factors.

The U.S. Government also conducts periodic reviews of U.S. defense strategies and priorities, which may shift DoD budgetary priorities, reduce overall U.S. Government spending or delay contract or task order awards for defense-related programs, including programs from which we expect to derive a significant portion of our future revenues. In addition, changes to the DoD acquisition system and contracting models could affect whether and how we pursue certain opportunities and the terms under which we are able to do so. A significant decline in overall U.S. Government spending, including in the areas of national security, intelligence and homeland security, a significant shift in its spending priorities, the substantial reduction or elimination of particular defense-related programs or significant delays in contract or task order awards for large programs could adversely affect our future revenues and limit our growth prospects.



Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report -12



Table of ContentsPART I



Because we depend on U.S. Government contracts, a delay in the completion of the U.S. Government’s budget process could delay procurement of the products, services and solutions we provide and have an adverse effect on our future revenues.

Our failure to comply with a variety of complex procurement rules and regulations could result in our being liable for penalties, including termination of our U.S. Government contracts, disqualification from bidding on future U.S. Government contracts and suspension or debarment from U.S. Government contracting.

We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts, which affect how we do business with our customers and may impose added costs on our business. Some significant statutes and regulations that affect us include:

•the FAR and supplements, which regulate the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts;

•the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of cost and pricing data in connection with certain contract negotiations;

•the Procurement Integrity Act, which regulates access to competitor bid and proposal information and government source selection information and our ability to provide compensation to certain former government officials;

•the Civil False Claims Act, which provides for substantial civil penalties for violations, including for submission of a false or fraudulent claim to the U.S. Government for payment or approval; and

•the U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. Government contracts.

The FAR and many of our U.S. Government contracts contain organizational conflict of interest clauses that may limit our ability to compete for or perform certain other contracts or other types of services for particular customers. Organizational conflicts of interest arise when we engage in activities that may make us unable to render impartial assistance or advice to the U.S. Government, impair our objectivity in performing contract work or provide us with an unfair competitive advantage. A conflict of interest issue that precludes our competition for or performance on a significant program or contract could harm our prospects.



Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report -13



Table of ContentsPART I



The U.S. Government may adopt new contract rules and regulations or revise its procurement practices in a manner adverse to us at any time.

Our industry has experienced, and we expect it will continue to experience, significant changes to business practices as a result of an increased focus on affordability, efficiencies and recovery of costs, among other items. U.S. Government agencies may face restrictions or pressure regarding the type and amount of services that they may obtain from private contractors. Legislation, regulations and initiatives dealing with procurement reform, mitigation of potential conflicts of interest and environmental responsibility or sustainability, as well as any resulting shifts in the buying practices of U.S. Government agencies, such as increased usage of fixed price contracts, multiple award contracts and small business set-aside contracts, could have adverse effects on government contractors, including us. Any of these changes could impair our ability to obtain new contracts or renew our existing contracts when those contracts are recompeted. Any new contracting requirements or procurement methods could be costly or administratively difficult for us to implement and could adversely affect our future revenues, profitability and prospects.

Our business is subject to reviews, audits and cost adjustments by the U.S. Government, which, if resolved unfavorably to us, could adversely affect our profitability, cash position or growth prospects.

U.S. Government agencies, including the DCAA, DCMA and others, routinely audit and review a contractor’s performance on government contracts, indirect rates and pricing practices and compliance with applicable contracting and procurement laws, regulations and standards. They also review the adequacy of the contractor’s compliance with government standards for its business systems, including; a contractor’s accounting system, earned value management system, estimating system, materials management and accounting system, property management system and purchasing system.

Both contractors and the U.S. Government agencies conducting these audits and reviews have come under increased scrutiny. As a result, the current audits and reviews have become more rigorous and the standards to which we are held are being more strictly interpreted, increasing the likelihood of an audit or review resulting in an adverse outcome. During the course of its current audits, the DCAA is closely examining and questioning several of our long established and disclosed practices that it had previously audited and accepted, increasing the uncertainty as to the ultimate conclusion that will be reached.

A finding of significant control deficiencies in our system audits or other reviews can result in decremented billing rates to our U.S. Government customers until the control deficiencies are corrected and our remediations are accepted by DCMA. Government audits and reviews may conclude that our practices are not consistent with applicable laws and regulations and result in adjustments to contract costs and mandatory customer refunds. Such adjustments can be applied retroactively, which could result in significant customer refunds. Our receipt of adverse audit findings or the failure to obtain an “approved” determination of our various business systems from the responsible U.S. Government agency could significantly and adversely affect our business, including our ability to bid on new contracts and our competitive position in the bidding process. A determination of non-compliance with applicable contracting and procurement laws, regulations and standards could also result in the U.S. Government imposing penalties and sanctions against us, including withholding of payments, suspension of payments and increased government scrutiny that could delay or adversely affect our ability to invoice and receive timely payment on contracts, perform contracts or compete for contracts with the U.S. Government.

Leidos, Inc.'s indirect cost audits by the DCAA remain open forfiscal 2012and subsequent fiscal years. Although we have recorded contract revenues subsequent to and includingfiscal 2012based upon our estimate of costs that we believe will be approved upon final audit or review, we do not know the outcome of any ongoing or future audits or reviews and adjustments and, if future adjustments exceed our estimates, our profitability would be adversely affected.

Leidos Innovations Corporation's indirect cost audits by the DCAA remain open forfiscal 2009and subsequent fiscal years. Based upon our estimate of costs that we believe will be approved upon final audit or review, we do not know the outcome of any ongoing or future audits or reviews and adjustments and, if future adjustments exceed our estimates, our profitability would be adversely affected.



Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report -14



Table of ContentsPART I



Our business is subject to governmental review and investigation which could adversely affect our financial position, operating results and growth prospects.

We are routinely subject to governmental investigations relating to compliance with various laws and regulations with respect to our role as a contractor to federal, state and local government customers and in connection with performing services in countries outside the United States. If a review or investigation identifies improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties or administrative sanctions, including the termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, the triggering of price reduction clauses, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with governmental agencies. We may suffer harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety are made against us, which would impair our ability to win new contract awards or receive contract renewals. Penalties and sanctions are not uncommon in our industry. If we incur a material penalty or administrative sanction or otherwise suffer harm to our reputation, our revenues, profitability, cash position and future prospects could be adversely affected. More generally, increases in scrutiny and investigations from government organizations, legislative bodies or agencies into business practices and into major programs supported by contractors may lead to increased legal costs and may harm our reputation, revenues, profitability and growth prospects.

Misconduct of employees, subcontractors, agents and business partners could cause us to lose existing contracts or customers and adversely affect our ability to obtain new contracts and customers and could have a significant adverse impact on our business and reputation.

Due to the competitive process to obtain contracts and the likelihood of bid protests, we may be unable to achieve or sustain revenue growth and profitability.



Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report -15



Table of ContentsPART I



The U.S. Government may terminate, cancel, modify or curtail our contracts at any time prior to their completion and, if we do not replace them, this may adversely affect our future revenues and profitability.

Many of the U.S. Government programs in which we participate as a contractor or subcontractor extend for several years and include one or more base years and one or more option years. These programs are normally funded on an annual basis. Under our contracts, the U.S. Government generally has the right to not exercise options to extend or expand our contracts and may otherwise terminate, cancel, modify or curtail our contracts at its convenience. Any decisions by the U.S. Government to not exercise contract options or to terminate, cancel, modify or curtail our major programs or contracts would adversely affect our revenues, revenue growth and profitability.

We have experienced and continue to experience periodic performance issues under certain of our contracts. Some of our contracts involve the development of complex systems and products to achieve challenging customer goals in a competitive procurement environment. As a result, we sometimes experience technological or other performance difficulties, which have in the past and may in the future result in delays, cost overruns and failures in our performance of these contracts. If a government customer terminates a contract for default, we may be exposed to liability, including for excess costs incurred by the customer in procuring undelivered services and products from another source. Depending on the nature and value of the contract, a performance issue or termination for default could cause our actual results to differ from those anticipated and could harm our reputation.

We face aggressive competition that can impact our ability to obtain contracts and therefore affect our future revenues and growth prospects.

Our business is highly competitive and we compete with larger companies that have greater name recognition, financial resources and a larger technical staff. We also compete with smaller, more specialized companies that are able to concentrate their resources on particular areas. Additionally, we compete with the U.S. Government’s own capabilities and federal non-profit contract research centers.

The markets in which we operate are characterized by rapidly changing technology and the needs of our customers change and evolve regularly. Accordingly, our success depends on our ability to develop services and products that address these changing needs and to provide people and technology needed to deliver these services and products. To remain competitive, we must consistently provide superior service, technology and performance on a cost-effective basis to our customers. Our competitors may be able to provide our customers with different or greater capabilities or technologies or better contract terms than we can provide, including technical qualifications, past contract experience, geographic presence, price and the availability of qualified professional personnel. In addition, our competitors may consolidate or establish teaming or other relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to address customers’ needs. Accordingly, we anticipate that larger or new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge, which may adversely affect our ability to compete.

A failure to attract, train and retain skilled employees, including our management team, would adversely affect our ability to execute our strategy and may disrupt our operations.

Our business involves the development of tailored services and solutions for our customers, a process that relies heavily upon the expertise and services of our employees. Our continued success depends on our ability to recruit and retain highly trained and skilled engineering, technical and professional personnel. Competition for skilled personnel is intense and competitors aggressively recruit key employees. In addition, many U.S. Government programs require contractors to have security clearances. Depending on the level of required clearance, security clearances can be difficult and time-consuming to obtain and personnel with security clearances are in great demand. Particularly in highly specialized areas, it has become more difficult to retain employees and meet all of our needs for employees in a timely manner, which may affect our growth. Although we intend to continue to devote significant resources to recruit, train and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to attract, effectively train and retain these employees. Any failure to do so could impair our ability to perform our contractual obligations efficiently and timely meet our customers’ needs and win new business, which could adversely affect our future results.



Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report -16



Table of ContentsPART I



In addition to attracting and retaining qualified engineering, technical and professional personnel, we believe that our success will also depend on the continued employment of a highly qualified and experienced senior management team and its ability to retain existing business and generate new business. Our senior management team is important to our business because personal reputations and individual business relationships are a critical element of retaining and obtaining customer contracts in our industry, particularly with agencies performing classified operations. An inability to retain appropriately qualified and experienced senior executives could cause us to lose customers or new business opportunities.

We may not realize as revenues the full amounts reflected in our backlog, which could adversely affect our expected future revenues and growth prospects.

As of December 30, 2016, our total backlog was$17.7 billion, including$6.0 billionin funded backlog. Due to the U.S. Government’s ability to not exercise contract options or to terminate, modify or curtail our programs or contracts and the rights of our non-U.S. Government customers to cancel contracts and purchase orders in certain circumstances, we may realize less than expected or may never realize revenues from some of the contracts that are included in our backlog. Our unfunded backlog, in particular, contains management’s estimate of amounts expected to be realized on unfunded contract work that may never be realized as revenues. If we fail to realize as revenues amounts included in our backlog, our future revenues, profitability and growth prospects could be adversely affected.

Our earnings and profitability may vary based on the mix of our contracts and may be adversely affected by our failure to accurately estimate and manage costs, time and resources.

We generate revenues under various types of contracts, which include cost-reimbursement, FP-IF, T&M, FP-LOE and FFP contracts. Our earnings and profitability may vary materially depending on changes in the proportionate amount of revenues derived from each type of contract, the nature of services or products provided, as well as the achievement of performance objectives and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined. Cost-reimbursement and T&M contracts are generally less profitable than FFP contracts. Our operating results in any period may also be affected, positively or negatively, by customers' variable purchasing patterns of our more profitable proprietary products.

Our profitability is adversely affected when we incur contract costs that we cannot bill to our customers. To varying degrees, each of our contract types involves some risk that we could underestimate the costs and resources necessary to fulfill the contract. While FFP contracts allow us to benefit from cost savings, these contracts also increase our exposure to the risk of cost overruns. Revenues from FFP contracts represented approximately30%of our total revenues for fiscal 2016. When making proposals on these types of contracts, we rely heavily on our estimates of costs and timing to complete the associated projects, as well as assumptions regarding technical issues. In each case, our failure to accurately estimate costs or the resources and technology needed to perform our contracts or to effectively manage and control our costs during performance could result, and in some instances has resulted, in reduced profits or in losses. More generally, any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in the performance of our contracts, including costs and delays caused by contractual disputes or other factors outside of our control, such as performance failures of our subcontractors, natural disasters or other force majeure events, could make our contracts less profitable than expected or unprofitable.

We use estimates in recognizing revenues, and if we make changes to estimates used in recognizing revenues, our profitability may be adversely affected.

Revenues from our contracts are primarily recognized using the percentage-of-completion method or on the basis of partial performance towards completion. These methodologies require estimates of total costs at completion, fees earned on the contract, or both. This estimation process, particularly due to the technical nature of the services performed and the long-term nature of certain contracts, is complex and involves significant judgment. Adjustments to original estimates are often required as work progresses, experience is gained and additional information becomes known, even though the scope of the work required under the contract may not change. Any adjustment as a result of a change in estimate is recognized as events become known. Changes in the underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates could result in adjustments that may adversely affect our future financial results.



Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report -17



Table of ContentsPART I



Legal disputes could require us to pay potentially large damage awards and could be costly to defend, which would adversely affect our cash balances and profitability, and could damage our reputation.

We are subject to a number of lawsuits and claims described in “Legal Proceedings” in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as may be updated in our future filings with the SEC, including our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. We are also subject to, and may become a party to, a variety of other litigation or claims and suits that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Adverse judgments or settlements in some or all of these legal disputes may result in significant monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us. Any claims or litigation could be costly to defend, and even if we are successful or if fully indemnified or insured, could damage our reputation and make it more difficult to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. Litigation and other claims, including those described in “Legal Proceedings,” are subject to inherent uncertainties and management’s view of these matters may change in the future.

Our business and operations expose us to numerous legal and regulatory requirements, and any violation of these requirements could harm our business.

We are subject to numerous federal, state and foreign legal requirements on matters as diverse as data privacy and protection, employment and labor relations, immigration, taxation, anticorruption, import/export controls, trade restrictions, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation and anti-competition. Compliance with diverse and changing legal requirements is costly, time-consuming and requires significant resources. We also conduct business in certain identified growth areas, such as health information technology, energy and environmental services, which are highly regulated and may expose us to increased compliance risk. Violations of one or more of these diverse legal requirements in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines and other damages, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business and damage to our reputation. Violations of these regulations or contractual obligations related to regulatory compliance in connection with the performance of customer contracts could also result in liability for significant monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity and other reputational damage, restrictions on our ability to compete for certain work and allegations by our customers that we have not performed our contractual obligations.



Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report -18



Table of ContentsPART I



Our business and financial results could be negatively affected by cyber or other security threats.

Internal system or service failures could disrupt our business and impair our ability to effectively provide our services and products to our customers, which could damage our reputation and adversely affect our revenues and profitability.

Any system or service disruptions, including those caused by ongoing projects to improve our information technology systems and the delivery of services, whether through our shared services organization or outsourced services, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our business including, among other things, an adverse effect on our ability to bill our customers for work performed on our contracts, collect the amounts that have been billed and produce accurate financial statements in a timely manner. We are also subject to systems failures, including network, software or hardware failures, whether caused by us, third-party service providers, cybersecurity threats, natural disasters, power shortages, terrorist attacks or other events, which could cause loss of data and interruptions or delays in our business, cause us to incur remediation costs, subject us to claims and damage our reputation. In addition, the failure or disruption of our communications could cause us to interrupt or suspend our operations or otherwise adversely affect our business. Our property and business interruption insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur as a result of any system or operational failure or disruption and, as a result, our future results could be adversely affected.

Customer systems failures could damage our reputation and adversely affect our revenues and profitability.

Many of the systems and networks that we develop, install and maintain for our customers involve managing and protecting personal information and information relating to national security and other sensitive government functions. While we have programs designed to comply with relevant privacy and security laws and restrictions, if a system or network that we develop, install or maintain were to fail or experience a security breach or service interruption, whether caused by us, third-party service providers, cybersecurity threats or other events, we may experience loss of revenue, remediation costs or face claims for damages or contract termination. Any such event could cause serious harm to our reputation and prevent us from having access to or being eligible for further work on such systems and networks. Our errors and omissions liability insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for all of the damages that we may incur and, as a result, our future results could be adversely affected.



Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report -19



Table of ContentsPART I



Many of our contracts contain performance obligations that require innovative design capabilities, are technologically complex, or are dependent upon factors not wholly within our control. Failure to meet these obligations could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects.

We design and develop technologically advanced and innovative products and services applied by our customers in a variety of environments. Problems and delays in development or delivery as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and patent rights, labor, learning curve assumptions or materials and components could prevent us from achieving contractual requirements.

In addition, our offerings cannot be tested and proven in all situations and are otherwise subject to unforeseen problems that could negatively affect revenue and profitability such as problems with quality and workmanship, country of origin, delivery of subcontractor components or services and unplanned degradation of product performance. Among the factors that may affect revenue and profits could be unforeseen costs and expenses not covered by insurance or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management focus in responding to unforeseen problems, loss of follow-on work, and, in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the government customer of contract cost and fee payments we previously received.

We have contracts with the U.S. Government that are classified, which may limit investor insight into portions of our business.

We derive a portion of our revenues from programs with the U.S. Government that are subject to security restrictions (classified programs), which preclude the dissemination of information that is classified for national security purposes. We are limited in our ability to provide information about these classified programs, their risks or any disputes or claims relating to such programs. As a result, investors have less insight into our classified programs than our other businesses and therefore less ability to fully evaluate the risks related to our classified business.

We have made and continue to make acquisitions, investments, joint ventures and divestitures that involve numerous risks and uncertainties.

We selectively pursue strategic acquisitions, investments and joint ventures. These transactions require significant investment of time and resources and may disrupt our business and distract our management from other responsibilities. Even if successful, these transactions could reduce earnings for a number of reasons, including the amortization of intangible assets, impairment charges, acquired operations that are not yet profitable or the payment of additional consideration under earn-out arrangements if an acquisition performs better than expected. Acquisitions, investments and joint ventures pose many other risks that could adversely affect our reputation, operations or financial results, including:

•we may not be able to identify, compete effectively for or complete suitable acquisitions and investments at prices we consider attractive;

•we may not be able to accurately estimate the financial effect of acquisitions and investments on our business, and we may not realize anticipated synergies or acquisitions may not result in improved operating performance;

•we may encounter performance problems with acquired technologies, capabilities and products, particularly with respect to those that are still in development when acquired;

•we may have trouble retaining key employees and customers of an acquired business or otherwise integrating such businesses, such as incompatible accounting, information management, or other control systems, which could result in unforeseen difficulties;

•we may assume material liabilities that were not identified as part of our due diligence or for which we are unable to receive a purchase price adjustment or reimbursement through indemnification;

•we may assume legal or regulatory risks, particularly with respect to smaller businesses that have immature business processes and compliance programs;

•acquired entities or joint ventures may not operate profitably, which could adversely affect our operating income or operating margins, and we may be unable to recover investments in any such acquisitions;



Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report -20



Table of ContentsPART I



•acquisitions, investments and joint ventures may require us to spend a significant amount of cash or to issue capital stock, resulting in dilution of ownership; and

•we may not be able to effectively influence the operations of our joint ventures, or we may be exposed to certain liabilities if our joint venture partners do not fulfill their obligations.

If our acquisitions, investments or joint ventures fail, perform poorly or their value is otherwise impaired for any reason, including contractions in credit markets and global economic conditions, our business and financial results could be adversely affected.

In addition, we periodically divest businesses, including businesses that are no longer a part of our ongoing strategic plan. These divestitures similarly require significant investment of time and resources, may disrupt our business, distract management from other responsibilities and may result in losses on disposal or continued financial involvement in the divested business, including through indemnification, guarantee or other financial arrangements, for a period of time following the transaction, which would adversely affect our financial results.

Goodwill and other intangible assets represent approximately68%of our total assets and any impairment of these assets could negatively impact our results of operations.

We depend on our teaming arrangements and relationships with other contractors and subcontractors. If we are not able to maintain these relationships, or if these parties fail to satisfy their obligations to us or the customer, our revenues, profitability and growth prospects could be adversely affected.

We rely on our teaming relationships with other prime contractors and subcontractors in order to submit bids for large procurements or other opportunities where we believe the combination of services and products provided by us and the other companies will help us to win and perform the contract. Our future revenues and growth prospects could be adversely affected if other contractors eliminate or reduce their contract relationships with us, or if the U.S. Government terminates or reduces these other contractors’ programs, does not award them new contracts or refuses to pay under a contract. Companies that do not have access to U.S. Government contracts may perform services as our subcontractor and that exposure could enhance such companies’ prospect of securing a future position as a prime U.S. Government contractor which could increase competition for future contracts and impair our ability to perform on contracts.



Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report -21



Table of ContentsPART I



We may have disputes with our subcontractors arising from, among other things, the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontractor, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, our hiring of a subcontractor’s personnel or the subcontractor’s failure to comply with applicable law. Uncertain economic conditions heighten the risk of financial stress of our subcontractors, which could adversely impact their ability to meet their contractual requirements to us. If any of our subcontractors fail to timely meet their contractual obligations or have regulatory compliance or other problems, our ability to fulfill our obligations as a prime contractor or higher tier subcontractor may be jeopardized. Significant losses could arise in future periods and subcontractor performance deficiencies could result in our termination for default. A termination for default could eliminate a revenue source, expose us to liability and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and task orders, especially if the customer is an agency of the U.S. Government.

We provide professional engineering and other services, including engineering-procurement-construction, design build, project delivery and commissioning, in connection with complex projects that involve significant risks and may require long-term capital.

In connection with certain projects, we may commit to a specific completion date or performance standards, which may expose us to significant additional costs and reputational damage if we miss the completion date or fail to achieve the performance standards, including agreed upon financial damages. Project performance can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including delays from governmental inaction, public opposition, inability to obtain financing, weather, unavailability or increased price of materials, changes in project scope, accidents, environmental hazards, labor disruptions and other factors. If we assume risks related to these events, such risks may not be insurable or may only be insurable on unacceptable terms. If these events occur, the total project costs could exceed our estimates and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, incur a loss on a project, which may reduce or eliminate overall profitability and have an adverse effect on our financial position and cash flows.

We sold our biomass-powered generating facility in Plainfield, Connecticut with consideration consisting of a secured promissory note. A default on the note by the buyer could result in a write-off of a portion or entire value of the note and may adversely affect our profitability.

On July 24, 2015, we completed the sale of our Plainfield Renewable Energy biomass-powered generating facility, with consideration received at closing that included a secured promissory note for$73 million, net of discount (the "Note"). Even though we have no reason to believe a credit risk currently exists, there is a possibility that the buyer could default. In the event of a default, we may need to write off up to the full value of the Note, which could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Our services and operations sometimes involve using, handling or disposing of hazardous substances, which could expose us to potentially significant liabilities.

Some of our services and operations involve the assessment or remediation of environmental hazards, as well as the use, handling or disposal of hazardous substances. These activities and our operations generally subject us to extensive foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations, which, among other things, require us to incur costs to comply with these regulations and could impose liability on us for handling or disposing of hazardous substances. Furthermore, failure to comply with these environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations could result in civil, criminal, regulatory, administrative or contractual sanctions, including fines, penalties or suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. Government. Our current and previous ownership and operation of real property also subjects us to environmental protection laws, some of which hold current or previous owners or operators of businesses and real property liable for hazardous substance releases, even if they did not know of and were not responsible for the releases. If we have any violations of, or incur liabilities pursuant to these laws or regulations, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected.



Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report -22



Table of ContentsPART I



We could incur significant liabilities and suffer negative publicity if our inspection or detection systems fail to detect bombs, explosives, weapons, contraband or other threats.

We design, develop, manufacture, sell, service and maintain various inspection systems that are designed to assist in the detection of bombs, explosives, weapons, contraband or other threats. In some instances, we also train operators of such systems. Many of these systems utilize software algorithms that are probabilistic in nature and subject to significant technical limitations. Many of these systems are also dependent on the performance of their operators. There are many factors, some of which are beyond our control, which could result in the failure of our products to help detect the presence of bombs, explosives, weapons, contraband or other threats. Some of these factors could include operator error, inherent limitations in our systems, and misuse or malfunction of our systems. The failure of our systems to help detect the presence of any of these dangerous materials could lead to injury, death and extensive property damage and may lead to product liability, professional liability, or other claims against us. Further, if our systems fail to, or are perceived to have failed to help detect a threat, the negative publicity from such incident could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Our insurance may be insufficient to protect us from product and other liability claims or losses.

We maintain insurance coverage with third-party insurers as part of our overall risk management strategy and because some of our contracts require us to maintain specific insurance coverage limits. However, not every risk or liability is or can be protected by insurance, and, for those risks we insure, the limits of coverage we purchase or that are reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover all actual losses or liabilities incurred. If any of our third-party insurers fail, cancel our coverage or otherwise are unable to provide us with adequate insurance coverage, then our overall risk exposure and our operational expenses would increase and the management of our business operations would be disrupted. Our insurance may be insufficient to protect us from significant product and other liability claims or losses. Moreover, there is a risk that commercially available liability insurance will not continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost, if at all. If liability claims or losses exceed our current or available insurance coverage, our business, financial position, operating results and prospects may be harmed. Regardless of the adequacy of our liability insurance coverages, any significant claim may have an adverse effect on our industry and market reputation, leading to a substantial decrease in demand for our products and services and reduced revenues.

We face risks associated with our international business.

Our international business operations may be subject to additional and different risks than our U.S. business. Failure to comply with U.S. Government laws and regulations applicable to international business, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or U.S. export control regulations, could have an adverse impact on our business with the U.S. Government and could expose us to administrative, civil or criminal penalties. Additionally, these risks relating to international operations may expose us to potentially significant contract losses.

In some countries, there is an increased chance for economic, legal or political changes that may adversely affect the performance of our services, sale of our products or repatriation of our profits. International transactions can also involve increased financial and legal risks arising from foreign exchange rate variability, imposition of tariffs or additional taxes, restrictive trade policies, any delay or failure to collect amounts due to us and differing legal systems. We provide services and products in support of U.S. Government customers in countries with governments that may be or may become unstable, which increases the risk of an incident resulting in injury or loss of life, or damage or destruction of property or inability to meet our contractual obligations. Although our international operations have historically generated a small proportion of our revenues, we are seeking to grow our international business, in which case these regulatory, geopolitical and other factors may have a greater impact on our business in the future and could adversely affect our business.



Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report -23



Table of ContentsPART I



We have only a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, which are important to our success. Our failure to adequately protect our proprietary information and intellectual property rights could adversely affect our competitive position.

We rely principally on trade secrets to protect much of our intellectual property in cases where we do not believe that patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Although our employees are subject to confidentiality obligations, this protection may be inadequate to deter or prevent misappropriation of our confidential information. We may be unable to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property or otherwise take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. If we are unable to prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our copyrights, trademarks or other proprietary information, our competitive position could be adversely affected. In addition, in connection with the performance of services, the U.S. Government has certain rights to inventions, data, software codes and related material that we develop under government-funded contracts and subcontracts, which means that U.S. Government may disclose or license our information to third parties, including, in some instances, our competitors.

In the course of conducting our business, we may inadvertently infringe the intellectual property rights of others, resulting in claims against us or our customers. Our contracts generally indemnify our customers for third-party claims for intellectual property infringement by the services and products we provide. The expense of defending these claims may adversely affect our financial results.

Our financial results may vary significantly from period-to-period.

Our financial results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. For these reasons, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our financial results may be negatively affected by any of the risk factors listed in this “Risk Factors” section and other matters described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We use estimates in accounting for many of our programs and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results.

The integration of Leidos and Splitco may not be successful or the anticipated benefits from the Transactions may not be realized.

As a result of the Transactions, we have significantly more sales, assets and employees than we did prior to the consummation of the Transactions. During the period in which transition services are provided to us by Lockheed Martin, Splitco has a continued dependence on the provision of services from Lockheed Martin, including with respect to information technology infrastructure. The integration process requires us to expend capital and significantly expand the scope of our operations. Our management is required to devote a significant amount of time and attention to the process of integrating the operations of our business and the Splitco Business. There is a significant degree of difficulty and management involvement inherent in that process. These difficulties include, but are not limited to:



Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report -24



Table of ContentsPART I



•integrating the Splitco Business while carrying on the ongoing operations of our business;

•managing a significantly larger company than before the consummation of the Transactions;

•the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying our expectations regarding the integration process;

•coordinating a greater number of diverse businesses located in a greater number of geographic locations;

•operating in geographic markets or industry sectors in which we may have little or no experience;

•complying with laws of new jurisdictions in which we have not previously operated;

•integrating business systems and models;

•attracting and retaining the necessary personnel associated with the Splitco Business following the consummation of the Transactions;

•creating and implementing uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems and controlling the costs associated with such matters; and

•integrating information technology, purchasing, accounting, finance, sales, billing, payroll and regulatory compliance systems, and meeting external reporting requirements following the consummation of the Transactions.

All of the risks associated with the integration process could be exacerbated by the fact that we may not have a sufficient number of employees with the requisite expertise to integrate the businesses or to operate our business. Failure to hire or retain employees with the requisite skills and knowledge to run Leidos may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Even if we are able to combine the two business operations successfully, it may not be possible to realize the benefits of the increased sales volume and other benefits, including the expected synergies that are expected to result from the Transactions, or realize these benefits within the time frame that is expected. For example, the elimination of duplicative costs may not be possible or may take longer than anticipated, or the benefits from the Transactions may be offset by costs incurred or delays in integrating the companies. In addition, the quantification of synergies expected to result from the Transactions is based on significant estimates and assumptions that are subjective in nature and inherently uncertain. The amount of synergies actually realized in the Transactions, if any, and the time periods in which any such synergies are realized, could differ materially from the expected synergies discussed in this document, regardless of whether we are able to combine the two business operations successfully.

If we are unable to successfully integrate the Splitco Business or if we are unable to realize the anticipated synergies and other benefits of the Transactions, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We are required to abide by potentially significant restrictions which could limit our ability to undertake certain corporate actions (such as the issuance of Leidos common stock or the undertaking of a merger or consolidation) that otherwise could be advantageous.

The merger agreement and the tax matters agreement impose certain ongoing restrictions on us to ensure that applicable statutory requirements under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and applicable Treasury regulations are met so that the Transactions qualify as tax-free to Lockheed Martin and its shareholders. As a result of these restrictions, our ability to engage in certain transactions may be limited.

If we take any actions that would cause the Transactions to become taxable, we generally will be required to bear the cost of any resulting tax liability. If the Transactions became taxable, Lockheed Martin would be expected to recognize a substantial amount of income, which would result in a material amount of taxes. Any such taxes allocated to us would be expected to be material to us, and could cause our business, financial condition and operating results to suffer. These restrictions may reduce our ability to engage in certain business transactions that otherwise might be advantageous to us.



Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report -25



Table of ContentsPART I



We incurred new indebtedness in connection with the Transactions, and the degree to which Leidos is leveraged may have a material adverse effect on Leidos' business, financial condition or results of operations and cash flows.

Certain financial institutions provided financing to Splitco to finance the amount of the Splitco debt and to Leidos to fund the special dividend, for which the Company paid$993 millionto its stockholders and accrued$29 millionof dividend equivalents with respect to outstanding equity awards. Leidos' ability to make payments on and to refinance its indebtedness, including the debt incurred pursuant to the Transactions, as well as any future debt that Leidos may incur, will depend on, among other things, Leidos' ability to generate cash in the future from operations, financings or asset sales. Leidos' ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond Leidos' control.

If Leidos is not able to repay or refinance its debt as it becomes due, Leidos may be forced to sell assets or take other disadvantageous actions, including (i) reducing financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes or (ii) dedicating an unsustainable level of Leidos' cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on Leidos' indebtedness. In addition, Leidos' ability to withstand competitive pressures and to react to changes in Leidos' industry could be impaired. The lenders who hold such debt could also potentially accelerate amounts due, which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of any of Leidos' other debt.

We will incur significant costs related to the Transactions that could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows and operating results.

We expect to incur approximately$235 millionof one-time transition and integration-related costs, a portion of which will be incremental capital spending, which management believes are necessary to realize the anticipated synergies from the Transactions. The incurrence of these costs may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows and operating results in the periods in which they are incurred. We may be able to recover approximately$90 millionof the transition and integration-related expenses as allocable costs through its cost-type contracts over afive yearperiod, but there can be no assurances that we will be able to do so. The identification and implementation of additional anticipated synergies, particularly in reduced real estate footprint and systems consolidation opportunities, may result in additional one-time integration costs.

We may be unable to provide the same types and level of benefits, services and resources to Splitco that historically have been provided by Lockheed Martin, or may be unable to provide them at the same cost.

As part of Lockheed Martin, Splitco received benefits and services from Lockheed Martin and benefited from Lockheed Martin’s financial strength and extensive business relationships. As a result of the Transactions, Splitco is now a wholly owned subsidiary of Leidos and no longer will benefit from Lockheed Martin’s resources. While we have entered into agreements under which Lockheed Martin has agreed to provide certain transition services and site-related services for a period of time following the consummation of the Transactions, it cannot be assured that we will be able to adequately replace those resources or replace them at the same cost. If we are not able to replace the resources provided by Lockheed Martin or are unable to replace them at the same cost or are delayed in replacing the resources provided by Lockheed Martin, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely impacted.



Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report -26



Table of ContentsPART I



Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected as we replace certain of Splitco’s contracts if we cannot negotiate contract terms that are as favorable as those Lockheed Martin received.

Prior to the consummation of the Transactions, certain functions (such as purchasing, accounts payable processing, accounts receivable management, information systems, logistics and distribution) associated with the Splitco Business were performed under Lockheed Martin’s centralized systems and, in some cases, under contracts that also are used for Lockheed Martin’s other businesses and which were not assigned in whole or in part to Splitco. In addition, some other contracts to which Lockheed Martin was a party on behalf of Splitco will require consents of third parties to assign them to Splitco. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate contract terms that are as favorable as those Lockheed Martin received when and if we replace these contracts with our own agreements for similar services, including any contracts that may need to be replaced as a result of a failure to obtain required third-party consents. Although we believe that we will be able to enter into new agreements for similar services and that Lockheed Martin and Leidos will be able to obtain all material third-party consents required to assign contracts to Splitco, it is possible that the failure to enter into new agreements for similar services or to obtain required consents to assign contracts could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We may be required to recognize impairment charges for goodwill and other intangible assets.

The Transactions added$5.1 billionof goodwill and other intangible assets to our consolidated balance sheets as of August 16, 2016. In accordance with GAAP, our management periodically assesses these assets to determine if they are impaired. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may impair goodwill and other intangible assets. Any charges relating to such impairments would adversely affect our results of operations in the periods recognized.

Risks Relating to Our Stock

We cannot assure you that we will continue to pay dividends on our common stock.

In March 2012, our Board of Directors approved the initiation of a quarterly dividend program. The timing, declaration, amount and payment of any future dividends fall within the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on many factors, including our available cash, estimated cash needs, earnings, financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, as well as limitations in our contractual agreements, applicable law, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other business considerations that our Board of Directors considers relevant. A change in our dividend program could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.

Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could delay or prevent transactions that many stockholders may favor.

Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying, discouraging or preventing a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might receive a premium for their shares. These restrictions, which may also make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors not endorsed by our current directors and management, include the following:

•Our certificate of incorporation provides that our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation may be amended by only two-thirds or more voting power of all of the outstanding shares entitled to vote. These supermajority voting requirements could impede our stockholders’ ability to make changes to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws.

•Our certificate of incorporation contains certain supermajority voting provisions, which generally provide that mergers and certain other business combinations between us and a related person be approved by the holders of securities having at least80%of our outstanding voting power, as well as by the holders of a majority of the voting power of such securities that are not owned by the related person.

•Our stockholders may not act by written consent. As a result, a holder, or holders, controlling a majority of our capital stock are limited in their ability to take certain actions other than in connection with its annual stockholders’ meeting or a special meeting called at the request of qualified stockholders as provided in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws.



Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report -27



Table of ContentsPART I



•Our Board of Directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock. The ability to authorize undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us.

As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain restrictions on business combinations. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of15%or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years, or among other things, our Board of Directors has approved the business combination or the transaction pursuant to which such person became a15%holder prior to the time the person became a15%holder.

Forward-Looking Statement Risks

You may not be able to rely on forward-looking statements.

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are based on our management’s belief and assumptions about the future in light of information currently available to our management. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential,” “continue,” and similar words or phrases or the negative of these words or phrases. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These statements may include statements regarding the benefits and synergies of the Transactions and future opportunities for the combined company following the transaction. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable when made, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. There are a number of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those results anticipated by our forward-looking statements, which include, but are not limited to:

•developments in the U.S. Government defense budget, including budget reductions, sequestration, implementation of spending limits or changes in budgetary priorities, or delays in the U.S. Government budget process or approval of raising the debt ceiling;

•delays in the U.S. Government contract procurement process or the award of contracts and delays or loss of contracts as a result of competitor protests;

•changes in U.S. Government procurement rules, regulations, and practices;

•our compliance with various U.S. Government and other government procurement rules and regulations;

•governmental reviews, audits and investigations of our company;

•our ability to effectively compete and win contracts with the U.S. Government and other customers;

•our reliance on information technology spending by hospitals/health care organizations;

•our reliance on infrastructure investments by industrial and natural resources organizations;

•energy efficiency and alternative energy sourcing investments;

•investments by U.S. Government and commercial organizations in environment impact and remediation projects;

•our ability to attract, train and retain skilled employees, including our management team, and to obtain security clearances for our employees;

•our ability to accurately estimate costs associated with our firm-fixed-price and other contracts;

•resolution of legal and other disputes with our customers and others or legal or regulatory compliance issues;

•cybersecurity, data security or other security threats, system failures or other disruptions of our business;

•our ability to effectively acquire businesses and make investments;



Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report -28



Table of ContentsPART I



•our ability to maintain relationships with prime contractors, subcontractors and joint venture partners;

•our ability to manage performance and other risks related to customer contracts, including complex engineering or design build projects;

•the failure of our inspection or detection systems to detect threats;

•the adequacy of our insurance programs designed to protect us from significant product or other liability claims;

•our ability to manage risks associated with our international business;

•the possibility that we may be unable to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in connection with the transaction with Lockheed Martin within the expected time-frames or at all;

•the integration of the Information Systems & Global Solutions business acquired from Lockheed Martin being more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected;

•the effect of any changes resulting from the Transactions in customer, supplier and other business relationships;

•exposure to lawsuits and contingencies associated with Lockheed Martin’s Information Systems & Global Solutions business;

•our ability to declare future dividends based on our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements and other factors, including compliance with applicable law and our agreements;

•our ability to grow our commercial health and infrastructure businesses, which could be negatively affected by budgetary constraints faced by hospitals and by developers of energy and infrastructure projects; and

•our ability to execute our business plan and long-term management initiatives effectively and to overcome these and other known and unknown risks that we face.

We do not undertake any obligation to update or revise any of the forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances, changes in expectations, or the occurrence of unanticipated events after the date of those statements or to conform these statements to actual results.



