
10-K
AON CORPORATION


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

 (Mark One)

  [X]         ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998
                                       OR
  [ ]       TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE
                SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
                         Commission File Number: 1-7933
                                 Aon Corporation
             (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)

               DELAWARE
     (State or Other Jurisdiction of                           36-3051915
      Incorporation or Organization)                        (I.R.S. Employer
        123 NORTH WACKER DRIVE,                             Identification No.)
          CHICAGO, ILLINOIS                                       60606
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)                       (Zip Code)
           (312) 701-3000
          (Telephone Number)

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                      Name of Each Exchange
          Title of Each Class                         on Which Registered
          -------------------                         -------------------

      Common Stock, $1 par value                     New York Stock Exchange*
        6.875% Notes Due 1999                        New York Stock Exchange
        7.40%  Notes Due 2002                        New York Stock Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE
*The Common  Stock of the  Registrant  is also listed for trading on the Chicago
          Stock Exchange and the International Stock Exchange London.


Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  Registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

YES [X]         NO [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or  information  statements,
incorporated  by  reference  in Part III of this  Form  10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K. [ ]

Aggregate  market  value  of the  voting  stock  held by  non-affiliates  of the
Registrant as of February 24, 1999 was $8,787,962,898.

Number of shares of $1.00 par value Common Stock outstanding as of February
24, 1999:  170,793,734.

    Documents From Which Information is Incorporated By Reference:  
  Annual Report to Stockholders of the Registrant for the Year 1998
                        (Parts I, II and IV)
  Notice of Annual Meeting of Holders of Common Stock and Series C Preferred 
  Stock and Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Stockholders on April 16, 1999
                        of the Registrant (Part III)
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS.

      The Registrant is a holding company whose operating  subsidiaries carry on
business in three distinct segments: (i) insurance brokerage and other services,
(ii) consulting,  and (iii) insurance underwriting.  Incorporated in 1979, it is
the parent corporation of long-established and more recently formed companies.

      Aon Group, Inc., its subsidiaries and certain other indirect  subsidiaries
of the Registrant (the "Aon Group") including Aon Risk Services Companies, Inc.;
Aon Holdings bv; Aon Consulting  Worldwide,  Inc.; Aon Services Group, Inc.; Aon
Re Worldwide, Inc.; Aon Group Limited; and Alternative Market Operations ("AMO")
provide reinsurance  intermediary  services,  benefits consulting and commercial
insurance  brokerage  services.  Aon Group revenues grew significantly in fiscal
1996, 1997, and 1998 when the Registrant acquired,  among other companies,  Bain
Hogg  Group plc ("Bain  Hogg") in 1996;  Alexander  &  Alexander  Services  Inc.
("A&A"),  The  Minet  Group,  and  Jauch &  Hubener  in  1997;  and Le  Blanc de
Nicolay, Gil y Carvajal and Auto Insurance Specialists, Inc. in 1998.

      Combined  Insurance Company of America ("Combined  Insurance")  engages in
the  marketing  and  underwriting  of life and  accident  and  health  insurance
products.  Virginia Surety Company,  Inc. and London General  Insurance  Company
Limited offer extended warranty and specialty insurance products.

      In second quarter 1996, the Registrant and Combined  Insurance sold two of
Combined  Insurance's  insurance  subsidiaries,  Union  Fidelity Life  Insurance
Company ("UFLIC") and the Life Insurance Company of Virginia ("LOV").

      The Registrant  hereby  incorporates  by reference  pages 6 through 12 and
pages 17 through 23 of the Annual Report to  Stockholders  of the Registrant for
the Year 1998 ("Annual Report").


COMPETITION AND INDUSTRY POSITION

(1)  INSURANCE BROKERAGE AND OTHER SERVICES

      Aon Group, Inc. ("Aon Group");  Aon Risk Services Companies,  Inc. ("Aon
Risk  Services  Companies");  Aon Holdings bv ("Aon  Holdings");  Aon Services
Group,  Inc. ("Aon Services  Group");  Aon Re Worldwide,  Inc. ("Aon Re"); Aon
Group Limited ("AGL"); Alternative Market Operations ("AMO").

      Aon Group is the holding company for the Registrant's commercial brokerage
and consulting operation.  Aon Group companies have 550 offices around the world
in  approximately  120  countries.  In 1998,  Aon  Group  employed  over  34,000
professionals and support personnel to serve the diverse needs of clients.

      Aon Risk Services Companies'  subsidiaries operate in a highly competitive
industry  and compete  with a large  number of retail  insurance  brokerage  and
agency  firms as well as  individual  brokers  and agents and direct  writers of
insurance  coverage.  Aon Risk  Services  Companies'  subsidiaries  provide risk
management  services,  including insurance  placement,  claims management,  loss
control and  administrative  services.  It has also developed certain specialist
niche  areas  such  as  marine,  aviation,  directors  and  officers  liability,
financial institutions,  construction, energy, media and entertainment. In 1998,
significant  investments  were made in professional  talent,  technology and the
development of  specialized  products and services to meet the evolving needs of
clients.

      Subsidiaries  of Aon Risk  Services  Companies  and Aon  Holdings  operate
through owned offices in North America and Europe,  as well as in South America,
Africa,  Australia and Asia. The acquisitions of A&A and Bain Hogg significantly
augmented  the  Registrant's  presence  in  Latin  America,   Asia,  Africa  and
Australia,  and the acquisitions of Jauch & Hubener, Le Blanc de Nicolay and Gil
y Carvajal strengthened the Registrant's presence throughout Europe.

      Aon Services Group addresses the highly specialized  product  development,
consulting and administrative needs of professional groups,  service businesses,
governments,   health-care  providers  and  commercial  organizations.

                                     - 2 -

It also provides  underwriting  management  skills,  claims and risk  management
expertise,  and third-party  administration services to insurance companies. Aon
Services  Group  operating  subsidiaries  market and broker both the primary and
reinsurance  risks  of these  programs.  For  individuals  and  businesses,  Aon
Services Group provides affinity products for professional  liability,  life and
personal lines.  The acquisition of The Minet Group by the Registrant  augmented
Aon  Services  Group's  already  strong  expertise in  wholesale  brokerage  and
professional   liability  programs.  The  1998  acquisition  of  Auto  Insurance
Specialists,  Inc., an insurance  broker  specializing  in automobile  insurance
coverages,  gives Aon Services Group a significant  presence in that market with
opportunities for wide geographic application.

      Aon's reinsurance  brokerage  activities are organized under Aon Re in the
United States and AGL in the United Kingdom.  Aon Re is the largest  reinsurance
broker in the world, offering  reinsurance,  analytical services and alternative
risk financing  vehicles.  Aon Re serves the alternative market with reinsurance
placement,   alternative  risk  services,   captive   management   services  and
catastrophe information  forecasting.  AGL is a London-based Lloyd's broker that
places  wholesale  and  reinsurance  business  in the London  and  international
markets and serves the needs of a wide range of clients around the world.

      AMO was  established  by Aon in late  1997 and is a  leading  provider  of
custom-designed  products  and services  which  feature  specialty  underwriting
capabilities  that  produced an annual  premium  volume in excess of $1 billion.
Several  of  AMO's   specialties   include   entertainment,   public   entities,
professional liability,  workers compensation,  and media business and financial
institutions.


(2)  CONSULTING

Aon Consulting Worldwide, Inc. ("Aon Consulting")

      Subsidiaries of Aon Consulting and the European benefits operations of Aon
Holdings  serve the  employee  benefit  needs of clients  around the world.  Aon
Consulting is one of the world's largest  integrated human resources  consulting
organizations.  Focusing on the increasing demand for outsourcing solutions, Aon
Consulting  targets emerging  businesses,  IPOs, recent mergers and acquisitions
and corporations that are reengineering staff functions.

      In the United  States,  the  benefits  environment  continues to change as
companies  look for ways to manage their  benefits  costs while  increasing  the
choices offered to their  employees.  Aon Consulting,  with its expertise in all
areas of benefits and  compensation,  and its access to the  Registrant's  other
subsidiaries,   is   well-positioned   to  serve  this  market.  Aon  Consulting
subsidiaries offer services to clients including  organizational analysis and HR
strategic  planning,  recruitment and selection,  benefits design and management
training and development,  job design and competency modeling;  compensation and
reward systems;  human resources compliance and risk management;  and individual
and organizational  change management.  Benefits issues in foreign countries are
becoming  more  complicated,  and Aon  Holdings  and Aon  Consulting  anticipate
increased  demand for their services in these markets.  In particular,  the 1997
acquisitions of Sodarcan Inc. and Martineau Provencher & Associates strengthened
the Registrant's consulting expertise in Quebec.


                                     - 3 -

(3)  INSURANCE UNDERWRITING

      Combined Insurance Company of America ("Combined  Insurance");  Combined
Life Insurance Company of New York ("CLICNY");  Virginia Surety Company,  Inc.
("VSC"); London General Insurance Company Limited ("London General");  and Aon
Warranty Group, Inc. ("Aon Warranty").

      The Registrant's insurance underwriting  subsidiaries are part of a highly
competitive industry that serves individual consumers in North America,  Europe,
Latin  America  and the  Pacific by  providing  accident  and  health  coverage,
traditional  life  insurance,   and  extended  warranties  through  distribution
networks most of which are directly owned by the Registrant's subsidiaries.

      The life, accident and health distribution  network encompasses  primarily
the agents of Combined  Insurance and CLICNY (which operates  exclusively in the
State  of New  York).  With  more  than  five  million  policyholders,  Combined
Insurance has more individual  accident  policies in force than any other United
States company.  Combined Insurance,  the Registrant's  principal life, accident
and health insurer,  has a direct sales force of several  thousand career agents
calling on individuals to sell a broad spectrum of accident and health products,
while it is one of the few  companies  with agents that call on customers  every
six  months  to  renew  coverage  and  to  sell  additional  coverage.  Combined
Insurance's  current product portfolio often allows  policyholders the option of
paying  premiums  monthly  through  a  pre-authorized  check  mechanism.   Those
policyholders  are  still  called  on by an  agent to add  additional  coverage.
Combined  Insurance  offers a wide  range  of  accident-only  and  sickness-only
insurance  products,  including  short-term  disability,  cancer  aid,  Medicare
supplement,  disability  income and long-term  care  coverage.  Most of Combined
Insurance's  products are primarily  fixed  indemnity  obligations,  thereby not
subject to escalating  medical  costs.  Combined  Insurance  offers a simplified
accident  and  sickness   long-term   disability  policy.  In  addition  to  its
traditional  business,  Combined Insurance has expanded its product distribution
through payroll deduction,  worksite marketing  programs.  Combined  Insurance's
business is  conducted  by the  Registrant's  operations  in the United  States,
Canada, Latin America, Europe and Asia Pacific.

      Combined  Insurance and CLICNY market whole life products  through  direct
sales career agents in the United States.  Combined  Insurance  ranked among the
top 140 life  insurance  companies  in the United  States in terms of total life
premiums in 1997.

      The  Registrant's  extended  warranty and  specialty  insurance  business,
conducted by VSC subsidiaries in North America,  South America, Asia Pacific and
London General in Europe, is composed  primarily of extended warranty  insurance
products,  professional liability insurance coverages, workers' compensation and
specialty financial institution coverages.  VSC and London General are among the
world's largest  underwriters of consumer  extended  warranties.  The automobile
warranty  products are sold in the United States,  Canada,  the United  Kingdom,
Ireland, France, The Netherlands,  Belgium, Spain, Argentina,  Brazil, Australia
and Japan.  Aon Warranty Group handles the  administration  of certain  extended
warranty  products on  automobiles,  electronic  goods,  personal  computers and
appliances.  It  serves  manufacturers,  distributors  and  retailers  of  major
worldwide consumer product and financial institutions, associations and affinity
groups in North America and in Europe.


                                     - 4 -

(4)  DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

      The Life Insurance  Company of Virginia  ("LOV") and Union Fidelity Life
Insurance Company ("UFLIC").

      In April 1996, the Registrant and Combined  Insurance  completed the sales
of Combined Insurance's subsidiaries, LOV and UFLIC. The business written by LOV
primarily included capital  accumulation  products and some other life products.
UFLIC operated in the United States in the highly  competitive  direct  response
life and  health  marketing  segment  of the  industry.  The  Registrant  hereby
incorporates  by  reference  note  3 of  the  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements on page 40 of the Annual Report.


     A&A's Discontinued Operations

      The  Registrant  hereby  incorporates  by reference note 3 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements on page 40 of the Annual Report.


LICENSING AND REGULATION

      Regulatory  authorities  in the states or countries in which the operating
subsidiaries  of Aon Group  conduct  business may require  individual or company
licensing  to act as  brokers,  agents,  third  party  administrators,  managing
general agents,  reinsurance intermediaries or adjusters. Under the laws of most
states  in  the  United  States  and  in  most  foreign  countries,   regulatory
authorities have relatively broad discretion with respect to granting,  renewing
and revoking  brokers' and agents' licenses to transact business in the state or
country.  The manner of operating in  particular  states and  countries may vary
according to the  licensing  requirements  of the  particular  state or country,
which may  require,  among  other  things,  that a firm  operate in the state or
country through a local corporation. In a few states and countries, licenses are
issued only to individual residents or locally-owned  business entities. In such
cases,  Aon Group  subsidiaries  have  arrangements  with  residents or business
entities licensed to act in the state or country.

      Insurance   companies  must  comply  with  laws  and  regulations  of  the
jurisdictions in which they do business. These laws and regulations are designed
to ensure  financial  solvency of  insurance  companies  and to require fair and
adequate  service and  treatment  for  policyholders.  They are  enforced by the
states in the United States, by industry  self-regulating agencies in the United
Kingdom,  and by various  regulatory  agencies  in other  countries  through the
granting  and  revoking  of  licenses  to  do  business,  licensing  of  agents,
monitoring  of  trade  practices,  policy  form  approval,  minimum  loss  ratio
requirements,  limits on premium and commission  rates,  and minimum reserve and
capital requirements. Compliance is monitored by the state insurance departments
through periodic regulatory reporting procedures and periodic examinations.  The
quarterly and annual  financial  reports to the  regulators in the United States
utilize statutory  accounting  principles which are different from the generally
accepted  accounting  principles used in  stockholders'  reports.  The statutory
accounting  principles,  in keeping with the intent to assure the  protection of
policyholders,  are based, in general,  on a liquidation concept while generally
accepted accounting principles are based on a going-concern concept.

      The state insurance  regulators are members of the National Association of
Insurance  Commissioners  ("NAIC"). This Association seeks to promote uniformity
of, and to enhance the state  regulation  of,  insurance.  Both the NAIC and the
individual states continue to focus on the solvency of insurance companies. This
focus is reflected in additional regulatory oversight by the states and emphasis
on the  enactment  or  adoption  of a series of NAIC model laws and  regulations
designed to promote solvency. Any increase in any solvency-related  oversight by
the  states is not  expected  to have any  significant  impact on the  insurance
business of the Registrant.

      Several  years ago, the NAIC  developed a formula for  analyzing  insurers
called  risk-based  capital  ("RBC").  RBC is  intended to  establish  "minimum"
capital  threshold  levels  that  vary  with  the  size  and mix of a  company's
business.  It is designed to identify companies with the capital levels that may
require  regulatory  attention.  RBC does not have any significant impact on the
insurance business of the Registrant.

                                     - 5 -

      The state  insurance  holding  company  laws  require  prior notice to and
approval of the domestic state insurance department of intracorporate  transfers
of assets  within  the  holding  company  structure,  including  the  payment of
dividends by insurance company  subsidiaries.  In addition,  the premium finance
loans by Cananwill, Inc., an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Registrant,
are subject to one or more of truth-in-lending and credit regulations, insurance
premium finance acts,  retail  installment sales acts and other similar consumer
protection  legislation.  Failure to comply  with such laws or  regulations  can
result in the temporary  suspension or permanent  loss of the right to engage in
business in a particular jurisdiction as well as other penalties.

      In 1996 the federal Health Care Insurance  Portability and  Accountability
Act of 1996 ("HIPPA") was enacted. The Act requires the states to take action to
implement the requirements of the Act or to become subject to federal oversight.
HIPPA  implementation by the states has not materially  affected the business of
the Registrant's  subsidiaries.  In addition, recent federal laws and proposals,
mandating specific  practices by medical insurers,  and the health care industry
will  not,   because  of  the  nature  of  the  business  of  the   Registrant's
subsidiaries,  materially  affect  the  Registrant.  Numerous  states  have  had
legislation introduced to reform the health care system and such legislation has
passed in several states.  While it is impossible to forecast the precise nature
of future federal and state health care changes,  the Registrant does not expect
a major impact on its operations  because of the supplemental  nature of most of
the policies issued by its insurance  subsidiaries and because the coverages are
primarily purchased to provide, on a fixed-indemnity  basis,  protection against
loss-of-time  or  disability  benefits.   Congress  is  actively  considering  a
Financial  Services  Modernization  Act commonly known as H.R.10.  While H.R.10.
would make substantial changes in allowing financial organizations to diversify,
the  Registrant  does not believe the  enactment of H.R.10 would have a material
affect on the business of its insurance institutions.


CLIENTELE

      No significant part of the Registrant's or its  subsidiaries'  business is
dependent upon a single client or on a few clients, the loss of any one of which
would have a material adverse effect on the Registrant.


EMPLOYEES

      The Registrant's  subsidiaries had  approximately  44,000 employees at the
end of 1998 of whom  approximately  36,000 are salaried and hourly employees and
the remaining  8,000 are sales  representatives  who are  generally  compensated
wholly or primarily by commission.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES.

      The  Registrant's  subsidiaries  own and occupy office  buildings in seven
states and certain  foreign  countries,  and lease office space elsewhere in the
United  States and in various  foreign  cities.  Loss of the use of any owned or
leased property, while potentially disruptive,  would have no material impact on
the Registrant.


                                     - 6 -

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

      The Registrant  hereby  incorporates  by reference note 12 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements on page 50 of the Annual Report.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

         None.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

      Executive officers of the Registrant are regularly elected by its Board of
Directors at the annual meeting of the Board which is held following each annual
meeting of the  stockholders  of the Registrant.  The executive  officers of the
Registrant  were elected to their  current  positions on April 17, 1998 to serve
until the meeting of the Board  following the annual meeting of  stockholders on
April 16, 1999. Ages shown are as of December 31, 1998.

      For information concerning certain directors and executive officers of the
Registrant,  see item 10 below. As of March 31, 1999, the following  individuals
are also executive officers of the Registrant as defined in Rule 16a-1(f):

                                 Has
                             Continuously
                             Served as an
                               Officer
                           of Registrant or
      Name, Age, and        One or More of
      Current Office       its Subsidiaries          Business Experience
  or Principal Position         Since                   Past 5 years
  ---------------------         -----                   ------------

Harvey N. Medvin, 62             1972       Mr. Medvin became Vice President and
Executive  Vice  President and              Chief Financial Officer of the  
Chief Financial Officer                     Registrant in 1982 and was elected 
                                            to his  current  position in 1987.  
                                            He also  serves as a Director or 
                                            Officer of certain of the 
                                            Registrant's subsidiaries.

Daniel T. Cox, 52                1986       Mr. Cox was  elected  to his current
Executive Vice President                    position in 1991 and, prior to their
                                            sale in 1996, had served as Chairman
                                            and  Chief Executive Officer of 
                                            certain of the Registrant's  
                                            underwriting  subsidiaries.  Mr. Cox
                                            has headed the Registrant's benefits
                                            consulting operation since 1987.  He
                                            also serves as Director or Officer 
                                            of certain of the Registrant's 
                                            subsidiaries.

Michael A. Conway, 51            1990       Mr.  Conway  was  Vice  President of
Senior Vice President and                   Combined Insurance from 1980 to 
Senior Investment Officer                   1984. Following other employment, 
                                            Mr. Conway rejoined the Registrant 
                                            in 1990 as Senior Vice President of 
                                            Combined Insurance and was elected 
                                            to his current position in 1991. He 
                                            also serves as Director or Officer 
                                            of certain of the Registrant's 
                                            subsidiaries.

Michael D. O'Halleran, 48        1987       Mr. O'Halleran was appointed
President and Chief Operating               President and Chief Operating 
Officer of Aon Group, Inc.                  Officer of Aon Group, Inc. in 1995.
                                            Prior thereto, since joining the 
                                            Registrant in 1987, he held a 
                                            variety of senior positions in the 
                                            Registrant's insurance and 
                                            reinsurance brokerage operations. He
                                            also serves as a Director or Officer
                                            of certain of the Registrant's 
                                            subsidiaries.


                                     - 7 -

                                     PART II


ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE  REGISTRANT'S  COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SECURITY HOLDER
         MATTERS.

      The  Registrant's  $1.00 par value  common  shares  ("Common  Shares") are
traded on the New York,  Chicago  and London  stock  exchanges.  The  Registrant
hereby  incorporates  by  reference  the  "Dividends  paid per share" and "Price
range" data on page 53 of the Annual Report.

      The  Registrant had  approximately  13,300 holders of record of its Common
Shares as of February 24, 1999.

      The  Registrant  hereby  incorporates  by reference note 8 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 43 and 44 of the Annual Report.


ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

      The Registrant  hereby  incorporates by reference the "Selected  Financial
Data" table on page 52 of the Annual Report.


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION  AND  ANALYSIS OF  FINANCIAL  CONDITION  AND
         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

      The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference  "Financial and Operations
Highlights -  Management's  Discussion  and Analysis" on pages 14 through 30 and
"Information Concerning Forward-Looking  Statements" on the inside back cover of
the Annual Report.


ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

      The Registrant hereby  incorporates by reference "Market Risk Exposure" on
page 29 of the Annual Report.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

      The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference the following  statements,
notes and data from the Annual Report.
                                                                      Page(s)
                                                                      -------
            Consolidated Financial Statements ......................  31 - 35
            Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements ..........  36 - 50
            Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors ......     51
            Quarterly  Financial  Data .............................     53


ITEM 9.  CHANGES  IN AND  DISAGREEMENT  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON  ACCOUNTING  AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

         Not Applicable.


                                     - 8 -

                                    PART III


ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

      The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference the information on pages 3
and 7 of the Proxy Statement For Annual Meeting of the Stockholders on April 16,
1999, of the Registrant ("Proxy  Statement")  concerning the following Directors
of the  Registrant,  each of whom also  serves as an  executive  officer  of the
Registrant as defined in Rule 16a-1(f): Patrick G. Ryan and Raymond I. Skilling.
Information  concerning  additional  executive  officers  of the  Registrant  is
contained in Part I hereof, pursuant to General Instruction G(3) and Instruction
3 to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K. The Registrant  also hereby  incorporates by
reference the information on pages 10 through 12 of the Proxy Statement.


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

      The Registrant hereby  incorporates by reference the information under the
headings "Executive  Compensation,"  "Aggregated Option Exercises in Last Fiscal
Year and Fiscal Year-End Option Values," "Option Grants in 1998 Fiscal Year" and
"Pension Plan Table" on pages 14 through 16 of the Proxy Statement.


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

      The Registrant  hereby  incorporates by reference the share ownership data
contained on pages 2, 9 and 10 of the Proxy Statement.


ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

      The Registrant hereby  incorporates by reference the information under the
heading "Transactions With Management" on page 21 of the Proxy Statement.


                                     - 9 -

                                     PART IV


ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

(a) (1) and (2). The  Registrant has  incorporated  by reference from the Annual
Report  (see Item 8) the  following  consolidated  financial  statements  of the
Registrant and subsidiaries:

                                                                         Annual
                                                                         Report
                                                                         Page(s)
                                                                         -------

Consolidated Statements of Income - Years Ended December 31, 1998,
     1997 and 1996                                                         31

Consolidated Statements of Financial Position - As of December 31,
     1998 and 1997                                                        32-33

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity - Years Ended 
     December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996                                      34

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows - Years Ended December 31,
     1998, 1997 and 1996                                                   35

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                                36-50

Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors                          51

Financial  statement  schedules of the Registrant and 
     consolidated subsidiaries not included in the Annual Report
     but filed herewith: 

          Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules -

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                                        Schedule
                                                                        --------
     Condensed Financial Information of Registrant                          I
     Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                                     II

All other schedules for Aon Corporation and Subsidiaries have been omitted since
the  required  information  is not  present  in  amounts  sufficient  to require
submission of the schedules or because the  information  required is included in
the   respective   financial   statements  or  notes   thereto.   The  following
supplementary  schedules have been provided for Aon Corporation and Subsidiaries
as they relate to the insurance underwriting operations:


                                                                        Schedule
                                                                        --------
     Summary of Investments Other than Investments in Related Parties     II.1
     Reinsurance                                                          II.2


(a)(3).  EXHIBITS

      (a)   Second  Restated  Certificate  of  Incorporation of the Registrant -
            incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the Registrant's Annual
            Report to the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission on Form 10-K for
            the year ended December 31, 1991 (the "1991 Form 10-K").

      (b)   Certificate  of  Amendment  of  the  Registrant's   Second  Restated
            Certificate of  Incorporation - incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            3 to the Registrant's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
            ended March 31, 1994 (the "First Quarter 1994 Form 10-Q").

                                     - 10 -

      (c)   Bylaws of the Registrant - incorporated  by reference to Exhibit (d)
            to the  Registrant's  Annual Report to the  Securities  and Exchange
            Commission  on Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31, 1982 (the
            "1982 Form 10-K").

      (d)   Indenture  dated  September  15,  1992  between the  Registrant  and
            Continental   Bank   Corporation  (now  known  as  Bank  of  America
            Illinois), as Trustee - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to
            the  Registrant's  Current  Report on Form 8-K dated  September  23,
            1992.

      (e)   Resolutions  establishing  terms of 6.875%  Notes Due 1999 and 7.40%
            Notes Due 2002 -  incorporated  by reference to Exhibits 4(d) to the
            Registrant's Annual Report to the Securities and Exchange Commission
            on Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31,  1992 (the "1992 Form
            10-K").

      (f)   Resolutions establishing the terms of 6.70% Notes Due 2003 and 6.30%
            Notes Due 2004  incorporated  by reference to Exhibits 4(c) and 4(d)
            of the  Registrant's  Annual Report to the  Securities  and Exchange
            Commission  on Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31, 1993 (the
            "1993 Form 10-K").

      (g)   Junior  Subordinated  Indenture dated as of January 13, 1997 between
            the  Registrant  and The Bank of New York, as trustee - incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the  Registrant's  Amendment No. 1 to
            Registration  Statement  on Form S-4 No.  333-21237  dated March 27,
            1997 (the "Capital Securities Registration").

      (h)   First  Supplemental  Indenture  dated as of January 13, 1997 between
            the  Registrant  and the Bank of New York, as trustee - incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Capital Securities Registration.

      (i)   Certificate of Trust of Aon Capital A - incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 4.3 of the Capital Securities Registration.

      (j)   Amended and  Restated  Trust  Agreement of Aon Capital A dated as of
            January 13, 1997 among the Registrant, as Depositor, The Bank of New
            York,  as  Property  Trustee,  The Bank of New York  (Delaware),  as
            Delaware Trustee, the Administrative  Trustees named therein and the
            holders, from time to time, of the Capital Securities - incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.5 of the Capital Securities Registration.

      (k)   Capital Securities  Guarantee Agreement dated as of January 13, 1997
            between  the  Registrant  and the  Bank of New  York,  as  guarantee
            trustee -  incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 4.8 of the Capital
            Securities Registration.

      (l)   Capital Securities  Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement dated
            as of January  13,  1997  among the  Registrant,  Aon  Capital A and
            Morgan  Stanley  & Co.  Incorporated  and  Goldman,  Sachs  & Co.  -
            incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.10 of the Capital  Securities
            Registration.

      (m)   Debenture  Exchange and  Registration  Rights  Agreement dated as of
            January  13,  1997 among the  Registrant,  Aon  Capital A and Morgan
            Stanley & Co. Incorporated and Goldman, Sachs & Co.- incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 4.11 of the Capital Securities Registration.

      (n)   Guarantee  Exchange and  Registration  Rights  Agreement dated as of
            January  13,  1997 among the  Registrant,  Aon  Capital A and Morgan
            Stanley & Co. Incorporated and Goldman, Sachs & Co.- incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 4.12 of the Capital Securities Registration.

      (o)   Certificate of Designation for the Registrant's  Series C Cumulative
            Preferred  Stock -  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
            Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 9, 1994.

                                     - 11 -

      (p)   Registration  Rights Agreement dated November 2, 1992 by and between
            the  Registrant  and  Frank  B.  Hall & Co.,  Inc.  incorporated  by
            reference to Exhibit 4(c) to the Third Quarter 1992 Form 10-Q.

      (q)   Registration  rights  agreement  by and  among  the  Registrant  and
            certain affiliates of Ryan Insurance Group, Inc.  (including Patrick
            G. Ryan and  Andrew J.  McKenna)  -  incorporated  by  reference  to
            Exhibit (f) to the 1982 Form 10-K.

      (r)   Deferred  Compensation  Agreement  by and among the  Registrant  and
            Registrant's  directors who are not salaried employees of Registrant
            or  Registrant's  affiliates - incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
            10(i)  to the  Registrant's  Annual  Report  to the  Securities  and
            Exchange  Commission  on Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31,
            1987 (the "1987 Form 10-K").

      (s)   Amendment  and Waiver  Agreement  dated as of November 4, 1991 among
            the  Registrant  and each of  Patrick G. Ryan,  Shirley  Ryan,  Ryan
            Enterprises  Corporation  and  Harvey N.  Medvin -  incorporated  by
            reference to Exhibit 10(j) to the 1991 Form 10-K.

      (t)   Statement  regarding  Computation  of  Ratio  of  Earnings  to Fixed
            Charges.

      (u)   Statement  regarding  Computation  of Ratio of  Earnings to Combined
            Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends.

      (v)   Aon  Corporation  1994 Amended and Restated  Outside  Director Stock
            Award Plan - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the First
            Quarter 1994 Form 10-Q.

      (w)   Annual Report to  Stockholders  of the Registrant for the year ended
            December  31,  1998 (for  information,  and not to be deemed  filed,
            except for those  portions  specifically  incorporated  by reference
            herein).

      (x)   List of Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

      (y)   Consent of Ernst & Young LLP to the  incorporation by reference into
            Aon's Annual Report on Form 10-K of its report  included in the 1998
            Annual Report to Stockholders and into Aon's Registration  Statement
            Nos.   33-27984,   33-42575,   33-59037,  333-21237,  333-50607  and
            333-55773.

      (z)   Annual Report to the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 11-K
            for the Aon Savings  Plan for the year ended  December 31, 1998 - to
            be filed by amendment as provided in Rule 15d- 21(b).

      (aa)  Executive Compensation Plans and Arrangements:

            (A)   Aon Stock Option Plan (as amended and restated through 1997) -
                  incorporated   by   reference   to   Exhibit  10  (a)  to  the
                  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report to the Securities and Exchange
                  Commission  on Form 10-Q for the Quarter  ended March 31, 1997
                  (the "First Quarter 1997 Form 10-Q").

            (B)   Aon Stock Award Plan (as amended and restated  through 1997) -
                  incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10(b)  to the  First
                  Quarter 1997 Form 10-Q.

            (C)   Aon  Corporation  1995 Senior Officer  Incentive  Compensation
                  Plan  incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10(p)  to  the
                  Registrant's  Annual  Report to the  Securities  and  Exchange
                  Commission  on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 1995
                  (the "1995 Form 10-K").

            (D)   Aon Deferred  Compensation Plan and First Amendment to the Aon
                  Deferred  Compensation  Plan -  incorporated  by  reference to
                  Exhibit 10(q) of the 1995 Form 10-K.

                                     - 12 -

            (E)   Employment  Agreement  dated  June 1,  1993 by and  among  the
                  Registrant, Aon Risk Services, Inc. and Michael D. O'Halleran.

            (F)   Aon Severance Plan -  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10
                  to the  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report to the  Securities and
                  Exchange  Commission  and Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June
                  30, 1997.

      (ab)  Asset Purchase  Agreement dated July 24, 1992 between the Registrant
            and Frank B. Hall & Co. Inc. - incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
            10(c) to the  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report  on Form 10-Q  for the
            period ended June 30, 1992.

      (ac)  Stock  Purchase  Agreement  by and  among the  Registrant,  Combined
            Insurance Company of America,  Union Fidelity Life Insurance Company
            and General  Electric Capital  Corporation  dated as of November 11,
            1995 -  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10(s) of the 1995 Form
            10-K.

      (ad)  Stock  Purchase  Agreement  by and  among the  Registrant;  Combined
            Insurance  Company  of  America;   The  Life  Insurance  Company  of
            Virginia; Forth Financial Resources,  Ltd.; Newco Properties,  Inc.;
            and General  Electric Capital  Corporation  dated as of December 22,
            1995 -  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10(t) of the 1995 Form
            10-K.

      (ae)  Agreement  and  Plan of  Merger  among  the  Registrant;  Subsidiary
            Corporation, Inc. ("Purchaser");  and Alexander & Alexander Services
            Inc.  ("A&A")  dated  as of  December  11,  1996 -  incorporated  by
            reference  to  Exhibit  (c)(1)  of  the  Registrant's  Tender  Offer
            Statement  on  Schedule  14D-1  filed  by the  Registrant  with  the
            Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on December 16, 1996 (the
            "Schedule 14D-1").

      (af)  First Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of January
            7, 1997,  among the  Registrant,  Purchaser and A&A  incorporated by
            reference  to  Exhibit  (c)(3) to the  Schedule  14D-1  filed by the
            Registrant with the SEC on January 9, 1997.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K.

            The Registrant  filed no Current Reports on Form 8-K during the last
            quarter of the Registrant's year ended December 31, 1998.


                                     - 13 -

                                   SIGNATURES


      Pursuant  to the  requirements  of Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the  undersigned,  thereunto duly  authorized,  on the 24th day of
March, 1999.

                                                Aon Corporation



                                                By:/s/ PATRICK G. RYAN          
                                                   -----------------------------
                                                   Patrick G. Ryan,
                                                   Chairman, President
                                                   and Chief Executive Officer


      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
Report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

         Signature                    Title                          Date
         ---------                    -----                          ----

  /s/ PATRICK G. RYAN          Chairman, President, Chief         March 24, 1999
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --------------------------     Executive Officer and Director
      Patrick G. Ryan          (Principal Executive Officer)



 /s/ DANIEL T. CARROLL                Director                    March 24, 1999
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------
     Daniel T. Carroll


    /s/FRANKLIN A. COLE               Director                    March 24, 1999
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------
       Franklin A. Cole


   /s/EDGAR D. JANNOTTA               Director                    March 24, 1999
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------
      Edgar D. Jannotta


   /s/PERRY J. LEWIS                  Director                    March 24, 1999
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------
      Perry J. Lewis


   /s/ANDREW J. McKENNA               Director                    March 24, 1999
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------
     Andrew J. McKenna


    /s/NEWTON N. MINOW                Director                    March 24, 1999
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------
      Newton N. Minow


  /s/RICHARD C. NOTEBAERT             Director                    March 24, 1999
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------
   Richard C. Notebaert


                                     - 14 -

         Signature                    Title                          Date
         ---------                    -----                          ----


   /s/DONALD S. PERKINS              Director                     March 24, 1999
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------
     Donald S. Perkins


  /s/JOHN W. ROGERS, JR.             Director                     March 24, 1999
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------
    John W. Rogers, Jr.


   /s/GEORGE A. SCHAEFER             Director                     March 24, 1999
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------
    George A. Schaefer


  /s/RAYMOND I. SKILLING             Director                     March 24, 1999
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------
    Raymond I. Skilling


     /s/FRED L. TURNER               Director                     March 24, 1999
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------
      Fred L. Turner


    /s/ARNOLD R. WEBER               Director                     March 24, 1999
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------
      Arnold R. Weber


     /s/CAROLYN Y. WOO               Director                     March 24, 1999
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------
      Carolyn Y. Woo


    /s/HARVEY N. MEDVIN         Executive Vice President          March 24, 1999
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------   and Chief Financial Officer
     Harvey N. Medvin           (Principal Financial and
                                   Accounting Officer)


                                     - 15 -

                                                                      SCHEDULE I


                                     - 16 -

                                                                      SCHEDULE I
                                                                     (Continued)


                                     - 17 -

                                                                      SCHEDULE I
                                                                     (Continued)


                                     - 18 -


                                                                      SCHEDULE I
                                                                     (Continued)

                                 Aon Corporation
                                (Parent Company)
                     NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(1)   See notes to consolidated  financial statements  incorporated by reference
      from  the  Annual  Report.  Certain  amounts  in  prior  years'  Condensed
      Statements  of  Income have  been  reclassified  to  conform  to  the 1998
      presentation.

(2)   Generally,  the net assets of Aon's insurance  subsidiaries  available for
      transfer  to the  parent  company  are  limited  to the  amounts  that the
      insurance  subsidiaries'  statutory  net assets exceed  minimum  statutory
      capital  requirements;  however,  payments of the amounts as  dividends in
      excess  of  $292  million  may  be  subject  to  approval  by   regulatory
      authorities.

(3)   Subsidiary Guarantees
      ---------------------
      In 1998,  Aon  guaranteed  a committed  bank credit  facility  under which
      certain  European  subsidiaries  can  borrow up to EUR 400  million  ($470
      million).  At December 31, 1998,  loans of EUR 348 million ($408  million)
      were outstanding under this facility.

      Aon Financial  Products,  Inc. ("AFP"), an investment banking affiliate of
      Aon Corporation ("Aon"),  manages an $80 million investment portfolio held
      in a collateral trust at Citibank related to catastrophe reinsurance notes
      issued by Pacific Re, Ltd., a Cayman  Islands based  reinsurance  company.
      AFP is obligated to produce specified investment returns for the portfolio
      and to back the losses  produced in the  portfolio.  Aon  Corporation  has
      unconditionally guaranteed the obligations of Aon Financial Products.

(4)   During 1998, Aon Corporation (Parent Company) reclassified $523 million of
      notes  receivables-subsidiaries  to investments in subsidiaries related to
      its brokerage operations.

(5)   Subsequent Event
      ----------------
      On March 19, 1999, Aon's directors  approved a three-for-two  stock split,
      payable  on May 17,  1999 in the form of a stock  dividend  of one  common
      share for every two shares held, to stockholders of record as of the close
      of  business  on May  4,  1999.  Because  the  stock  split  was  approved
      subsequent   to  the   distribution   of  Aon's  1998  Annual   Report  to
      Stockholders,  references  to common  stock and earnings per share data in
      the Annual Report to  Stockholders  and in this Annual Report on Form 10-K
      have  not  been  retroactively  adjusted.   Retroactively  adjusting  such
      information  to give  effect to the stock  split for 1998,  1997 and 1996,
      respectively,  would  result in  dilutive  net  income per share of $2.07,
      $1.12, and $1.27, basic net income per share of $2.11, $1.14 and $1.29 and
      dividends per share of $0.73, $0.68 and $0.63.

                                     - 19 -

                                                                     SCHEDULE II




                                     - 20 -

                                                                  SCHEDULE  II.1




                                     - 21 -

                                                                  SCHEDULE  II.2



                                     - 22 -


                         Cross Reference Sheet, Pursuant
                           to General Instruction G(4)


ITEM IN FORM 10-K                            INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE TO
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -----------------                            ----------------------------

PART I

Item 1.  Business                            Annual Report to Stockholders of 
                                             the Registrant for the Year 1998 
                                             ("Annual Report") pages 6 through 
                                             12, 17 through 23 and 40.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings                   Annual Report page 50 (note 12 of 
                                             Notes to Consolidated Financial 
                                             Statements).
PART II

Item 5.  Market for the  Registrant's        Annual Report pages 43 and 44 (note
         Common Stock and Related Security   8 of Notes to Consolidated 
         Holder Matters                      Financial Statements) and page 53
                                             ("Dividends paid per share"  and
                                             "Price range").

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data             Annual Report page 52.

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and         Annual  Report  pages 14 through 30
         Analysis of Financial Condition     and inside back cover ("Information
         and Results of Operations           Concerning Forward-Looking 
                                             Statements").


Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative        Annual Report page 29 ("Market Risk
         Disclosures about Market Risk       Exposure").

Item 8.  Financial Statements and            Annual  Report  pages 31 through 51
         Supplementary Data                  and 53.


PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive             Proxy Statement For Annual  Meeting
         Officers of the Registrant          of Stockholders on April 16, 1999
                                             of the Registrant ("Proxy 
                                             Statement") pages 3, 7, and 10
                                             through 12.

Item 11. Executive Compensation              Proxy Statement pages 14 through 
                                             16.

Item 12. Security Ownership of               Proxy Statement pages 2, 9 and 10.
         Certain Beneficial
         Owners and Management

Item 13. Certain Relationships and           Proxy Statement page 21
         Related Transactions                ("Transactions With Management").

PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement       Annual Report pages 31 through 51.
         Schedules, And Reports on 
         Form 8-K



                                     - 23 -

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit Number                                                    Page Number of
Regulation                                                        Sequentially
S-K, Item 601                                                     Numbered Copy
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -------------                                                     -------------

(3)   Articles of incorporation and bylaws:

      (a)   Second  Restated Certificate   of  Incorporation of  the
            Registrant - incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit 3(a)
            to the 1991 Form 10-K.

      (b)   Certificate  of  Amendment of  the  Registrant's  Second
            Restated Certificate of Incorporation - incorporated  by
            reference to Exhibit 3 to the  First  Quarter 1994  Form
            10-Q.

      (c)   Bylaws of the Registrant - incorporated by  reference to
            Exhibit (d) to the 1982 Form 10-K.

      (d)   Certificate of Designation for the Registrant's Series C
            Cumulative Preferred Stock - incorporated  by  reference
            to  Exhibit  4.1 to  the  Registrant's Current Report on
            Form 8-K dated February 9, 1994.

(4) Instruments  defining  the rights of security holders, including
    indentures:

      (a)   Indenture dated September 15, 1992 between the Registrant
            and Continental  Bank  Corporation (now known as Bank  of
            America Illinois), as Trustee - incorporated by reference
            to Exhibit 4(a)  of the  Registrant's  Current  Report on
            Form 8-K dated September 23, 1992.

      (b)   Resolutions establishing  terms of 6.875% Notes Due 1999
            and 7.40% Notes Due 2002 - incorporated  by reference to
            Exhibit 4(d) to the 1992 Form 10-K.

      (c)   Resolutions   establishing   the  terms  of  6.70% Notes
            Due 2003 incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 4(c)  to
            the 1993 Form 10-K.

      (d)   Resolutions   establishing   the  terms  of  6.30% Notes
            Due  2004 incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit 4(d) to
            the 1993 Form 10-K.

      (e)   Junior  Subordinated  Indenture  dated as of January 13,
            1997 between the Registrant and The Bank of New York, as
            trustee -  incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 4.1 of
            the  Registrant's   Amendment  No.  1  to   Registration
            Statement on  Form  S-4 No. 333-21237  dated  March  27,
            1997 (the "Capital Securities Registration").

      (f)   First  Supplemental   Indenture  dated as of January 13, 
            1997 between  the  Registrant  and the Bank of New York,
            as trustee - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of
            the Capital Securities Registration.

      (g)   Certificate  of Trust of Aon Capital A - incorporated by
            reference  to  Exhibit  4.3  of  the  Capital Securities
            Registration.

                                     - 24 -

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit Number                                                    Page Number of
Regulation                                                        Sequentially
S-K, Item 601                                                     Numbered Copy
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -------------                                                     -------------

      (h)   Amended and  Restated  Trust  Agreement of Aon Capital A
            dated as of January 13, 1997  among  the  Registrant, as
            Depositor, The Bank of New York,  as  Property  Trustee,
            The Bank of New York  (Delaware),  as  Delaware Trustee,
            the   Administrative  Trustees  named  therein  and  the
            holders, from time to time, of the Capital  Securities -
            incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4.5 of the Capital
            Securities Registration.

      (i)   Capital  Securities  Guarantee  Agreement  dated  as  of
            January 13, 1997 between  the  Registrant  and the  Bank
            of New  York,  as  guarantee trustee -  incorporated  by
            reference  to  Exhibit  4.8  of  the  Capital Securities
            Registration.

      (j)   Capital  Securities  Exchange  and  Registration  Rights
            Agreement  dated  as  of  January   13,  1997  among the
            Registrant,  Aon  Capital A and   Morgan  Stanley  & Co.
            Incorporated  and  Goldman,  Sachs  & Co. - incorporated
            by  reference to Exhibit 4.10 of the Capital  Securities
            Registration.

      (k)   Debenture  Exchange and  Registration  Rights  Agreement
            dated as of January  13, 1997 among the Registrant,  Aon
            Capital  A  and  Morgan Stanley & Co.  Incorporated  and
            Goldman,  Sachs & Co. -  incorporated  by  reference  to
            Exhibit 4.11 of the Capital Securities Registration.

      (l)   Guarantee  Exchange  and  Registration  Rights  Agreement
            dated as of January  13, 1997 among the  Registrant,  Aon
            Capital  A  and  Morgan  Stanley & Co.  Incorporated  and
            Goldman,  Sachs & Co.  - incorporated   by  reference  to
            Exhibit 4.12 of the Capital Securities Registration.


(10)  Material Contracts:

      (a)   Aon  Stock Option Plan (as amended and  restated  through
            1997) incorporated by reference  to  Exhibit 10(a) to the
            Registrant's  Quarterly  Report  to  the  Securities  and
            Exchange  Commission on  Form  10-Q for the quarter ended
            March 31, 1997 (the "First Quarter 1997 Form 10-Q").

      (b)   Registration Rights Agreement by and among the Registrant
            and  certain  affiliates  of  Ryan Insurance  Group, Inc.
            (Including  Patrick G. Ryan  and  Andrew  J.  McKenna)  - 
            incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit (f)  to the 1982
            Form 10-K.


      (c)   Deferred Compensation Agreement by and  among  Registrant
            and Registrant's directors who are not salaried employees
            of Registrant or  Registrant's  affiliates - incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the 1987 Form 10-K.


                                     - 25 -

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit Number                                                    Page Number of
Regulation                                                        Sequentially
S-K, Item 601                                                     Numbered Copy
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -------------                                                     -------------

      (d)   Aon  Stock  Award Plan (as amended and  restated  through 
            1997) incorporated by reference to  Exhibit 10(b)  to the
            First Quarter 1997 Form 10-Q.

      (e)   Amendment  and Waiver  Agreement  dated as of November 4,
            1991 among the  Registrant  and each of  Patrick G. Ryan,
            Shirley Ryan, Ryan Enterprises Corporation and  Harvey N.
            Medvin - incorporated by reference to  Exhibit  10(j)  to
            the 1991 Form 10-K.

      (f)   Registration  Rights Agreement dated November 2, 1992  by
            and between the  Registrant and Frank B. Hall & Co., Inc.
            - incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to the Third
            Quarter 1992 Form 10-Q.

      (g)   Aon   Corporation  1994  Amended  and  Restated   Outside
            Director Stock  Award Plan - incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 10(b) to the First Quarter 1994 Form 10-Q.

      (h)   Aon Corporation 1995 Senior Officer Incentive Compensation
            Plan -  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(p) to the
            1995 Form 10-K.

      (i)   Aon Deferred Compensation Plan  and  First  Amendment  to
            the  Aon Deferred  Compensation  Plan -  incorporated  by
            reference to Exhibit 10(q) to the 1995 Form 10-K.

      (j)   Aon Severance Plan - incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            10 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report to the Securities
            and  Exchange Commission  on  Form  10-Q  for the quarter
            ended June 30, 1997.

      (k)   Asset Purchase  Agreement dated July 24, 1992 between the
            Registrant and Frank B. Hall & Co. Inc. - incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Registrant's  Quarterly
            Report  on Form  10-Q for the period ended June 30, 1992.

      (l)   Stock  Purchase  Agreement  by and  among the Registrant,
            Combined  Insurance  Company of America,  Union  Fidelity
            Life  Insurance  Company  and  General  Electric  Capital
            Corporation dated as of November 11, 1995 -  incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 10(s) of the 1995 Form 10-K.

      (m)   Stock  Purchase  Agreement  by and  among the Registrant;
            Combined Insurance Company of America; The Life Insurance
            Company  of Virginia;  Forth  Financial Resources,  Ltd.;
            Newco  Properties,  Inc.;   and General  Electric Capital
            Corporation  dated as of December 22, 1995 - incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 10(t) to the 1995 Form 10-K.

                                     - 26 -

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit Number                                                    Page Number of
Regulation                                                        Sequentially
S-K, Item 601                                                     Numbered Copy
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -------------                                                     -------------

      (n)   Agreement  and   Plan  of  Merger  among  the Registrant, 
            Purchaser  and  A&A  dated  as  of  December  11,  1996 -
            incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  (c) (1)  to  the
            Registrant's   Schedule  14D-1  filed  with  the  SEC  on 
            December 16, 1996.

      (o)   First  Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as
            of  January 7, 1997  among  the Registrant, Purchaser and
            A&A  incorporated  by reference  to  Exhibit   (c)(3)  to
            Schedule  14D-1  filed  by  the  Registrant  with the SEC
            on January 9, 1997.

      (p)   Employment  Agreement dated June 1, 1993 by and among the
            Registrant,  Aon  Risk  Services,  Inc.  and  Michael  D.
            O'Halleran.

(12)  Statements regarding Computation of Ratios.

      (a)   Statement  regarding  Computation of Ratio of Earnings of
            Fixed Charges.

      (b)   Statement regarding Computation  of Ratio of  Earnings to
            Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends.

(13)  Annual  Report  to  Stockholders of the Registrant for the year
      ended December 31, 1998.

(21)  List of subsidiaries of the Registrant.


(23)  Consent  of Ernst & Young LLP to the incorporation by reference
      into Aon's Annual  Report on Form 10-K of their report included
      in the 1998  Annual  Report  to  Stockholders  and  into  Aon's
      Registration  Statement   Nos.  33-27984,  33-42575,  33-59037,
      333-21237, 333-50607 and 333-55773.

(99)  Annual Report to the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form
      11-K for the Aon  Savings  Plan for the year ended December 31,
      1998 - to be filed by  amendment as provided in Rule 15d-21(b).


                                     - 27 -


