
10-K
AON CORPORATION


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

 (Mark One)

[X]           ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997
       
[ ]         TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE
                SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
                         Commission File Number: 1-7933
                                 Aon Corporation
             (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)

              DELAWARE
    (State or Other Jurisdiction of                      36-3051915
     Incorporation or Organization)                   (I.R.S. Employer
       123 NORTH WACKER DRIVE,                       Identification No.)
          CHICAGO, ILLINOIS                                 60606
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)                  (Zip Code)
           (312) 701-3000
          (Telephone Number)


           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
                                                         Name of Each Exchange
    Title of Each Class                                  on Which Registered
    -------------------                                  -------------------

Common Stock, $1 par value                              New York Stock Exchange*
   6.875% Notes Due 1999                                New York Stock Exchange
    7.40% Notes Due 2002                                New York Stock Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE

  *The Common Stock of the Registrant is also listed for trading on the Chicago
                   Stock Exchange and the International Stock
                                Exchange London.

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  Registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

YES [X]        NO  [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements,  
incorporated  by  reference  in Part III of this  Form  10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K. [ ]

Aggregate  market  value  of the  voting  stock  held by  non-affiliates  of the
Registrant as of February 25, 1998 was $8,729,515,545.

Number of shares of $1.00 par value Common Stock  outstanding as of February 25,
1998: 167,971,048.

DOCUMENTS FROM WHICH INFORMATION IS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:  Annual Report to
Stockholders  of the Registrant for the Year 1997 (Parts I, II and IV) Notice of
Annual  Meeting  of Holders of Common  Stock and Series C  Cumulative  Preferred
Stock and Proxy  Statement for Annual Meeting of  Stockholders on April 17, 1998
of the Registrant (Part III)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS.

         The Registrant is a holding company whose operating  subsidiaries carry
on business in two distinct  segments:  (i) insurance  brokerage and  consulting
services,  and (ii)  insurance  underwriting.  Incorporated  in 1979,  it is the
parent corporation of long-established and more recently formed companies.

         Aon  Group,   Inc.,  its   subsidiaries   and  certain  other  indirect
subsidiaries  of the  Registrant  (the "Aon Group")  including Aon Risk Services
Companies,  Inc.; Aon Holdings bv; Aon Consulting Worldwide,  Inc.; Aon Services
Group, Inc.; Aon Re Worldwide,  Inc.; and Aon Group Limited provide  reinsurance
intermediary  services,  benefits consulting and commercial  insurance brokerage
services. Aon Group revenues grew significantly in fiscal 1996 and 1997 when the
Registrant acquired, among other companies, Bain Hogg Group plc in October 1996,
Alexander & Alexander  Services  Inc.  in January  1997,  The Minet Group in May
1997, and Jauch & Hubener in November 1997.

         Combined Insurance Company of America ("Combined Insurance") engages in
the  marketing  of life and  accident and health  insurance  products.  Virginia
Surety Company, Inc. and London General Insurance Company Limited offer extended
warranty and specialty insurance products.

         In second quarter 1996, the Registrant and Combined  Insurance sold two
of Combined Insurance's  insurance  subsidiaries,  Union Fidelity Life Insurance
Company ("UFLIC") and the Life Insurance Company of Virginia ("LOV").  In second
quarter 1996,  Ryan  Insurance  Group,  Inc. sold its North American auto credit
underwriting  and  distribution  businesses,  including the distribution of auto
extended warranty products.

         The Registrant  hereby  incorporates by reference pages 7 through 16 of
the Annual Report to  Stockholders  of the Registrant for the Year 1997 ("Annual
Report").

COMPETITION AND INDUSTRY POSITION

(1)  INSURANCE BROKERAGE AND CONSULTING SERVICES

         Aon Group, Inc. ("Aon Group"); Aon Risk Services Companies,  Inc. ("Aon
Risk Services Companies"); Aon Holdings bv ("Aon Holdings"); Aon Services Group,
Inc. ("Aon Services Group"); Aon Consulting Worldwide,  Inc. ("Aon Consulting");
Aon Re Worldwide, Inc. ("Aon Re"); Aon Group Limited ("AGL").

         Aon  Group  is the  holding  company  for the  Registrant's  commercial
brokerage and  consulting  operation.  Aon Group is the fastest  growing  global
insurance  brokerage and  consulting  services firm in the world.  The Aon Group
companies  have  more  than  550  offices  around  the  world  in more  than 100
countries.  In 1997,  Aon Group employed over 33,000  professionals  and support
personnel to serve the diverse needs of clients.

         Aon  Risk  Services  Companies'   (formerly  Rollins  Hudig  Hall  Co.)
subsidiaries  operate in a highly competitive  industry and compete with a large
number of retail  insurance  brokerage  and agency  firms as well as  individual
brokers and agents and direct writers of insurance  coverage.  Aon Risk Services
Companies'  subsidiaries  offer  comprehensive  services  to  clients  including
insurance  placement,  specialized  brokerage services,  program development and
administration,  premium  financing  services,  risk management and loss-control
consulting. It has also developed certain specialist niche areas such as marine,
aviation,   directors   and   officers   liability,    financial   institutions,
construction, energy, media and entertainment.

         Subsidiaries  of Aon Risk Services  Companies and Aon Holdings  operate
through owned offices in North America and Europe,  as well as in South America,
Africa,  Australia and Asia. The acquisitions of A&A and Bain Hogg significantly
augmented  the  Registrant's  presence  in  Latin  America,   Asia,  Africa  and
Australia,  and the acquisition of Jauch & Hubener strengthened the Registrant's
presence throughout Europe.

                                     - 2 -

         Aon Services Group (formerly Aon Specialty  Group) addresses the highly
specialized  product   development,   consulting  and  administrative  needs  of
professional groups, service businesses, governments,  health-care providers and
commercial  organizations.  It also  provides  underwriting  management  skills,
claims and risk management expertise, and third-party administration services to
insurance companies. Aon Services Group operating subsidiaries market and broker
both the primary and reinsurance  risks of these  programs.  For individuals and
businesses,  Aon Services  Group  provides  affinity  products for  professional
liability,  life and personal  lines.  The acquisition of The Minet Group by the
Registrant  will  augment Aon  Services  Group's  already  strong  expertise  in
wholesale brokerage and professional liability programs.

         Subsidiaries of Aon Consulting and the European benefits  operations of
Aon Holdings serve the employee  benefit needs of clients around the world.  Aon
Consulting is one of the world's largest  integrated human resources  consulting
organizations.  Focusing on the increasing demand for outsourcing solutions, Aon
Consulting  targets emerging  businesses,  IPOs, recent mergers and acquisitions
and corporations that are reengineering staff functions.

         In the United States, the benefits  environment  continues to change as
companies  look for ways to manage their  benefits  costs while  increasing  the
choices offered to their  employees.  Aon Consulting,  with its expertise in all
areas of benefits and  compensation,  and its access to the  Registrant's  other
subsidiaries,   is   well-positioned   to  serve  this  market.  Aon  Consulting
subsidiaries offer services to clients including  organizational analysis and HR
strategic  planning,  recruitment and selection,  benefits design and management
training and development. Benefits issues in foreign countries are becoming more
complicated, and Aon Holdings and Aon Consulting anticipate increased demand for
their  services  in these  markets.  In  particular,  the 1997  acquisitions  of
Sodarcan  Inc.  and  Martineau  Provencher  &  Associates  will  strengthen  the
Registrant's consulting expertise in Quebec.

         Aon's reinsurance brokerage activities are organized under Aon Re. With
the  acquisitions  of A&A  and  Bain  Hogg,  Aon Re is a  global  leader  in the
reinsurance  and specialist  brokerage  industry.  Aon Re serves the alternative
market with reinsurance placement, alternative risk services, captive management
services and catastrophe information forecasting.

         AGL  is  a  London-based  Lloyd's  broker  that  places  wholesale  and
reinsurance  business  in the London and  international  markets  and serves the
needs of a wide range of clients around the world.

                                     - 3 -

(2)  INSURANCE UNDERWRITING

         Combined Insurance Company of America ("Combined Insurance");  Combined
Life Insurance  Company of New York  ("CLICNY");  Virginia Surety Company,  Inc.
("VSC");  London General Insurance Company Limited ("London  General");  and Aon
Warranty Group, Inc. ("Aon Warranty").

         The  Registrant's  insurance  underwriting  subsidiaries  are part of a
highly competitive  industry that serves individual  consumers in North America,
Europe, Latin America and the Pacific by providing accident and health coverage,
traditional life insurance,  and extended warranties through global distribution
networks most of which are directly owned by the Registrant's subsidiaries.

         The  life,  accident  and  health   distribution   network  encompasses
primarily  the  agents  of  Combined   Insurance  and  CLICNY  (which   operates
exclusively   in  the  State  of  New  York).   With  more  than  five   million
policyholders, Combined Insurance has more individual accident policies in force
than any other United  States  company.  Combined  Insurance,  the  Registrant's
principal life, accident and health insurer, has a direct sales force of several
thousand  career  agents  calling on  individuals  to sell a broad  spectrum  of
accident and health  products.  It is one of the few companies  with agents that
call on  customers  every six months to renew  coverage  and to sell  additional
coverage.   Combined   Insurance  offers  a  wide  range  of  accident-only  and
sickness-only insurance products,  including short-term disability,  cancer aid,
Medicare  supplement  and  disability  income  coverage.   Combined  Insurance's
products  are  primarily  fixed  indemnity  obligations,  thereby not subject to
escalating medical costs.  Combined  Insurance offers a simplified  accident and
sickness long-term  disability policy. In addition to its traditional  business,
Combined  Insurance  is  expanding  its  product  distribution  through  payroll
deduction, worksite marketing programs.

         Combined Insurance and CLICNY market whole life products through direct
sales career agents in the United States.  Combined  Insurance  ranked among the
top 140 life  insurance  companies  in the United  States in terms of total life
premiums in 1996. Life insurance  business is conducted by the Registrant's life
insurance subsidiaries in the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia Pacific.

         The Registrant's  extended warranty and specialty  insurance  business,
conducted by subsidiaries VSC in North America and London General in Europe,  is
composed  primarily  of  extended  warranty  insurance  products,   professional
liability  insurance  coverages,  workers'  compensation and specialty financial
institution coverages.  VSC and London General continue to be one of the world's
largest  underwriters of consumer extended  warranties.  The automobile warranty
products are sold in the United States,  Canada,  the United  Kingdom,  Ireland,
France,  The Netherlands,  Belgium,  Spain and Japan. Aon Warranty Group handles
the  administration  of  certain  extended  warranty  products  on  automobiles,
electronic goods,  personal computers and appliances.  It serves  manufacturers,
distributors  and retailers of major  worldwide  consumer  product and financial
institutions, associations and affinity groups in North America and in Europe.

                                     - 4 -

(3)  DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

         The Life Insurance  Company of Virginia ("LOV") and Union Fidelity Life
Insurance Company ("UFLIC").

         In April 1996,  the  Registrant  and Combined  Insurance  completed the
sales of Combined Insurance's subsidiaries,  LOV and UFLIC. The business written
by LOV  primarily  included  capital  accumulation  products and some other life
products.  UFLIC operated in the United States in the highly  competitive direct
response  life and health  marketing  segment of the  industry.  The  Registrant
hereby  incorporates by reference note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated  Financial
Statements on page 32 of the Annual Report.


         A&A's Discontinued Operations

         The Registrant hereby  incorporates by reference note 3 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements page 33 of the Annual Report.


LICENSING AND REGULATION

         Insurance  companies  must  comply  with  laws and  regulations  of the
jurisdictions in which they do business. These laws and regulations are designed
to ensure  financial  solvency of  insurance  companies  and to require fair and
adequate  service and  treatment  for  policyholders.  They are  enforced by the
states in the United States, by industry  self-regulating agencies in the United
Kingdom,  and by various  regulatory  agencies  in other  countries  through the
granting  and  revoking  of  licenses  to  do  business,  licensing  of  agents,
monitoring  of  trade  practices,  policy  form  approval,  minimum  loss  ratio
requirements,  limits on premium and commission  rates,  and minimum reserve and
capital requirements. Compliance is monitored by the state insurance departments
through periodic regulatory reporting procedures and periodic examinations.  The
quarterly and annual  financial  reports to the  regulators in the United States
utilize  accounting  principles which are different from the generally  accepted
accounting  principles used in stockholders'  reports.  The statutory accounting
principles,   in  keeping   with  the  intent  to  assure  the   protection   of
policyholders,  are based, in general,  on a liquidation concept while generally
accepted accounting principles are based on a going-concern concept.

         The state insurance  regulators are members of the National Association
of  Insurance   Commissioners   ("NAIC").  This  Association  seeks  to  promote
uniformity of, and to enhance the state regulation of, insurance.  Both the NAIC
and the  individual  states  continue  to focus  on the  solvency  of  insurance
companies.  This focus is reflected in  additional  regulatory  oversight by the
states and emphasis on the  enactment or adoption of a series of NAIC model laws
and   regulations   designed   to  promote   solvency.   The   increase  in  any
solvency-related oversight by the states is not expected to have any significant
impact on the insurance business of the Registrant.

         Several years ago, the NAIC developed a formula for analyzing  insurers
called  risk-based  capital  ("RBC").  RBC is  intended to  establish  "minimum"
capital  threshold  levels  that  vary  with  the  size  and mix of a  company's
business.  It is designed to identify companies with the capital levels that may
require  regulatory  attention.  RBC does not have any significant impact on the
insurance business of the Registrant.

         Insurance companies are generally not subject to any federal regulation
of their insurance  business  because of the existence of a federal law commonly
known as the  McCarran-Ferguson  Act.  McCarran-Ferguson  provides the insurance
industry with immunity from certain  aspects of the federal  anti-trust  law and
exempts the business of insurance from federal  regulation.  In the past several
years  there have been a number of  recommendations  that  McCarran-Ferguson  be
repealed entirely or modified to remove the industry's  anti-trust exemption and
subject it to federal regulation.  If  McCarran-Ferguson  were to be repealed or
modified,  state regulation of the insurance business would continue. The result
could be an additional layer of federal regulation.  The Registrant expects that
any  repeal  of   anti-trust   exemptions   available  to  insurers   under  the
McCarran-Ferguson Act would not have a significant impact on its operations.

                                     - 5 -

         The state  insurance  holding  company laws require prior notice to and
approval of the domestic state insurance department of intracorporate  transfers
of assets  within  the  holding  company  structure,  including  the  payment of
dividends by insurance company  subsidiaries.  In addition,  the premium finance
loans by Cananwill, Inc., an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Registrant,
are subject to one or more of truth-in-lending and credit regulations, insurance
premium finance acts,  retail  installment sales acts and other similar consumer
protection  legislation.  Failure to comply  with such laws or  regulations  can
result in the temporary  suspension or permanent  loss of the right to engage in
business in a particular jurisdiction as well as other penalties.

         Regulatory   authorities   in  the   states  in  which  the   operating
subsidiaries  of Aon Group  conduct  business may require  individual or company
licensing  to act as  brokers,  agents,  third  party  administrators,  managing
general agents,  reinsurance intermediaries or adjusters. Under the laws of most
states,  regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion with respect to
granting,  renewing  and  revoking  brokers'  and  agents'  licenses to transact
business in the state.  The manner or  operating in  particular  states may vary
according to the  licensing  requirements  of the  particular  state,  which may
require,  among other  things,  that a firm operate in the state through a local
corporation.  In a few states,  licenses are issued only to individual residents
or locally-owned  business entities.  In such cases, Aon Group subsidiaries have
arrangements with residents or business entities licensed to act in the state.

         In  1996  the   federal   Health   Care   Insurance   Portability   and
Accountability Act of 1996 ("HIPPA") was enacted. The Act requires the states to
take action to implement  the  requirements  of the Act or to become  subject to
federal  oversight.  HIPPA  implementation  by the  states  has  not  materially
affected  the business of the  Registrant's  subsidiaries.  In addition,  recent
federal laws and proposals,  mandating  specific  practices by medical insurers,
and the health care industry will not,  because of the nature of the business of
the Registrant's subsidiaries, materially affect the Registrant. Numerous states
have had  legislation  introduced  to reform  the  health  care  system and such
legislation has passed in several states. While it is impossible to forecast the
precise nature of future  federal and state health care changes,  the Registrant
does not expect a major  impact on its  operations  because of the  supplemental
nature of most of the policies issued by its insurance  subsidiaries and because
the coverages are primarily  purchased to provide,  on a fixed-indemnity  basis,
protection against  loss-of-time or disability  benefits.  If health care reform
does not  provide  for a  significant  role for  insurance  companies  currently
writing  primary  medical  coverage,  the Registrant  expects that some of those
companies would increase their  participation in other segments of the insurance
underwriting  business,   perhaps  heightening  the  competition  with  Combined
Insurance.   Combined   Insurance  and  its   subsidiaries   currently   operate
successfully  in several  foreign  countries which have national health plans in
effect.


CLIENTELE

         No significant part of the Registrant's or its  subsidiaries'  business
is dependent  upon a single  client or on a few clients,  the loss of any one of
which would have a material adverse effect on the Registrant.


EMPLOYEES

         The Registrant's subsidiaries had approximately 40,000 employees at the
end of 1997 of whom  approximately  35,000 are salaried and hourly employees and
the remaining  5,000 are sales  representatives  who are  generally  compensated
wholly or primarily by commission.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES.

         The Registrant's  subsidiaries own and occupy office buildings in seven
states and certain  foreign  countries,  and lease office space elsewhere in the
United  States and in various  foreign  cities.  Loss of the use of any owned or
leased property, while potentially disruptive,  would have no material impact on
the Registrant.

                                     - 6 -

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

         The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference note 12 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements on page 42 of the Annual Report.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

         None.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

         Executive officers of the Registrant are regularly elected by its Board
of Directors  at the annual  meeting of the Board which is held  following  each
annual meeting of the stockholders of the Registrant.  The executive officers of
the  Registrant  were  elected to their  current  positions on April 18, 1997 to
serve  until  the  meeting  of  the  Board   following  the  annual  meeting  of
stockholders on April 17, 1998. Ages shown are as of December 31, 1997.

         For information  concerning certain directors and executive officers of
the  Registrant,  see  item 10  below.  As of  March  31,  1998,  the  following
individuals  are also  executive  officers of the  Registrant as defined in Rule
16a-1(f):

                                     - 7 -

                                     PART II


ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE  REGISTRANT'S  COMMON STOCK AND RELATED  SECURITY HOLDER
         MATTERS.

         The  Registrant's  $1.00 par value common shares ("Common  Shares") are
traded on the New York,  Chicago  and London  stock  exchanges.  The  Registrant
hereby  incorporates  by  reference  the  "Dividends  paid per share" and "Price
range" data on page 45 of the Annual Report.

         The Registrant had approximately 12,500 holders of record of its Common
Shares as of February 25, 1998.

         The Registrant hereby  incorporates by reference note 8 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements on page 36 of the Annual Report.


ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

         The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference the "Selected Financial
Data" table on page 44 of the Annual Report.


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS.

         The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference  "Management's Analysis
of  Operating  Results and  Financial  Condition"  on pages 18 through 24 of the
Annual Report.


ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

         The Registrant hereby  incorporates by reference "Market Risk Exposure"
on page 24 of the Annual Report.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

         The  Registrant   hereby   incorporates   by  reference  the  following
         statements, notes and data from the Annual Report.
                                                                         Page(s)
                                                                         -------
         Consolidated Financial Statements ..........................    25 - 29
         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements .................    30 - 42
         Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors ..........         43
         Quarterly Financial Data ...................................         45


ITEM 9.  CHANGES  IN  AND  DISAGREEMENT   WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON  ACCOUNTING  AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

         Not Applicable.

                                     - 8 -

                                    PART III


ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

         The  Registrant  hereby  incorporates  by reference the  information on
pages 3 and 7 of the Proxy  Statement For Annual Meeting of the  Stockholders on
April 17, 1998, of the Registrant ("Proxy  Statement")  concerning the following
Directors of the Registrant, each of whom also serves as an executive officer of
the  Registrant  as defined  in Rule  16a-1(f):  Patrick G. Ryan and  Raymond I.
Skilling. Information concerning additional executive officers of the Registrant
is  contained  in Part I  hereof,  pursuant  to  General  Instruction  G(3)  and
Instruction  3 to Item 401(b) of  Regulation  S-K.  The  Registrant  also hereby
incorporates  by  reference  the  information  on pages  11 and 12 of the  Proxy
Statement.


ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

         The Registrant  hereby  incorporates by reference the information under
the headings  "Executive  Compensation,"  "Aggregated  Option  Exercises in Last
Fiscal Year and Fiscal Year-End  Option  Values,"  "Option Grants in 1997 Fiscal
Year" and "Pension Plan Table" on pages 14 through 17 of the Proxy Statement.


ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

         The Registrant  hereby  incorporates  by reference the share  ownership
data contained on pages 2, 9 and 10 of the Proxy Statement.


ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

         The Registrant  hereby  incorporates by reference the information under
the heading "Transactions With Management" on page 22 of the Proxy Statement.

                                     - 9 -

                                     PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

(a) (1) and (2). The  Registrant has  incorporated  by reference from the Annual
Report  (see Item 8) the  following  consolidated  financial  statements  of the
Registrant and subsidiaries:




Financial statement  schedules of the Registrant and  consolidated  subsidiaries
    not included in the Annual Report but filed herewith:
                  Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules -


                                                                        Schedule
                                                                        --------
   Summary of Investments - Other than Investments in Related Parties       I
   Parent Company Condensed Financial Statements                           II
   Supplementary Insurance Information                                    III
   Reinsurance                                                             IV
   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                                        V
   Schedule VI is omitted as it is immaterial


(A)(3).  EXHIBITS

         (a)      Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant
                  -   incorporated   by   reference   to  Exhibit  3(a)  to  the
                  Registrant's  Annual  Report to the  Securities  and  Exchange
                  Commission  on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 1991
                  (the "1991 Form 10-K").

         (b)      Certificate of Amendment of the  Registrant's  Second Restated
                  Certificate  of  Incorporation  incorporated  by  reference to
                  Exhibit 3 to the  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q
                  for the quarter ended March 31, 1994 (the "First  Quarter 1994
                  Form 10Q").

         (c)      Bylaws  of the  Registrant  -  incorporated  by  reference  to
                  Exhibit  (d)  to  the   Registrant's   Annual  Report  to  the
                  Securities  and Exchange  Commission on Form 10-K for the year
                  ended December 31, 1982 (the "1982 Form 10-K").

         (d)      Indenture  dated September 15, 1992 between the Registrant and
                  Continental  Bank  Corporation  (now  known as Bank of America
                  Illinois),  as Trustee - incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
                  4(a) to the  Registrant's  Current  Report  on Form 8-K  dated
                  September 23, 1992.

                                     - 10 -


         (e)      Resolutions  establishing  terms of 6.875%  Notes Due 1999 and
                  7.40% Notes Due 2002  incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibits
                  4(d) to the  Registrant's  Annual Report to the Securities and
                  Exchange  Commission on Form 10-K for the year ended  December
                  31, 1992 (the "1992 Form 10-K").

         (f)      Resolutions establishing the terms of 6.70% Notes Due 2003 and
                  6.30% Notes Due 2004  incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibits
                  4(c)  and  4(d)  of  the  Registrant's  Annual  Report  to the
                  Securities  and Exchange  Commission on Form 10-K for the year
                  ended December 31, 1993 (the "1993 Form 10-K").

         (g)      Junior  Subordinated  Indenture  dated as of January  13, 1997
                  between the  Registrant and The Bank of New York, as trustee -
                  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the  Registrant's
                  Amendment  No.  1 to  Registration  Statement  on Form S-4 No.
                  333-21237  dated  March  27,  1997  (the  "Capital  Securities
                  Registration").

         (h)      First  Supplemental  Indenture  dated as of January  13,  1997
                  between the  Registrant and the Bank of New York, as trustee -
                  incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.2 of  the  Capital
                  Securities Registration.

         (i)      Certificate  of  Trust  of Aon  Capital  A -  incorporated  by
                  reference   to   Exhibit   4.3  of  the   Capital   Securities
                  Registration.

         (j)      Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Aon Capital A dated as
                  of January 13, 1997 among the  Registrant,  as Depositor,  The
                  Bank of New York,  as Property  Trustee,  The Bank of New York
                  (Delaware),  as Delaware Trustee, the Administrative  Trustees
                  named  therein  and the  holders,  from  time to time,  of the
                  Capital  Securities - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5
                  of the Capital Securities Registration.

         (k)      Capital Securities Guarantee Agreement dated as of January 13,
                  1997  between  the  Registrant  and the Bank of New  York,  as
                  guarantee  trustee - incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4.8
                  of the Capital Securities Registration.

         (l)      Capital Securities  Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement
                  dated as of January 13, 1997 among the Registrant, Aon Capital
                  A and Morgan Stanley & Co.  Incorporated and Goldman,  Sachs &
                  Co. - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.10 of the Capital
                  Securities Registration.

         (m)      Debenture Exchange and Registration  Rights Agreement dated as
                  of January  13, 1997 among the  Registrant,  Aon Capital A and
                  Morgan  Stanley & Co.  Incorporated  and Goldman,  Sachs & Co.
                  incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.11 of the  Capital
                  Securities Registration.

         (n)      Guarantee Exchange and Registration  Rights Agreement dated as
                  of January  13, 1997 among the  Registrant,  Aon Capital A and
                  Morgan  Stanley & Co.  Incorporated  and Goldman,  Sachs & Co.
                  incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.12 of the  Capital
                  Securities Registration.

         (o)      Certificate  of  Designation  for the  Registrant's  Series  C
                  Cumulative   Preferred  Stock  incorporated  by  reference  to
                  Exhibit  4.1 to the  Registrant's  Current  Report on Form 8-K
                  dated February 9, 1994.

         (p)      Registration  Rights  Agreement  dated November 2, 1992 by and
                  between  the  Registrant  and  Frank  B.  Hall & Co.,  Inc.  -
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to the Third Quarter
                  1992 Form 10-Q.

         (q)      Registration  rights agreement by and among the Registrant and
                  certain  affiliates of Ryan Insurance Group,  Inc.  (including
                  Patrick  G. Ryan and  Andrew J.  McKenna)  -  incorporated  by
                  reference to Exhibit (f) to the 1982 Form 10-K.

                                     - 11 -

         (r)      Deferred  Compensation  Agreement by and among the  Registrant
                  and Registrant's  directors who are not salaried  employees of
                  Registrant  or  Registrant's   affiliates  -  incorporated  by
                  reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the  Registrant's  Annual Report
                  to the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 10-K for the
                  year ended December 31, 1987 (the "1987 Form 10-K").

         (s)      Amendment  and Waiver  Agreement  dated as of November 4, 1991
                  among the  Registrant  and each of Patrick  G.  Ryan,  Shirley
                  Ryan,  Ryan  Enterprises  Corporation  and  Harvey  N.  Medvin
                  incorporated  by reference  to Exhibit  10(j) to the 1991 Form
                  10-K.

         (t)      Statement regarding  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed
                  Charges.

         (u)      Statement  regarding  Computation  of  Ratio  of  Earnings  to
                  Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends.

         (v)      Aon  Corporation  1994 Amended and Restated  Outside  Director
                  Stock Award Plan - incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10(b)
                  to the First Quarter 1994 Form 10-Q.

         (w)      Annual Report to  Stockholders  of the Registrant for the year
                  ended December 31, 1997 (for information, and not to be deemed
                  filed, except for those portions specifically  incorporated by
                  reference herein).

         (x)      List of Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

         (y)      Consent of Ernst & Young LLP to the incorporation by reference
                  into Aon's Annual  Report on Form 10-K of its report  included
                  in the 1997  Annual  Report  to  Stockholders  and into  Aon's
                  Registration Statement Nos. 33-27984,  33-42575,  33-59037 and
                  333-21237.

         (z)      Annual  Report to the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission on
                  Form 11-K for the Aon Savings Plan for the year ended December
                  31, 1997 - to be filed by  amendment  as provided in Rule 15d-
                  21(b).

         (aa)     Executive Compensation Plans and Arrangements:

                  (A)      Aon  Stock  Option  Plan  (as  amended  and  restated
                           through 1997) - incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
                           10 (a) to the  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report to the
                           Securities  and Exchange  Commission on Form 10-Q for
                           the Quarter ended March 31, 1997 (the "First  Quarter
                           1997 Form 10-Q").

                  (B)      Aon Stock Award Plan (as amended and restated through
                           1997) - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to
                           the First Quarter 1997 Form 10-Q.

                  (C)      Aon   Corporation   1995  Senior  Officer   Incentive
                           Compensation   Plan   incorporated  by  reference  to
                           Exhibit  10(p) to the  Registrant's  Annual Report to
                           the Securities  and Exchange  Commission on Form 10-K
                           for the year ended  December 31, 1995 (the "1995 Form
                           10-K").

                  (D)      Aon Deferred Compensation Plan and First Amendment to
                           the Aon Deferred  Compensation Plan - incorporated by
                           reference to Exhibit 10(q) of the 1995 Form 10-K.

                  (E)      Employment  Agreement dated June 1, 1993 by and among
                           the Registrant,  Aon Risk Services,  Inc. and Michael
                           D. O'Halleran.

                  (F)      Aon  Severance  Plan -  incorporated  by reference to
                           Exhibit 10 to the  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report to
                           the Securities and Exchange  Commission and Form 10-Q
                           for the quarter ended June 30, 1997.

                                     - 12 -


         (ab)     Asset  Purchase  Agreement  dated July 24,  1992  between  the
                  Registrant  and Frank B. Hall & Co.  Inc.  -  incorporated  by
                  reference  to  Exhibit  10(c)  to the  Registrant's  Quarterly
                  Report on Form 10- Q for the period ended June 30, 1992.

         (ac)     Stock Purchase Agreement by and among the Registrant, Combined
                  Insurance  Company of America,  Union  Fidelity Life Insurance
                  Company and General Electric Capital  Corporation  dated as of
                  November 11, 1995 - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(s)
                  of the 1995 Form 10-K.

         (ad)     Stock Purchase Agreement by and among the Registrant; Combined
                  Insurance  Company of America;  The Life Insurance  Company of
                  Virginia;  Forth Financial Resources,  Ltd.; Newco Properties,
                  Inc.; and General  Electric  Capital  Corporation  dated as of
                  December 22, 1995 - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(t)
                  of the 1995 Form 10-K.

         (ae)     Agreement and Plan of Merger among the Registrant;  Subsidiary
                  Corporation,  Inc.  ("Purchaser");  and  Alexander & Alexander
                  Services  Inc.  ("A&A")  dated  as  of  December  11,  1996  -
                  incorporated   by   reference   to   Exhibit   (c)(1)  of  the
                  Registrant's Tender Offer Statement on Schedule 14D-1 filed by
                  the Registrant  with the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission
                  ("SEC") on December 16, 1996 (the "Schedule 14D-1").

         (af)     First  Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Merger,  dated as of
                  January 7, 1997,  among the  Registrant,  Purchaser  and A&A -
                  incorporated  by reference  to Exhibit  (c)(3) to the Schedule
                  14D-1 filed by the Registrant with the SEC on January 9, 1997.

(b)      Reports on Form 8-K.

                  The Registrant filed no Current Reports on Form 8-K during the
         last quarter of the Registrant's year ended December 31, 1997.

                                     - 13 -


                                   SIGNATURES


         Pursuant to the requirements of Scetion 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly cuased this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 21st day of 
March, 1998.

                                           Aon Corporation



                                           By:      /s/PATRICK G. RYAN
                                              ---------------------------------
                                           Patrick G. Ryan, Chairman, President
                                           and Chief Executive Officer


         Pursuant to the  requirements  of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,
this  Report has been  signed  below by the  following  persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.




                                     - 15 -



                                     - 16 -



                                     - 17 -



                                     - 18 -



                                     - 19 -

                                                                     SCHEDULE II
                                                                     (Continued)
                                 Aon Corporation
                                (Parent Company)
                     NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


(1)    See notes to consolidated financial statements  incorporated by reference
       from the Annual Report.


(2)    Payments made as  assessments  by state guaranty funds to cover losses to
       policyholders of insurance companies under regulatory supervision for the
       years ended  December 31,  1997,  1996 and 1995 were $0.8  million,  $1.4
       million and $5.0 million,  respectively.  


(3)    Generally,  the net assets of Aon's insurance  subsidiaries available for
       transfer  to the  parent  company  are  limited to the  amounts  that the
       insurance  subsidiaries'  statutory net assets exceed  minimum  statutory
       capital  requirements;  however,  payments of the amounts as dividends in
       excess  of  $360  million  may  be  subject  to  approval  by  regulatory
       authorities.


(4)    Subsequent Events
       On  February  5, 1998,  Aon  announced  an  agreement  to  acquire  Gil y
       Carvajal, the leading broker in Spain. In  addition, Aon announced an
       agreement in principle to acquire  Le Blanc de Nicolay, subject to normal
       regulatory consents and due diligence. Le Blanc de Nicolay is the largest
       reinsurance  broker in  France  and is also prominent in retail brokerage
       and  consulting  services.    Annual  revenues  of these acquisitions are
       approximately $125 million.

                                     - 20 -

                                 Aon Corporation
                                (Parent Company)
                     NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(5)      Below  is a  reconciliation  of the  combined  statutory  stockholders'
         equity  and  net  income  of  Aon's   insurance   subsidiaries  to  the
         consolidated  stockholders'  equity  and  net  income  on  a  basis  in
         accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP):












                                     - 21 -



                                     - 22 -

                                                                     SCHEDULE IV
                        Aon Corporation and Subsidiaries
                                  REINSURANCE









                                     - 23 -



                                     - 24 -




                                     - 25 -



