
10-K
AON CORPORATION


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

[X]           ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999
                                       OR
[ ]         TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE
                SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
                         Commission File Number: 1-7933

                                 Aon Corporation
             (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)

               DELAWARE
     (State or Other Jurisdiction of                       36-3051915
      Incorporation or Organization)                     (I.R.S. Employer
        123 NORTH WACKER DRIVE,                         Identification No.)
          CHICAGO, ILLINOIS                                   60606
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)                    (Zip Code)
            (312) 701-3000
          (Telephone Number)

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
                                                      Name of Each Exchange
      Title of Each Class                              on Which Registered
      -------------------                              -------------------
  Common Stock, $1 par value                         New York Stock Exchange*
    7.40% Notes Due 2002                             New York Stock Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE

*The Common  Stock of the  Registrant  is also listed for trading on the Chicago
          Stock Exchange and the International Stock Exchange London.


Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  Registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days.       YES  [X]        NO  [ ]


Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of  Registrant's knowledge, in definitive  proxy or information statements,
incorporated  by  reference  in Part III of this  Form  10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K. [X]

Aggregate  market  value  of the  voting  stock  held by  non-affiliates  of the
Registrant as of February 23, 2000 was $5,042,411,250.

Number of shares of $1.00 par value Common Stock  outstanding as of February 23,
2000 was 256,453,450.

         DOCUMENTS FROM WHICH INFORMATION IS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
        Annual Report to Stockholders of the Registrant for the Year 1999
                             (Parts I, II and IV)
   Notice of Annual Meeting of Holders of Common Stock and Series C Preferred
 Stock and Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Stockholders on April 18, 2000
                         of the Registrant (Part III)

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS.

      The Registrant is a holding company whose operating  subsidiaries carry on
business in three distinct segments: (i) insurance brokerage and other services,
(ii) consulting,  and (iii) insurance underwriting.  Incorporated in 1979, it is
the parent corporation of long-established and more recently formed companies.

      The Insurance Brokerage and Other Services segment consists principally of
Aon's retail and reinsurance brokerage operations,  which includes specialty and
wholesale  activity.  These  services  are  provided  by Aon  Group,  Inc.,  its
subsidiaries and certain other indirect subsidiaries of the Registrant (the "Aon
Group")  including  Aon Risk  Services  Companies,  Inc.;  Aon  Holdings bv; Aon
Services Group, Inc.; Aon Re Worldwide, Inc.; Aon Group Limited; and Alternative
Market Operations ("AMO").

      The Consulting  segment provides a range of consulting  services including
employee benefits,  human resources,  compensation and change management.  These
services  are  provided  by Aon  Consulting  Worldwide,  Inc.  which  is  also a
subsidiary of Aon Group.

      Aon Group revenues grew  significantly  in  1997, 1998 and 1999  when  the
Registrant  acquired,  among  other companies,  Alexander &  Alexander  Services
Inc.  ("A&A"),  The  Minet  Group,  and  Jauch &  Hubener  in 1997;  Le Blanc de
Nicolay,  Gil y Carvajal and  Auto Insurance Specialists, Inc. in 1998;  and the
Nikols Group, Presidium Holdings,  Inc. and  Societe Generale d' Assurance et de
Prevoganie in 1999.

      Aon's Insurance  Underwriting  segment is comprised of  direct  sales life
and  accident  and  health insurance,  extended warranty,  specialty  and  other
insurance products. Combined Insurance Company of America ("Combined Insurance")
engages in the  marketing  and  underwriting  of life and  accident  and  health
insurance products.  Virginia Surety Company,  Inc. and London General Insurance
Company Limited  offer  extended  warranty  and  specialty  insurance  products.

      The Registrant  hereby  incorporates  by reference  pages 8 through 17, 19
through  21, and pages 49 and 50 of the  Annual  Report to  Stockholders  of the
Registrant for the Year 1999 ("Annual Report").


COMPETITION AND INDUSTRY POSITION

(1)  INSURANCE BROKERAGE AND OTHER SERVICES

      Aon Group,  Inc. ("Aon Group");  Aon Risk Services  Companies,  Inc. ("Aon
Risk  Services  Companies");  Aon  Holdings bv ("Aon  Holdings");  Aon  Services
Group,  Inc.  ("Aon  Services  Group");  Aon Re Worldwide,  Inc. ("Aon Re"); Aon
Group Limited ("AGL"); Alternative Market Operations ("AMO").

      Aon Group is the holding  company for the  subsidiaries  which conduct the
Registrant's commercial brokerage and consulting operations. Aon Group companies
have 550 offices around the world in 120 countries.  In 1999, Aon Group employed
over 39,000  professionals  and support  personnel to serve the diverse needs of
clients.

      Aon Risk Services Companies'  subsidiaries operate in a highly competitive
industry  and compete  with a large  number of retail  insurance  brokerage  and
agency  firms as well as  individual  brokers  and agents and direct  writers of
insurance  coverage.  Aon Risk  Services  Companies'  subsidiaries  provide risk
management  services,  including insurance  placement,  claims management,  loss
control and  administrative  services.  It has also developed certain specialist
niche  areas  such  as  marine,  aviation,  directors  and  officers  liability,
financial institutions,  construction, energy, media and entertainment. In 1999,
significant  investments  were made in professional  talent,  technology and the
development of  specialized  products and services to meet the evolving needs of
clients.

      Subsidiaries  of Aon Risk  Services  Companies  and Aon  Holdings  operate
through owned offices in North America and Europe,  as well as in South America,
Africa,  Australia and Asia. The acquisition of A&A significantly  augmented the
Registrant's  presence in Latin America,  Asia,  Africa and  Australia,  and the
acquisitions  of Jauch &

                                     - 2 -

Hubener,  Le Blanc de Nicolay,  Gil y Carvajal and The Nikols Group strengthened
the Registrant's presence throughout Europe.

      Aon Services Group addresses the highly specialized  product  development,
consulting and  administrative  risk management  needs of  professional  groups,
service   businesses,   governments,   healthcare   providers   and   commercial
organizations.  It also provides underwriting management skills, claims and risk
management  expertise,  and  third-party  administration  services to  insurance
companies.  Aon Services Group operating subsidiaries market and broker both the
primary and reinsurance risks of these programs. For individuals and businesses,
Aon Services Group provides affinity products for professional liability,  life,
disability  income and personal lines. The acquisition of The Minet Group by the
Registrant  augmented Aon Services Group's already strong expertise in wholesale
brokerage and  professional  liability  programs.  The 1998  acquisition of Auto
Insurance  Specialists,  Inc., an insurance  broker  specializing  in automobile
insurance  coverages,  gives Aon Services  Group a significant  presence in that
market with opportunities for wide geographic application.

      Aon's reinsurance  brokerage  activities are organized under Aon Re in the
United States and AGL in the United Kingdom.  Aon Re is the largest  reinsurance
broker in the world, offering  reinsurance,  analytical services and alternative
risk financing  vehicles.  Aon Re serves the alternative market with reinsurance
placement,   alternative  risk  services,   captive   management   services  and
catastrophe information  forecasting.  AGL is a London-based Lloyd's broker that
places  wholesale  and  reinsurance  business  in the London  and  international
markets and serves the needs of a wide range of clients around the world.

      AMO was  established  by Aon in late  1997  and is a leader  in  specialty
underwriting  solutions and  custom-designed  products and services.  Several of
AMO's  specialties   include   entertainment,   public  entities,   professional
liability, workers compensation, and media business and financial institutions.


(2)  CONSULTING

Aon Consulting Worldwide, Inc. ("Aon Consulting")

      Subsidiaries  of Aon Consulting (and the European  benefits  operations of
Aon Holdings) serve the employee  benefit needs of clients around the world. Aon
Consulting is one of the world's largest  integrated human resources  consulting
organizations.  Focusing on the increasing demand for outsourcing solutions, Aon
Consulting  targets emerging  businesses,  IPOs, recent mergers and acquisitions
and corporations that are reengineering staff functions.

      In the United  States,  the  benefits  environment  continues to change as
companies  look for ways to manage their  benefits  costs while  increasing  the
choices offered to their  employees.  Aon Consulting,  with its expertise in all
areas of benefits and  compensation,  and its access to the  Registrant's  other
subsidiaries,   is   well-positioned   to  serve  this  market.  Aon  Consulting
subsidiaries offer services to clients including  organizational analysis and HR
strategic  planning,  recruitment and selection,  benefits design and management
training and development,  job design and competency modeling;  compensation and
reward systems;  human resources compliance and risk management;  and individual
and organizational  change management.  Benefits issues in foreign countries are
becoming  more  complicated,  and Aon  Holdings  and Aon  Consulting  anticipate
increased demand for their services in these markets.


                                     - 3 -

(3)  INSURANCE UNDERWRITING

      Combined  Insurance Company of America  ("Combined  Insurance");  Combined
Life Insurance  Company of New York  ("CLICNY");  Virginia Surety Company,  Inc.
("VSC");  London General  Insurance Company Limited ("London  General"); and Aon
Warranty Group, Inc. ("Aon  Warranty").

      The Registrant's insurance underwriting  subsidiaries are part of a highly
competitive industry that serves individual consumers in North America,  Europe,
Latin  America  and the  Pacific by  providing  accident  and  health  coverage,
traditional life insurance and extended warranties through distribution networks
most of which are directly owned by the Registrant's subsidiaries.

      The  life  and  accident  and   health  distribution  network  encompasses
primarily   the  agents  of  Combined  Insurance  and  CLICNY  ( which  operates
exclusively  in  the  State  of  New York).  With more than five million policy-
holders,  Combined Insurance has more  individual  accident  policies  in  force
than  any  other United  States  company.  Combined  Insurance, the Registrant's
principal  life  and  accident and health insurer, has a direct sales  force  of
several thousand  career  agents calling on individuals to sell a broad spectrum
of accident and health products and is one of the few companies with agents that
call on customers  every six  months  to  renew  coverage and to sell additional
coverage.  Combined Insurance's  current product portfolio often allows  policy-
holders the option of paying  premiums  monthly  through a pre-authorized  check
mechanism. Those policyholders are still called on by an agent to add additional
coverage. Combined  Insurance offers a wide range of accident-only and sickness-
only insurance  products,  including short-term disability, cancer aid, Medicare
supplement,  disability  income and long-term  care  coverage.  Most of Combined
Insurance's  products are primarily  fixed  indemnity  obligations,  thereby not
subject to escalating  medical  costs.  Combined  Insurance  offers a simplified
accident  and  sickness   long-term   disability  policy.  In  addition  to  its
traditional  business,  Combined Insurance has expanded its product distribution
through payroll deduction,  worksite marketing  programs.  Combined  Insurance's
business is  conducted  by the  Registrant's  operations  in the United  States,
Canada, Latin America, Europe and Asia Pacific.  Combined  Insurance and  CLICNY
market  whole  life products through  direct sales career agents in  the  United
States.

      The  Registrant's  extended  warranty and  specialty  insurance  business,
conducted  by VSC subsidiaries in North America,  South America and Asia Pacific
and London General  in  Europe,  is  composed  primarily  of  extended  warranty
insurance   products,  professional  liability   insurance  coverages,  workers'
compensation  and  specialty  financial institution coverages.  VSC  and  London
General  are  among  the  world's  largest  underwriters  of  consumer  extended
warranties.  The  automobile  warranty  products  are sold in the United States,
Canada,  the United  Kingdom, Ireland, France, The Netherlands,  Belgium, Spain,
Argentina,  Brazil,  Australia  and  Japan.   Aon  Warranty  Group  handles  the
administration of certain  extended warranty products on automobiles, electronic
goods, personal computers and appliances.  It serves manufacturers, distributors
and  retailers  of  major worldwide consumer product and financial institutions,
associations and affinity groups in North America and in Europe.


                                     - 4 -

(4)  DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

      The  Registrant  hereby  incorporates  by reference note 4 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements on page 35 of the Annual Report.


LICENSING AND REGULATION

      Regulatory  authorities  in the states or countries in which the operating
subsidiaries  of Aon Group  conduct  business may require  individual or company
licensing  to act as  brokers,  agents,  third  party  administrators,  managing
general agents,  reinsurance intermediaries or adjusters. Under the laws of most
states  in  the  United  States  and  in  most  foreign  countries,   regulatory
authorities have relatively broad discretion with respect to granting,  renewing
and revoking  brokers' and agents' licenses to transact business in the state or
country.  The manner of operating in  particular  states and  countries may vary
according to the  licensing  requirements  of the  particular  state or country,
which may  require,  among  other  things,  that a firm  operate in the state or
country through a local corporation. In a few states and countries, licenses are
issued only to individual residents or locally-owned  business entities. In such
cases,  Aon Group  subsidiaries  have  arrangements  with  residents or business
entities licensed to act in the state or country.

      Insurance   companies  must  comply  with  laws  and  regulations  of  the
jurisdictions in which they do business. These laws and regulations are designed
to ensure  financial  solvency of  insurance  companies  and to require fair and
adequate  service and  treatment  for  policyholders.  They are  enforced by the
states in the United States, by industry  self-regulating agencies in the United
Kingdom,  and by various  regulatory  agencies  in other  countries  through the
granting  and  revoking  of  licenses  to  do  business,  licensing  of  agents,
monitoring  of  trade  practices,  policy  form  approval,  minimum  loss  ratio
requirements,  limits on premium and commission  rates,  and minimum reserve and
capital requirements. Compliance is monitored by the state insurance departments
through periodic regulatory reporting procedures and periodic examinations.  The
quarterly and annual  financial  reports to the  regulators in the United States
utilize statutory  accounting  principles which are different from the generally
accepted  accounting  principles used in  stockholders'  reports.  The statutory
accounting  principles,  in keeping with the intent to assure the  protection of
policyholders  are based, in general,  on a liquidation  concept while generally
accepted accounting principles are based on a going-concern concept.

      The state insurance  regulators are members of the National Association of
Insurance  Commissioners  ("NAIC"). This Association seeks to promote uniformity
of, and to enhance the state  regulation  of,  insurance.  Both the NAIC and the
individual  states continue to focus on the solvency of insurance  companies and
their  conduct  in the  market  place.  This focus is  reflected  in  additional
regulatory  oversight by the states and emphasis on the enactment or adoption of
a series of NAIC model laws and regulations  designed to promote  solvency.  Any
increase in any solvency-related oversight by the states is not expected to have
any significant impact on the insurance business of the Registrant.

      Several  years ago, the NAIC  developed a formula for  analyzing  insurers
called  risk-based  capital  ("RBC").  RBC is  intended to  establish  "minimum"
capital  threshold  levels  that  vary  with  the  size  and mix of a  company's
business.  It is designed to identify companies with the capital levels that may
require  regulatory  attention.  RBC does not have any significant impact on the
insurance business of the Registrant.

      The state  insurance  holding  company  laws  require  prior notice to and
approval of the domestic state insurance department of intracorporate  transfers
of assets  within  the  holding  company  structure,  including  the  payment of
dividends by insurance company  subsidiaries.  In addition,  the premium finance
loans by Cananwill, Inc., an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Registrant,
are subject to one or more of truth-in-lending and credit regulations, insurance
premium finance acts,  retail  installment sales acts and other similar consumer
protection  legislation.  Failure to comply  with such laws or  regulations  can
result in the temporary  suspension or permanent  loss of the right to engage in
business in a particular jurisdiction as well as other penalties.

      Recent federal and state laws and proposals  mandating  specific practices
by medical insurers and the health care industry will not, because of the nature
of  the  business  of  the  Registrant's  subsidiaries,  materially  affect  the
Registrant. Numerous states have had legislation introduced to reform the health
care  system and such  legislation  has passed in  several  states.  While it is
impossible  to forecast  the precise  nature of future  federal and state health
care changes,  the  Registrant  does not expect a major impact on its operations
because  of the  supplemental  nature  of

                                     - 5 -


most of the  policies  issued by its  insurance  subsidiaries  and  because  the
coverages  are  primarily  purchased  to provide,  on a  fixed-indemnity  basis,
protection against loss-of-time or disability benefits.  Congress has passed the
Financial  Services  Modernization  Act  commonly  known as S 900 or the  Gramm,
Leach,  Bliley Act. While S 900 makes substantial  changes in allowing financial
organizations  to  diversify,  the Registrant does not  believe the enactment of
S 900 will have a material effect on the business of its insurance institutions.


CLIENTELE

      No significant part of the Registrant's or its  subsidiaries'  business is
dependent upon a single client or on a few clients, the loss of any one of which
would have a material adverse effect on the Registrant.


EMPLOYEES

      The Registrant's  subsidiaries had  approximately  50,000 employees at the
end of 1999 of whom  approximately  42,000 are salaried and hourly employees and
the remaining  8,000 are sales  representatives  who are  generally  compensated
wholly or primarily by commission.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES.

      The  Registrant's  subsidiaries  own and occupy  office  buildings  in six
states and certain  foreign  countries,  and lease office space elsewhere in the
United  States and in various  foreign  cities.  Loss of the use of any owned or
leased property, while potentially disruptive,  would have no material impact on
the Registrant.


                                     - 6 -

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

      The Registrant  hereby  incorporates  by reference note 13 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 47 and 48 of the Annual Report.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

      None.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

      Executive officers of the Registrant are regularly elected by its Board of
Directors at the annual meeting of the Board which is held following each annual
meeting of the  stockholders  of the Registrant.  The executive  officers of the
Registrant  were elected to their  current  positions on April 16, 1999 to serve
until the meeting of the Board  following the annual meeting of  stockholders on
April 18, 2000. Ages shown are as of December 31, 1999.

      For information concerning certain directors and executive officers of the
Registrant,  see item 10 below. As of March 24, 2000, the following  individuals
are also executive officers of the Registrant as defined in Rule 16a-1(f):

                                 HAS
                             CONTINUOUSLY
                             SERVED AS AN
                               OFFICER
                           OF REGISTRANT OR
      NAME, AGE, AND        ONE OR MORE OF
      CURRENT OFFICE       ITS SUBSIDIARIES          BUSINESS EXPERIENCE
  OR PRINCIPAL POSITION         SINCE                   PAST 5 YEARS
  ---------------------         -----                   ------------

Harvey N. Medvin, 63             1972      Mr.  Medvin   became  Vice  President
Executive Vice President and               and Chief  Financial  Officer of  the
Chief Financial Officer                    Registrant in 1982 and was elected to
                                           his  current  position  in  1987.  He
                                           also serves as a Director or  Officer
                                           of   certain   of   the  Registrant's
                                           subsidiaries.

Daniel T. Cox, 53                1986      Mr. Cox was  elected  to his  current
Executive Vice President                   position in 1991  and, prior to their
                                           sale in 1996, had served as  Chairman
                                           and    Chief   Executive  Officer  of
                                           certain of  the  Registrant's  under-
                                           writing  subsidiaries.   Mr. Cox  has
                                           headed  the   Registrant's   benefits
                                           consulting  operation  since 1987. He
                                           also serves as  Director  or  Officer
                                           of  certain  of   the    Registrant's
                                           subsidiaries.

Michael A. Conway, 52            1990      Mr.  Conway  was  Vice  President  of
Senior Vice President and                  Combined   Insurance   from  1980  to
Senior Investment Officer                  1984.   Following  other  employment,
                                           Mr. Conway  rejoined  the  Registrant
                                           in 1990 as Senior Vice  President  of
                                           Combined Insurance  and  was  elected
                                           to  his current position in 1991.  He
                                           also  serves as  Director or  Officer
                                           of  certain   of   the   Registrant's
                                           subsidiaries.


                                     - 7 -

                                     PART II


ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE  REGISTRANT'S  COMMON STOCK AND RELATED  SECURITY  HOLDER
MATTERS.

      The  Registrant's  $1.00 par value  common  shares  ("Common  Shares") are
traded on the New York,  Chicago  and London  stock  exchanges.  The  Registrant
hereby  incorporates  by  reference  the  "Dividends  paid per share" and "Price
range" data on page 52 of the Annual Report.

      The  Registrant had  approximately  13,300 holders of record of its Common
Shares as of February 23, 2000.

      The  Registrant  hereby  incorporates  by reference note 9 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements on page 40 of the Annual Report.


ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

      The Registrant  hereby  incorporates by reference the "Selected  Financial
Data" table on page 52 of the Annual Report.


ITEM  7.  MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION  AND  ANALYSIS  OF  FINANCIAL  CONDITION  AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

      The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference  "Financial and Operations
Highlights -  Management's  Discussion  and Analysis" on pages 18 through 24 and
"Information  Concerning  Forward-Looking  Statements"  on page 54 of the Annual
Report.


ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

      The Registrant hereby  incorporates by reference "Market Risk Exposure" on
pages 23 and 24 of the Annual Report.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

      The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference the following  statements,
notes and data from the Annual Report.
                                                                     Page(s)
                                                                     -------
            Consolidated Financial Statements .....................  25 - 29
            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ............  30 - 50
            Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors .....     51
            Quarterly Financial Data ..............................     53


ITEM  9.  CHANGES  IN  AND  DISAGREEMENT  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON  ACCOUNTING  AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

      Not Applicable.


                                     - 8 -

                                    PART III


ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

      The Registrant  hereby  incorporates by reference the information on pages
3, 6 and 7 of the Proxy Statement For The Annual Meeting of the  Stockholders on
April 18, 2000, of the Registrant ("Proxy  Statement")  concerning the following
Directors of the Registrant, each of whom also serves as an executive officer of
the  Registrant  as  defined  in Rule  16a-1(f):  Patrick  G.  Ryan,  Michael D.
O'Halleran and Raymond I. Skilling.  Information concerning additional executive
officers of the  Registrant  is contained in Part I hereof,  pursuant to General
Instruction  G(3) and  Instruction  3 to Item  401(b)  of  Regulation  S-K.  The
Registrant  also hereby  incorporates  by reference the  information on pages 10
through 12 of the Proxy Statement.


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

      The Registrant hereby  incorporates by reference the information under the
headings "Executive  Compensation,"  "Aggregated Option Exercises in Last Fiscal
Year and Fiscal Year-End Option Values," "Option Grants in 1999 Fiscal Year" and
"Pension Plan Table" on pages 14 through 17 of the Proxy Statement.


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

      The Registrant  hereby  incorporates by reference the share ownership data
contained on pages 2, 9 and 10 of the Proxy Statement.


ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

      The Registrant hereby  incorporates by reference the information under the
heading "Transactions With Management" on page 21 of the Proxy Statement.


                                     - 9 -

                                     PART IV


ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

(a) (1) and (2). The  Registrant has  incorporated  by reference from the Annual
Report  (see Item 8) the  following  consolidated  financial  statements  of the
Registrant and subsidiaries:



Financial  statement  schedules of the Registrant and consolidated  subsidiaries
not included in the Annual Report but filed herewith:
            Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules -

                                                                       Schedule
                                                                       --------
      Condensed Financial Information of Registrant                        I
      Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                                   II


All other schedules  for Aon Corporation  and  Subsidiaries  have  been  omitted
because the required information is not present in amounts sufficient to require
submission of the schedules or because the  information  required is included in
the   respective   financial   statements  or  notes   thereto.   The  following
supplementary  schedules have been provided for Aon Corporation and Subsidiaries
as they relate to the insurance underwriting operations:

                                                                       Schedule
                                                                       --------
      Summary of Investments Other than Investments in Related Parties    II.1
      Reinsurance                                                         II.2
      Supplementary Insurance Information                                 II.3


(A)(3).  EXHIBITS

      (a)   Second  Restated  Certificate of  Incorporation  of the Registrant -
            incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the Registrant's Annual
            Report to the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission on Form 10-K for
            the year ended December 31, 1991 (the "1991 Form 10-K").

      (b)   Certificate  of  Amendment  of  the  Registrant's   Second  Restated
            Certificate of  Incorporation - incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            3 to the Registrant's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
            ended March 31, 1994 (the "First Quarter 1994 Form 10Q").

      (c)   Bylaws of the Registrant - incorporated  by reference to Exhibit (d)
            to the  Registrant's  Annual Report to the  Securities  and Exchange
            Commission  on Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31, 1982 (the
            "1982 Form 10-K").

                                     - 10 -

      (d)   Indenture  dated  September  15,  1992  between the  Registrant  and
            Continental   Bank   Corporation  (now  known  as  Bank  of  America
            Illinois), as Trustee - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to
            the  Registrant's  Current  Report on Form 8-K dated  September  23,
            1992.

      (e)   Resolutions  establishing  terms of 6.875%  Notes Due 1999 and 7.40%
            Notes Due 2002 -  incorporated  by reference to Exhibits 4(d) to the
            Registrant's Annual Report to the Securities and Exchange Commission
            on Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31,  1992 (the "1992 Form
            10-K").

      (f)   Resolutions establishing the terms of 6.70% Notes Due 2003 and 6.30%
            Notes Due 2004  incorporated  by reference to Exhibits 4(c) and 4(d)
            of the  Registrant's  Annual Report to the  Securities  and Exchange
            Commission  on Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31, 1993 (the
            "1993 Form 10-K").

      (g)   Resolutions establishing the terms of the 6.90 % Notes Due 2004.

      (h)   Junior  Subordinated  Indenture dated as of January 13, 1997 between
            the  Registrant  and The Bank of New York, as trustee - incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the  Registrant's  Amendment No. 1 to
            Registration  Statement  on Form S-4 No.  333-21237  dated March 27,
            1997 (the "Capital Securities Registration").

      (i)   First  Supplemental  Indenture  dated as of January 13, 1997 between
            the  Registrant  and the Bank of New York, as trustee - incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Capital Securities Registration.

      (j)   Certificate of Trust of Aon Capital A - incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 4.3 of the Capital Securities Registration.

      (k)   Amended and  Restated  Trust  Agreement of Aon Capital A dated as of
            January 13, 1997 among the Registrant, as Depositor, The Bank of New
            York,  as  Property  Trustee,  The Bank of New York  (Delaware),  as
            Delaware Trustee, the Administrative  Trustees named therein and the
            holders, from time to time, of the Capital Securities - incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.5 of the Capital Securities Registration.

      (l)   Capital Securities  Guarantee Agreement dated as of January 13, 1997
            between  the  Registrant  and the  Bank of New  York,  as  guarantee
            trustee -  incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 4.8 of the Capital
            Securities Registration.

      (m)   Capital Securities  Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement dated
            as of January  13,  1997  among the  Registrant,  Aon  Capital A and
            Morgan  Stanley  & Co.  Incorporated  and  Goldman,  Sachs  & Co.  -
            incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.10 of the Capital  Securities
            Registration.

      (n)   Debenture  Exchange and  Registration  Rights  Agreement dated as of
            January  13,  1997 among the  Registrant,  Aon  Capital A and Morgan
            Stanley & Co.  Incorporated and Goldman,  Sachs & Co. - incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.11 of the Capital Securities Registration.

      (o)   Guarantee  Exchange and  Registration  Rights  Agreement dated as of
            January  13,  1997 among the  Registrant,  Aon  Capital A and Morgan
            Stanley & Co.  Incorporated and Goldman,  Sachs & Co. - incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.12 of the Capital Securities Registration.

      (p)   Certificate of Designation for the Registrant's  Series C Cumulative
            Preferred  Stock -  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
            Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 9, 1994.

      (q)   Registration  Rights Agreement dated November 2, 1992 by and between
            the  Registrant  and Frank B. Hall & Co.,  Inc.  -  incorporated  by
            reference to Exhibit 4(c) to the Third Quarter 1992 Form 10-Q.

                                     - 11 -

      (r)   Registration  rights  agreement  by and  among  the  Registrant  and
            certain affiliates of Ryan Insurance Group, Inc.  (including Patrick
            G. Ryan and  Andrew J.  McKenna)  -  incorporated  by  reference  to
            Exhibit (f) to the 1982 Form 10-K.

      (s)   Aon Corporation Outside Director Deferred Compensation  Agreement by
            and among the  Registrant  and  Registrant's  directors  who are not
            salaried employees of Registrant or Registrant's affiliates.

      (t)   Amendment  and Waiver  Agreement  dated as of November 4, 1991 among
            the  Registrant  and each of  Patrick G. Ryan,  Shirley  Ryan,  Ryan
            Enterprises  Corporation  and  Harvey N.  Medvin -  incorporated  by
            reference to Exhibit 10(j) to the 1991 Form 10-K.

      (u)   Statement  regarding  Computation  of  Ratio  of  Earnings  to Fixed
            Charges.

      (v)   Statement  regarding  Computation  of Ratio of  Earnings to Combined
            Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends.

      (w)   Aon  Corporation  1994 Amended and Restated  Outside  Director Stock
            Award Plan - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the First
            Quarter 1994 Form 10-Q.

      (x)   Annual Report to  Stockholders  of the Registrant for the year ended
            December  31,  1999 (for  information,  and not to be deemed  filed,
            except for those  portions  specifically  incorporated  by reference
            herein).

      (y)   List of Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

      (z)   Consent of Ernst & Young LLP to the  incorporation by reference into
            Aon's Annual Report on Form 10-K of its report  included in the 1999
            Annual Report to Stockholders and into Aon's Registration  Statement
            Nos. 33-27984, 33-42575, 33-59037, 333-21237,  333-50607,  333-55773
            and 333-78723.

      (aa)  Annual Report to the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 11-K
            for the Aon Savings  Plan for the year ended  December 31, 1999 - to
            be filed by amendment as provided in Rule 15d- 21(b).

      (ab)  Executive Compensation Plans and Arrangements:

            (A)   Aon Stock Option Plan (as amended and restated through 1997) -
                  incorporated   by   reference   to   Exhibit  10  (a)  to  the
                  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report to the Securities and Exchange
                  Commission  on Form 10-Q for the Quarter  ended March 31, 1997
                  (the "First Quarter 1997 Form 10-Q").

            (B)   First  Amendment  to the Aon Stock  Option Plan as Amended and
                  Restated  Through 1997-  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
                  10(a) to the  Registrant's  Quarterly Report to the Securities
                  and  Exchange  Commission  on Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended
                  March 31, 1999 (the "First Quarter 1999 Form 10-Q").

            (C)   Aon Stock Award Plan (as amended and restated  through 1997) -
                  incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10(b)  to the  First
                  Quarter 1997 Form 10-Q.

            (D)   First  Amendment  to the Aon Stock  Award Plan as Amended  and
                  Restated  Through 1997-  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
                  10(b) to the First Quarter 1999 Form 10-Q.


                                     - 12 -

            (E)   Aon  Corporation  1995 Senior Officer  Incentive  Compensation
                  Plan  incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10(p)  to  the
                  Registrant's  Annual  Report to the  Securities  and  Exchange
                  Commission  on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 1995
                  (the "1995 Form 10-K").

            (F)   Aon Deferred  Compensation Plan and First Amendment to the Aon
                  Deferred  Compensation  Plan -  incorporated  by  reference to
                  Exhibit 10(q) of the 1995 Form 10-K.

            (G)   1999 Aon Deferred Compensation Plan.

            (H)   Employment  Agreement  dated  June 1,  1993 by and  among  the
                  Registrant, Aon Risk Services, Inc. and Michael D. O'Halleran,
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(p) to the Registrant's
                  Annual  Report to the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission on
                  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998.

            (I)   Aon Severance Plan -  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10
                  to the  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report to the  Securities and
                  Exchange  Commission  and Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June
                  30, 1997.

      (ac)  Asset Purchase  Agreement dated July 24, 1992 between the Registrant
            and Frank B. Hall & Co. Inc. - incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
            10(c) to the  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report  on Form 10- Q for the
            period ended June 30, 1992.

      (ad)  Stock  Purchase  Agreement  by and  among the  Registrant,  Combined
            Insurance Company of America,  Union Fidelity Life Insurance Company
            and General  Electric Capital  Corporation  dated as of November 11,
            1995 -  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10(s) of the 1995 Form
            10-K.

      (ae)  Stock  Purchase  Agreement  by and  among the  Registrant;  Combined
            Insurance  Company  of  America;   The  Life  Insurance  Company  of
            Virginia; Forth Financial Resources,  Ltd.; Newco Properties,  Inc.;
            and General  Electric Capital  Corporation  dated as of December 22,
            1995 -  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10(t) of the 1995 Form
            10-K.

      (af)  Agreement  and  Plan of  Merger  among  the  Registrant;  Subsidiary
            Corporation, Inc. ("Purchaser");  and Alexander & Alexander Services
            Inc.  ("A&A")  dated  as of  December  11,  1996 -  incorporated  by
            reference  to  Exhibit  (c)(1)  of  the  Registrant's  Tender  Offer
            Statement  on  Schedule  14D-1  filed  by the  Registrant  with  the
            Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on December 16, 1996 (the
            "Schedule 14D-1").

      (ag)  First Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of January
            7, 1997,  among the Registrant,  Purchaser and A&A - incorporated by
            reference  to  Exhibit  (c)(3) to the  Schedule  14D-1  filed by the
            Registrant with the SEC on January 9, 1997.

(b)   Reports on Form 8-K.

            The Registrant  filed no Current Reports on Form 8-K during the last
            quarter of the Registrant's year ended December 31, 1999.


                                     - 13 -

                                   SIGNATURES


      Pursuant  to the  requirements  of Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the  undersigned,  thereunto duly  authorized,  on the 17th day of
March, 2000.

                                                Aon Corporation



                                                By:  /s/ PATRICK G. RYAN
                                                     -------------------
                                                     Patrick G. Ryan, Chairman
                                                     and Chief Executive Officer


      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
Report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

         SIGNATURE                    TITLE                      DATE
         ---------                    -----                      ----


     /s/ PATRICK G. RYAN         Chairman, Chief Executive  March 17, 2000
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------        Officer and Director
      Patrick G. Ryan          (Principal Executive Officer)


     /s/DANIEL T. CARROLL            Director               March 17, 2000
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------
     Daniel T. Carroll


    /s/FRANKLIN A. COLE              Director               March 17, 2000
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------
     Franklin A. Cole


   /s/EDGAR D. JANNOTTA              Director               March 17, 2000
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------
     Edgar D. Jannotta


    /s/LESTER B. KNIGHT              Director               March 17, 2000
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------
     Lester B. Knight


     /s/PERRY J. LEWIS               Director               March 17, 2000
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------
      Perry J. Lewis


   /s/ANDREW J. McKENNA              Director               March 17, 2000
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------
     Andrew J. McKenna


    /s/NEWTON N. MINOW               Director               March 17, 2000
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------
      Newton N. Minow



                                     - 14 -


         SIGNATURE                    TITLE                      DATE
         ---------                    -----                      ----


  /s/RICHARD C. NOTEBAERT            Director               March 17, 2000
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------
   Richard C. Notebaert


 /s/MICHAEL D. O'HALLERAN            Director               March 17, 2000
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------
   Michael D. O'Halleran



   /s/DONALD S. PERKINS              Director               March 17, 2000
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------
     Donald S. Perkins


  /s/JOHN W. ROGERS, JR.             Director               March 17, 2000
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------
    John W. Rogers, Jr.


   /s/GEORGE A. SCHAEFER             Director               March 17, 2000
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------
    George A. Schaefer


  /s/RAYMOND I. SKILLING             Director               March 17, 2000
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------
    Raymond I. Skilling


     /s/FRED L. TURNER               Director               March 17, 2000
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------
      Fred L. Turner


    /s/ARNOLD R. WEBER               Director               March 17, 2000
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------
      Arnold R. Weber


     /s/CAROLYN Y. WOO               Director               March 17, 2000
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------
      Carolyn Y. Woo


    /s/HARVEY N. MEDVIN      Executive Vice President       March 17, 2000
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----------------------------   and Chief Financial
     Harvey N. Medvin               Officer
                            (Principal Financial and
                               Accounting Officer)


                                     - 15 -



                                     - 16 -




                                     - 17 -




                                     - 18 -

                                                                      SCHEDULE I
                                                                     (Continued)

                                 Aon Corporation
                                (Parent Company)
                     NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


(1)   See notes to consolidated  financial statements  incorporated by reference
      from the Annual Report.

(2)   Generally,  the net assets of Aon's insurance  subsidiaries  available for
      transfer  to the  parent  company  are  limited  to the  amounts  that the
      insurance  subsidiaries'  statutory  net assets exceed  minimum  statutory
      capital  requirements;  however,  payments of the amounts as  dividends in
      excess  of  $170  million  may  be  subject  to  approval  by   regulatory
      authorities.

(3)   Subsidiary Guarantees
      ---------------------
      In 1998,  Aon  guaranteed  a committed  bank credit  facility  under which
      certain  European  subsidiaries  can  borrow  up to EUR  400  million.  At
      December  31,  1999,   loans  of  EUR  347  million  ($351  million)  were
      outstanding under this facility.

      An indirect  wholly-owned  subsidiary of Aon  Corporation  manages various
      investment  portfolios,  totaling $297  million at December 31, 1999, held
      in a collateral trust for the benefit of certain unaffiliated entities and
      is obligated to produce specified investment returns for those portfolios.
      Aon  Corporation  has  unconditionally  guaranteed the obligations of this
      subsidiary.

(4)   During 1998, Aon Corporation (Parent Company) reclassified $523 million of
      notes  receivables-subsidiaries  to investments in subsidiaries related to
      its brokerage operations.


                                     - 19 -



                                     - 20 -




                                     - 21 -



                                     - 22 -



                                     - 23 -

                         Cross Reference Sheet, Pursuant
                           to General Instruction G(4)


Item in Form 10-K                            Incorporated by Reference to
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -----------------                            ----------------------------

PART I
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ------

Item 1. Business                             Annual  Report to  Stockholders  of
                                             the  Registrant  for the Year  1999
                                             ("Annual  Report")  pages 8 through
                                             17, 19 through 21,  and  pages  35,
                                             49 and 50.

Item 3. Legal  Proceedings                   Annual Report pages 47 and 48 (note
                                             13   of   Notes   to   Consolidated
                                             Financial Statements).

PART II
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -------

Item 5. Market for the Registrant's          Annual  Report  page 40  (note 9 of
        Common Stock and Related             Notes  to  Consolidated   Financial
        Security Holder Matters              Statements) and page 52 ("Dividends
                                             paid per share" and "Price range").

Item 6. Selected Financial Data              Annual Report page 52.

Item 7. Management's  Discussion             Annual  Report  pages  18  through
        and Analysis of Financial            24 and   page  54   ( "Information
        Condition and Results of             Concerning         Forward-Looking
        Operations                           Statements").


Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative        Annual   Report  pages  23  and  24
         Disclosures about Market Risk       ("Market Risk Exposure").


Item 8. Financial Statements and             Annual  Report  pages 25 through 50
        Supplementary Data                   and 53.


PART III
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --------

Item 10. Directors and Executive             Proxy  Statement For Annual Meeting
         Officers of the Registrant          of  Stockholders  on April 18, 2000
                                             of    the    Registrant     ("Proxy
                                             Statement")  pages  3, 6, 7, and 10
                                             through 12.

Item 11. Executive Compensation              Proxy  Statement  pages 14  through
                                             17.

Item 12. Security Ownership of               Proxy Statement pages 2, 9 and 10.
         Certain Beneficial Owners
         and Management


Item 13. Certain Relationships and           Proxy Statement page 21
         Related Transactions                ("Transactions With Management").


PART IV
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -------

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement       Annual Report pages 25 through 50.
         Schedules, And Reports on
         Form 8-K


                                     - 24 -

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

EXHIBIT NUMBER                                                    PAGE NUMBER OF
REGULATION                                                        SEQUENTIALLY
S-K, ITEM 601                                                     NUMBERED COPY
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -------------                                                     -------------

(3)   Articles of incorporation and bylaws:

      (a)   Second  Restated  Certificate of  Incorporation  of the Registrant -
            incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the 1991 Form 10-K.

      (b)   Certificate  of  Amendment  of  the  Registrant's   Second  Restated
            Certificate of  Incorporation - incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            3 to the First Quarter 1994 Form 10-Q.

      (c)   Bylaws of the Registrant - incorporated by reference to Exhibit (d)
            to the 1982 Form 10-K.

      (d)   Certificate of Designation for the Registrant's  Series C Cumulative
            Preferred  Stock -  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
            Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 9, 1994.

(4)   Instruments defining the rights of security holders, including indentures:

      (a)   Indenture  dated  September  15,  1992  between the  Registrant  and
            Continental   Bank   Corporation  (now  known  as  Bank  of  America
            Illinois), as Trustee - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) of
            the  Registrant's  Current  Report on Form 8-K dated  September  23,
            1992.

      (b)   Resolutions  establishing  terms of 6.875%  Notes Due 1999 and 7.40%
            Notes Due 2002 -  incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 4(d) to the
            1992 Form 10-K.

      (c)   Resolutions   establishing   the  terms  of  6.70%  Notes  Due  2003
            incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to the 1993 Form 10-K.

      (d)   Resolutions   establishing   the  terms  of  6.30%  Notes  Due  2004
            incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(d) to the 1993 Form 10-K.

      (e)   Resolutions establishing the terms of 6.90% Notes due 2004.

      (f)   Junior  Subordinated  Indenture dated as of January 13, 1997 between
            the  Registrant  and The Bank of New York, as trustee - incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the  Registrant's  Amendment No. 1 to
            Registration  Statement  on Form S-4 No.  333-21237  dated March 27,
            1997 (the "Capital Securities Registration").

      (g)   First  Supplemental  Indenture  dated as of January 13, 1997 between
            the  Registrant  and the Bank of New York, as trustee - incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Capital Securities Registration.

      (h)   Certificate of Trust of Aon Capital A - incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 4.3 of the Capital Securities Registration.


                                     - 25 -

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

EXHIBIT NUMBER                                                    PAGE NUMBER OF
REGULATION                                                        SEQUENTIALLY
S-K, ITEM 601                                                     NUMBERED COPY
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -------------                                                     -------------

      (i)   Amended and  Restated  Trust  Agreement of Aon Capital A dated as of
            January 13, 1997 among the Registrant, as Depositor, The Bank of New
            York,  as  Property  Trustee,  The Bank of New York  (Delaware),  as
            Delaware Trustee, the Administrative  Trustees named therein and the
            holders, from time to time, of the Capital Securities - incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.5 of the Capital Securities Registration.

      (j)   Capital Securities  Guarantee Agreement dated as of January 13, 1997
            between  the  Registrant  and the  Bank of New  York,  as  guarantee
            trustee -  incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 4.8 of the Capital
            Securities Registration.

      (k)   Capital Securities  Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement dated
            as of January  13,  1997  among the  Registrant,  Aon  Capital A and
            Morgan  Stanley  & Co.  Incorporated  and  Goldman,  Sachs  & Co.  -
            incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.10 of the Capital  Securities
            Registration.

      (l)   Debenture  Exchange and  Registration  Rights  Agreement dated as of
            January  13,  1997 among the  Registrant,  Aon  Capital A and Morgan
            Stanley & Co.  Incorporated and Goldman,  Sachs & Co. - incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.11 of the Capital Securities Registration.

      (m)   Guarantee  Exchange and  Registration  Rights  Agreement dated as of
            January  13,  1997 among the  Registrant,  Aon  Capital A and Morgan
            Stanley & Co.  Incorporated and Goldman,  Sachs & Co. - incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.12 of the Capital Securities Registration.


(10)  Material Contracts:

      (a)   Aon Stock  Option  Plan (as  amended and  restated  through  1997) -
            incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10(a) to the  Registrant's
            Quarterly  Report to the Securities and Exchange  Commission on Form
            10-Q for the quarter  ended March 31, 1997 (the "First  Quarter 1997
            Form 10-Q").

      (b)   First Amendment to the Aon Stock Option Plan as Amended and Restated
            Through 1997 -  incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit  10(a) to the
            Registrant's   Quarterly  Report  to  the  Securities  and  Exchange
            Commission  on Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended March 31, 1999 (the
            "First Quarter 1999 Form 10-Q").

      (c)   Registration  Rights  Agreement  by  and  among  the  Registrant and
            certain affiliates  of Ryan Insurance Group, Inc. (Including Patrick
            G.  Ryan  and  Andrew J. McKenna) -  incorporated  by  reference  to
            Exhibit (f) to the 1982 Form 10-K.

      (d)   Aon Corporation Outside Director Deferred Compensation  Agreement by
            and among Registrant and Registrant's directors who are not salaried
            employees of Registrant or Registrant's affiliates.


                                     - 26 -

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

EXHIBIT NUMBER                                                    PAGE NUMBER OF
REGULATION                                                        SEQUENTIALLY
S-K, ITEM 601                                                     NUMBERED COPY
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -------------                                                     -------------

      (e)   Aon Stock  Award  Plan (as  amended  and  restated  through  1997) -
            incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the First Quarter 1997
            Form 10-Q.

      (f)   First  Amendment to the Aon Stock Award Plan as Amended and Restated
            Through 1997 -  incorporated  by  reference to exhibit  10(b) to the
            First Quarter 1999 Form 10-Q.

      (g)   Amendment  and Waiver  Agreement  dated as of November 4, 1991 among
            the  Registrant  and each of  Patrick G. Ryan,  Shirley  Ryan,  Ryan
            Enterprises  Corporation  and  Harvey N.  Medvin -  incorporated  by
            reference to Exhibit 10(j) to the 1991 Form 10-K.

      (h)   Registration  Rights   Agreement   dated  November  2, 1992  by  and
            between the Registrant and Frank B. Hall & Co., Inc. -  incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit  4(c)  to  the Third Quarter 1992 Form 10-Q.

      (i)   Aon  Corporation  1994 Amended and Restated  Outside  Director Stock
            Award Plan - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the First
            Quarter 1994 Form 10-Q.

      (j)   Aon Corporation 1995 Senior Officer  Incentive  Compensation  Plan -
            incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(p) to the 1995 Form 10-K.

      (k)   Aon  Deferred  Compensation  Plan  and  First  Amendment  to the Aon
            Deferred  Compensation  Plan - incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
            10(q) to the 1995 Form 10-K.

      (l)   1999 Aon Deferred Compensation Plan.

      (m)   Aon Severance Plan - incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10 to the
            Registrant's   Quarterly  Report  to  the  Securities  and  Exchange
            Commission on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997.

      (n)   Asset Purchase  Agreement dated July 24, 1992 between the Registrant
            and Frank B. Hall & Co. Inc. - incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
            10(c) to the  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q for the
            period ended June 30, 1992.

      (o)   Stock  Purchase  Agreement  by and  among the  Registrant,  Combined
            Insurance Company of America,  Union Fidelity Life Insurance Company
            and General  Electric Capital  Corporation  dated as of November 11,
            1995 -  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10(s) of the 1995 Form
            10-K.

      (p)   Stock Purchase Agreement  by  and  among  the  Registrant;  Combined
            Insurance  Company  of  America;   The  Life  Insurance  Company  of
            Virginia;  Forth Financial Resources, Ltd.;  Newco Properties, Inc.;
            and General  Electric  Capital  Corporation dated as of December 22,
            1995 - incorporated by reference  to  Exhibit 10(t) to the 1995 Form
            10-K.

                                     - 27 -

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

EXHIBIT NUMBER                                                    PAGE NUMBER OF
REGULATION                                                        SEQUENTIALLY
S-K, ITEM 601                                                     NUMBERED COPY
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -------------                                                     -------------

      (q)   Agreement and Plan of Merger among the Registrant, Purchaser and A&A
            dated as of December 11, 1996 - incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            (c)(1) to the  Registrant's  Schedule  14D-1  filed  with the SEC on
            December 16, 1996.

      (r)   First  Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of January
            7, 1997 among the  Registrant,  Purchaser and A&A - incorporated  by
            reference  to  Exhibit   (c)(3)  to  Schedule  14D-1  filed  by  the
            Registrant with the SEC on January 9, 1997.

      (s)   Employment Agreement dated June 1, 1993 by and among the Registrant,
            Aon Risk Services,  Inc. and Michael D. O'Halleran,  incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 10(p) to the Registrant's  Annual Report to the
            Securities  and Exchange  Commission on Form 10-K for the year ended
            December 31, 1998.

(12)  Statements regarding Computation of Ratios.

      (a)   Statement regarding Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed
            Charges.

      (b)   Statement regarding Computation of Ratio of Earnings to
            Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends.

(13)  Annual  Report  to  Stockholders  of the  Registrant  for the  year  ended
      December 31, 1999.

(21)  List of subsidiaries of the Registrant.


(23)  Consent of Ernst & Young LLP to the  incorporation by reference into Aon's
      Annual  Report on Form 10-K of their  report  included  in the 1999 Annual
      Report  to  Stockholders  and  into  Aon's  Registration   Statement  Nos.
      33-27984,  33-42575,  33-59037,   333-21237,   333-50607,   333-55773  and
      333-78723.

(99)  Annual Report to the Securities  and Exchange  Commission on Form 11-K for
      the Aon Savings Plan for the year ended December 31, 1999 - to be filed by
      amendment as provided in Rule 15d-21(b).

                                     - 28 -


