
10-K
0001.txt
AON CORPORATION


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

 (Mark One)

  [X]         ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000
                                       OR
  [ ]       TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE
                SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
                         Commission File Number: 1-7933
                                 Aon Corporation
             (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)

            DELAWARE
   (State or Other Jurisdiction of                         36-3051915
    Incorporation or Organization)                     (I.R.S. Employer
      123 NORTH WACKER DRIVE,                         Identification No.)
         CHICAGO, ILLINOIS                                   60606
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)                   (Zip Code)
            (312) 701-3000
          (Telephone Number)

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                         Name of Each Exchange
          Title of Each Class                             on Which Registered
          -------------------                             -------------------
       Common Stock, $1 par value                       New York Stock Exchange*
         7.40% Notes Due 2002                           New York Stock Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE

  *The Common Stock of the Registrant is also listed for trading on the Chicago
    Stock Exchange and the International Stock Exchange London and Frankfurt.


Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  Registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. YES [X] NO []


Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information statements,
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

Aggregate  market  value  of the  voting  stock  held by  non-affiliates  of the
Registrant as of February 21, 2001 was $7,688,275,227.

Number of shares of $1.00 par value Common Stock  outstanding as of February 21,
2001 was 261,338,989.

         DOCUMENTS FROM WHICH INFORMATION IS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
 Annual Report to Stockholders of the Registrant for the Year 2000 (Parts I, II
                                    and IV)
   Notice of Annual Meeting of Holders of Common Stock and Series C Preferred
 Stock and Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Stockholders on April 20, 2001
                          of the Registrant (Part III)

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS.

      The Registrant is a holding company whose operating  subsidiaries carry on
business in three distinct operating segments: (i) insurance brokerage and other
services,  (ii) consulting,  and (iii) insurance  underwriting.  Incorporated in
1979, it is the parent corporation of long-established  and more recently formed
companies.

      The Registrant acquired,  among other companies and businesses,  Actuarial
Sciences  Associates,  Inc. (ASA), an employee benefits and consulting firm, and
Horizon Consulting Group,  Inc., a firm specializing in commercial  policyholder
claim consulting services,  in 2000. In February 2001, Aon announced that it had
entered into a definitive agreement to acquire ASI Solutions Incorporated (ASI),
a  worldwide  provider  of  human  resources   administration  and  compensation
consulting  services.  The transaction  involves an exchange of Aon common stock
and is subject to regulatory approval and ASI shareholder approval.

      The Insurance  Brokerage and Other Services segment  consists  principally
of Aon's retail brokerage,  reinsurance,  wholesale and specialty  brokerage and
other related  services such as managing  underwriting  and claims and financing
services.  These  services are  provided by Aon Group,  Inc.,  its  subsidiaries
and certain other  indirect  subsidiaries  of the  Registrant  (the "Aon Group")
including  Aon Risk  Services  Companies,  Inc.;  Aon  Holdings bv; Aon Services
Group, Inc.; Aon Re Worldwide,  Inc.; Aon Limited;  Cananwill, Inc.; and Premier
Auto Finance, Inc.

      The  Consulting  segment  provides  a range  of  services  utilizing  four
practice groups:  employee  benefits,  compensation,  management  consulting and
employment   practices   outsourcing.   These   services  are  provided  by  Aon
Consulting Worldwide, Inc. which is also a subsidiary of Aon Group.

      Aon's Insurance  Underwriting  segment is comprised of supplemental  life,
accident  and health  insurance,  and extended  warranty and casualty  insurance
products.  Combined Insurance Company of America ("Combined  Insurance") engages
in the  marketing  and  underwriting  of life and accident and health  insurance
products.  Virginia Surety Company,  Inc. and London General  Insurance  Company
Limited offer extended warranty and casualty insurance products.

      On November 2, 2000,  the Registrant  announced a business  transformation
plan,  to be undertaken  from  November  2000 through the next fiscal year.  The
transformation  plan will affect each operating segment;  however,  most changes
will  affect  the  largest  operating  segment,  Insurance  Brokerage  and Other
Services,  and will occur in the major countries of operation,  the U.S. and the
United Kingdom.

      The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference  "Business  Transformation
Plan" on page 17 of the Annual Report to  Stockholders of the Registrant for the
Year 2000 ("Annual  Report"),  as well as pages 6 through 15, 20 through 24, and
pages 54, 55 and 59 of the Annual Report.



COMPETITION AND INDUSTRY POSITION

(1)  INSURANCE BROKERAGE AND OTHER SERVICES

      Aon Group, Inc; Aon Risk Services Companies, Inc.; Aon Limited (U.K.); Aon
Holdings International  bv;  Aon Services Group, Inc.;  Aon Re Worldwide,  Inc.;
Cananwill, Inc.; and Premier Auto Finance, Inc.

      Aon Group affiliated companies  conduct  the  Registrant's  brokerage  and
consulting  operations, and have 550 offices around  the world in 120 countries.
In 2000, those  companies  employed  nearly  40,000  professionals  and  support
personnel to serve the diverse needs of clients.

      Aon Group's retail brokerage  companies  operate in a  highly  competitive
industry  and  compete  with a large number of retail  insurance  brokerage  and
agency  firms  as  well  as individual brokers and agents and direct writers  of
insurance coverage. Those companies provide risk management services,  including
insurance placement and claims, loss control and administrative services as well
as  specialty  underwriting  solutions and  customized  products  and  services.
They  have  also  developed  certain  specialist areas such as marine, aviation,
directors  and officers liability, financial institutions, construction, energy,
media and entertainment.  In 2000, investments were made in professional talent,
technology,  process improvement and the development of specialized products and
services to meet the evolving needs of clients.  Those companies operate through
offices located in  North America, Europe,  Latin America, Africa, Australia and
Asia.

      Aon  Group's  companies  also  address  the  highly   specialized  product
development, consulting and administrative risk management needs of professional
groups, service businesses, governments,  healthcare  providers  and  commercial
organizations.  They also provides underwriting management  skills,  claims  and
risk management expertise, and third-party administration services to  insurance
companies, and insurance  brokerage  services for  individuals.  They market and
broker  both  the  primary  and   reinsurance  risks  of  these  programs.   For
individuals, associations and  businesses, affinity  products  for  professional
liability, life, disability income and personal lines are provided.

      Aon's reinsurance brokerage activities are organized under Aon Re  in  the
United States and Aon Limited in the  United  Kingdom, constituting the  largest
reinsurance broker in the world and offering  reinsurance,  analytical  services
and alternative risk financing vehicles.  The companies  serve  the  alternative
market with reinsurance placement, alternative risk services, captive management
services and catastrophe information forecasting.

      Premium-related financing services are available to clients of  Aon  Group
and other independent organizations through Cananwill. Certain retail automotive
organizations have also been provided a service which purchases a select  amount
of their auto financing and leasing contracts from individuals and sells them to
unaffiliated  parties  through  companies  associated with Premier Auto Finance,
Inc., which then continue the management of collections  on  the  contracts  and
provide other related services.  After March  27, 2001, contract  purchasing  by
companies associated with Premier Auto Finance, Inc. will no longer be generally
available, but service will continue on existing contracts with current clients.


(2)  CONSULTING

Aon Consulting Worldwide

      Aon Consulting Worldwide affiliated companies serve the  employee  benefit
needs of clients around the world.  Aon Consulting is one of the world's largest
integrated human resources consulting organizations.  Focusing on the increasing
demand  for  outsourcing solutions, Aon Consulting targets emerging  businesses,
IPOs,  recent mergers and acquisitions and corporations that  are  reengineering
staff functions.  The year 2000 acquisition of  ASA, an  employee  benefits  and
compensation consulting  firm, increased  Aon's  penetration of large  corporate
accounts.

      Around  the  world,  employee  benefits  markets  continue  to  change  as
companies  look for  better  ways to manage  their  human  capital  costs  while
expanding  the choices  offered to their  employees.  Aon  Consulting,  with its
expertise  in  employee  benefits,   compensation,   management  consulting  and
employment  practices  outsourcing,  and its  access to the  Registrant's  other
subsidiaries,   is   well-positioned   to  serve  this  market.  Aon  Consulting
subsidiaries  offer  services  to  clients  including  benefit  plan  design and
administration;  compensation  consulting  and surveys;  employee  selection and
assessment; process improvement; leadership development;  performance management
tools;   workforce   productivity  and  individual  and  organizational   change
management.  Benefits issues outside the U.S. are becoming more complicated, and
Aon Holdings and Aon Consulting  anticipate  increased demand for their services
in these markets.


(3)  INSURANCE UNDERWRITING

      Combined  Insurance Company of America  ("Combined  Insurance");  Combined
Life Insurance  Company of New York  ("CLICNY");  Virginia Surety Company,  Inc.
("VSC");  London General Insurance Company Limited ("London  General");  and Aon
Warranty Group, Inc. ("Aon Warranty").

      The Registrant's insurance underwriting  subsidiaries are part of a highly
competitive industry that serves individual consumers in North America,  Europe,
Latin  America and  Asia/Pacific  by  providing  accident  and health  coverage,
traditional  life  insurance  and   extended  warranties   through  distribution
networks, most of which are directly owned by the Registrant's subsidiaries.


      The  supplemental  life  and  accident  and  health  distribution  network
encompasses  primarily  the  agents of  Combined  Insurance  and  CLICNY  (which
operates  exclusively  in  the  State  of New  York).  Combined  Insurance,  the
Registrant's  principal life and accident and health insurer,  has a sales force
of  several  thousand  career  agents  calling  on  individuals  to sell a broad
spectrum of low  premium  accident  and health  products.  Combined  Insurance's
current  product  portfolio  often  allows  policyholders  the  option of paying
premiums monthly through a  pre-authorized  check mechanism in the U.S. and on a
direct  debit  option  in the U.K.  Combined  Insurance  offers a wide  range of
accident-only  and  sickness-only   insurance  products,   including  short-term
disability,  cancer aid,  Medicare  supplement,  disability income and long-term
care   coverage.   Most  of  Combined   Insurance's   products   are   primarily
fixed-indemnity  obligations,  thereby not subject to escalating  medical costs.
Combined   Insurance  offers  a  simplified   accident  and  sickness  long-term
disability  policy.  Combined  Insurance  has expanded its product  distribution
through  payroll  deduction and their worksite  marketing  programs  continue to
develop.  Combined  Insurance's  business  is  conducted  in the United  States,
Canada, Latin America, Europe and Asia/Pacific.

      The  Registrant's  extended  warranty and  specialty  insurance  business,
conducted by VSC  subsidiaries in North America,  South America and Asia/Pacific
and  London  General in Europe,  is  composed  primarily  of  extended  warranty
insurance  products,  professional  liability  insurance  coverages and workers'
compensation  coverage.  VSC and London  General are among the  world's  largest
underwriters of consumer extended warranties. The extended warranty products are
sold in the United States, Canada, Latin America,  Europe and Asia/Pacific.  The
administration of certain extended warranty products on automobiles,  electronic
goods, personal computers and appliances is handled by certain operations in the
Insurance Brokerage and Other Services segment.


(4)  DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

      The  Registrant  hereby  incorporates  by reference note 5 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements on page 40 of the Annual Report.


LICENSING AND REGULATION

      Regulatory  authorities  in the states or countries in which the operating
subsidiaries  of Aon Group  conduct  business may require  individual or company
licensing  to act as  brokers,  agents,  third  party  administrators,  managing
general agents,  reinsurance intermediaries or adjusters. Under the laws of most
states  in  the  United  States  and  in  most  foreign  countries,   regulatory
authorities have relatively broad discretion with respect to granting,  renewing
and revoking  brokers' and agents' licenses to transact business in the state or
country.  The manner of operating in  particular  states and  countries may vary
according to the  licensing  requirements  of the  particular  state or country,
which may  require,  among  other  things,  that a firm  operate in the state or
country through a local corporation. In a few states and countries, licenses are
issued only to individual residents or locally-owned  business entities. In such
cases,  Aon Group  subsidiaries  have  arrangements  with  residents or business
entities licensed to act in the state or country.

      Insurance   companies  must  comply  with  laws  and  regulations  of  the
jurisdictions in which they do business. These laws and regulations are designed
to ensure  financial  solvency of  insurance  companies  and to require fair and
adequate  service and  treatment  for  policyholders.  They are  enforced by the
states in the United States, by industry  self-regulating agencies in the United
Kingdom,  and by various  regulatory  agencies  in other  countries  through the
granting  and  revoking  of  licenses  to  do  business,  licensing  of  agents,
monitoring  of  trade  practices,  policy  form  approval,  minimum  loss  ratio
requirements,  limits on premium and commission  rates,  and minimum reserve and
capital requirements. Compliance is monitored by the state insurance departments
through periodic regulatory reporting procedures and periodic examinations.  The
quarterly and annual  financial  reports to the  regulators in the United States
utilize statutory  accounting  principles which are different from the generally
accepted  accounting  principles used in  stockholders'  reports.  The statutory
accounting  principles,  in keeping with the intent to assure the  protection of
policyholders  are based, in general,  on a liquidation  concept while generally
accepted accounting principles are based on a going-concern concept.

      The state insurance  regulators are members of the National Association of
Insurance  Commissioners  ("NAIC"). This Association seeks to promote uniformity
of, and to enhance the state  regulation  of,  insurance.  Both the NAIC and the
individual  states continue to focus on the solvency of insurance  companies and
their  conduct  in the  market  place.  This focus is  reflected  in  additional
regulatory  oversight by the states and emphasis on the enactment or adoption of
a series of NAIC model laws and regulations  designed to promote  solvency.  The
NAIC  revised  the  Accounting  Practices  and  Procedures  Manual  in a process
referred to as  Codification.  The revised manual is effective  January 1, 2001.
The domiciliary  states of Aon's major insurance  subsidiaries  have adopted the



provisions  of the revised  manual.  The  revised  manual has  changed,  to some
extent,  prescribed statutory accounting practices and will result in changes to
the accounting practices that Aon's major insurance  subsidiaries use to prepare
their statutory-basis financial statements. The impact of these changes to Aon's
major  insurance  subsidiaries'  statutory  capital and surplus as of January 1,
2001 is not expected to be significant.

      Several  years ago, the NAIC  developed a formula for  analyzing  insurers
called  risk-based  capital  ("RBC").  RBC is  intended to  establish  "minimum"
capital  threshold  levels  that  vary  with  the  size  and mix of a  company's
business.  It is designed to identify companies with the capital levels that may
require  regulatory  attention.  RBC does not have any significant impact on the
insurance business of the Registrant.

      The state  insurance  holding  company  laws  require  prior notice to and
approval of the domestic state insurance department of intracorporate  transfers
of assets  within  the  holding  company  structure,  including  the  payment of
dividends by insurance company  subsidiaries.  In addition,  the premium finance
loans by Cananwill, Inc., an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Registrant,
are subject to one or more of truth-in-lending and credit regulations, insurance
premium finance acts,  retail  installment sales acts and other similar consumer
protection  legislation.  Failure to comply  with such laws or  regulations  can
result in the temporary  suspension or permanent  loss of the right to engage in
business in a particular jurisdiction as well as other penalties.

      Recent federal and state laws and proposals  mandating  specific practices
by medical insurers and the health care industry will not, because of the nature
of  the  business  of  the  Registrant's  subsidiaries,  materially  affect  the
Registrant. Numerous states have had legislation introduced to reform the health
care  system and such  legislation  has passed in  several  states.  While it is
impossible  to forecast  the precise  nature of future  federal and state health
care changes,  the  Registrant  does not expect a major impact on its operations
because  of the  supplemental  nature  of most  of the  policies  issued  by its
insurance  subsidiaries  and because the coverages  are  primarily  purchased to
provide,  on  a  fixed-indemnity  basis,   protection  against  loss-of-time  or
disability  benefits.  Congress has passed the Financial Services  Modernization
Act commonly known as S 900 or the Gramm,  Leach,  Bliley Act. While S 900 makes
substantial  changes in  allowing  financial  organizations  to  diversify,  the
Registrant  does not believe the enactment of S 900 will have a material  effect
on the business of its insurance subsidiaries.


CLIENTELE

      No significant part of the Registrant's or its  subsidiaries'  business is
dependent upon a single client or on a few clients, the loss of any one of which
would have a material adverse effect on the Registrant.


EMPLOYEES

      The Registrant's  subsidiaries had  approximately  51,000 employees at the
end of 2000 of whom  approximately  43,000 are salaried and hourly employees and
the remaining  8,000 are sales  representatives  who are  generally  compensated
wholly or primarily by commission.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES.

      The  Registrant's  subsidiaries  own and occupy  office  buildings in four
states and certain  foreign  countries,  and lease office space elsewhere in the
United  States and in various  foreign  cities.  Loss of the use of any owned or
leased property, while potentially disruptive,  would have no material impact on
the Registrant.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

      The Registrant  hereby  incorporates  by reference note 14 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements on page 53 of the Annual Report.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

      None.


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

      Executive officers of the Registrant are regularly elected by its Board of
Directors at the annual meeting of the Board which is held following each annual
meeting of the  stockholders  of the Registrant.  The executive  officers of the
Registrant  were elected to their  current  positions on April 18, 2000 to serve
until the meeting of the Board  following the annual meeting of  stockholders on
April 20, 2001. Ages shown are as of December 31, 2000.

      For information concerning certain directors and executive officers of the
Registrant,  see item 10 below.  As of March 5, 2001, the following  individuals
are also executive officers of the Registrant as defined in Rule 16a-1(f):

                                 HAS
                             CONTINUOUSLY
                             SERVED AS AN
                               OFFICER
                           OF REGISTRANT OR
      NAME, AGE, AND        ONE OR MORE OF
      CURRENT OFFICE       ITS SUBSIDIARIES          BUSINESS EXPERIENCE
  OR PRINCIPAL POSITION         SINCE                   PAST 5 YEARS
  ---------------------         -----                   ------------

Harvey N. Medvin, 64             1972        Mr.  Medvin  became Vice  President
Executive Vice President and                 and Chief Financial  Officer of the
Chief Financial Officer                      Registrant  in 1982 and was elected
                                             to his current position in 1987. He
                                             also   serves  as  a  Director   or
                                             Officer    of    certain   of   the
                                             Registrant's subsidiaries.

Michael A. Conway, 53            1990        Mr.  Conway was Vice  President  of
Senior Vice President and                    Combined  Insurance  from  1980  to
Senior Investment Officer                    1984.  Following other  employment,
                                             Mr. Conway  rejoined the Registrant
                                             in 1990 as Senior Vice President of
                                             Combined  Insurance and was elected
                                             to his current position in 1991. He
                                             also  serves as Director or Officer
                                             of  certain  of  the   Registrant's
                                             subsidiaries.




                                     PART II


ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE  REGISTRANT'S  COMMON STOCK AND RELATED  SECURITY  HOLDER
MATTERS.

      The  Registrant's  $1.00 par value  common  shares  ("Common  Shares") are
traded on the New York,  Chicago,  London and  Frankfurt  stock  exchanges.  The
Registrant  hereby  incorporates by reference the "Dividends paid per share" and
"Price range" data on page 57 of the Annual Report.

      The  Registrant had  approximately  13,650 holders of record of its Common
Shares as of February 21, 2001.

      The Registrant  hereby  incorporates  by reference note 10 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements on page 45 of the Annual Report.

      Recent Sales of  Unregistered  Securities.  On October 2, 2000,  3,864,824
shares of Aon common stock were issued to all of the shareholders and holders of
phantom  shares  of  ASA  Acquisition  Corp.  ("ASA")  in  connection  with  the
acquisition  of ASA and its  subsidiaries  by the merger of a subsidiary  of Aon
with and into ASA. The shares were issued to the shareholders of ASA by Aon in a
private  offering  exempt  from  registration  pursuant  to Section 4 (2) of the
Securities Act of 1933.


ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

      The Registrant  hereby  incorporates by reference the "Selected  Financial
Data" table on page 57 of the Annual Report.


ITEM  7.  MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION  AND  ANALYSIS  OF  FINANCIAL  CONDITION  AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

      The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference  "Management's  Discussion
and  Analysis of  Financial  Condition  and Results of  Operations"  on pages 17
through 28 and "Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements" on page 28 of
the Annual Report.


ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

      The Registrant hereby  incorporates by reference "Market Risk Exposure" on
pages 27 and 28 of the Annual Report.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

      The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference the following  statements,
notes and data from the Annual Report.
                                                                         Page(s)
                                                                         -------
            Consolidated Financial Statements .......................    29 - 33
            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ..............    34 - 55
            Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors .......       56
            Quarterly Financial Data ................................       58


ITEM  9.  CHANGES  IN AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON  ACCOUNTING  AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

      Not Applicable.


                                    PART III


ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

      The Registrant  hereby  incorporates by reference the information on pages
3, 6 and 7 of the Proxy Statement For The Annual Meeting of the  Stockholders on
April 20, 2001, of the Registrant ("Proxy  Statement")  concerning the following
Directors of the Registrant, each of whom also serves as an executive officer of
the  Registrant  as  defined  in Rule  16a-1(f):  Patrick  G.  Ryan,  Michael D.
O'Halleran and Raymond I. Skilling.  Information concerning additional executive
officers of the  Registrant  is contained in Part I hereof,  pursuant to General
Instruction  G(3) and  Instruction  3 to Item  401(b)  of  Regulation  S-K.  The
Registrant  also hereby  incorporates  by reference the  information on pages 10
through 12 of the Proxy Statement.


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

      The Registrant hereby  incorporates by reference the information under the
headings "Executive  Compensation,"  "Aggregated Option Exercises in Last Fiscal
Year and Fiscal Year-End Option Values," "Option Grants in 2000 Fiscal Year" and
"Pension Plan Table" on pages 15 through 18 of the Proxy Statement.


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

      The Registrant  hereby  incorporates by reference the share ownership data
contained on pages 2, 9 and 10 of the Proxy Statement.


ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

      The Registrant hereby  incorporates by reference the information under the
heading "Transactions With Management" on page 22 of the Proxy Statement.



                                     PART IV


ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

(A) (1) AND (2). The  Registrant has  incorporated  by reference from the Annual
Report  (see Item 8) the  following  consolidated  financial  statements  of the
Registrant and subsidiaries:

                                                                          ANNUAL
                                                                          REPORT
                                                                         PAGE(S)
                                                                         -------

Consolidated Statements of Income - Years Ended
   December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998                                         29

Consolidated Statements of Financial Position -
   As of December 31, 2000 and 1999                                        30-31

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity -
   Years Ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998                             32

Consolidated  Statements of Cash Flows - Years
   Ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998                                   33

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                                 34-55

Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors                           56

Financial  statement  schedules of the Registrant and consolidated  subsidiaries
  not included in the Annual Report but filed herewith:

            Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules -


                                                                        Schedule
                                                                        --------
      Condensed Financial Information of Registrant                          I
      Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                                     II

All other  schedules  for Aon  Corporation  and  Subsidiaries  have been omitted
because the required information is not present in amounts sufficient to require
submission of the schedules or because the  information  required is included in
the respective financial statements or notes thereto.

The following supplementary schedules have been provided for Aon Corporation and
Subsidiaries as they relate to the insurance underwriting operations:


                                                                        Schedule
      Summary of Investments Other than Investments in Related Parties    II.1
      Reinsurance                                                         II.2
      Supplementary Insurance Information                                 II.3


(A)(3).  EXHIBITS

      (a)   Second  Restated  Certificate of  Incorporation  of the Registrant -
            incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the Registrant's Annual
            Report to the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission on Form 10-K for
            the year ended December 31, 1991 (the "1991 Form 10-K").

      (b)   Certificate  of  Amendment  of  the  Registrant's   Second  Restated
            Certificate of  Incorporation - incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            3 to the Registrant's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
            ended March 31, 1994 (the "First Quarter 1994 Form 10Q").



      (c)   Certificate  of  Amendment  of  the  Registrant's   Second  Restated
            Certificate of  Incorporation - incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            3 to the Registrant's current Form 8-K, dated May 9, 2000.

      (d)   Amended Bylaws of the Registrant.

      (e)   Indenture  dated  September  15,  1992  between the  Registrant  and
            Continental   Bank   Corporation  (now  known  as  Bank  of  America
            Illinois), as Trustee - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to
            the  Registrant's  Current  Report on Form 8-K dated  September  23,
            1992.

      (f)   Resolutions   establishing   terms  of  7.40%   Notes   Due  2002  -
            incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibits  4(d) to the  Registrant's
            Annual Report to the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 10-K
            for the year ended December 31, 1992 (the "1992 Form 10-K").

      (g)   Resolutions establishing the terms of 6.70% Notes Due 2003 and 6.30%
            Notes Due 2004  incorporated  by reference to Exhibits 4(c) and 4(d)
            of the  Registrant's  Annual Report to the  Securities  and Exchange
            Commission  on Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31, 1993 (the
            "1993 Form 10-K").

      (h)   Resolutions  establishing  the  terms of the  6.90%  Notes Due 2004,
            incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(e) of the Registrant's Annual
            Report to the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission on Form 10-K for
            the year ended December 31, 1999 (the "1999 Form 10-K").

      (i)   Resolutions establishing the terms of the 8.65% Notes due 2005.

      (j)   Junior  Subordinated  Indenture dated as of January 13, 1997 between
            the  Registrant  and The Bank of New York, as trustee - incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the  Registrant's  Amendment No. 1 to
            Registration  Statement  on Form S-4 No.  333-21237  dated March 27,
            1997 (the "Capital Securities Registration").

      (k)   First  Supplemental  Indenture  dated as of January 13, 1997 between
            the  Registrant  and the Bank of New York, as trustee - incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Capital Securities Registration.

      (l)   Certificate of Trust of Aon Capital A - incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 4.3 of the Capital Securities Registration.

      (m)   Amended and  Restated  Trust  Agreement of Aon Capital A dated as of
            January 13, 1997 among the Registrant, as Depositor, The Bank of New
            York,  as  Property  Trustee,  The Bank of New York  (Delaware),  as
            Delaware Trustee, the Administrative  Trustees named therein and the
            holders, from time to time, of the Capital Securities - incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.5 of the Capital Securities Registration.

      (n)   Capital Securities  Guarantee Agreement dated as of January 13, 1997
            between  the  Registrant  and the  Bank of New  York,  as  guarantee
            trustee -  incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 4.8 of the Capital
            Securities Registration.

      (o)   Capital Securities  Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement dated
            as of January  13,  1997  among the  Registrant,  Aon  Capital A and
            Morgan  Stanley  & Co.  Incorporated  and  Goldman,  Sachs  & Co.  -
            incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.10 of the Capital  Securities
            Registration.

      (p)   Debenture  Exchange and  Registration  Rights  Agreement dated as of
            January  13,  1997 among the  Registrant,  Aon  Capital A and Morgan
            Stanley & Co.  Incorporated and Goldman,  Sachs & Co. - incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.11 of the Capital Securities Registration.

      (q)   Guarantee  Exchange and  Registration  Rights  Agreement dated as of
            January  13,  1997 among the  Registrant,  Aon  Capital A and Morgan
            Stanley & Co.  Incorporated and Goldman,  Sachs & Co. - incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.12 of the Capital Securities Registration.



      (r)   Certificate of Designation for the Registrant's  Series C Cumulative
            Preferred  Stock -  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
            Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 9, 1994.

      (s)   Registration  Rights Agreement dated November 2, 1992 by and between
            the  Registrant  and Frank B. Hall & Co.,  Inc.  -  incorporated  by
            reference to Exhibit 4(c) to the Third Quarter 1992 Form 10-Q.

      (t)   Registration  rights  agreement  by and  among  the  Registrant  and
            certain affiliates of Ryan Insurance Group, Inc.  (including Patrick
            G. Ryan and  Andrew J.  McKenna)  -  incorporated  by  reference  to
            Exhibit (f) to the 1982 Form 10-K.

      (u)   Aon Corporation Outside Director Deferred Compensation  Agreement by
            and among the  Registrant  and  Registrant's  directors  who are not
            salaried employees of Registrant or Registrant's affiliates.

      (v)   Amendment  and Waiver  Agreement  dated as of November 4, 1991 among
            the  Registrant  and each of  Patrick G. Ryan,  Shirley  Ryan,  Ryan
            Enterprises  Corporation  and  Harvey N.  Medvin -  incorporated  by
            reference to Exhibit 10(j) to the 1991 Form 10-K.

      (w)   Statement  regarding  Computation  of  Ratio  of  Earnings  to Fixed
            Charges.

      (x)   Statement  regarding  Computation  of Ratio of  Earnings to Combined
            Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends.

      (y)   Aon  Corporation  1994 Amended and Restated  Outside  Director Stock
            Award Plan - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the First
            Quarter 1994 Form 10-Q.

      (z)   Annual Report to  Stockholders  of the Registrant for the year ended
            December  31,  2000 (for  information,  and not to be deemed  filed,
            except for those  portions  specifically  incorporated  by reference
            herein).

      (aa)  List of Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

      (ab)  Consent of Ernst & Young LLP to the  incorporation by reference into
            Aon's Annual Report on Form 10-K of its report  included in the 2000
            Annual Report to Stockholders and into Aon's Registration  Statement
            Nos. 33-27984, 33-42575, 33-59037, 333-21237,  333-50607, 333-55773,
            333-78723 and 333-49300.

      (ac)  Annual Report to the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 11-K
            for the Aon Savings  Plan for the year ended  December 31, 2000 - to
            be filed by amendment as provided in Rule 15d- 21(b).

      (ad)  Executive Compensation Plans and Arrangements:

            (A)   Aon Stock Award Plan (as amended and restated through February
                  2000) -  incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit 10 (a) to the
                  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report to the Securities and Exchange
                  Commission  on Form 10-Q for the  Quarter  ended June 30, 2000
                  (the "Second Quarter 2000 Form 10-Q").

            (B)   Aon Stock Option Plan (as amended and restated through 1997) -
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Registrant's
                  Quarterly Report to the Securities and Exchange  Commission on
                  Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended  March 31,  1997 (the "First
                  Quarter 1997 Form 10-Q").


            (C)   First  Amendment  to the Aon Stock  Option Plan as amended and
                  restated  through 1997 - incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
                  10(a) to the  Registrant's  Quarterly Report to the Securities
                  and  Exchange  Commission  on Form 10-Q for the Quarter  ended
                  March 31, 1999 (the "First Quarter 1999 Form 10-Q").

            (D)   Aon Stock Award Plan (as amended and restated  through 1997) -
                  incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10(b)  to the  First
                  Quarter 1997 Form 10-Q.

            (E)   First  Amendment  to the Aon Stock  Award Plan as Amended  and
                  Restated  Through 1997 - incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
                  10(b) to the First Quarter 1999 Form 10-Q.

            (F)   Aon  Corporation  1995 Senior Officer  Incentive  Compensation
                  Plan  incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10(p)  to  the
                  Registrant's  Annual  Report to the  Securities  and  Exchange
                  Commission  on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 1995
                  (the "1995 Form 10-K").

            (G)   Aon Deferred Compensation Plan and First Amendment to  the Aon
                  Deferred  Compensation  Plan -  incorporated  by  reference to
                  Exhibit 10(q) of the 1995 Form 10-K.

            (H)   1999 Aon Deferred  Compensation Plan incorporated by reference
                  to Exhibit 10(1) of the 1999 Form 10-K.

            (I)   Employment  Agreement  dated  June 1,  1993 by and  among  the
                  Registrant, Aon Risk Services, Inc. and Michael D. O'Halleran,
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(p) to the Registrant's
                  Annual  Report to the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission on
                  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998.

            (J)   Aon Severance Plan -  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10
                  to the  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report to the  Securities and
                  Exchange  Commission  and Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June
                  30, 1997.

(ae)  Asset  Purchase  Agreement  dated July 24, 1992 between the Registrant and
      Frank B. Hall & Co. Inc. -  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to
      the Registrant's  Quarterly Report on Form 10- Q for the period ended June
      30, 1992.

(af)  Stock Purchase  Agreement by and among the Registrant,  Combined Insurance
      Company of America,  Union  Fidelity  Life  Insurance  Company and General
      Electric Capital  Corporation dated as of November 11, 1995 - incorporated
      by reference to Exhibit 10(s) of the 1995 Form 10-K.

(ag)  Stock Purchase  Agreement by and among the Registrant;  Combined Insurance
      Company  of  America;  The  Life  Insurance  Company  of  Virginia;  Forth
      Financial  Resources,  Ltd.; Newco Properties,  Inc.; and General Electric
      Capital  Corporation  dated as of  December  22,  1995 -  incorporated  by
      reference to Exhibit 10(t) of the 1995 Form 10-K.

(ah)  Agreement and Plan of Merger among the Registrant; Subsidiary Corporation,
      Inc. ("Purchaser");  and Alexander & Alexander Services Inc. ("A&A") dated
      as of December 11, 1996 -  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit (c)(1) of
      the  Registrant's  Tender Offer  Statement on Schedule  14D-1 filed by the
      Registrant with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on December
      16, 1996 (the "Schedule 14D-1").

(ai)  First  Amendment to Agreement  and Plan of Merger,  dated as of January 7,
      1997, among the Registrant,  Purchaser and A&A - incorporated by reference
      to Exhibit (c)(3) to the Schedule  14D-1 filed by the Registrant  with the
      SEC on January 9, 1997.




(b)   REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

            During the quarter ended December 31, 2000,  the Registrant  filed a
      Current  Report on Form 8-K dated  November  3, 2000  reporting  its third
      quarter 2000 results and announcing  that the Company's board of directors
      approve, in principle, a comprehensive business transformation plan.



                                   SIGNATURES


      Pursuant  to the  requirements  of Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the  undersigned,  thereunto duly  authorized,  on the 16th day of
March, 2001.

                                                Aon Corporation



                                                By: /s/ PATRICK G. RYAN
                                                    ----------------------------
                                                    Patrick G. Ryan, Chairman
                                                    and Chief Executive Officer

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
Report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

         Signature                    Title                      Date
         ---------                    -----                      ----


                              Chairman, Chief Executive     March 16, 2001
     /s/ PATRICK G. RYAN          Officer and Director
- ---------------------------- (Principal Executive Officer)
      Patrick G. Ryan



    /s/  DANIEL T. CARROLL           Director               March 16, 2001
- ----------------------------
     Daniel T. Carroll


   /s/ FRANKLIN A. COLE              Director               March 16, 2001
- ----------------------------
     Franklin A. Cole


   /s/ EDGAR D. JANNOTTA             Director               March 16, 2001
- ----------------------------
     Edgar D. Jannotta


   /s/ LESTER B. KNIGHT              Director               March 16, 2001
- ----------------------------
     Lester B. Knight


    /s/ PERRY J. LEWIS               Director               March 16, 2001
- ----------------------------
      Perry J. Lewis


   /s/ ANDREW J. McKENNA             Director               March 16, 2001
- ----------------------------
     Andrew J. McKenna


    /s/ NEWTON N. MINOW              Director               March 16, 2001
- ----------------------------
      Newton N. Minow


  /s/ ROBERT S. MORRISON             Director               March 16, 2001
- ----------------------------
    Robert S. Morrison




         Signature                    Title                      Date
         ---------                    -----                      ----


 /s/ RICHARD C. NOTEBAERT            Director               March 16, 2001
- ----------------------------
   Richard C. Notebaert


 /s/ MICHAEL D. O'HALLERAN           Director               March 16, 2001
- ----------------------------
   Michael D. O'Halleran


   /s/ DONALD S. PERKINS             Director               March 16, 2001
- ----------------------------
     Donald S. Perkins


  /s/ JOHN W. ROGERS, JR.            Director               March 16, 2001
- ----------------------------
    John W. Rogers, Jr.


  /s/ GEORGE A. SCHAEFER             Director               March 16, 2001
- ----------------------------
    George A. Schaefer


  /s/ RAYMOND I. SKILLING            Director               March 16, 2001
- ----------------------------
    Raymond I. Skilling


    /s/ FRED L. TURNER               Director               March 16, 2001
- ----------------------------
      Fred L. Turner


    /s/ ARNOLD R. WEBER              Director               March 16, 2001
- ----------------------------
      Arnold R. Weber


    /s/ CAROLYN Y. WOO               Director               March 16, 2001
- ----------------------------
      Carolyn Y. Woo


   /s/ HARVEY N. MEDVIN      Executive Vice President       March 16, 2001
- ---------------------------- and Chief Financial Officer
     Harvey N. Medvin        (Principal Financial and
                                Accounting Officer)





See notes to condensed financial statements.





See notes to condensed financial statements.





 See notes to condensed financial statements.


                                                                      SCHEDULE I
                                                                     (Continued)


                                 Aon Corporation
                                (Parent Company)
                     NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(1)   See notes to consolidated  financial statements  incorporated by reference
      from the Annual Report.

(2)   Generally,  the net assets of Aon's insurance  subsidiaries  available for
      transfer  to the  parent  company  are  limited  to the  amounts  that the
      insurance  subsidiaries'  statutory  net assets exceed  minimum  statutory
      capital  requirements;  however,  payments of the amounts as  dividends in
      excess  of  $197  million  may  be  subject  to  approval  by   regulatory
      authorities.

(3)   In 1998,  Aon  guaranteed  a committed  bank credit  facility  under which
      certain  European  subsidiaries  can  borrow  up to EUR  400  million.  At
      December  31,  2000,   loans  of  EUR  279  million  ($260  million)  were
      outstanding under this facility.

      An indirect  wholly-owned  subsidiary of Aon  Corporation  manages various
      investment portfolios, totaling $247 million at December 31, 2000, held in
      a collateral trust for the benefit of certain unaffiliated entities and is
      obligated to produce  specified  investment  returns for those portfolios.
      Aon  Corporation  has  unconditionally  guaranteed the obligations of this
      subsidiary.

(4)   In 2000,  the  Condensed  Statements  of Cash Flows  exclude the impact of
      certain  non-cash  transfers  primarily  related to notes  receivable from
      subsidiaries and notes payable to subsidiaries.





















                         Cross Reference Sheet, Pursuant
                           to General Instruction G(4)


ITEM IN FORM 10-K                            INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE TO
- -----------------                            ----------------------------

Part I
- ------

Item 1.  Business                            Annual  Report to  Stockholders  of
                                             the  Registrant  for the Year  2000
                                             ("Annual  Report")  pages 6 through
                                             15, 20  through  24,  and pages 40,
                                             54, 55 and 59.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings                   Annual  Report  page 53 (note 14 of
                                             Notes  to  Consolidated   Financial
                                             Statements).

Part II
- -------

Item 5. Market for the Registrant's          Annual  Report  page 45 (note 10 of
Common  Stock and Related  Security          Notes  to  Consolidated   Financial
Holder Matters                               Statements) and page 57 ("Dividends
                                             paid per share" and "Price range").


Item 6. Selected Financial Data              Annual Report page 57.

Item 7. Management's  Discussion and         Annual Report pages 17 through 28.
Analysis of Financial  Condition and
Results of Operations



Item    7A.  Quantitative and                Annual   Report  pages  27  and  28
Qualitative Disclosures about                ("Market Risk Exposure").
Market Risk




Item 8.  Financial  Statements  and          Annual  Report  pages 29 through 55
Supplementary Data                           and 58.


Part III
- --------

Item 10. Directors  and  Executive           Proxy  Statement For Annual Meeting
Officers of the Registrant                   of  Stockholders on April 20,  2001
                                             of   the     Registrant     ("Proxy
                                             Statement") pages  3, 6, 7,  and 10
                                             through 12.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation             Proxy  Statement  pages  15 through
                                             18.

Item  12.   Security   Ownership   of        Proxy Statement pages 2, 9 and 10.
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

Item 13.  Certain  Relationships  and        Proxy    Statement     page     22
Related Transaction                          ("Transactions With  Management").


Part IV
- -------

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial                 Annual Report pages 29 through 55.
Statement Schedules, And  Reports
on Form 8-K



                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit Number                                                    Page Number of
Regulation                                                          Sequentially
S-K, Item 601                                                      Numbered Copy
- -------------                                                      -------------

(3)   Articles of incorporation and bylaws:

      (a)   Second  Restated  Certificate of  Incorporation  of the Registrant -
            incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the 1991 Form 10-K.

      (b)   Certificate  of  Amendment  of  the  Registrant's   Second  Restated
            Certificate of  Incorporation - incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            3 to the First Quarter 1994 Form 10-Q.

      (c)   Certificate  of  Amendement  of  the  Registrant's  Second  Restated
            Certificate of  Incorporation - incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            3 to the Registrant's current Form 8-K, dated May 9, 2000.

      (d)   Amended Bylaws of the Registrant

      (e)   Certificate of Designation for the Registrant's  Series C Cumulative
            Preferred  Stock -  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
            Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 9, 1994.

(4)   Instruments defining the rights of security holders, including indentures:

      (a)   Indenture  dated  September  15,  1992  between the  Registrant  and
            Continental   Bank   Corporation  (now  known  as  Bank  of  America
            Illinois), as Trustee - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) of
            the  Registrant's  Current  Report on Form 8-K dated  September  23,
            1992.

      (b)   Resolutions   establishing   terms  of  7.40%   Notes   Due  2002  -
            incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(d) to the 1992 Form 10-K.

      (c)   Resolutions   establishing   the  terms  of  6.70%  Notes  Due  2003
            incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to the 1993 Form 10-K.

      (d)   Resolutions   establishing   the  terms  of  6.30%  Notes  Due  2004
            incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(d) to the 1993 Form 10-K.

      (e)   Resolutions   establishing   the  terms  of  6.90%  Notes  due  2004
            incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(e) to the 1999 Form 10-K.

      (f)   Resolutions establishing the terms of 8.65% Notes due 2005.

      (g)   Junior  Subordinated  Indenture dated as of January 13, 1997 between
            the  Registrant  and The Bank of New York, as trustee - incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the  Registrant's  Amendment No. 1 to
            Registration  Statement  on Form S-4 No.  333-21237  dated March 27,
            1997 (the "Capital Securities Registration").

      (h)   First  Supplemental  Indenture  dated as of January 13, 1997 between
            the  Registrant  and the Bank of New York, as trustee - incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Capital Securities Registration.



                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit Number                                                    Page Number of
Regulation                                                          Sequentially
S-K, Item 601                                                      Numbered Copy
- -------------                                                      -------------

      (i)   Certificate of Trust of Aon Capital A - incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 4.3 of the Capital Securities Registration.

      (j)   Amended and  Restated  Trust  Agreement of Aon Capital A dated as of
            January 13, 1997 among the Registrant, as Depositor, The Bank of New
            York,  as  Property  Trustee,  The Bank of New York  (Delaware),  as
            Delaware Trustee, the Administrative  Trustees named therein and the
            holders, from time to time, of the Capital Securities - incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.5 of the Capital Securities Registration.

      (k)   Capital Securities  Guarantee Agreement dated as of January 13, 1997
            between  the  Registrant  and the  Bank of New  York,  as  guarantee
            trustee -  incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 4.8 of the Capital
            Securities Registration.

      (l)   Capital Securities  Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement dated
            as of January  13,  1997  among the  Registrant,  Aon  Capital A and
            Morgan  Stanley  & Co.  Incorporated  and  Goldman,  Sachs  & Co.  -
            incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.10 of the Capital  Securities
            Registration.

      (m)   Debenture  Exchange and  Registration  Rights  Agreement dated as of
            January  13,  1997 among the  Registrant,  Aon  Capital A and Morgan
            Stanley & Co.  Incorporated and Goldman,  Sachs & Co. - incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.11 of the Capital Securities Registration.

      (n)   Guarantee  Exchange and  Registration  Rights  Agreement dated as of
            January  13,  1997 among the  Registrant,  Aon  Capital A and Morgan
            Stanley & Co.  Incorporated and Goldman,  Sachs & Co. - incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.12 of the Capital Securities Registration.


(10)  Material Contracts:

      (a)   Aon Stock  Option  Plan (as amended and  restated  through  February
            2000)  -   incorporated   by  reference  to  Exhibit  10(a)  to  the
            Registrant's   Quarterly  Report  to  the  Securities  and  Exchange
            Commission  on Form 10-Q for the quarter  June 30, 2000 (the "Second
            Quarter 2000 Form 10-Q").

      (b)   Aon Stock  Option  Plan (as  amended and  restated  through  1997) -
            incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10(a) to the  Registrant's
            Quarterly  Report to the Securities and Exchange  Commission on Form
            10-Q for the quarter  ended March 31, 1997 (the "First  Quarter 1997
            Form 10-Q").

      (c)   First Amendment to the Aon Stock Option Plan as Amended and Restated
            Through 1997 -  incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit  10(a) to the
            Registrant's   Quarterly  Report  to  the  Securities  and  Exchange
            Commission  on Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended March 31, 1999 (the
            "First Quarter 1999 Form 10-Q").



                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit Number                                                    Page Number of
Regulation                                                          Sequentially
S-K, Item 601                                                      Numbered Copy
- -------------                                                      -------------

      (d)   Registration  Rights  Agreement  by and  among  the  Registrant  and
            certain affiliates of Ryan Insurance Group, Inc.  (Including Patrick
            G. Ryan and  Andrew J.  McKenna)  -  incorporated  by  reference  to
            Exhibit (f) to the 1982 Form 10-K.

      (e)   Aon Corporation Outside Director Deferred Compensation  Agreement by
            and among Registrant and Registrant's directors who are not salaried
            employees of Registrant or Registrant's affiliates.

      (f)   Aon Stock  Award  Plan (as  amended  and  restated  through  1997) -
            incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the First Quarter 1997
            Form 10-Q.

      (g)   First  Amendment to the Aon Stock Award Plan as Amended and Restated
            Through 1997 -  incorporated  by  reference to exhibit  10(b) to the
            First Quarter 1999 Form 10-Q.

      (h)   Amendment  and Waiver  Agreement  dated as of November 4, 1991 among
            the  Registrant  and each of  Patrick G. Ryan,  Shirley  Ryan,  Ryan
            Enterprises  Corporation  and  Harvey N.  Medvin -  incorporated  by
            reference to Exhibit 10(j) to the 1991 Form 10-K.

      (i)   Registration  Rights Agreement dated November 2, 1992 by and between
            the  Registrant  and Frank B. Hall & Co.,  Inc.  -  incorporated  by
            reference to Exhibit 4(c) to the Third Quarter 1992 Form 10-Q.

      (j)   Aon  Corporation  1994 Amended and Restated  Outside  Director Stock
            Award Plan - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the First
            Quarter 1994 Form 10-Q.

      (k)   Aon Corporation 1995 Senior Officer  Incentive  Compensation  Plan -
            incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(p) to the 1995 Form 10-K.

      (l)   Aon  Deferred  Compensation  Plan  and  First  Amendment  to the Aon
            Deferred  Compensation  Plan - incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
            10(q) to the 1995 Form 10-K.

      (m)   1999 Aon Deferred  Compensation  Plan  incorporated  by reference to
            Exhibit 10(1) of the 1999 Form 10-K.

      (n)   Aon Severance Plan - incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10 to the
            Registrant's   Quarterly  Report  to  the  Securities  and  Exchange
            Commission on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997.

      (o)   Asset Purchase  Agreement dated July 24, 1992 between the Registrant
            and Frank B. Hall & Co. Inc. - incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
            10(c) to the  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q for the
            period ended June 30, 1992.


                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit Number                                                    Page Number of
Regulation                                                          Sequentially
S-K, Item 601                                                      Numbered Copy
- -------------                                                      -------------

      (p)   Stock  Purchase  Agreement  by and  among the  Registrant,  Combined
            Insurance Company of America,  Union Fidelity Life Insurance Company
            and General  Electric Capital  Corporation  dated as of November 11,
            1995 -  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10(s) of the 1995 Form
            10-K.

      (q)   Stock  Purchase  Agreement  by and  among the  Registrant;  Combined
            Insurance  Company  of  America;   The  Life  Insurance  Company  of
            Virginia; Forth Financial Resources,  Ltd.; Newco Properties,  Inc.;
            and General  Electric Capital  Corporation  dated as of December 22,
            1995 -  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10(t) to the 1995 Form
            10-K.

      (r)   Agreement and Plan of Merger among the Registrant, Purchaser and A&A
            dated as of December 11, 1996 - incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            (c)(1) to the  Registrant's  Schedule  14D-1  filed  with the SEC on
            December 16, 1996.

      (s)   First  Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of January
            7, 1997 among the  Registrant,  Purchaser and A&A - incorporated  by
            reference  to  Exhibit   (c)(3)  to  Schedule  14D-1  filed  by  the
            Registrant with the SEC on January 9, 1997.

      (t)   Employment Agreement dated June 1, 1993 by and among the Registrant,
            Aon Risk Services,  Inc. and Michael D. O'Halleran,  incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 10(p) to the Registrant's  Annual Report to the
            Securities  and Exchange  Commission on Form 10-K for the year ended
            December 31, 1998.

(12)  Statements regarding Computation of Ratios.

      (a)   Statement  regarding  Computation  of  Ratio  of  Earnings  to Fixed
            Charges.

      (b)   Statement  regarding  Computation  of  Ratio of Earnings to Combined
            Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends.

(13)  Annual  Report  to  Stockholders  of the  Registrant  for the  year  ended
      December 31, 2000.

(21)  List of subsidiaries of the Registrant.

(23)  Consent of Ernst & Young LLP to the  incorporation by reference into Aon's
      Annual  Report on Form 10-K of their  report  included  in the 2000 Annual
      Report  to  Stockholders  and  into  Aon's  Registration   Statement  Nos.
      33-27984, 33-42575, 33-59037, 333-21237,  333-50607,  333-55773, 333-78723
      and 333-49300.

(99)  Annual Report to the Securities  and Exchange  Commission on Form 11-K for
      the Aon Savings Plan for the year ended December 31, 2000 - to be filed by
      amendment as provided in Rule 15d-21(b).



