
10-K
b10kdec2002.txt
AON CORPORATION

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

 [X]          ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
               SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001

                                       OR

 [ ]        TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE
                SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
                         Commission File Number: 1-7933
                                 Aon Corporation
             (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)

                 DELAWARE
    (State or Other Jurisdiction of                            36-3051915
     Incorporation or Organization)                        (I.R.S. Employer
         200 E. RANDOLPH STREET,                           Identification No.)
           CHICAGO, ILLINOIS                                      60601
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)                       (Zip Code)
             (312) 381-1000
            (Telephone Number)

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                        Name of Each Exchange
   Title of Each Class                                  on Which Registered
- --------------------------                             ------------------------

Common Stock, $1 par value                             New York Stock Exchange
7.40% Notes Due 2002                                   New York Stock Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE


Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  Registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. YES [X]  NO [ ]


Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information statements,
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

Aggregate  market  value  of the  voting  stock  held by  non-affiliates  of the
Registrant as of February 25, 2002 was $8,384,338,140.

Number of shares of $1.00 par value Common Stock  outstanding as of February 25,
2002 was 271,430,890.

         DOCUMENTS FROM WHICH INFORMATION IS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
Annual Report to  Stockholders  of the Registrant for the Year 2001 (Parts I, II
and IV)

Notice of Annual  Meeting  of  Holders  of  Common  Stock and  Series C
Preferred  Stock and Proxy  Statement for Annual Meeting of  Stockholders of the
Registrant on April 19, 2002 (Part III)

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS.

         The Registrant is a holding company whose operating  subsidiaries carry
on business in three distinct operating  segments:  (i) insurance  brokerage and
other services, (ii) consulting, and (iii) insurance underwriting.  Incorporated
in 1979,  it is the parent  corporation  of  long-established  and more recently
formed companies.

         The Registrant  acquired in 2001, among other companies and businesses,
ASI  Solutions  Incorporated  (ASI),  a worldwide  provider  of human  resources
administration and compensation  consulting services, and First Extended,  Inc.,
an underwriter and administrator of automobile extended warranty products.

         The Insurance Brokerage and Other Services segment consists principally
of  Aon's  retail,  reinsurance  and  wholesale  brokerage,  as well as  related
insurance services, including claims services,  underwriting management, captive
insurance company management services and premium financing.  These services are
provided  by  subsidiaries  of Aon  Group,  Inc.,  and  certain  other  indirect
subsidiaries  of the  Registrant  (the "Aon Group")  including Aon Risk Services
Companies, Inc.; Aon Holdings International bv; Aon Services Group, Inc.; Aon Re
Worldwide,  Inc.; Aon Limited (U.K.); Cananwill, Inc.; and Premier Auto Finance,
Inc.

         The  Consulting   segment  provides  a  full  range  of  human  capital
management services utilizing five practices:  employee benefits,  compensation,
management  consulting,  outsourcing  and  communications.  These  services  are
provided  primarily by subsidiaries and affiliates of Aon Consulting  Worldwide,
Inc. which is also a subsidiary of Aon Group.

         Aon's  Insurance  Underwriting  segment is  comprised  of  supplemental
accident  and health and life  insurance,  and  extended  warranty  and casualty
insurance products and services. Combined Insurance Company of America("Combined
Insurance") engages in the marketing and underwriting of accident and health and
life insurance products. Combined Specialty Insurance Company (formerly known as
Virginia Surety Company, Inc.)and London General Insurance Company Limited offer
extended warranty and casualty insurance products and services.

         In November 2000, the  Registrant  announced a business  transformation
plan,  which  began in fourth  quarter  2000 and will  continue  into 2002.  The
transformation  plan will affect each operating segment;  however,  most changes
will  affect  the  largest  operating  segment,  Insurance  Brokerage  and Other
Services,  and will occur in the major countries of operation,  the U.S. and the
United Kingdom.

         In  April  2001,  the  Registrant  announced  a plan  to  spin  off its
insurance  underwriting  business to Aon's  common  stockholders,  creating  two
independent,  publicly-traded  companies. The  spin-off  companies will be named
Combined  Specialty  Corporation.  The  transaction  requires  final  Board  of
Directors approval,  a favorable Internal Revenue Service tax ruling and certain
insurance  regulatory  approvals  and is  currently  expected to be completed in
spring 2002.

         The   Registrant   hereby    incorporates   by   reference    "Business
Transformation  Plan" on page 43 of the  Annual  Report to  Stockholders  of the
Registrant for the Year 2001 ("Annual  Report"),  as well as pages 6 through 15,
23 through 27, and pages 58, 59 and 63 of the Annual Report.


COMPETITION AND INDUSTRY POSITION

(1)  INSURANCE BROKERAGE AND OTHER SERVICES

         Aon Group, Inc.; Aon Risk Services Companies, Inc.; Aon Limited (U.K.);
Aon Holdings International bv; Aon Services Group, Inc.; Aon Re Worldwide, Inc.;
Cananwill, Inc.; and Premier Auto Finance, Inc.

         Aon Group affiliated  companies conduct the Registrant's  brokerage and
consulting  operations,  and  have  550  offices  around  the  world in over 125
countries and  sovereignties.  In 2001,  those companies  employed nearly 43,000
professionals and support personnel to serve the diverse needs of clients.

         Aon Group's retail brokerage  companies operate in a highly competitive
industry  and compete  with a large  number of retail  insurance  brokerage  and
agency  firms as well as  individual  brokers  and agents and direct  writers of
insurance  coverage.  Aon Group's companies provide a broad spectrum of advisory
and  outsourcing   services





including risk identification and assessment, alternative risk financing, safety
engineering,  loss management and program  administration for clients. They also
design,  place  and  implement  customized  insurance  products.  They have also
developed  certain  specialist  areas such as marine,  aviation,  directors' and
officers' and  professional  liability,  financial  institutions,  construction,
energy, media,  healthcare and entertainment.  In 2001, investments were made in
professional  talent,  technology,  process  improvement  and the development of
specialized  products and services to meet the evolving needs of clients.  Those
companies  operate  through  offices  located in North  America,  Europe,  Latin
America, Africa, Australia and Asia/Pacific.

         Aon  Group's   companies   address  the  highly   specialized   product
development, consulting and administrative risk management needs of professional
groups,  service businesses,  governments,  healthcare  providers and commercial
organizations. They also provide underwriting management skills, claims and risk
management  expertise,  and  third-party  administration  services to  insurance
companies,  and insurance  brokerage  services for individuals.  They market and
broker  both  the  primary  and  reinsurance   risks  of  these  programs.   For
individuals,  associations  and businesses,  affinity  products for professional
liability, life, disability income and personal lines are provided.

          Aon's reinsurance  brokerage  activities are organized primarily under
Aon Re in the United States and Aon Limited in the United Kingdom,  constituting
the largest reinsurance broker in the world and offering  sophisticated advisory
services in program  design  that  enhance the  risk/return  characteristics  of
insurance  policy  portfolios and improve  capital  utilization,  along with the
evaluation of  catastrophic  loss exposures.  The companies also  participate in
placement and captive management services.

         Premium-related  financing  services  are  available  to clients of Aon
Group and other  independent  organizations  through  Cananwill.  Certain retail
automotive  organizations  have also been provided a service  which  purchases a
select amount of their auto financing and leasing contracts from individuals and
sells them to  unaffiliated  parties through  companies  associated with Premier
Auto Finance,  Inc.,  which then continue the  management of  collections on the
contracts  and provide  other  related  services.  After  March  2001,  contract
purchasing  by companies  associated  with Premier Auto  Finance,  Inc.  were no
longer generally  available,  but service  continued on existing  contracts with
current clients.

(2)  CONSULTING

  Aon Consulting Worldwide, Inc.

         Aon Consulting Worldwide, Inc. is one of the world's largest integrated
human capital consulting organizations. The operations of this segment provide a
full range of human  capital  management  services that serve three major client
segments - large corporations, middle market companies and small firms.

         Around the world,  companies  have to find advanced ways to attract and
retain workers with the right skill levels and commitments, and we anticipate an
increased demand for consulting services. Aon Consulting,  with its expertise in
employee  benefits,   compensation,   management  consulting,   outsourcing  and
communication,  and  its  access  to the  Registrant's  other  subsidiaries,  is
well-positioned to serve this market. Aon Consulting subsidiaries offer services
to clients  including  construction  and  implementation  of  benefit  packages,
proprietary  research on employee commitment and loyalty;  compensation  design;
assistance in process improvement and design, leadership, organization and human
capital development;  employment processing,  performance improvement,  benefits
administration  and  other  employment  services;  and  advice to  companies  on
initiatives to support their corporate  vision.  The 2001 acquisition of ASI and
the 2000  acquisition  of Actuarial  Sciences  Associates,  Inc.  expanded Aon's
ability to provide  outsourcing  services to a broad spectrum of large corporate
clients.


(3)  INSURANCE UNDERWRITING

         Combined Insurance Company of America ("Combined Insurance");  Combined
Life Insurance  Company of New York  ("CLICNY");  Combined  Specialty  Insurance
Company (CSIC); London General Insurance Company Limited ("London General"); and
Aon Warranty Group, Inc. ("Aon Warranty").

         The  Registrant's  insurance  underwriting  subsidiaries  are part of a
highly competitive  industry that serves individual  consumers in North America,
Europe,  Latin  America  and  Asia/Pacific  by  providing  accident  and  health
coverage,   traditional   life   insurance  and  extended warranty and  casualty
insurance products and services through distribution networks, most of which are
directly  owned by the Registrant's subsidiaries.



         The  supplemental  accident  and health and life  distribution  network
encompasses  primarily  the  agents of  Combined  Insurance  and  CLICNY  (which
operates  exclusively  in  the  State  of New  York).  Combined  Insurance,  the
Registrant's  principal accident and health and life insurer,  has a sales force
of 7,000 career agents  calling on  individuals  to sell a broad spectrum of low
premium, low limit accident and health products. In addition, Combined Insurance
has  developed  relationships  with  select  brokers  and  consultants  to reach
specific  niche  markets.  Combined  Insurance  offers a wide range of accident,
sickness,  short-term disability and other supplemental insurance products. Most
of Combined  Insurance's  products are  primarily  fixed-indemnity  obligations,
thereby not subject to escalating  medical costs.  Combined  Insurance  offers a
simplified accident and sickness long-term disability policy. Combined Insurance
has expanded  its product  distribution  to include  direct  response  programs,
affinity  groups and  worksite  marketing,  creating  access to new  markets and
potential new policyholders.  Combined  Insurance's business is conducted in the
United States, Canada, Latin America, Europe and Asia/Pacific.

         The Registrant's  extended  warranty and casualty  insurance  business,
conducted by CSIC, its branches and subsidiaries in North America, South America
and  Asia/Pacific  and  London  General  in  Europe,   provides   warranties  on
automobiles  and  a  variety  of  consumer  goods,   including  electronics  and
appliances.   In  addition,   these  subsidiaries  provide  non-structural  home
warranties and other warranty  products,  such as credit card  enhancements  and
affinity  warranty  programs.  CSIC and  London  General  are among the  world's
largest  underwriters of consumer  extended  warranties.  The extended  warranty
products  are sold in the  United  States,  Canada,  Latin  America,  Europe and
Asia/Pacific.  The  administration  of certain warranty services on automobiles,
electronic  goods,  personal  computers  and  appliances  is  handled by certain
operations  in the  Insurance  Brokerage and Other  Services  segment.  Revenues
earned  from this area will be  reflected  as  revenues in CSC after the planned
spin-off.  A new  initiative  was recently  launched to begin  actively  writing
commercial  property  and  casualty  risks,  consisting  primarily of excess and
surplus lines, errors and omissions, excess liability and workers' compensation.

         In 2001, the Registrant's  underwriting  business invested $227 million
to obtain an ownership interest in Endurance  Specialty  Insurance,  Ltd., which
offers property and casualty insurance and reinsurance on a worldwide basis. The
investment  will help provide much needed  underwriting  capacity to  commercial
firms and insurance and  reinsurance  customers and will allow the  underwriting
business to participate in the growth expected in these areas.


(4)  DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

         The Registrant hereby  incorporates by reference note 6 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements on page 44 of the Annual Report.


LICENSING AND REGULATION

         Regulatory  authorities  in  the  states  or  countries  in  which  the
operating  subsidiaries of Aon Group conduct business may require  individual or
company  licensing  to act  as  brokers,  agents,  third  party  administrators,
managing general agents, reinsurance intermediaries or adjusters. Under the laws
of most states in the United  States and in most foreign  countries,  regulatory
authorities have relatively broad discretion with respect to granting,  renewing
and revoking  brokers' and agents' licenses to transact business in the state or
country.  The manner of operating in  particular  states and  countries may vary
according to the  licensing  requirements  of the  particular  state or country,
which may  require,  among  other  things,  that a firm  operate in the state or
country through a local corporation. In a few states and countries, licenses are
issued only to individual residents or locally-owned  business entities. In such
cases,  Aon Group  subsidiaries  have  arrangements  with  residents or business
entities licensed to act in the state or country.

         Insurance  companies  must  comply  with  laws and  regulations  of the
jurisdictions in which they do business. These laws and regulations are designed
to ensure  financial  solvency of  insurance  companies  and to require fair and
adequate  service and  treatment  for  policyholders.  They are  enforced by the
states in the United States, by industry  self-regulating agencies in the United
Kingdom,  and by various  regulatory  agencies  in other  countries  through the
granting  and  revoking  of  licenses  to  do  business,  licensing  of  agents,
monitoring  of  trade  practices,  policy  form  approval,  minimum  loss  ratio
requirements,  limits on premium and commission  rates,  and minimum reserve and
capital requirements. Compliance is monitored by the state insurance departments
through periodic regulatory reporting procedures and periodic examinations.  The
quarterly and annual  financial  reports to the  regulators in the United States
utilize  statutory  accounting  principles  which are different from  accounting
principles   generally   accepted  in  the  United  States  which  are  used  in
stockholders' reports. The statutory accounting principles,  in






keeping with the intent to assure the protection of policyholders  are based, in
general, on a liquidation concept while accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States are based on a going-concern concept.

         The state insurance  regulators are members of the National Association
of Insurance  Commissioners  ("NAIC").  The NAIC seeks to promote uniformity of,
and to  enhance  the  state  regulation  of,  insurance.  Both  the NAIC and the
individual  states continue to focus on the solvency of insurance  companies and
their  conduct  in the  market  place.  This focus is  reflected  in  additional
regulatory  oversight by the states and emphasis on the enactment or adoption of
a series of NAIC model laws and regulations  designed to promote  solvency.  The
NAIC  revised  its  Accounting  Practices  and  Procedures  Manual  in a process
referred to as Codification.  The revised manual was effective  January 1, 2001.
The domiciliary  states of Aon's major insurance  subsidiaries  have adopted the
provisions  of the revised  manual.  The  revised  manual has  changed,  to some
extent, prescribed statutory accounting practices and resulted in changes to the
accounting  practices  that Aon's major  insurance  subsidiaries  use to prepare
their statutory-basis financial statements. The impact of these changes to Aon's
major insurance  subsidiaries was to increase the statutory  capital and surplus
by $54 million as of January 1, 2001.

         Several years ago, the NAIC developed a formula for analyzing  insurers
called  risk-based  capital  ("RBC").  RBC is  intended to  establish  "minimum"
capital  threshold  levels  that  vary  with  the  size  and mix of a  company's
business.  It is designed to identify companies with the capital levels that may
require  regulatory  attention.  RBC does not have any significant impact on the
insurance business of the Registrant.

         The state  insurance  holding  company laws require prior notice to and
approval of the domestic state insurance department of intracorporate  transfers
of assets  within  the  holding  company  structure,  including  the  payment of
dividends by insurance company  subsidiaries.  In addition,  the premium finance
loans by Cananwill, Inc., an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Registrant,
are subject to one or more of truth-in-lending and credit regulations, insurance
premium finance acts,  retail  installment sales acts and other similar consumer
protection  legislation.  Failure to comply  with such laws or  regulations  can
result in the temporary  suspension or permanent  loss of the right to engage in
business in a particular jurisdiction as well as other penalties.

         Recent  federal  and  state  laws  and  proposals   mandating  specific
practices by medical  insurers and the health care industry will not, because of
the nature of the business of the Registrant's  subsidiaries,  materially affect
the Registrant.  Numerous  states have had legislation  introduced to reform the
health care system and such  legislation has passed in several states.  While it
is impossible to forecast the precise  nature of future federal and state health
care changes,  the  Registrant  does not expect a major impact on its operations
because  of the  supplemental  nature  of most  of the  policies  issued  by its
insurance  subsidiaries  and because the coverages  are  primarily  purchased to
provide,  on  a  fixed-indemnity  basis,   protection  against  loss-of-time  or
disability  benefits.  Congress has passed the Financial Services  Modernization
Act commonly known as S 900 or the Gramm,  Leach,  Bliley Act. While S 900 makes
substantial  changes in  allowing  financial  organizations  to  diversify,  the
Registrant  does not believe its  enactment  will have a material  effect on the
business of its insurance subsidiaries.


CLIENTELE

         No significant part of the Registrant's or its  subsidiaries'  business
is dependent  upon a single  client or on a few clients,  the loss of any one of
which would have a material adverse effect on the Registrant.


EMPLOYEES

         The Registrant's subsidiaries had approximately 53,000 employees at the
end of 2001 of whom  approximately  46,000 are salaried and hourly employees and
the remaining  7,000 are career agents  who are  generally compensated wholly or
primarily by commission.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES.

         The  Registrant's  subsidiaries  own and occupy office buildings in six
states and certain  foreign  countries,  and lease office space elsewhere in the
United  States and in various  foreign  cities.  In general,  no  difficulty  is
anticipated  in  negotiating  renewals  as  leases  expire or in  finding  other
satisfactory space if the premises become unavailable.




ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

         The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference note 15 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements on page 57 of the Annual Report.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

         None.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

         Executive officers of the Registrant are regularly elected by its Board
of Directors  at the annual  meeting of the Board which is held  following  each
annual meeting of the stockholders of the Registrant.  The executive officers of
the  Registrant  were  elected to their  current  positions on April 20, 2001 to
serve  until  the  meeting  of  the  Board   following  the  annual  meeting  of
stockholders on April 19, 2002. Ages shown are as of December 31, 2001.

         For information  concerning certain directors and executive officers of
the  Registrant,  see  item  10  below.  As of  March  1,  2002,  the  following
individuals  are also  executive  officers of the  Registrant as defined in Rule
16a-1(f):





                                     PART II


ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE  REGISTRANT'S  COMMON STOCK AND RELATED  SECURITY HOLDER
         MATTERS.

         The  Registrant's  $1.00 par value common shares ("Common  Shares") are
traded on the New York stock  exchange.  The Registrant  hereby  incorporates by
reference  the  "Dividends  paid per share" and "Price range" data on page 61 of
the Annual Report.

         The Registrant had approximately 11,912 holders of record of its Common
Shares as of February 25, 2002.

         The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference note 11 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 48 and 49 of the Annual Report.



ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

         The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference the "Selected Financial
Data" table on page 61 of the Annual Report.


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS.

         The  Registrant   hereby   incorporates   by  reference   "Management's
Discussion  and Analysis of Financial  Condition and Results of  Operations"  on
pages 18 through 31 and "Information Concerning  Forward-Looking  Statements" on
the inside back cover of the Annual Report.


ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

         The Registrant hereby  incorporates by reference "Market Risk Exposure"
on page 31 of the Annual Report.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

         The  Registrant   hereby   incorporates   by  reference  the  following
statements, notes and data from the Annual Report.
                                                                         Page(s)
                                                                         -------
        Consolidated Financial Statements ............................   32 - 36
        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ...................   37 - 59
        Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors ............      60
        Quarterly Financial Data .....................................      62


ITEM 9.  CHANGES  IN  AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON  ACCOUNTING  AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

         Not Applicable.



                                    PART III


ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

         The  Registrant  hereby  incorporates  by reference the  information on
pages  3,  6 and 7 of  the  Proxy  Statement  For  The  Annual  Meeting  of  the
Stockholders on April 19, 2002, of the Registrant ("Proxy Statement") concerning
the  following  Directors  of the  Registrant,  each of whom  also  serves as an
executive  officer of the  Registrant  as defined in Rule  16a-1(f):  Patrick G.
Ryan,  Michael D.  O'Halleran  and Raymond I. Skilling.  Information  concerning
additional  executive  officers of the Registrant is contained in Part I hereof,
pursuant  to  General  Instruction  G(3) and  Instruction  3 to Item  401(b)  of
Regulation  S-K.  The  Registrant  also hereby  incorporates  by  reference  the
information on pages 10 and 11 of the Proxy Statement.


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

         The Registrant  hereby  incorporates by reference the information under
the headings  "Executive  Compensation,"  "Aggregated  Option  Exercises in Last
Fiscal Year and Fiscal Year-End  Option  Values,"  "Option Grants in 2001 Fiscal
Year" and "Pension Plan Table" on pages 14 through 17 of the Proxy Statement.


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

         The Registrant  hereby  incorporates  by reference the share  ownership
data contained on pages 2, 8 and 9 of the Proxy Statement.


ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

         The Registrant  hereby  incorporates by reference the information under
the  heading  "Transactions  With  Management"  on pages 21 and 22 of the  Proxy
Statement.



                                     PART IV


ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

(A) (1) AND (2). The  Registrant has  incorporated  by reference from the Annual
Report  (see Item 8) the  following  consolidated  financial  statements  of the
Registrant and subsidiaries:




(A)(3).  EXHIBITS

         (a)      Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant
                  -   incorporated   by   reference   to  Exhibit  3(a)  to  the
                  Registrant's  Annual  Report to the  Securities  and  Exchange
                  Commission  on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 1991
                  (the "1991 Form 10-K").

         (b)      Certificate of Amendment of the  Registrant's  Second Restated
                  Certificate of  Incorporation  - incorporated  by reference to
                  Exhibit 3 to the  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q
                  for the quarter ended March 31, 1994 (the "First  Quarter 1994
                  Form 10Q").




         (c)      Certificate of Amendment of the  Registrant's  Second Restated
                  Certificate of  Incorporation  - incorporated  by reference to
                  Exhibit 3 to the  Registrant's  current Form 8-K, dated May 9,
                  2000.

         (d)      Amended Bylaws of the  Registrant - incorporated  by reference
                  to  Exhibit  3(d) to the  Registrant's  Annual  Report  to the
                  Securities  and Exchange  Commission on Form 10-K for the year
                  ended December 31, 2000 (the "2000 Form 10-K").

         (e)      Indenture  dated September 15, 1992 between the Registrant and
                  Continental  Bank  Corporation  (now  known as Bank of America
                  Illinois),  as Trustee - incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
                  4(a) to the  Registrant's  Current  Report  on Form 8-K  dated
                  September 23, 1992.

         (f)      Resolutions  establishing  terms  of  7.40%  Notes  Due 2002 -
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibits 4(d) to the Registrant's
                  Annual  Report to the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission on
                  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992 (the "1992 Form
                  10-K").

         (g)      Resolutions establishing the terms of 6.70% Notes Due 2003 and
                  6.30% Notes Due 2004  incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibits
                  4(c)  and  4(d)  of  the  Registrant's  Annual  Report  to the
                  Securities  and Exchange  Commission on Form 10-K for the year
                  ended December 31, 1993 (the "1993 Form 10-K").

         (h)      Resolutions  establishing  the  terms of the  6.90%  Notes Due
                  2004,  incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4(e)  of  the
                  Registrant's  Annual  Report to the  Securities  and  Exchange
                  Commission  on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 1999
                  (the "1999 Form 10-K").

         (i)      Resolutions  establishing  the  terms of the  8.65%  Notes due
                  2005,  incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 4(f) of the 2000
                  Form 10-K.

         (j)      Junior  Subordinated  Indenture  dated as of January  13, 1997
                  between the  Registrant and The Bank of New York, as trustee -
                  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the  Registrant's
                  Amendment  No.  1 to  Registration  Statement  on Form S-4 No.
                  333-21237  dated  March  27,  1997  (the  "Capital  Securities
                  Registration").

         (k)      First  Supplemental  Indenture  dated as of January  13,  1997
                  between the  Registrant and the Bank of New York, as trustee -
                  incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.2 of  the  Capital
                  Securities Registration.

         (l)      Certificate  of  Trust  of Aon  Capital  A -  incorporated  by
                  reference   to   Exhibit   4.3  of  the   Capital   Securities
                  Registration.

         (m)      Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Aon Capital A dated as
                  of January 13, 1997 among the  Registrant,  as Depositor,  The
                  Bank of New York,  as Property  Trustee,  The Bank of New York
                  (Delaware),  as Delaware Trustee, the Administrative  Trustees
                  named  therein  and the  holders,  from  time to time,  of the
                  Capital  Securities - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5
                  of the Capital Securities Registration.

         (n)      Capital Securities Guarantee Agreement dated as of January 13,
                  1997  between  the  Registrant  and the Bank of New  York,  as
                  guarantee  trustee - incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4.8
                  of the Capital Securities Registration.

         (o)      Capital Securities  Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement
                  dated as of January 13, 1997 among the Registrant, Aon Capital
                  A and Morgan Stanley & Co.  Incorporated and Goldman,  Sachs &
                  Co. - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.10 of the Capital
                  Securities Registration.

         (p)      Debenture Exchange and Registration  Rights Agreement dated as
                  of January  13, 1997 among the  Registrant,  Aon Capital A and
                  Morgan Stanley & Co.  Incorporated and Goldman,  Sachs & Co. -
                  incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.11 of the  Capital
                  Securities Registration.



         (q)      Guarantee Exchange and Registration  Rights Agreement dated as
                  of January  13, 1997 among the  Registrant,  Aon Capital A and
                  Morgan Stanley & Co.  Incorporated and Goldman,  Sachs & Co. -
                  incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.12 of the  Capital
                  Securities Registration.

         (r)      Certificate  of  Designation  for the  Registrant's  Series  C
                  Cumulative  Preferred  Stock -  incorporated  by  reference to
                  Exhibit  4.1 to the  Registrant's  Current  Report on Form 8-K
                  dated February 9, 1994.

         (s)      Registration  Rights  Agreement  dated November 2, 1992 by and
                  between  the  Registrant  and  Frank  B.  Hall & Co.,  Inc.  -
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to the Third Quarter
                  1992 Form 10-Q.

         (t)      Registration  rights agreement by and among the Registrant and
                  certain  affiliates of Ryan Insurance Group,  Inc.  (including
                  Patrick  G. Ryan and  Andrew J.  McKenna)  -  incorporated  by
                  reference to Exhibit (f) to the 1982 Form 10-K.

         (u)      Aon  Corporation   Outside  Director   Deferred   Compensation
                  Agreement  by  and  among  the  Registrant  and   Registrant's
                  directors  who are not  salaried  employees of  Registrant  or
                  Registrant's affiliates.

         (v)      Amendment  and Waiver  Agreement  dated as of November 4, 1991
                  among the  Registrant  and each of Patrick  G.  Ryan,  Shirley
                  Ryan,  Ryan  Enterprises  Corporation  and Harvey N.  Medvin -
                  incorporated  by reference  to Exhibit  10(j) to the 1991 Form
                  10-K.

         (w)      Statement regarding  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed
                  Charges.

         (x)      Statement  regarding  Computation  of  Ratio  of  Earnings  to
                  Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends.

         (y)      Aon  Corporation  1994 Amended and Restated  Outside  Director
                  Stock Award Plan - incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10(b)
                  to the First Quarter 1994 Form 10-Q.

         (z)      Annual Report to  Stockholders  of the Registrant for the year
                  ended December 31, 2001 (for information, and not to be deemed
                  filed, except for those portions specifically  incorporated by
                  reference herein).

         (aa)     List of Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

         (ab)     Consent of Ernst & Young LLP to the incorporation by reference
                  into Aon's Annual  Report on Form 10-K of its report  included
                  in the 2001  Annual  Report  to  Stockholders  and into  Aon's
                  Registration  Statement  Nos.  33-27984,  33-42575,  33-59037,
                  333-21237,   333-50607,   333-55773,   333-78723,   333-49300,
                  333-57706, 333-65624 and 333-74364.

         (ac)     Annual  Report to the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission on
                  Form 11-K for the Aon Savings Plan for the year ended December
                  31, 2001 - to be filed by  amendment  as provided in Rule 15d-
                  21(b).

         (ad)     Executive Compensation Plans and Arrangements:

                  (A)      Aon Stock Award Plan (as amended and restated through
                           February 2000) - incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                           10 (a) to the  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report to the
                           Securities  and Exchange  Commission on Form 10-Q for
                           the Quarter ended June 30, 2000 (the "Second  Quarter
                           2000 Form 10-Q").

                  (B)      Aon  Stock  Option  Plan  (as  amended  and  restated
                           through 1997) - incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
                           10(a) to the  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report  to the
                           Securities  and Exchange  Commission on Form 10-Q for
                           the quarter ended March 31, 1997 (the "First  Quarter
                           1997 Form 10-Q").



                  (C)      First  Amendment  to the  Aon  Stock  Option  Plan as
                           amended and restated  through 1997 - incorporated  by
                           reference  to  Exhibit  10(a)  to  the   Registrant's
                           Quarterly  Report  to  the  Securities  and  Exchange
                           Commission  on Form 10-Q for the Quarter  ended March
                           31, 1999 (the "First Quarter 1999 Form 10-Q").

                  (D)      Aon Stock Award Plan (as amended and restated through
                           1997) - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to
                           the First Quarter 1997 Form 10-Q.

                  (E)      First  Amendment  to the  Aon  Stock  Award  Plan  as
                           Amended and Restated  Through 1997 - incorporated  by
                           reference to Exhibit  10(b) to the First Quarter 1999
                           Form 10-Q.

                  (F)      Aon   Corporation   1995  Senior  Officer   Incentive
                           Compensation   Plan   incorporated  by  reference  to
                           Exhibit  10(p) to the  Registrant's  Annual Report to
                           the Securities  and Exchange  Commission on Form 10-K
                           for the year ended  December 31, 1995 (the "1995 Form
                           10-K").

                  (G)      Aon Deferred Compensation Plan and First Amendment to
                           the Aon Deferred  Compensation Plan - incorporated by
                           reference to Exhibit 10(q) of the 1995 Form 10-K.

                  (H)      1999 Aon Deferred  Compensation  Plan incorporated by
                           reference to Exhibit 10(1) of the 1999 Form 10-K.

                  (I)      Employment  Agreement dated June 1, 1993 by and among
                           the Registrant,  Aon Risk Services,  Inc. and Michael
                           D.  O'Halleran,  incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                           10(p)  to  the  Registrant's  Annual  Report  to  the
                           Securities  and Exchange  Commission on Form 10-K for
                           the year ended December 31, 1998.

                  (J)      Aon  Severance  Plan -  incorporated  by reference to
                           Exhibit 10 to the  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report to
                           the Securities and Exchange  Commission and Form 10-Q
                           for the quarter ended June 30, 1997.

         (ae)     Asset  Purchase  Agreement  dated July 24,  1992  between  the
                  Registrant  and Frank B. Hall & Co.  Inc.  -  incorporated  by
                  reference  to  Exhibit  10(c)  to the  Registrant's  Quarterly
                  Report on Form 10- Q for the period ended June 30, 1992.

         (af)     Stock Purchase Agreement by and among the Registrant, Combined
                  Insurance  Company of America,  Union  Fidelity Life Insurance
                  Company and General Electric Capital  Corporation  dated as of
                  November 11, 1995 - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(s)
                  of the 1995 Form 10-K.

         (ag)     Stock Purchase Agreement by and among the Registrant; Combined
                  Insurance  Company of America;  The Life Insurance  Company of
                  Virginia;  Forth Financial Resources,  Ltd.; Newco Properties,
                  Inc.; and General  Electric  Capital  Corporation  dated as of
                  December 22, 1995 - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(t)
                  of the 1995 Form 10-K.

         (ah)     Agreement and Plan of Merger among the Registrant;  Subsidiary
                  Corporation,  Inc.  ("Purchaser");  and  Alexander & Alexander
                  Services  Inc.  ("A&A")  dated  as  of  December  11,  1996  -
                  incorporated   by   reference   to   Exhibit   (c)(1)  of  the
                  Registrant's Tender Offer Statement on Schedule 14D-1 filed by
                  the Registrant  with the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission
                  ("SEC") on December 16, 1996 (the "Schedule 14D-1").

         (ai)     First  Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Merger,  dated as of
                  January 7, 1997,  among the  Registrant,  Purchaser  and A&A -
                  incorporated  by reference  to Exhibit  (c)(3) to the Schedule
                  14D-1 filed by the Registrant with the SEC on January 9, 1997.



         (aj)     Agreement  and Plan of Merger  dated  July 16,  2001 among Aon
                  Corporation,   Ryan  Holding  Corporation  of  Illinois,  Ryan
                  Enterprises  Corporation of Illinois,  Holdco #1, Inc., Holdco
                  #2,   Inc.,   Patrick  G.  Ryan,   Shirley  W.  Ryan  and  the
                  stockholders  of Ryan Holding  Corporation  of Illinois and of
                  Ryan  Enterprises  Corporation  of  Illinois  set forth on the
                  signature pages thereto - incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                  10.1 to the  Registrant's  Quarterly  Report to the Securities
                  and  Exchange  Commission  on Form 10-Q for the Quarter  ended
                  June 30, 2001 (the "Second Quarter 2001 Form 10-Q").

         (ak)     Stock  Restriction  Agreement  dated  July 16,  2001 among Aon
                  Corporation, Patrick G. Ryan, Shirley W. Ryan, Patrick G. Ryan
                  Jr.,  Robert J.W.  Ryan,  the Corbett  M.W.  Ryan Living Trust
                  dated July 13,  2001,  the Patrick G. Ryan Living  Trust dated
                  July 10, 2001, the Shirley W. Ryan Living Trust dated July 10,
                  2001, the 2001 Ryan Annuity Trust dated April 20, 2001 and the
                  Family GST Trust under the PGR 2000 Trust dated  November  22,
                  2000 - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Second
                  Quarter 2001 Form 10-Q.

         (al)     Escrow  Agreement  dated July 16, 2001 among Aon  Corporation,
                  Patrick G. Ryan, Shirley W. Ryan, Patrick G. Ryan, Jr., Robert
                  J.W.  Ryan, the Corbett M. W. Ryan Living Trust dated July 13,
                  2001,  the Patrick G. Ryan Living  Trust dated July 10,  2001,
                  the Shirley W. Ryan Living Trust dated July 10, 2001, the 2001
                  Ryan  Annuity  Trust  dated  April 20, 2001 and the Family GST
                  Trust  under the PGR 2000 Trust  dated  November  22, 2000 and
                  American National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago, as escrow
                  agent -  incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.3 to the
                  Second Quarter 2001 Form 10-Q.

         (am)     Indenture dated December 13, 2001,  between the Registrant and
                  the Bank of New  York as  Trustee  (Floating  Rate  Notes  due
                  2003).

         (an)     Indenture dated December 13, 2001,  between the Registrant and
                  the Bank of New York as Trustee (6.2% Notes due 2007).

         (ao)     Indenture  dated  December 31, 2001  between  Private  Equity
                  Partnerships Structure I, LLC, as issuer and  the  Bank of New
                  York as Trustee, Custodian, Calculation Agent, Note Registrar,
                  Transfer Agent and Paying Agent.


(B)      REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

                  During the quarter  ended  December 31, 2001,  the  Registrant
         filed three Current Reports on Form 8-K.

                  (i)      A Current  Report on Form 8-K dated  November 8, 2001
                           reporting its third quarter 2001 results and updating
                           the status of its business  transformation  plan, the
                           impact of  September  11, 2001  attacks and  spin-off
                           plans.

                  (ii)     A Current  Report on Form 8-K dated  December 3, 2001
                           reporting pro-forma financial  statements relating to
                           previously  announced plans to spin-off its insurance
                           underwriting operations.

                  (iii)    A Current  Report on Form 8-K dated  December 4, 2001
                           announcing  that the Company had filed a $750 million
                           universal shelf  registration with the Securities and
                           Exchange Commission.




                                     SIGNATURES


         PURSUANT TO THE  REQUIREMENTS  OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON
ITS BEHALF BY THE  UNDERSIGNED,  THEREUNTO DULY  AUTHORIZED,  ON THE 15TH DAY OF
MARCH, 2002.

                                                Aon Corporation



                                                By: /s/ PATRICK G. RYAN
                                                   ----------------------------
                                                   Patrick G. Ryan, Chairman
                                                   and Chief Executive Officer

         Pursuant to the  requirements  of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,
this  Report has been  signed  below by the  following  persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.










 See notes to condensed financial statements.





 See notes to condensed financial statements





 See notes to condensed financial statements


                                                                      SCHEDULE I
                                                                     (CONTINUED)



                                 Aon Corporation
                                (Parent Company)
                     NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(1)      See  notes  to  consolidated   financial  statements   incorporated  by
         reference from the 2001 Annual Report.

(2)      Generally, the net assets of Aon's insurance subsidiaries available for
         transfer to the parent  company  are  limited to the  amounts  that the
         insurance  subsidiaries'  statutory net assets exceed minimum statutory
         capital requirements;  however, payments of the amounts as dividends in
         excess  of $101  million  may  be  subject to  approval  by  regulatory
         authorities.

(3)      In 2001,  Aon entered into a new committed  bank credit  facility under
         which certain  European  subsidiaries can borrow up to EUR 500 million.
         At December  31, 2001,  loans of EUR 269 million  ($239  million)  were
         outstanding under this facility.

         An indirect wholly-owned  subsidiary of Aon Corporation manages various
         investment portfolios, totaling $249 million at December 31, 2001, held
         in a collateral trust for the benefit of certain unaffiliated  entities
         and is  obligated  to produce  specified  investment  returns for those
         portfolios.   Aon  Corporation  has   unconditionally   guaranteed  the
         obligations of this subsidiary.

(4)      In 2001,  the Condensed  Statements of Cash Flows exclude the impact of
         certain non-cash  transfers  primarily related to notes receivable from
         subsidiaries and notes payable to subsidiaries.

(5)      During 2001, Aon Corporation (Parent Company) reclassified $520 million
         of notes  receivable -  subsidiaries  to  investments  in  subsidiaries
         related to its shared services operations.


























                         Cross Reference Sheet, Pursuant
                           to General Instruction G(4)

































