10-K


a2190897z10-k.htm

10-K

Use these links to rapidly review the document



UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

ý

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period
from                             to

Commission File Number 0-24206

Penn National Gaming, Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Pennsylvania

(State or other jurisdiction of

Incorporation or Organization)

23-2234473

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

825 Berkshire Blvd., Suite 200

Wyomissing, Pennsylvania

(Address of principal executive offices)


(Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (610) 373-2400

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each

exchange on which registered

None

None

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Common Stock, par value $.01 per share

Series B Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share

(Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act. Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act. Yes

o

No

ý

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days. Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not
be contained, to the best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting
company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer", "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act:

Large accelerated filer

ý

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Smaller reporting company

o

Indicate by a check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act). Yes

o

No

ý

As of June 30, 2008 (the last business day of the registrant's most recently completed second fiscal quarter), the aggregate market value of the voting
Common Stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $2.4 billion. Such aggregate market value was computed by reference to the closing price of the Common Stock
as reported on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on June 30, 2008. For purposes of making this calculation only, the registrant has defined affiliates as including all directors, executive
officers and beneficial owners of more than ten percent of the Common Stock of the Company.

The
number of shares of the registrant's Common Stock outstanding as of February 12, 2009 was 78,319,880.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant's definitive proxy statement for its 2009 annual meeting of shareholders are incorporated by reference into Part III.


Page

PART I

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS


ITEM 1A.

RISK FACTORS


ITEM 1B.

UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS


ITEM 2.

PROPERTIES


ITEM 3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS


ITEM 4.

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS


PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES


ITEM 6.

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA


ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


ITEM 7A.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK


ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA


ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE


ITEM 9A.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES


ITEM 9B.

OTHER INFORMATION


PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE


ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION


ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDERS MATTERS


ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE


ITEM 14.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES


PART IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES


i


IMPORTANT FACTORS REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This document includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended,
and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). These statements are included throughout the document, including the section entitled "Risk Factors,"
and relate to our business strategy, our prospects and our financial position. These statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes," "estimates," "expects,"
"intends," "may," "will," "should" or "anticipates" or the negative or other variation of these or similar words, or by discussions of future events, strategies or risks and uncertainties.
Specifically, forward-looking statements may include, among others, statements concerning:

•

our expectations of future results of operations or financial condition;

•

our expectations for our properties;

•

the timing, cost and expected impact of planned capital expenditures on our results of operations;

•

the impact of our geographic diversification;

•

our expectations with regard to further acquisitions and development opportunities, as well as the integration of any
companies we have acquired or may acquire;

•

the outcome and financial impact of the litigation in which we are or will be periodically involved;

•

the actions of regulatory, legislative, executive or judicial decisions at the federal, state or local level with regard
to our business and the impact of any such actions;

•

our ability to maintain regulatory approvals for our existing businesses and to receive regulatory approvals for new
businesses; and

•

our expectations for the continued availability and cost of capital.

Although
we believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, they are inherently subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about our
subsidiaries and us, and accordingly, our forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors
described below and in the information incorporated by reference herein. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include, without
limitation, risks related to the following:

•

the passage of state, federal or local legislation that would expand, restrict, negatively impact, further tax or prevent
gaming operations in or adjacent to the jurisdictions in which we do business;

•

increases in the effective rate of taxation at any of our properties or at the corporate level;

•

the activities of our competitors and the emergence of new competition;

•

successful completion of the various capital projects at our facilities;

•

the existence of attractive acquisition candidates and development opportunities, the costs and risks involved in the
pursuit of those acquisitions and opportunities and our ability to integrate those acquisitions and opportunities;

•

our ability to maintain regulatory approvals for our existing businesses and to receive regulatory approvals for new
businesses;

•

our dependence on key personnel;

ii


•

the effects of local and national economic, energy, credit, and capital markets on the economy in general and on the
gaming and lodging industries in particular;

•

the availability and cost of financing;

•

the impact of weather on our operations;

•

the maintenance of agreements with our horsemen, pari-mutuel clerks and other organized labor groups;

•

the impact of terrorism and other international hostilities; and

•

other factors as discussed in our filings with the United States ("U.S.") Securities and Exchange Commission.

All
subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements
included in this document. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as
required by law. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed in this document may not occur.

iii


PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Overview

We are a leading, diversified, multi-jurisdictional owner and manager of gaming and pari-mutuel properties. The Company was
incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1982 as PNRC Corp. and adopted its current name in 1994, when the Company became a public company. In 1997, we began our transition from a pari-mutuel
company to a diversified gaming company with the acquisition of the Charles Town property and the introduction of video lottery terminals in West Virginia. Since 1997, we have continued to expand our
gaming operations through strategic acquisitions, including the acquisitions of Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi, CRC Holdings, Inc., the Bullwhackers properties,
Hollywood Casino Corporation, Argosy Gaming Company ("Argosy"), Black Gold Casino at Zia Park, and Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club. We currently own or manage nineteen facilities in fifteen jurisdictions,
including Colorado, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Louisiana, Maine, Mississippi, Missouri, New Jersey, New Mexico, Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Ontario.

We
believe that our portfolio of assets provides us with a diversified cash flow from operations. We intend to continue to expand our gaming operations through the implementation of a
disciplined capital expenditure program at our existing properties and the continued pursuit of strategic acquisitions of gaming properties in attractive markets. In this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, the terms "we," "us," "our," "the Company" and "Penn National" refer to Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise.

Merger Announcement and Termination

On June 15, 2007, we announced that we had entered into a merger agreement that, at the effective time of the transactions
contemplated thereby, would have resulted in our shareholders receiving $67.00 per share. Specifically, we, PNG Acquisition Company Inc. ("Parent") and PNG Merger Sub Inc., a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent ("Merger Sub"), announced that we had entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 15, 2007 (the "Merger Agreement"), that provided, among
other things, for Merger Sub to be merged with and into us (the "Merger"), as a result of which we would have continued as the surviving corporation and would have become a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Parent. Parent is indirectly owned by certain funds managed by affiliates of Fortress Investment Group LLC ("Fortress") and Centerbridge Partners, L.P. ("Centerbridge").

On
July 3, 2008, we entered into an agreement with certain affiliates of Fortress and Centerbridge, terminating the Merger Agreement. In connection with the termination of the
Merger Agreement, we agreed to receive a total of $1.475 billion, consisting of a nonrefundable $225 million cash termination fee (the "Cash Termination Fee") and a $1.25 billion,
zero coupon, preferred equity investment (the "Investment"). Pursuant to the terms of the preferred equity purchase agreement, the purchasers made
a nonrefundable $475 million payment to us on July 3, 2008, in addition to the payment of the Cash Termination Fee. Under the terms of the purchase agreement, the purchasers deposited
the remaining preferred equity investment purchase consideration with an escrow agent, with the funds to be released from escrow upon the issuance of the Preferred Stock. On October 30, 2008,
following the receipt of required regulatory approvals and the satisfaction of certain other conditions, we closed the sale of the Investment and received the remaining preferred equity investment
purchase consideration of $775 million from the escrow agent.



Properties

The following table summarizes certain features of our owned properties and our managed property as of December 31, 2008:

Location

Type of Facility

Approx.

Gaming

Square

Footage

Gaming

Machines

Table

Games(1)

Hotel

Rooms

Owned Properties:

Charles Town Entertainment Complex

Charles Town, WV

Land-based gaming/

Thoroughbred racing

184,348

5,032

—


Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg

Lawrenceburg, IN

Dockside gaming

74,300

2,516



Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course(2)

Grantville, PA

Land-based gaming/

Thoroughbred racing

94,300

2,227

—

—

Hollywood Casino Aurora

Aurora, IL

Dockside gaming

53,000

1,172


—

Empress Casino Hotel

Joliet, IL

Dockside gaming

50,000

1,194



Argosy Casino Riverside

Riverside, MO

Dockside gaming

56,400

1,975



Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge

Baton Rouge, LA

Dockside gaming

28,000

1,145


—

Argosy Casino Alton

Alton, IL

Dockside gaming

23,000

1,100


—

Hollywood Casino Tunica

Tunica, MS

Dockside gaming

54,000

1,301



Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis

Bay St. Louis, MS

Land-based gaming

40,000

1,192



Argosy Casino Sioux City

Sioux City, IA

Dockside gaming

20,500



—

Boomtown Biloxi

Biloxi, MS

Dockside gaming

51,665

1,228


—

Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway(3)

Bangor, ME

Land-based gaming/

Harness racing

30,000

1,000

—


Bullwhackers

Black Hawk, CO

Land-based gaming

12,785


—

—

Black Gold Casino at Zia Park

Hobbs, New Mexico

Land-based gaming/

Thoroughbred racing

18,460


—

—

Raceway Park

Toledo, OH

Harness racing

—

—

—

—

Freehold Raceway(4)

Monmouth, NJ

Harness racing

—

—

—

—

Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club

Longwood, FL

Greyhound racing

—

—

—

—

Managed Property:

Casino Rama

Orillia, Ontario

Land-based gaming

93,000

2,535



Total

883,758

25,735


2,037

(1)

Excludes
poker tables.

(2)

Hollywood
Casino at Penn National Race Course includes our Pennsylvania casino that opened on February 12, 2008, as well as the Penn National Race
Course and four off-track wagering facilities ("OTWs").

(3)

On
July 1, 2008, the permanent Hollywood Slots at Bangor facility, which is called the Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway, was opened.

(4)

Pursuant
to a joint venture with Greenwood Limited Jersey, Inc., a subsidiary of Greenwood Racing, Inc.

Owned Properties

Charles Town Entertainment Complex

The complex is located within approximately a one-hour drive of the Baltimore, Maryland and Washington, D.C. markets, and
is the only gaming property located conveniently west of these two cities. The Charles Town Entertainment Complex has 184,348 square feet of gaming space, with 5,032 gaming machines, and a
153-room hotel, which opened to the public on September 5, 2008. The complex also features live thoroughbred racing at a refurbished,


/


-mile
all-weather, lighted thoroughbred racetrack with a 3,000-seat grandstand, parking for 6,048 vehicles and simulcast wagering and dining.



Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg

The Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg is located on the Ohio River in Lawrenceburg, Indiana, approximately 15 miles west of Cincinnati and is
the closest casino to the Cincinnati metropolitan area, its principal target market. The casino also services the major metropolitan markets of Dayton and Columbus, Ohio and, to a lesser extent,
Indianapolis, Indiana and Lexington, Kentucky. The casino has 74,300 square feet of gaming space on three levels with 2,516 slot machines, 59 table games and 17 poker tables. The complex also features
a 300-room hotel, a land-based entertainment pavilion and support facility featuring a 350-seat buffet restaurant, two specialty restaurants, an entertainment
lounge, a 1,710 space parking garage and a 1,640 space remote parking lot.

We
are moving forward with our Hollywood-theme expansion at the Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg property. The expansion includes a 1,500 space parking garage and pedestrian walkway, which
opened in May 2008, and a two-level 270,000 square foot gaming vessel, which is expected to open in the second quarter of 2009. The new riverboat will allow 3,617 positions on one
level and another 660 positions will be added to the second level, along with restaurants and other amenities on the gaming vessel.

Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course

Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course is located in Grantville, Pennsylvania, which is 15 miles northeast of Harrisburg, 100
miles west of Philadelphia and 200 miles east of Pittsburgh. Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course opened on February 12, 2008. The Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course is a
365,000 square foot facility, and is sized for 3,000 slot machines, with approximately 2,200 positions currently operating. The new facility also includes a food court, entertainment bar and lounge,
trackside dining room, a sports bar, a buffet and high-end steakhouse, as well as a simulcast facility and viewing area for live racing. The facility also includes a connected
five-story self parking garage, with capacity for approximately 2,200 cars and approximately 1,500 surface parking spaces for self and valet parking.

The
property includes a one-mile all-weather, lighted thoroughbred racetrack, and a


/


-mile turf track. The property also includes
approximately 400 acres that are available for future expansion or development. Penn National Race Course is one of only three operating thoroughbred racetracks in Pennsylvania.

Hollywood Casino Aurora

Hollywood Casino Aurora, part of the Chicagoland market, is located in Aurora, Illinois, the second largest city in Illinois,
approximately 35 miles west of Chicago. The facility is easily accessible from major highways, can be reached by train from downtown Chicago, and is approximately 30 miles from both the O'Hare
International and Midway airports. Hollywood Casino Aurora has a 53,000 square foot single-level dockside casino facility with 1,172 gaming machines, 20 gaming tables and 5 poker tables.

The
facility features two upscale lounges, a steakhouse, a buffet, a fast food outlet, and a private dining room for premium players. Hollywood Casino Aurora also has two parking garages
with approximately 1,564 parking spaces and a gift shop.

Empress Casino Hotel

The Empress Casino Hotel, part of the Chicagoland market, is located on the Des Plaines River in Joliet, Illinois, approximately 40
miles southwest of Chicago. This barge-based casino provides 50,000 square feet of gaming space on two levels with 1,194 slot machines, 20 table games and 3 poker tables.



The
casino features a 150,000 square foot entertainment pavilion with three restaurants, an entertainment lounge and banquet/conference facilities. The complex also includes a
100-room hotel, surface parking areas with approximately 1,616 spaces and an 80-space recreational vehicle park. On February 19, 2008, the Illinois Gaming Board resolved
to allow us to retain the Empress Casino Hotel. Previously, in connection with our acquisition of Argosy, we entered into an agreement with the Illinois Gaming Board in which we agreed, in part,
to enter into an agreement to divest the Empress Casino Hotel by December 31, 2006, which date was later extended to June 30, 2008, subject to us having the right to request that the
Illinois Gaming Board review and reconsider the terms of the agreement. As a result of this decision, we plan to invest $55 million in the facility, in order to improve its competitive position
in the market. We began these facility enhancements in late 2008 and expect the gaming vessel, food, beverage, VIP amenity upgrades and external improvements to be completed in the fourth quarter of
2009.

Argosy Casino Riverside

The Argosy Casino Riverside is located on the Missouri River approximately five miles from downtown Kansas City in Riverside, Missouri.
The casino primarily attracts customers who reside in the northern and western regions of the Kansas City metropolitan area. This Las Vegas-style casino features approximately 56,400 square feet of
gaming space with 1,975 slot machines, 39 table games and 8 poker tables.

This
state-of-the-art Mediterranean-themed casino features an innovative "floating" casino floor that provides a seamless transition between the
casino and land-based support areas, which include a Mediterranean-themed, nine-story, 258-room hotel and spa, an entertainment facility featuring 6 food and
beverage areas, including a buffet, steakhouse, deli, coffee bar, VIP lounge and sports/entertainment lounge and 19,000 square feet of banquet/conference facilities. Argosy Casino Riverside currently
has parking for approximately 3,000 vehicles.

Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge

Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge is currently one of two dockside riverboat gaming facilities operating in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. The
Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge property features a riverboat casino reminiscent of a nineteenth century Mississippi River paddlewheel steamboat. The riverboat features approximately 28,000 square feet
of gaming space, 1,145 gaming machines and 27 table games.

The
facility also includes a two-story, 58,000-square foot dockside building featuring a variety of amenities, including a steakhouse, a 268-seat
buffet, a premium players' lounge, a nightclub that doubles as a players' event area, a lobby bar, a public atrium, two meeting rooms, 1,548 parking spaces, a players' club booth and a gift shop.

In
December 2007, we agreed to acquire 3.8 acres of adjacent land and to pay for half of the construction costs (subject to a ceiling of $3.8 million) for a railroad underpass
with the seller of the land. The underpass will provide unimpeded access to the casino property and to property owned by the seller for future development. Subject to the satisfaction of various
conditions, construction on the underpass may begin in the second quarter of 2009.

Argosy Casino Alton

The Argosy Casino Alton is located on the Mississippi River in Alton, Illinois, approximately 20 miles northeast of downtown
St. Louis. The target customers of the Argosy Casino Alton are drawn largely from the northern and eastern regions of the greater St. Louis metropolitan area, as well as portions of
central and southern Illinois. The Argosy Casino Alton is a three-deck gaming facility featuring 23,000 square feet of gaming space with 1,100 slot machines and 18 table games.



The
Argosy Casino Alton includes an entertainment pavilion and features a 124-seat buffet, a restaurant and a 400-seat main showroom. The facility includes
parking areas with 1,258 spaces.

Hollywood Casino Tunica

Hollywood Casino Tunica is located in Tunica, Mississippi. Tunica County is the closest resort gaming jurisdiction to, and is easily
accessible from, the Memphis, Tennessee metropolitan area. The Tunica market has become a regional destination resort, attracting customers from surrounding markets such as Nashville, Tennessee,
Atlanta, Georgia, St. Louis, Missouri, Little Rock, Arkansas, and Tulsa, Oklahoma. Hollywood Casino Tunica features 54,000 square feet of gaming space at a single-level casino with 1,301 slot
machines, 28 table games and 6 poker tables.

Hollywood
Casino Tunica's 494-room hotel and 123-space recreational vehicle park provide overnight accommodations for its patrons. The casino includes multimedia
displays of memorabilia from famous adventure motion pictures. Additional entertainment amenities include a
steakhouse, the Hollywood Epic Buffet®, a 1950's-style diner, an entertainment lounge, a premium players' club, a themed bar facility, a non-smoking slot room, an indoor pool
and showroom as well as banquet and meeting facilities. There is also an 18-hole championship golf course adjacent to the facility that is owned and operated through a joint venture of
three gaming companies. In addition, Hollywood Casino Tunica offers parking for 1,635 cars.

Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis

Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis is located in Bay St. Louis, Mississippi. Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis offers a
40,000 square foot casino, and features 21 table games, 6 poker tables and 1,192 slot machines.

The
waterfront Hollywood Hotel features 291 rooms and a 10,000 square foot ballroom, including nine separate meeting rooms offering more than 17,000 square feet of meeting space.
Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis offers live concerts and various entertainment on weekends in the ballroom. The property also features The Bridges golf course, an 18-hole
championship golf course. Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis has three restaurants including Tuscany Steaks & Seafood® (fine dining), the Hollywood Epic Buffet and Jackpot
Java®, a 24-hour cafe. Other amenities include a RV Park with 100 sites and Tokens gift shop.

Argosy Casino Sioux City

The Argosy Casino Sioux City is located on the Missouri River in downtown Sioux City, Iowa. The riverboat features 20,500 square feet
of gaming space with approximately 702 slot machines, 19 table games and 4 poker tables. The casino is complemented by adjacent barge facilities featuring dining facilities, meeting space, and 389
parking spaces.

Boomtown Biloxi

Boomtown Biloxi is located in Biloxi, Mississippi. On January 18, 2008, we reopened our buffet which was closed for the first
few weeks of 2008 for an approximately $4.0 million renovation to expand the offerings, change the décor, and create separate live-action cooking stations. In
conjunction with the renovation, we also opened the Grill, which is a
24-hour deli which also houses our famous bakery. Boomtown Biloxi offers 51,665 square feet of gaming space with 1,228 slot machines, 18 table games and 5 poker tables.



Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway

Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway is situated near historic Bass Park, where Bangor Raceway is also located, in Bangor, Maine. The
permanent facility opened on July 1, 2008. The facility includes two eateries, Hollywood Epic Buffet and Take2, a small entertainment stage, four-story parking with 1,500 parking
spaces and 30,000 square feet of gaming space with 1,000 slot machines and a 152-room hotel.

Bangor
Raceway is located at historic Bass Park in downtown Bangor, Maine. Harness racing has been conducted continuously at Bass Park since 1893 and it was once part of racing's Grand
Circuit during the 1920s. In 2008, Bangor Raceway conducted 54 days of harness racing from late April through early November on its one-half mile track. We plan to increase the
number of racing days to 61 for the same period in 2009. With over 12,000 square feet of space, Bangor Raceway can seat 3,500 patrons and features a small cocktail lounge.

Bullwhackers

The Bullwhackers properties include the Bullwhackers Casino and the adjoining Bullpen Casino. On August 21, 2008, the Silver
Hawk Casino, which had been a Bullwhackers property, was closed for business. The Bullwhackers properties, which are located in Black Hawk, Colorado, include 12,785 square feet of gaming space and 666
slot machines. The properties also include a 344-car parking area.

Black Gold Casino at Zia Park

Black Gold Casino at Zia Park includes the Black Gold Casino and the adjoining Zia Park Racetrack. Black Gold Casino at Zia Park is
located in Hobbs, New Mexico and includes 18,460 square feet of gaming space and 750 slot machines. The property operates three restaurants consisting of the Black Gold Buffet offering lunch and
dinner, the Black Gold Steakhouse offering dinner nightly, and the Homestretch Bar & Grill serving burgers and sandwiches daily for lunch and dinner with live entertainment on the weekends. The
property also includes a one-mile oval quarter/thoroughbred racetrack, which was utilized for 53 days in 2008, and a simulcast parlor, which is utilized year-round.
Banquet services are available in the Turf Club, which also offers food and beverage services during the live racing season.

Raceway Park

Raceway Park is a 58,250 square foot facility, with a


/


-mile harness racing track located in Toledo, Ohio.
The facility also features simulcast wagering and has a 1,977 theatre-style seating capacity and parking for 3,000 vehicles.

Freehold Raceway

Through our joint venture, we own 50% of Freehold Raceway, located in Freehold in Western Monmouth County, New Jersey. The property
features a half-mile oval harness track and a 150,000 square foot grandstand.

Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club

Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club is a


/


mile greyhound facility located in Longwood, Florida. The facility has a capacity
for 6,500 patrons, with seating for 4,000 and parking for 2,500 vehicles. The facility conducts year-round greyhound racing, as well as year-round horse racing simulcasts. The
first race meeting at Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club was in 1935.



Off-track Wagering Facilities

Our OTWs and racetracks provide areas for viewing import simulcast races of thoroughbred and harness horse racing, televised sporting
events, placing pari-mutuel wagers and dining. We operate four of the seventeen OTWs currently in operation in Pennsylvania. Only licensed racing associations can operate OTWs or accept
customer wagers on simulcast races. We have been transmitting simulcasts of our races to other OTWs, thoroughbred and harness horse racetracks, and greyhound dog racetracks throughout the world, and
receiving simulcasts of races from other thoroughbred and harness horse racetracks for wagering by customers at our OTWs and our horse racetrack facilities, year-round, for many years.
Import simulcasts typically include races from premier horse racetracks such as Belmont Park, Churchill Downs, Gulfstream Park, Hollywood Park, Santa Anita and Saratoga.

Account Wagering/Internet Wagering

In 1983, we pioneered Telebet®, the complete account wagering operation for Penn National Race Course. The platform offers
account wagering on more than 80 United States ("U.S.") racetracks, and currently has more than 12,900 active account betting customers from the 14 U.S. states that permit account wagering as well as
the U.S. Virgin Islands.

We
have also developed strategic relationships to further our wagering activities. In August 1999, we entered into an agreement with eBet Limited, an Internet wagering operation in
Australia, to license their eBetUSA.com technology in the U.S. Through eBetUSA.com, Inc., our wholly-owned subsidiary, we use the eBetUSA.com technology to permit on-line
pari-mutuel horseracing wagering over the internet in selected jurisdictions with the approval of the Pennsylvania State Horse Racing Commission and applicable federal and state laws,
rules and regulations, as permitted. We currently accept wagers from residents of 14 U.S. states and the U.S. Virgin Islands.

Managed Gaming Property

Casino Rama

Through CHC Casinos Canada Limited, our indirectly wholly-owned subsidiary, we manage Casino Rama, a full service gaming and
entertainment facility, on behalf of the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation, an agency of the Province of Ontario. Casino Rama is located on the lands of the Rama First Nation, approximately 90
miles north of Toronto. The property has approximately 93,000 square feet of gaming space, 2,535 gaming machines, 105 table games and 12 poker tables. In addition, the property includes a
5,000-seat entertainment facility, a 289-room hotel and 3,170 parking spaces.

The
Development and Operating Agreement (the "Agreement"), which we refer to as the management service contract for Casino Rama, sets out the duties, rights and obligations of CHC
Casinos Canada Limited and our wholly-owned subsidiary, CRC Holdings, Inc. CHC Casinos Canada Limited substantially relies on our experience, know-how, guidance and assistance to
carry out the duties and obligations under the Agreement. The compensation under the Agreement is a base fee equal to 2.0% of gross revenues of the casino and an incentive fee equal to 5.0% of the
casino's net operating profit.

The
Agreement terminates on July 31, 2011, and the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation has the option to extend the term of the Agreement for two successive periods of five
years each, commencing on August 1, 2011.

Trademarks

We own a number of trademarks registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office ("U.S. PTO"), including but not limited to,
"Telebet," "The World Series of Handicapping," and "Players' Choice." We also have a number of trademark applications pending with the U.S. PTO.



BTN, Inc., our wholly-owned subsidiary, entered into a License Agreement with Boomtown, Inc., dated August 8, 2000 pursuant to which it uses
"Boomtown" and other trademarks.

As
a result of our acquisitions of Hollywood Casino Corporation and Argosy, we own the service marks "Hollywood Casino" and "Argosy" which are registered with the U.S. PTO. We believe
that our rights to the "Hollywood Casino" and "Argosy" service marks are well established and have competitive value to the Hollywood Casino and Argosy properties. We have also acquired other
trademarks used by the Hollywood Casino and Argosy facilities and their related services. These marks are either registered or are the subject of pending applications with the U.S. PTO.

Competition

Gaming Operations

The gaming industry is characterized by a high degree of competition among a large number of participants, including riverboat casinos,
dockside casinos, land-based casinos, video lottery and poker machines not located in casinos, Native American gaming, Internet gaming and other forms of gambling in the U.S. In a broader
sense, our gaming operations face competition from all manner of leisure and entertainment activities, including shopping, high school, collegiate and professional athletic events, television and
movies, concerts and travel. Legalized gaming is currently permitted in various forms throughout the U.S., in several Canadian provinces and on various lands taken into trust for the benefit of
certain Native Americans in the U.S. and Canada. Other jurisdictions, including states adjacent to states in which we currently have facilities (such as proposed sites in Kansas and Maryland), may
legalize and implement gaming in the near future. In addition, established gaming jurisdictions could award additional gaming licenses or permit the expansion or relocation of existing gaming
operations. New, relocated or expanded operations by other persons will increase competition for our gaming operations and could have a material adverse impact on us.

Charles Town, West Virginia.

Our gaming machine operations at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex face competition in the neighboring
states of
Pennsylvania, Delaware and New Jersey. On June 9, 2007, the citizens of Jefferson County, West Virginia, voted against the placement of table games at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex.
According to the West Virginia Lottery Racetrack Table Games Act, we are required to wait at least two years from June 9, 2007 before we can propose another table games referendum vote. In
Pennsylvania, slot operations have commenced at Philadelphia Park, Mohegan Sun at Pocono Downs, Chester Downs, The Meadows, Mount Airy Casino Resort and Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course
(which is also our property). These additions have had a negative impact on our business from Pennsylvania, however, we estimate that less than 7% of our slot revenue is derived from this region. In
November 2008, the citizens of Maryland approved a referendum to allow up to 15,000 slot machines at five locations throughout the state. These locations include a facility in each of Cecil, Allegany,
Anne Arundel, Baltimore City and Worchester counties. Applications for each of the gaming zones were submitted in February 2009. Any significant increase in the competition in the region could
negatively impact the operations of Charles Town Entertainment Complex.

Lawrenceburg, Indiana.

The Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg is the closest casino to the Cincinnati metropolitan area, and faces competition
from two other
riverboat casinos in the Cincinnati market, plus two recently opened racetrack casinos in the greater Indianapolis area. The nearest competitor is located approximately 15 miles further south of
Lawrenceburg in Rising Sun, Indiana. Another competitor is located 40 miles from Lawrenceburg in Switzerland County, Indiana. In 2007, the Indiana Legislature passed a law allowing up to 2,000 slot
machines at each of two racetracks in Indianapolis, approximately 90 miles northwest of Lawrenceburg. Both of these racetracks re-opened with slots in June 2008. One of the two racinos
opened their slot operations in a temporary facility and will open a permanent structure in March 2009. These two Indianapolis racinos have adversely affected our total



market
share by as much as 15%, on a combined basis. Casino gaming is not currently permitted under the laws of either Ohio or Kentucky. The Ohio legislature has considered, at various times,
legislation that would allow Ohio voters to approve certain types of casino gaming at racetracks. In November 2008, "Issue 6" was defeated by Ohio voters and, if approved, would have allowed for one
operator to open one land-based casino in the state, located north of Cincinnati on Interstate 71, between Cincinnati and Columbus. In 2006, Ohio voters also rejected a proposed
constitutional amendment that would have established a tuition grant program for Ohio students to attend public or private colleges in the state by allowing up to 3,500 slot machines at each of the
state's seven existing racetracks and two locations in downtown Cleveland. Legislation has been introduced in Kentucky to allow gaming at racetracks and casinos, subject to referendum. To date,
neither Ohio nor Kentucky has enacted such proposed legislation. The commencement of casino gaming in Ohio or Kentucky could have an adverse effect on the financial results of our Lawrenceburg casino.

Grantville, Pennsylvania.

The Pennsylvania Race Horse Development and Gaming Act, which was signed in 2004, authorized up to 5,000 slot
machines at
each of seven harness/thoroughbred racetracks and five stand-alone slot facilities, as well as 500 slot machines at each of two authorized resort facilities. Currently, slot machines are authorized
and operating at six of the seven existing racetrack facilities, as well as one stand-alone facility, with a second stand-alone facility in Bethlehem expected to be open in the second quarter of 2009.
Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course faces competition from these other Pennsylvania facilities, as well as casinos located in Delaware, New Jersey, and West Virginia. In addition, in
November 2008, the citizens of Maryland approved a referendum to allow up to 15,000 slot machines at five locations throughout the state, for which applications were submitted in February 2009. Any
other significant increase in the competition in the region, including the approval to operate table games at our property in West Virginia, could negatively impact the operations of Hollywood Casino
at Penn National Race Course. In 2008, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania passed legislation which authorized a partial ban on smoking in casino facilities, including a limit on the amount of casino
floor space that could be designated as "smoking." For the last four months of 2008, Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course was limited to smoking sections on only 25% of its casino floor.
Under terms of the legislation, early in 2009, Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course was able to expand smoking sections to 50% of its casino floor. The legislation does not allow any further
expansion of smoking areas. In addition, the Governor of Pennsylvania recently included in his 2009-2010 budget proposal a plan to legalize video lottery terminals at bars and
private clubs across the state; approval of this could significantly impact the gaming business in Grantville.

Chicagoland.

Aurora and Joliet are part of the Chicagoland market that includes properties in the Chicago suburbs in both Illinois and
northern
Indiana. Hollywood Casino Aurora and Empress Casino Hotel face competition from numerous other riverboat casinos in the Chicago-area market, dockside casinos that are located in Illinois
and dockside casinos that are located in Indiana. Due to significantly higher gaming taxes imposed on Illinois riverboats, the Indiana riverboats have been able to spend greater amounts on marketing
and other amenities, which has significantly increased their ability to compete with the Illinois riverboats. Any increase in gaming taxes or admission fees imposed on Illinois riverboats could have
an adverse impact on the financial results of our Chicagoland casinos. Effective January 1, 2008, casinos in Illinois became smoke-free due to state legislation and smoking areas
are required to be outside of the facility. The casinos in Indiana continue to have smoking permitted in all areas providing them with a significant competitive advantage. In addition, after a major
remodel, Harrah's reopened the Horseshoe casino in northern Indiana in August 2008.

New
competition in Illinois is currently limited by state legislation. The Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act and the regulations promulgated by the Illinois Gaming Board under the
Riverboat Gambling Act authorize only 10 owner licenses for riverboat gaming operations in Illinois and permit a maximum of 1,200 gaming positions at any time for each of the 10 licensed sites. All
authorized



owners'
licenses have now been granted, with the final license, which was dormant for several years, being issued in December 2008. The new gaming operation is expected to be opened in eighteen to
twenty-four months in Des Plaines, Illinois. We will face additional competition as the facility will be located in the suburban area northwest of Chicago. The legislature has considered,
at various times, legislation that would expand gaming in the state of Illinois. Should the Illinois legislature enact such gaming-expansion legislation, the financial results of our Chicagoland
casinos could be adversely affected.

In
May 2006, the Illinois Legislature passed into law House Bill 1918, effective May 26, 2006, which singled out four of the nine Illinois casinos, including our Empress Casino
Hotel and Hollywood Casino Aurora, for a 3% tax surcharge to subsidize local horse racing interests. On May 30, 2006, Empress Casino Hotel and Hollywood Casino Aurora joined with the two other
riverboats affected by the law, Harrah's Joliet and the Grand Victoria Casino in Elgin, and filed suit in Circuit Court of the Twelfth Judicial District in Will County, Illinois (the "Court"), asking
the Court to declare the law unconstitutional. Empress Casino Hotel and Hollywood Casino Aurora began paying the 3% tax surcharge into a protest fund which accrues interest during the pendency of the
lawsuit. In two orders dated March 29, 2007 and April 20, 2007, the Court declared the law unconstitutional under the Uniformity Clause of the Illinois Constitution and enjoined the
collection of this tax surcharge. The State of Illinois requested, and was granted, a stay of this ruling. As a result, Empress Casino Hotel and Hollywood Casino Aurora continued paying the 3% tax
surcharge into the protest fund until
May 25, 2008, when the 3% tax surcharge expired. The State of Illinois appealed the ruling to the Illinois Supreme Court. On June 5, 2008, the Illinois Supreme Court reversed the trial
court's ruling and issued a decision upholding the constitutionality of the 3% tax surcharge. On January 21, 2009, the four casino plaintiffs filed a petition for certiorari, requesting the
U.S. Supreme Court to hear the case. The accumulated funds will be returned to Empress Casino Hotel and Hollywood Casino Aurora if they ultimately prevail in the lawsuit.

On
December 15, 2008, former Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich signed Public Act No. 95-1008 requiring the same four casinos to continue paying the 3% tax
surcharge to subsidize Illinois horse racing interests. On January 8, 2009, the four casinos filed suit in the Circuit Court of the Twelfth Judicial District in Will County, Illinois, asking
the Court to declare the law unconstitutional. The 3% tax surcharge being paid pursuant to Public Act No. 95-1008 is paid into a protest fund where it accrues interest. The
accumulated funds will be returned to Empress Casino Hotel and Hollywood Casino Aurora if they ultimately prevail in the lawsuit.

Riverside, Missouri.

The Argosy Casino Riverside currently faces competition from three other casinos in its market. In November 2008,
legislation
was enacted in Missouri that increased gaming taxes, while removing the loss limit in the state. The Kansas legislature has approved legislation to expand casino gaming in its state, but the Kansas
regulators have yet to award licenses in gaming zones which could compete with Argosy Casino Riverside. The expansion of casino gaming, when implemented in Kansas, could have an adverse effect on our
Riverside casino's financial results.

Baton Rouge, Louisiana.

Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge faces competition from land-based and riverboat casinos throughout Louisiana and
on
the Mississippi Gulf Coast, casinos on Native American lands and from non-casino gaming opportunities within Louisiana. The principal competitor to Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge is the
Belle of Baton Rouge, which is the only other licensed riverboat casino in Baton Rouge. We face competition from eleven casinos on the Mississippi Gulf Coast, which is approximately 120 miles east of
Baton Rouge; many of these casinos are destination resorts that attract customers from the Baton Rouge area. Subsequent to Hurricane Katrina, Mississippi Gulf Coast casinos are allowed to operate as
land-based facilities. Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge also faces competition from two major riverboat casinos, one land-based casino in the New Orleans area, which is
approximately 75 miles from Baton Rouge, and three Native American casinos in Louisiana. The two closest Native American casinos are land-based facilities located approximately 45 miles
southwest and



approximately
65 miles northwest of Baton Rouge. We face competition from a racetrack located approximately 55 miles from Baton Rouge operating approximately 1,500 gaming machines. We also face
competition from approximately 3,000 video poker machines located in truck stops, restaurants, bars and off-track betting facilities located in certain surrounding parishes. In addition,
another gaming operator received approval from the Louisiana Gaming Control Board for a third riverboat casino in Baton Rouge that was subject to a local option referendum subsequently approved by
East Baton Rouge Parish voters on February 9, 2008. If the project receives the remaining local approvals and entitlements, and the operator is successful in raising the capital required to
construct the facility, the financial results of Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge could be adversely affected.

Alton, Illinois.

The Argosy Casino Alton faces competition from five other riverboat casinos currently operating in the St. Louis,
Missouri
area, including one other Illinois licensee. In addition, a casino project in south St. Louis County is in development and a competitor of the Argosy Casino Alton has announced that they
intend, subject to regulatory approval, to relocate their license north of their current site to a location closer to Argosy Casino Alton, which could adversely affect business. Effective
January 1, 2008, casinos in Illinois became smoke-free due to state legislation. The casinos in Missouri continue to have smoking permitted in all areas, providing them with a
significant competitive advantage, and have recently repealed their $500 loss limit. Should the Illinois legislature enact gaming-expansion legislation or increase admission or gaming taxes, our Alton
casino's financial results could be adversely affected.

Tunica County, Mississippi.

Hollywood Casino Tunica faces intense competition from nine other casinos operating in north Tunica County
and Coahoma
County. The Tunica County market is segregated into two casino clusters, Casino Center and Casino Strip, where Hollywood Casino Tunica is located, as well as three stand-alone properties. In addition,
we compete with another casino located approximately 40 miles south of the Casino Strip cluster in Coahoma County. The close proximity of the casinos in Tunica County has contributed to the
competition between casinos because it allows consumers to visit a variety of casinos in a short period of time. The Mississippi Gaming Control Act does not limit the number of licenses that may be
granted. Any significant increase in new competition in or around Tunica County could negatively impact the operations of Hollywood Casino Tunica.

Hollywood
Casino Tunica also competes to some extent with a land-based casino complex operated by the Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians in central Mississippi,
approximately 200 miles south and east of Memphis, Tennessee. In addition, Hollywood Casino Tunica may eventually face competition from the opening of gaming casinos closer to Memphis, such as in
DeSoto County, Mississippi, which is the only county between Tunica County and the Tennessee border. DeSoto County has defeated gaming proposals on three separate occasions, the last being in November
1996. In November 2006, Southland Park Gaming & Racing, formerly Southland Greyhound Park, in West Memphis, Arkansas, opened a $40 million gaming facility with nearly 1,000 electronic
"games of skill." The facility is located across the Mississippi River from Memphis. Casino gaming is not currently legalized in Tennessee; however, the legalization of gaming in Tennessee could have
an adverse impact on Hollywood Casino Tunica.

Mississippi Gulf Coast.

As a result of Hurricane Katrina's direct hit on the Mississippi Gulf Coast on August 29, 2005, two of our
casinos,
Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi, were significantly damaged, many employees were displaced and operations ceased at the two properties. Boomtown Biloxi reopened on
June 29, 2006 and Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis reopened on August 31, 2006. Prior to Hurricane Katrina, dockside gaming grew rapidly on the Mississippi Gulf Coast, increasing
from no dockside casinos in March 1992 to twelve operating dockside casinos on December 31, 2004. Nine of these facilities were located in Biloxi, two were located in Gulfport and one was
located in Bay St. Louis. As of December 31, 2008, eight of the casinos in Biloxi re-opened, including our casinos, one of the Gulfport casinos reopened and two Bay
St. Louis properties opened in 2006. Prior to Hurricane Katrina, our Bay St. Louis property was the only casino in the Bay



St. Louis
market, whereas there are now two casinos in the Bay St. Louis market. In addition, in the Bay St. Louis market, there are various proposals for casinos in development,
as well as expansions at existing properties, that may take place in the next few years, though none are anticipated to be completed in 2009.

During
the 2005 special session of the Mississippi legislature, a bill to allow Gulf Coast casinos to rebuild on land was approved and signed by the Governor of Mississippi. In addition,
the Mississippi Gaming Control Act does not limit the number of licenses that may be granted and there are a number of additional sites located in the Gulf Coast region that are in various stages of
development. Any significant increase in the competition in the region could negatively impact our existing operations.

Sioux City, Iowa.

The Argosy Casino Sioux City competes primarily with land-based Native American casinos that are not required to
report
gaming revenues and other operating statistics, therefore market comparisons cannot be made. In June 2006, Wild Rose Casino & Resort opened in Emmetsburg, Iowa. We also compete with certain
providers and operators of video gaming in the neighboring state of South Dakota. Additionally, to a lesser extent, we compete with slot machines at a pari-mutuel racetrack in Council
Bluffs, Iowa, and with two riverboat casinos in the Council Bluffs/Omaha, Nebraska market, approximately 90 miles south of Sioux City.

Bangor, Maine.

Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway is the only facility with slot machines in the state of Maine. The closest competitors
offering slot
machines are Foxwoods and Mohegan Sun in Connecticut, Newport Grand Casino in Rhode Island and Horizon's Edge casino cruise ship operating in Lynn, Massachusetts, all approximately 300 miles away.

Black Hawk, Colorado.

The Black Hawk gaming market is characterized by intense competition. The primary competitive factors in the
market are
location, availability and convenience of parking, number of slot machines and gaming tables, promotional incentives, types and pricing of non-gaming amenities, name recognition and
overall atmosphere. There are currently 18 gaming facilities in the Black Hawk market and six gaming facilities in nearby Central City.

Hobbs, New Mexico.

The closest competitors to Black Gold Casino at Zia Park are located in New Mexico, and are approximately 190 and
250 miles from
Hobbs. Hobbs is located very close to the Texas border, and the political developments in Texas are monitored closely. Currently, there is no legalized gaming in Texas which, if legalized, could
greatly impact Black Gold Casino at Zia Park. In New Mexico, the Governor signed a new compact with the tribal casinos limiting the future expansion of gaming facilities in the state.

Ontario.

Casino Rama faces competition in Ontario from three other commercial casinos, six charity casinos and 17 racetracks with
gaming machines in
the province. All of the casinos (including Casino Rama) and gaming machine facilities are operated by or on behalf of the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation, an agency of the Province of Ontario.

There
are two charity casinos and seven racetracks with gaming machine facilities that directly affect Casino Rama. The two charity casinos together have 114 gaming tables and 1,059
gaming machines. The number of gaming machines at the racetracks ranges from 200 to over 2,009 each. There are also two commercial casinos located in Niagara Falls, Ontario, 80 miles southwest of
Toronto with a total of 172 gaming tables and 4,823 gaming machines.

Racing Operations

Our racing operations face significant competition for wagering dollars from other racetracks and OTWs, some of which also offer other
forms of gaming, as well as other gaming venues such as casinos. Our account wagering operations compete with other providers of such services throughout the country. We also may face competition in
the future from new OTWs, new racetracks or new providers



of
account wagering. From time to time, states consider legislation to permit other forms of gaming. If additional gaming opportunities become available near our racing operations, such gaming
opportunities could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

U.S. and Foreign Revenues

Our net revenues from continuing operations in the U.S. for 2008, 2007 and 2006 were approximately $2,406.4 million,
$2,419.5 million and $2,226.4 million, respectively. Our revenues from operations in Canada for 2008, 2007 and 2006 were approximately $16.7 million, $17.3 million and
$18.1 million, respectively.

Segments

In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information," we view each property as an operating segment, and aggregate all of our properties into one reportable segment, as we believe that they are economically similar, offer similar types of
products and services, cater to the same types of customers and are similarly regulated.

Management

Name

Age

Position

Peter M. Carlino


Chief Executive Officer

Timothy J. Wilmott


President and Chief Operating Officer

William J. Clifford


Senior Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer

Thomas P. Burke


Senior Vice President-Regional Operations

John V. Finamore


Senior Vice President-Regional Operations

Robert S. Ippolito


Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer

Jordan B. Savitch


Senior Vice President and General Counsel

Steven T. Snyder


Senior Vice President-Corporate Development

Peter M. Carlino.

Mr. Carlino has served as our Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer since April 1994.
Since 1976,
Mr. Carlino has been President of Carlino Capital Management Corp. (formerly known as Carlino Financial Corporation), a holding company that owns and operates various Carlino family businesses,
in which capacity he has been continuously active in strategic planning and monitoring the operations.

Timothy J. Wilmott.

Mr. Wilmott joined us in February 2008 as President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Wilmott most
recently served
as Chief Operating Officer of Harrah's Entertainment, a position he held for approximately four years. In this position, he oversaw the operations of all of Harrah's revenue-generating businesses,
including 48 casinos, 38,000 hotel rooms and 300 restaurants. All Harrah's Division Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents of Brand Operations, Marketing and Information Technology personnel reported to
Mr. Wilmott in his capacity as Chief Operating Officer. Prior to his appointment to the position of Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Wilmott served from 1997 to 2002 as Division President of
Harrah's Eastern Division with responsibility for the operations of eight Harrah's properties.

William J. Clifford.

Mr. Clifford joined us in August 2001 and was appointed to his current position as Senior Vice
President-Finance and
Chief Financial Officer in October 2001. From March 1997 to July 2001, Mr. Clifford served as the Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of Finance with Sun International
Resorts, Inc., Paradise Island, Bahamas. From November 1993 to February 1997, Mr. Clifford was Financial, Hotel and Operations Controller for Treasure Island Hotel



and
Casino in Las Vegas. From May 1989 to November 1993, Mr. Clifford was Controller for Golden Nugget Hotel and Casino, Las Vegas. Prior to May 1989, Mr. Clifford held the positions of
Controller for the Dunes Hotel and Casino, Las Vegas, Property Operations Analyst with Aladdin Hotel and Casino, Las Vegas, Casino Administrator with Las Vegas Hilton, Las Vegas, Senior Internal
Auditor with Del Webb, Las Vegas, and Agent, Audit Division, of the Nevada Gaming Control Board, Las Vegas and Reno.

Thomas P. Burke.

Mr. Burke joined us in November 2002, and was appointed to his current position of Senior Vice President-Regional
Operations
effective October 2008. In this position, Mr. Burke is responsible for overseeing all facets of our facilities located in Colorado, Iowa, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, and New Mexico.
Previously, Mr. Burke served as Vice President and General Manager of our Argosy Casino Riverside from June 2006 until October 2008 and as President and General Manager of our Bullwhackers
properties from November 2002 until June 2006. Prior to joining us, Mr. Burke held senior management positions at Ameristar Casinos, Station Casinos, Trump Taj Mahal Casino Resort and Trump
Castle Hotel/Casino, American Gaming and Entertainment and the Majestic Star Casino.

John V. Finamore.

Mr. Finamore joined us in November 2002 as Senior Vice President-Regional Operations. In this position,
Mr. Finamore
is responsible for overseeing all facets of our facilities located in Florida, Illinois, Maine, New Jersey, Ohio, Ontario, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia. Prior to joining us, Mr. Finamore
served as President of Missouri Operations for Ameristar Casinos, Inc. from December of 2000 until February of 2002 and President of Midwest Operations for Station Casinos, Inc. from
July 1998 until November 2000. Mr. Finamore has over 28 years of gaming industry and hotel management experience.

Robert S. Ippolito.

In July 2001, we appointed Mr. Ippolito to the position of Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer.
Mr. Ippolito
has served as our Secretary and Treasurer since April 1994 and as our Chief Financial Officer from April 1994 until July 2001. Mr. Ippolito brings more than 24 years of gaming and
racing experience to the management team both as a manager at a major accounting firm and as an officer of companies in the racing business.

Jordan B. Savitch.

Mr. Savitch joined us in September 2002 as Senior Vice President and General Counsel. From June 1999 to April
2002,
Mr. Savitch served as a director and senior executive at iMedium, Inc., a venture-backed software company offering innovative software solutions for increasing sales effectiveness. From
1995 to 1999, Mr. Savitch served as senior corporate counsel at Safeguard Scientifics, Inc., a NYSE-listed company specializing in identifying, developing and operating
emerging technology companies. Mr. Savitch also spent four years in private practice as an associate at Willkie Farr & Gallagher, LLP in New York, New York.

Steven T. Snyder.

Mr. Snyder joined us in May 1998, and from 1998 through 2001 served as Vice President of Corporate Development.
In June
2003, he accepted the position of Senior Vice President of Corporate Development and is responsible for identifying and conducting internal and industry analysis of potential acquisitions,
partnerships and other opportunities. Prior to joining us, Mr. Snyder was a partner with Hamilton Partners, Ltd., as well as Managing Director of Municipal and Corporate Investment
Banking for Meridian Capital Markets. Mr. Snyder began his career in finance at Butcher & Singer, where he served as First Vice President of Public Finance.



Governmental Regulations

The gaming and racing industries are highly regulated, and we must maintain our licenses and pay gaming taxes to continue our
operations. Each of our facilities is subject to extensive regulation under the laws, rules and regulations of the jurisdiction where it is located. These laws, rules and regulations generally concern
the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners, managers, and persons with financial interests in the gaming operations. Violations of laws or regulations in one jurisdiction
could result in disciplinary action in other jurisdictions. A more detailed description of the regulations to which we are subject is contained in Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Our
businesses are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations in addition to gaming regulations. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to,
restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. Such laws and
regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. Material changes, new laws or regulations, or material differences in
interpretations by courts or governmental authorities could adversely affect our operating results.

Employees and Labor Relations

As of December 31, 2008, we had 14,693 full- and part-time employees.

We
are required to have agreements with the horsemen at each of our racetracks to conduct our live racing and simulcasting activities, with the exception of our tracks in Ohio and New
Mexico. In addition, in order to operate gaming machines in West Virginia, we must maintain agreements with each of the Charles Town Horsemen, pari-mutuel clerks and breeders.

At
the Charles Town Entertainment Complex, we have an agreement with the Charles Town Horsemen with an initial term expiring on December 31, 2011, and an agreement with the
breeders that expires on June 30, 2009. The pari-mutuel clerks at Charles Town are represented under a collective bargaining agreement with the West Virginia Division of Mutuel
Clerks, which expires on December 31, 2010.

Our
agreement with the Pennsylvania Thoroughbred Horsemen at Penn National Race Course expires on September 30, 2011. We have a collective bargaining agreement with Local 137 of
the Sports Arena Employees (AFL-CIO) at Penn National Race Course with respect to pari-mutuel clerks, admissions and Telebet personnel which expires on December 31,
2011. We also have an agreement in place with the Sports Arena Employees Local 137 (AFL-CIO) with respect to pari-mutuel clerks and admission personnel at our OTWs, which will
expire on September 30, 2009.

Our
agreement with the Maine Harness Horsemen Association at Bangor Raceway expired at the end of the 2008 racing season. The parties are currently working cooperatively on a
three-year extension, which is expected to be executed before the start of the 2009 racing season.

Pennwood
Racing, Inc. also has an agreement in effect with the horsemen at Freehold Raceway, which expires in May 2009.

Throughout
our Argosy properties, the Seafarers Entertainment and Allied Trade Union represents approximately one thousand nine hundred of our employees. At the Empress Casino Hotel, the
Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Union ("UNITE/HERE") Local 1 represents approximately three hundred employees under a collective bargaining agreement which expires on March 31, 2010.
At certain of our Argosy properties, the Seafarer International Union of North America, Atlantic, Gulf, Lakes and Inland Waters District/NMU, AFL-CIO, the International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers, the Security Police and Fire Professionals of America, the American Maritime Officers Union, the International Brotherhood of Electronic Workers Local 176, and UNITE/HERE Local 10
represent certain of our employees. We have collective bargaining agreements with these unions that



expire
at various times between July 2009 and October 2015. None of these unions individually represent more than fifty of our employees.

Available Information

For more information about us, visit our web site at www.pngaming.com. Our electronic filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (including all annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to
these reports), including the exhibits, are available free of charge through our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

Risks Related to Our Business

A substantial portion of our revenues is derived from our Charles Town, West Virginia and Lawrenceburg, Indiana facilities.

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 37.5% of our net revenues were collectively derived from our Charles Town and Lawrenceburg
operations. Our ability to meet our operating and debt service requirements is substantially dependent upon the continued success of these facilities. The operations at these facilities and any of our
other facilities could be adversely affected by numerous factors, including:

•

risks related to local and regional economic and competitive conditions, such as a decline in the number of visitors to a
facility, a downturn in the overall economy in the market, a decrease in consumer spending on gaming activities in the market or an increase in competition within and outside the state in which each
property is located (for example, the effect on Charles Town of the new gaming venues now possible in Maryland and the impact of Indianapolis Downs and Hoosier Downs on Lawrenceburg);

•

changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations (including changes in laws and regulations affecting gaming
operations and taxes) applicable to a facility;

•

impeded access to a facility due to weather, road construction or closures of primary access routes; and

•

the occurrence of floods and other natural disasters.

If
any of these events occur, our operating revenues and cash flow could decline significantly.

We may face disruption in integrating and managing facilities we may acquire in the future.

We expect to continue pursuing expansion opportunities, and we regularly evaluate opportunities for acquisition of other properties, which evaluations may include
discussions and the review of confidential information after the execution of nondisclosure agreements with potential acquisition candidates, some of which may be potentially significant in relation
to our size.

We
could face significant challenges in managing and integrating our expanded or combined operations and any other properties we may acquire. The integration of any other properties we
may acquire will require the dedication of management resources that may temporarily divert attention from our day-to-day business. The process of integrating properties that
we may acquire also could interrupt the activities of those businesses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Management
of new properties, especially in new geographic areas, may require that we increase our managerial resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage the combined
operations effectively or realize any of the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. We also cannot



assure
you that if acquisitions are completed, that the acquired businesses will generate sufficient revenue to offset the associated costs.

Our
ability to achieve our objectives in connection with any acquisition we may consummate may be highly dependent on, among other things, our ability to retain the senior level property
management teams of such acquisition candidates. If, for any reason, we are unable to retain these management teams following such acquisitions or if we fail to attract new capable executives, our
operations after consummation of such acquisitions could be materially adversely affected.

The
occurrence of some or all of the above described events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

We face risks related to the development and expansion of our current properties.

We expect to use a portion of our cash on hand, cash flow from operations and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility for significant capital
expenditures at certain of our properties. Any proposed enhancement may require us to significantly increase the size of our existing work force at those properties. We cannot be certain that
management will be able to hire and retain a sufficient number of employees to operate and manage these facilities at their optimal levels. The failure to employ the necessary work force could
adversely affect our operations and ultimately harm profitability. In addition, these enhancements could involve risks similar to construction risks including cost over-runs and delays,
market deterioration and timely receipt of required licenses, permits or authorizations. Our failure to complete any new development or expansion project as planned, on schedule, within budget or in a
manner that generates anticipated profits, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We face a number of challenges prior to opening new or upgraded gaming facilities.

No assurance can be given that, when we endeavor to open new or upgraded gaming facilities, the expected timetables for opening such facilities will be met in
light of the uncertainties inherent in the development of the regulatory framework, the licensing process, legislative action and litigation.

We face significant competition from other gaming operations.

The gaming industry is characterized by a high degree of competition among a large number of participants, including riverboat casinos, dockside casinos,
land-based casinos, video lottery and poker machines not located in casinos, Native American gaming, Internet gaming and other forms of gambling in the U.S. In a broader sense, our gaming
operations face competition from all manner of leisure and entertainment activities, including shopping, high school, collegiate and professional athletic events, television and movies, concerts and
travel. Legalized gaming is currently permitted in various forms throughout the U.S., in several Canadian provinces and on various lands taken into trust for the benefit of certain Native Americans in
the U.S. and Canada. Other jurisdictions, including states adjacent to states in which we currently have facilities (such as proposed sites in Kansas and Maryland), may legalize and implement gaming
in the near future. In addition, established gaming jurisdictions could award additional gaming licenses or permit the expansion or relocation of existing gaming operations. New, relocated or expanded
operations by other persons will increase competition for our gaming operations and could have a material adverse impact on us.

Gaming
competition is intense in most of the markets where we operate. As competing properties and new markets are opened (for instance, the potential new markets in Kansas and Maryland,
the potential competition in Baton Rouge and the new properties in St. Louis and Indianapolis), our operating results may be negatively affected. In addition, some of our direct competitors in
certain markets may have superior facilities and/or operating conditions. There could be further competition in our markets as a result of the upgrading or expansion of facilities by existing market
participants, the entrance of new gaming participants into a market or legislative changes.



We
expect each existing or future market in which we participate to be highly competitive. The competitive position of each of our casino properties is discussed in detail in the
subsection entitled "Competition—Gaming Operations" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Our management service contract for Casino Rama expires on July 31, 2011.

Through CHC Casinos Canada Limited, our indirectly wholly-owned subsidiary, we manage Casino Rama, a full service gaming and entertainment facility, on behalf of
the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation, an agency of the Province of Ontario. Casino Rama is located on the lands of the Rama First Nation, approximately 90 miles north of Toronto. The property
has approximately 93,000 square feet of gaming space, 2,535 gaming machines, 105 table games and 12 poker tables. In addition, the property includes a 5,000-seat entertainment facility, a
289-room hotel and 3,170 parking spaces.

The
Development and Operating Agreement (the "Agreement"), which we refer to as the management service contract for Casino Rama, sets out the duties, rights and obligations of CHC
Casinos Canada Limited and our wholly-owned subsidiary, CRC Holdings, Inc. CHC Casinos Canada Limited substantially relies on our experience, know-how, guidance and assistance to
carry out the duties and obligations under the Agreement. The compensation under the Agreement is a base fee equal to 2.0% of gross revenues of the casino and an incentive fee equal to 5.0% of the
casino's net operating profit.

The
Agreement terminates on July 31, 2011, and the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation has the option to extend the term of the Agreement for two successive periods of five
years each, commencing on August 1, 2011.

There
can be no assurance that the Agreement will be extended beyond August 1, 2011.

We are or may become involved in legal proceedings that, if adversely adjudicated or settled, could impact our financial condition.

From time to time, we are defendants in various lawsuits relating to matters incidental to our business. The nature of our business subjects us to the risk of
lawsuits filed by customers, past and present employees, competitors, business partners and others in the ordinary course of business. As with all litigation, no assurance can be provided as to the
outcome of these matters and, in general, litigation can be expensive and time consuming. We may not be successful in these lawsuits, which could result in settlements or damages that could
significantly impact our business, financial condition and results of operations (see, for example, the lawsuits described in Item 3 below).

We face extensive regulation from gaming and other regulatory authorities.

Licensing requirements.

As owners and managers of gaming and pari-mutuel wagering facilities, we are subject to extensive state, local
and, in Canada, provincial regulation. State, local and provincial authorities require us and our subsidiaries to demonstrate suitability to obtain and retain various licenses and require that we have
registrations, permits and approvals to conduct gaming operations. Various regulatory authorities, including the Colorado Limited Gaming Control Commission, the Florida Department of Business and
Professional Regulation-Division of Pari-Mutuel Wagering, the Illinois Gaming Board, the Indiana Gaming Commission, the Iowa Gaming and Racing Commission, the Louisiana Gaming Control
Board, the Maine Gambling Control Board, the Maine Harness Racing Commission, the Mississippi State Tax Commission, the Mississippi Gaming Commission, the Missouri Gaming Commission, the New Jersey
Racing Commission, the New Mexico Gaming Control Board, the New Mexico Racing Commission, the Ohio State Racing Commission, the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board, the Pennsylvania State Horse Racing
Commission, the West Virginia Racing Commission, the West Virginia Lottery Commission, and the Alcohol and Gaming Commission of Ontario, have broad discretion, and may, for any reason set forth in the
applicable legislation, rules and regulations, limit, condition, suspend, fail to renew or revoke a license or registration to conduct gaming operations or prevent us from owning the securities of any
of our gaming subsidiaries or prevent another person from owning an equity interest in us. Like all gaming operators in the jurisdictions in which we operate, we must periodically apply to renew our
gaming licenses or



registrations
and have the suitability of certain of our directors, officers and employees approved. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such renewals or approvals. Regulatory
authorities have input into our operations, for instance, hours of operation, location or relocation of a facility, numbers and types of machines and loss limits. Regulators may also levy substantial
fines against or seize our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries or the people involved in violating gaming laws or regulations. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.

We
have demonstrated suitability to obtain and have obtained all governmental licenses, registrations, permits and approvals necessary for us to operate our existing gaming and
pari-mutuel facilities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them or demonstrate suitability to obtain any new licenses, registrations, permits or approvals. In addition,
the loss of a license in one jurisdiction could trigger the loss of a license or affect our eligibility for a license in another jurisdiction. As we expand our gaming operations in our existing
jurisdictions or to new areas, we may have to meet additional suitability requirements and obtain additional licenses, registrations, permits and approvals from gaming authorities in these
jurisdictions. The approval process can be time-consuming and costly and we cannot be sure that we will be successful.

Gaming
authorities in the U.S. generally can require that any beneficial owner of our securities file an application for a finding of suitability. If a gaming authority requires a record
or beneficial owner of our securities to file a suitability application, the owner must generally apply for a finding of suitability within 30 days or at an earlier time prescribed by
the gaming authority. The gaming authority has the power to investigate such an owner's suitability and the owner must pay all costs of the investigation. If the owner is found unsuitable, then the
owner may be required by law to dispose of our securities.

Potential changes in legislation and regulation of our operations.

Regulations governing the conduct of gaming activities and the
obligations of
gaming companies in any jurisdiction in which we have or in the future may have gaming operations are subject to change and could impose additional operating, financial or other burdens on the way we
conduct our business.

Moreover,
legislation to prohibit or limit gaming may be introduced in the future in states where gaming has been legalized. In addition, from time to time, legislators and special
interest groups have proposed legislation that would expand, restrict or prevent gaming operations or which may otherwise adversely impact our operations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Any
expansion of gaming or restriction on or prohibition of our gaming operations or enactment of other adverse regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. For
example, in October 2005, the Illinois House of Representatives voted to approve proposed legislation that would eliminate riverboat gambling. If the Illinois Senate had passed a bill eliminating
riverboat gambling, our business would have been materially impacted. In addition, legislation banning smoking appears to be gaining momentum in a number of jurisdictions where we operate (including
passage in Illinois, Colorado and Pennsylvania in 2008). If these bans continue to be enacted, our business could be adversely affected.

Taxation and fees.

We believe that the prospect of significant revenue is one of the primary reasons that jurisdictions permit
legalized gaming. As a
result, gaming companies are typically subject to significant taxes and fees in addition to normal federal, state, local and provincial income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at
any time. We pay substantial taxes and fees with respect to our operations. From time to time, federal, state, local and provincial legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in
the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. In addition, worsening economic conditions could intensify the efforts of state and local governments to raise revenues through
increases in gaming taxes. It is not possible to determine with certainty the likelihood of changes in tax laws or in the administration of such laws. Such changes, if adopted, could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The large number of state and local governments with significant current or projected budget deficits makes it more
likely that those governments that currently permit gaming will seek to fund such deficits with new or increased gaming taxes, and worsening economic conditions could intensify those efforts. Any



material
increase, or the adoption of additional taxes or fees, could have a material adverse effect on our future financial results.

Compliance with other laws.

We are also subject to a variety of other rules and regulations, including zoning, environmental,
construction and
land-use laws and regulations governing the
serving of alcoholic beverages. If we are not in compliance with these laws, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We depend on our key personnel.

We are highly dependent on the services of Peter M. Carlino, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Timothy J. Wilmott, our President and Chief Operating
Officer, and other members of our senior management team. Our ability to retain key personnel is affected by the competitiveness of our compensation packages and the other terms and conditions of
employment, our continued ability to compete effectively against other gaming companies and our growth prospects. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and compliance risks.

Changing laws and regulations relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission regulations, generally
accepted accounting principles, and NASDAQ Global Select Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies. These changing laws and regulations are subject to varying interpretations in many cases
due to their lack of specificity, recent issuance and/or lack of guidance. As a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing
bodies. In addition, further regulation of financial institutions and public companies is possible in light of recent economic events. This could result in continuing uncertainty and higher costs
regarding compliance matters. Due to our commitment to maintain high standards of compliance with laws and public disclosure, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have
resulted in and are likely to continue to result in increased general and administrative expense. In addition, we are subject to different parties' interpretation of our compliance with these new and
changing laws and regulations. A failure to comply with any of these laws or regulations could have a materially adverse effect on us. For instance, if our gaming authorities, the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, our independent auditors or our shareholders and potential shareholders conclude that our compliance with the regulations is unsatisfactory, this may result in a negative public
perception of us, subject us to increased regulatory scrutiny, penalties or otherwise adversely affect us.

Inclement weather and other conditions could seriously disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
operations.

The operations of our facilities are subject to disruptions or reduced patronage as a result of severe weather conditions, natural disasters and other casualties.
Because many of our gaming operations are located on or adjacent to bodies of water, these facilities are subject to risks in addition to those associated with land-based casinos,
including loss of service due to casualty, forces of nature, mechanical failure, extended or extraordinary maintenance, flood, hurricane or other severe weather conditions. For example, in late August
2005, we closed Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis in Bay St. Louis, Mississippi, Boomtown Biloxi in Biloxi, Mississippi and Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge in Baton Rouge, Louisiana in
anticipation of Hurricane Katrina. Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge subsequently reopened on August 30, 2005. However, due to the extensive damage sustained, operations at Boomtown Biloxi and
Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis did not resume until June 29, 2006 and August 31, 2006, respectively. In addition, several of our casinos are subject to risks generally associated
with the movement of vessels on inland waterways, including risks of collision or casualty due to river turbulence and traffic. Many of our casinos operate in areas which are subject to periodic
flooding that has caused us to experience decreased attendance and increased operating expenses. Any



flood
or other severe weather condition could lead to the loss of use of a casino facility for an extended period.

The extent to which we can recover under our insurance policies for damages sustained at our properties in the event of future hurricanes, as well as changes in
the local gaming market as a result of a hurricane could adversely affect our business.

On August 28, 2005, we closed Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis in Bay St. Louis, Mississippi and Boomtown Biloxi casino in Biloxi, Mississippi
in anticipation of Hurricane Katrina. Due to the extensive damage sustained, operations at Boomtown Biloxi and Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis did not resume until June 29, 2006 and
August 31, 2006, respectively. We maintain significant property insurance, including business interruption coverage, for both Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi. However,
there can be no assurances that we will be fully or promptly compensated for weather-related losses at any of our facilities in the event of future hurricanes. Our experience demonstrates that the
infrastructure damage caused by hurricanes to the surrounding communities can adversely affect the local gaming markets by making travel and staffing more difficult.

We are subject to environmental laws and potential exposure to environmental liabilities.

We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern our operations, including emissions and discharges into the
environment, and the handling and disposal of hazardous and nonhazardous substances and wastes. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in costs for corrective action, penalties
or the imposition of other liabilities or restrictions. From time to time, we have incurred and are incurring costs and obligations for correcting environmental noncompliance matters. To date, none of
these matters have had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations; however, there can be no assurance that such matters will not have such an effect in the
future.

We
also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of
these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of remediating contaminated soil or groundwater on or from its property, without regard to
whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused, the contamination, as well as incur liability to third parties impacted by such contamination. The presence of contamination, or failure to remediate
it properly, may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent property. The Bullwhackers properties are located within the geographic footprint of the Clear Creek/Central City Superfund Site, a large
area of historic mining activity which is the subject of state and federal clean-up actions. Although we have not been named a potentially responsible party for this Superfund Site, it is
possible that as a result of our ownership and operation of these properties (on which mining may have occurred in the past), we may incur costs related to this matter in the future. Furthermore, we
are aware that there is or may be soil or groundwater contamination at certain of our facilities resulting from current or former operations. These matters are in various stages of investigation, and
we are not able at this time to estimate the costs that will be required to resolve them. Additionally, certain of the gaming chips used at many gaming properties, including ours, have been found to
contain some level of lead. Analysis by third parties has indicated the normal handling of the chips does not create a health hazard. We are in the process of evaluating potential environmental issues
and our disposal alternatives. To date, none of these matters or other matters arising under environmental laws has had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of
operations; however, there can be no assurance that such matters will not have such an effect in the future.

The concentration and evolution of the slot machine manufacturing industry could impose additional costs on us.

A majority of our revenues are attributable to slot machines operated by us at our gaming facilities. It is important, for competitive reasons, that we offer the
most popular and up to date slot machine games with the latest technology to our customers.



We
believe that a substantial majority of the slot machines sold in the U.S. in recent years were manufactured by a few select companies. In addition, we believe that one company in
particular provided a majority of all slot machines sold in the U.S. in recent years.

In
recent years, the prices of new slot machines have escalated faster than the rate of inflation. Furthermore, in recent years, slot machine manufacturers have frequently refused to
sell slot machines featuring the most popular games, instead requiring participation lease arrangements in order to acquire the machines. Participation slot machine leasing arrangements typically
require the payment of
a fixed daily rental. Such agreements may also include a percentage payment of coin-in or net win. Generally, a participation lease is substantially more expensive over the long term than
the cost to purchase a new machine.

For
competitive reasons, we may be forced to purchase new slot machines or enter into participation lease arrangements that are more expensive than our current costs associated with the
continued operation of our existing slot machines. If the newer slot machines do not result in sufficient incremental revenues to offset the increased investment and participation lease costs, it
could hurt our profitability.

We depend on agreements with our horsemen and pari-mutuel clerks.

The Federal Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978, as amended, the West Virginia Racing Act and the Pennsylvania Racing Act require that, in order to simulcast
races, we have written agreements with the horse owners and trainers at our West Virginia and Pennsylvania race tracks. In addition, in order to operate gaming machines in West Virginia, we are
required to enter into written agreements regarding the proceeds of the gaming machines with a representative of a majority of the horse owners and trainers, a representative of a majority of the
pari-mutuel clerks and a representative of a majority of the horse breeders.

Effective
October 1, 2004, we signed an agreement with the Pennsylvania Thoroughbred Horsemen at Penn National Race Course that expires on September 30, 2011. At the
Charles Town Entertainment Complex, we have an agreement with the Charles Town Horsemen with an initial term expiring on December 31, 2011, and an agreement with the breeders that expires on
June 30, 2009. The pari-mutuel clerks at Charles Town are represented under a collective bargaining agreement with the West Virginia Division of Mutuel Clerks which expires on
December 31, 2010. Our agreement with the Maine Harness Horsemen Association at Bangor Raceway expired at the end of the 2008 racing season. The parties are currently working cooperatively on a
three-year extension, which is expected to be executed before the start of the 2009 racing season. Pennwood Racing, Inc. also has an agreement in effect with the horsemen at Freehold Raceway,
which expires in May 2009.

If
we fail to maintain operative agreements with the horsemen at a track, we will not be permitted to conduct live racing and export and import simulcasting at that track and OTWs and,
in West Virginia, we will not be permitted to operate our gaming machines. In addition, our simulcasting agreements are subject to the horsemen's approval. If we fail to renew or modify existing
agreements on satisfactory terms, this failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Work stoppages, organizing drives and other labor problems could negatively impact our future profits.

Some of our employees are currently represented by labor unions. A lengthy strike or other work stoppages at any of our casino properties or construction projects
could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Labor unions are making a concerted effort to recruit more employees in the gaming industry. In addition, organized labor may
benefit from new legislation or legal interpretations by the current presidential administration. We cannot provide any assurance that we will not experience additional and more successful union
activity in the future.



Risks Related to Our Capital Structure

Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our debt.

We continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to our financial health. For example, it
could:

•

increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;

•

require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service, thereby reducing the
availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;

•

limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;

•

limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to
borrow additional funds; and

•

result in an event of default if we fail to satisfy our obligations under our debt or fail to comply with the financial
and other restrictive covenants contained in our debt, which event of default could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable and could permit certain of our lenders to foreclose
on our assets securing such debt.

Any
of the above listed factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may incur substantial additional
indebtedness in the future, including to fund acquisitions. The terms of our existing indebtedness do not, and any future debt may not, fully prohibit us from doing so. If new debt is added to our
current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify.

The volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets and adverse changes in the global economy may negatively impact our revenues and our ability to
access financing.

While
we intend to finance expansion and renovation projects with existing cash, cash flow from operations and borrowing under our $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility,
we may require additional financing to support our continued growth. However, due to the existing uncertainty in the capital and credit markets, our access to capital may not be available on terms
acceptable to us or at all. Further, if adverse regional and national economic conditions persist or worsen, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations attributable to decreases in
consumer spending levels and could fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing indebtedness.

The availability and cost of financing could have an adverse effect on business.

We intend to finance some of our current and future expansion and renovation projects primarily with cash flow from operations, borrowings under our current
$2.725 billion senior secured credit facility and equity or debt financings. Depending on the state of the credit markets, if we are unable to finance our current or future expansion projects,
we could have to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying planned expansion, development and renovation projects as well as capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring
debt, obtaining additional equity financing or joint venture partners, or modifying our $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility. Depending on credit market conditions, these sources of
funds may not be sufficient to finance our expansion, and other financing may not be available on acceptable terms, in a timely manner or at all. In addition, our existing indebtedness
contains certain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness. If we are unable to secure additional financing, we could be forced to limit or suspend expansion, acquisitions,
development and renovation projects, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.



Our indebtedness imposes restrictive covenants on us.

Our existing $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility requires us, among other obligations, to maintain specified financial ratios and to satisfy
certain financial tests, including fixed charge coverage, senior leverage and total leverage ratios. In addition, our existing $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility restricts, among
other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, incur guarantee obligations, repay indebtedness or amend debt instruments, pay dividends, create liens on assets, make investments, make
acquisitions, engage in mergers or consolidations, make capital expenditures, or engage in certain transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates and otherwise restrict corporate activities. A failure
to comply with the restrictions contained in our $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our existing senior subordinated notes could lead to an event of
default thereunder which could result in an acceleration of such indebtedness. In addition, the indentures relating to our senior subordinated notes restrict, among other things, our ability to incur
additional indebtedness (excluding certain indebtedness under our $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility), make certain payments and dividends or merge or consolidate. A failure to
comply with the restrictions in any of the indentures governing the notes could result in an event of default under such indenture which could result in an acceleration of such indebtedness and a
default under our other debt, including our existing senior subordinated notes and our $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility.

To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash, which depends on many factors beyond our control.

Based on our current level of operations, we believe our cash flow from operations, available cash and available borrowings under our existing
$2.725 billion senior secured credit facility will be adequate to meet our future liquidity needs for the next few years. We cannot assure you, however, that our business will generate
sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our existing $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility in amounts sufficient to enable us to
fund our liquidity needs, including with respect to our indebtedness. In addition, if we consummate significant acquisitions in the future, our cash requirements may increase significantly. As we are
required to satisfy amortization requirements under our existing $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility or as other debt matures, we may also need to raise funds to refinance all or a
portion of our debt. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our debt, including our existing $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility, on attractive terms,
commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our future operating performance and our ability to service or refinance the notes, extend or refinance our debt, including our existing $2.725 billion
senior secured credit facility, will be subject to future economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.

The price of our Common Stock may fluctuate significantly.

Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as variations in operating results, actions by various regulatory agencies and
legislatures, litigation, operating competition, market perceptions, progress with respect to potential acquisitions, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the
actions of rating agencies, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, and news reports relating to trends in our markets or general
economic conditions.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.



ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

The following describes our principal real estate properties:

Charles Town Entertainment Complex.

We own a 300-acre parcel in Charles Town, West Virginia, a portion of which contains the Charles
Town
Entertainment Complex. The property includes a 153-room hotel and a


/


mile all-weather, lighted thoroughbred racetrack and an enclosed grandstand/clubhouse.

Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg.

The Argosy VI is a riverboat casino, which we own. We own and lease 52 acres in Lawrenceburg, Indiana, a
portion of which
serves as the dockside embarkation for the Argosy VI, and includes an entertainment pavilion, a 300-room hotel, two parking garages and an adjacent surface lot. In addition, we own a
52-acre parcel on Route 50 which we use for remote parking.

Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course.

We own approximately 625 acres in Grantville, Pennsylvania, of which 225 is where the
Penn National
Race Course is located. Currently, the property includes a 365,000 square foot integrated slot wagering and horse racing facility, complimented by a one-mile all-weather
thoroughbred racetrack and a


/


-mile turf track. The property also includes approximately 400 acres surrounding the Penn National Race Course that are available for future
expansion or development.

Hollywood Casino Aurora.

We own a dockside barge structure and land-based pavilion in Aurora, Illinois. The property also includes two
parking garages under capital lease agreements.

Empress Casino Hotel.

We own approximately 276 acres in Joliet, Illinois, which includes a barge-based casino, a 100-room hotel and an
entertainment pavilion.

Argosy Casino Riverside.

We own approximately 41 acres in Riverside, Missouri, which includes a barge-based casino, a 258-room luxury
hotel, an entertainment/banquet facility and a parking garage.

Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge.

The Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge is a four-story riverboat casino, which we own. We own a
17.4-acre site on the east bank of the Mississippi River in the East Baton Rouge Downtown Development District. The property site serves as the dockside embarkation for the Hollywood
Casino Baton Rouge and features a two-story building. We also own 5.5 acres of land that are used primarily for offices, warehousing, and parking. In December 2007, we agreed to acquire
3.8 acres of adjacent land and to pay for half of the construction costs (subject to a ceiling of $3.8 million) for a railroad underpass with the seller of the land. The underpass will provide
unimpeded access to the casino property and to property owned by the seller for future development. Subject to the satisfaction of various conditions, construction on the underpass may begin in the
second quarter of 2009.

Argosy Casino Alton.

The Alton Belle II is a riverboat casino, which we own. We lease a 2.5-acre parcel in Alton, Illinois, a portion
of
which serves as the dockside boarding for the Alton Belle II. The dockside facility includes an entertainment pavilion and office space. In addition, we lease a warehouse facility.

Hollywood Casino Tunica.

We lease approximately 70 acres of land in Tunica, Mississippi, which contains a single-level casino, a
494-room
hotel, and other land-based facilities.

Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis.

We own approximately 614 acres in the city of Bay St. Louis, Mississippi, including a
17-acre marina. The property includes an 18-hole golf course, a 291-room hotel, and other land-based facilities, all of which we own.



Argosy Casino Sioux City.

We have a lease in Sioux City, Iowa, for the landing rights, which includes the dockside embarkation for the
Argosy IV. The
Argosy IV is a riverboat casino. We own the Argosy IV as well as adjacent barge facilities.

Boomtown Biloxi.

We lease approximately 13 acres, most of which is utilized for the gaming location, under a lease that expires in 2093.
We also
lease approximately 5 acres of submerged tidelands at the casino site from the State of Mississippi under a ten-year lease with a five-year option to renew. We own the barge on
which the casino is located and all of the land-based facilities.

Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway.

We lease approximately 26 acres located at Bass Park in Bangor, Maine, which consists of over 12,000
square feet
of grandstand space with seating for 3,500 patrons. In addition, we lease the land on which the Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway facility is located, consisting of just over 9 acres, which is near
our Bass Park property.

Bullwhackers.

Our Bullwhackers Casino and the adjoining Bullpen are located on an approximately 4-acre site. We own the Bullwhackers
Casino property and lease the Bullpen Casino property. On August 30, 2006, we purchased a gas station/convenience store located approximately 7 miles east of Bullwhackers Casino on Highway 119.
This is approximately a 7.6 acre site.

Black Gold Casino at Zia Park.

Our Black Gold Casino adjoins the Zia Park Racetrack and is located on an approximately 320-acre site
that
we own.

Raceway Park.

We own approximately 92 acres in Toledo, Ohio, where Raceway Park is located. The property includes a


/


-mile harness race track, including a clubhouse and a grandstand.

Freehold Raceway.

Through our joint venture, we own a 51-acre site in Freehold in
Western Monmouth County, New Jersey, where Freehold Raceway in located. The property features a half-mile oval harness track and a grandstand.

Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club.

We own approximately 26 acres in Longwood, Florida where Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club is located. The
property includes a


/


mile racing surface, a clubhouse dining facility and a main grandstand building plus a parking lot. Kennel facilities for up to 1,300 greyhounds are located at a leased location
approximately


/


mile from the racetrack enclosure.

Casino Rama.

We do not own any of the land located at or near the casino or Casino Rama's facilities and equipment. The Ontario Lottery
and Gaming
Corporation has a long-term ground lease with an affiliate of the Rama First Nation, for the land on which Casino Rama is situated. Under the Development and Operating Agreement (the
"Agreement"), CHC Casinos Canada Limited and CRC Holdings, Inc. have been granted full access to Casino Rama during the term of the Agreement to perform the management services under the
Agreement. The Casino Rama facilities are located on approximately 57 acres.

Off-track Wagering Facilities.

We lease our four currently-operating OTWs. We also own the property where the closed Williamsport OTW
operated through June 2007. The following is a list of our four currently-operating OTWs and their locations:

Location

Size (Sq. Ft.)

Owned/Leased

Date Opened

Reading, PA

22,500

Leased

May 1992

Chambersburg, PA

12,500

Leased

April 1994

York, PA

25,000

Leased

March 1995

Lancaster, PA

24,000

Leased

July 1996

Other.

We lease 42,348 square feet of executive office and warehouse space for buildings in Wyomissing, Pennsylvania from affiliates of
Peter M.
Carlino, our Chairman and Chief Executive



Officer.
We believe the lease terms for the executive office and warehouse to be no less favorable than such lease terms that could have been obtained from unaffiliated third parties.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

We are subject to various legal and administrative proceedings relating to personal injuries, employment matters, commercial
transactions and other matters arising in the normal course of business. We do not believe that the final outcome of these matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
position or results of operations. In addition, we maintain what we believe is adequate insurance coverage to further mitigate the risks of such proceedings.
However, such proceedings can be costly, time consuming and unpredictable and, therefore, no assurance can be given that the final outcome of such proceedings may not materially impact our
consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Further, no assurance can be given that the amount or scope of existing insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover losses arising from
such matters.

The
following proceedings could result in costs, settlements, damages, or rulings that materially impact our consolidated financial condition or operating results. In each instance, we
believe that we have meritorious defenses, claims and/or counter-claims, and intend to vigorously defend ourselves or pursue our claim.

In
conjunction with our acquisition of Argosy Gaming Company ("Argosy") in 2005, and subsequent disposition of the Argosy Casino Baton Rouge property, we became responsible for
litigation initiated over eight years ago related to the Baton Rouge casino license formerly owned by Argosy. On November 26, 1997, Capitol House filed an amended petition in the Nineteenth
Judicial District Court for East Baton Rouge Parish, State of Louisiana, amending its previously filed but unserved suit against Richard Perryman, the person selected by the Louisiana Gaming Division
to evaluate and rank the applicants seeking a gaming license for East Baton Rouge Parish, and adding state law claims against Jazz Enterprises, Inc., the former Jazz Enterprises, Inc.
shareholders, Argosy, Argosy of Louisiana, Inc. and Catfish Queen Partnership in Commendam, d/b/a the Belle of Baton Rouge Casino. This suit alleged that these parties violated the Louisiana
Unfair Trade Practices Act in connection with obtaining the gaming license that was issued to Jazz Enterprises, Inc./Catfish Queen Partnership in Commendam. The plaintiff, an applicant for a
gaming license whose application was denied by the Louisiana Gaming Division, sought to prove that the gaming license was invalidly issued and to recover lost gaming revenues that the plaintiff
contended it could have earned if the gaming license had been properly issued to the plaintiff. On October 2, 2006, we prevailed on a partial summary judgment motion which limited plaintiff's
damages to its out-of-pocket costs in seeking its gaming license, thereby eliminating any recovery for potential lost gaming profits. On February 6, 2007, the jury
returned a verdict of $3.8 million (exclusive of statutory interest and attorneys' fees) against Jazz Enterprises, Inc. and Argosy. After ruling on post-trial motions, on
September 27, 2007, the trial court entered a judgment in the amount of $1.4 million, plus attorneys' fees, costs and interest. We have established an appropriate reserve and have bonded
the judgment pending its appeal. Both the plaintiff and we have appealed the judgment to the First Circuit Court of Appeals in Louisiana and oral arguments took place on August 28, 2008. We
have the right to seek indemnification from two of the former Jazz Enterprises, Inc. shareholders for any liability suffered as a result of such cause of action, however, there can be no
assurance that the former Jazz Enterprises, Inc. shareholders will have assets sufficient to satisfy any claim in excess of Argosy's recoupment rights.

In
May 2006, the Illinois Legislature passed into law House Bill 1918, effective May 26, 2006, which singled out four of the nine Illinois casinos, including our Empress Casino
Hotel and Hollywood Casino Aurora, for a 3% tax surcharge to subsidize local horse racing interests. On May 30, 2006, Empress Casino Hotel and Hollywood Casino Aurora joined with the two other
riverboats affected by the law, Harrah's Joliet and the Grand Victoria Casino in Elgin, and filed suit in the Circuit Court of the Twelfth Judicial District in Will County, Illinois (the "Court"),
asking the Court to declare the law



unconstitutional.
Empress Casino Hotel and Hollywood Casino Aurora began paying the 3% tax surcharge into a protest fund which accrues interest during the pendency of the lawsuit. In two orders dated
March 29, 2007 and April 20, 2007, the Court declared the law unconstitutional under the Uniformity Clause of the Illinois Constitution and enjoined the collection of this tax surcharge.
The State of Illinois requested, and was granted, a stay of this ruling. As a result, Empress Casino Hotel and Hollywood Casino Aurora continued paying the 3% tax surcharge into the protest fund until
May 25, 2008, when the 3% tax surcharge expired. The State of Illinois appealed the ruling to the Illinois Supreme Court. On June 5, 2008, the Illinois Supreme Court reversed the trial
court's ruling and issued a decision upholding the constitutionality of the 3% tax surcharge. On January 21, 2009, the four casino plaintiffs filed a petition for certiorari, requesting the
U.S. Supreme Court to hear the case. The accumulated funds will be returned to Empress Casino Hotel and Hollywood Casino Aurora if they ultimately prevail in the lawsuit.

On
December 15, 2008, former Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich signed Public Act No. 95-1008 requiring the same four casinos to continue paying the 3% tax
surcharge to subsidize Illinois horse racing interests. On January 8, 2009, the four casinos filed suit in the Circuit Court of the Twelfth Judicial District in Will County, Illinois, asking
the Court to declare the law unconstitutional. The 3% tax surcharge being paid pursuant to Public Act No. 95-1008 is paid into a protest fund where it accrues interest. The
accumulated funds will be returned to Empress Casino Hotel and Hollywood Casino Aurora if they ultimately prevail in the lawsuit.

In
August 2007, a complaint was filed on behalf of a putative class of our public shareholders, and derivatively on behalf of us, in the Court of Common Pleas of Berks County,
Pennsylvania (the "Complaint"). The Complaint names our Board of Directors as defendants and us as a nominal defendant. The Complaint alleges, among other things, that the Board of Directors breached
their fiduciary duties by agreeing to the proposed transaction with Fortress and Centerbridge for inadequate consideration, that certain members of the Board of Directors have conflicts with regard to
the Merger, and that we and our Board of Directors have failed to disclose certain material information with regard to the Merger. The Complaint seeks, among other things, a court order determining
that the action is properly maintained as a class action and a derivative action enjoining us and our Board of Directors from consummating the proposed Merger, and awarding the payment of attorneys'
fees and expenses. We and the plaintiff had reached a tentative settlement in which we agreed to pay certain attorneys' fees and to make certain disclosures regarding the events leading up to the
transaction with Fortress and Centerbridge in the proxy statement sent to shareholders in November 2007. Final settlement was contingent upon court approval and consummation of the transaction with
Fortress and Centerbridge. Because the transaction with Fortress and Centerbridge was terminated as described in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we expect to move for a
dismissal of the complaint.

On
July 16, 2008, we were served with a purported class action lawsuit brought by plaintiffs seeking to represent a class of shareholders who purchased shares of our Common Stock
between March 20, 2008 and July 2, 2008. The lawsuit alleges that our disclosure practices relative to the proposed transaction with Fortress and Centerbridge and the eventual
termination of that transaction were misleading and deficient in violation of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The complaint, which seeks class certification and unspecified damages, was filed in
federal court in Maryland. The complaint has been amended, among other things, to add three new named plaintiffs and to name Peter M. Carlino, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and William J.
Clifford, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, as additional defendants. We filed a motion to dismiss the complaint in November 2008, and oral arguments for the motion were heard by the
court on February 23, 2009. Following oral arguments, the court granted our motion and dismissed the complaint with prejudice. We anticipate that the plaintiffs will file a motion for
reconsideration with the court.

On
September 11, 2008, the Board of County Commissioners of Cherokee County, Kansas (the "County") filed suit against Kansas Penn Gaming, LLC ("KPG," a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Penn



created
to pursue a development project in Cherokee County, Kansas) and us in the District Court of Shawnee County, Kansas. The petition alleges that KPG breached its pre-development
agreement with the County when KPG withdrew its application to manage a lottery gaming facility in Cherokee County and seeks in excess of $50 million in damages. In connection with their
petition, the County obtained an ex-parte order attaching the $25 million privilege fee paid to the Kansas Lottery Commission in conjunction with the gaming application for the
Cherokee County zone. Defendants are currently contesting the validity and scope of the attachment and intend to defend the merits of the case going forward.

On
September 23, 2008, KPG filed an action against HV Properties of Kansas, LLC ("HV") in the U.S. District Court for the District of Kansas seeking a declaratory judgment
from the U.S. District Court finding that KPG has no further obligations to HV under a Real Estate Sale Contract (the "Contract") that KPG and HV entered into on September 6, 2007, and that KPG
properly terminated this Contract under the terms of the Repurchase Agreement entered into between the parties effective September 28, 2007. HV filed a counterclaim claiming KPG breached the
Contract, and seeks $37.5 million in damages. On October 7, 2008, HV filed suit against us claiming that we are liable to HV for KPG's alleged breach based on a Guaranty Agreement signed
by us. Both cases were consolidated. We have filed a motion to dismiss HV's claims against us. This motion has been fully briefed and is pending.

The
following dispute was concluded in the fourth quarter of 2008:

In
November 2005, Capital Seven, LLC and Shawn A. Scott (collectively, "Capital Seven"), the sellers of Bangor Historic Track, Inc. ("BHT"), filed a demand for arbitration
with the American Arbitration Association seeking $30 million plus interest and other damages. Capital Seven alleged a breach of contract by us based on our payment of a $51 million
purchase price for the purchase of BHT instead
of an alleged $81 million purchase price Capital Seven claimed was due under the purchase agreement. The parties had agreed that the purchase price of BHT would be determined, in part, by the
applicable gaming taxes imposed by Maine on our operations. The arbitrators issued their ruling in November 2008, stating that, under the applicable tax rate, the purchase price was
$61 million. The panel awarded $10 million plus contractual interest to Capital Seven. Pursuant to the dispute resolution procedures, we had deposited the disputed $30 million in
escrow, pending a resolution. This amount was included in other assets within the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2007. On December 1, 2008, the escrowed funds were released,
with $13.1 million being paid to Capital Seven and the remainder being returned to us.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

(a)

An
Annual Meeting of Shareholders was held on November 12, 2008.

(b)

Certain
matters voted upon at the Annual Meeting and the votes cast with respect to such matters are as follows:

(i)    Election
of Directors:

Name

Votes For

Votes Withheld

Peter M. Carlino

59,612,926

16,901,771

Harold Cramer

50,141,769

26,372,927



(ii)   Approval
for us to utilize a "private placement" instead of a "public offering" if we elect to issue shares of Common Stock to redeem its Series B Redeemable
Preferred Stock:

Votes For

Votes Against

Abstentions

Broker Non-Votes

63,659,977

884,957

126,005

11,843,758

(iii)  Approval
of our 2008 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan:

Votes For

Votes Against

Abstentions

Broker Non-Votes

48,064,731

16,447,993

158,215

11,843,758

(iv)  Ratification
of the selection of Ernst & Young LLP as our independent registered public accounting firm for 2008:

Votes For

Votes Against

Abstentions

Broker Non-Votes

75,930,439

464,136

120,122




PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

Range of Market Price

Our Common Stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol "PENN." The following table sets forth for the periods
indicated the high and low sales prices per share of our Common Stock as reported on the NASDAQ Global Select Market.

High

Low


First Quarter

$

59.79

$

38.76

Second Quarter

47.08

31.82

Third Quarter

35.37

23.30

Fourth Quarter

26.79

11.82


First Quarter

$

47.99

$

39.94

Second Quarter

63.68

42.06

Third Quarter

61.00

54.40

Fourth Quarter

62.30

56.67

The
closing sale price per share of our Common Stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on February 12, 2009, was $20.20. As of February 12, 2009, there were approximately
634 holders of record of our Common Stock.

Dividend Policy

Since our initial public offering of Common Stock in May 1994, we have not paid any cash dividends on our Common Stock. We intend to
retain all of our earnings to finance the development of our business, and thus, do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our Common Stock for the foreseeable future. Payment of any cash dividends
in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon, among other things, our future earnings, operations and capital requirements, our general financial condition
and general business conditions. Moreover, our existing credit facility prohibits us from authorizing, declaring or paying any dividends until our commitments under the credit facility have been
terminated and all amounts outstanding thereunder have been repaid. In addition, future financing arrangements may prohibit the payment of dividends under certain conditions.

Stock Repurchase

The repurchase of up to $200 million of our Common Stock over the twenty-four month period ending July 2010 was
authorized by our Board of Directors in July 2008. During the month ended October 31, 2008, we repurchased 7,785,384 shares of our Common Stock in open market transactions for approximately
$120.9 million, at an average price of $15.51. We did not repurchase any shares of our Common Stock in November or December of 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we
repurchased an aggregate of 8,934,984 shares of our Common Stock in open market transactions for approximately $152.6 million, at an average price of $17.05.



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The following selected consolidated financial and operating data for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 is derived
from our consolidated financial statements that have been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm. The following selected consolidated financial
and operating data for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 are derived from our consolidated financial statements that had been audited by BDO
Seidman, LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm. The selected consolidated financial and operating data should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements
and notes thereto, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and the other financial information included herein.

The
following is a listing of our acquisitions and dispositions that occurred during the five-year period ended December 31, 2008:

•

In January 2005, we transferred the operations of The Downs Racing, Inc. and its subsidiaries to the Mohegan Tribal
Gaming Authority ("MTGA"). The sale was not considered final until the third quarter of 2006, as the MTGA had certain post-closing termination rights that remained outstanding until
August 7, 2006.

•

In July 2005, we divested the Hollywood Casino Shreveport property.

•

In October 2005, we acquired Argosy Gaming Company and divested the Argosy Casino Baton Rouge property.

•

In April 2007, we acquired Black Gold Casino at Zia Park.

•

In October 2007, we acquired Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club.



Year Ended December 31,

2008(1)

2007(2)

2006(3)

2005(4)


(in thousands, except per share data)

Income statement data:(5)

Net revenues

$

2,423,053

$

2,436,793

$

2,244,547

$

1,369,105

$

1,105,290

Total operating expenses

2,509,494

1,938,984

1,666,706

1,125,557

891,510

(Loss) income from continuing operations

(86,441

)

497,809

577,841

243,548

213,780

Total other income (expenses)

38,856

(205,569

)

(207,909

)

(101,778

)

(76,152

)

(Loss) income from continuing operations before income taxes

(47,585

)

292,240

369,932

141,770

137,628

Taxes on income

105,738

132,187

156,852

54,593

50,288

Net (loss) income from continuing operations

(153,323

)

160,053

213,080

87,177

87,340

Income (loss) from discontinued operations

—

—

114,008

33,753

(15,856

)

Net (loss) income

$

(153,323

)

$

160,053

$

327,088

$

120,930

$

71,484

Per share data:(6)

(Loss) earnings per share—Basic

(Loss) income from continuing operations

$

(1.81

)

$

1.87

$

2.53

$

1.05

$

1.09

Discontinued operations, net of tax

—

—

1.35

0.41

(0.20

)

Basic (loss) earnings per share

$

(1.81

)

$

1.87

$

3.88

$

1.46

$

0.89

(Loss) earnings per share—Diluted

(Loss) income from continuing operations

$

(1.81

)

$

1.81

$

2.46

$

1.02

$

1.05

Discontinued operations, net of tax

—

—

1.32

0.39

(0.19

)

Diluted (loss) earnings per share

$

(1.81

)

$

1.81

$

3.78

$

1.41

$

0.86

Weighted shares outstanding—Basic(7)

84,536

85,578

84,229

82,893

80,510

Weighted shares outstanding—Diluted(7)

84,536

88,384

86,634

85,857

83,508

Other data:

Net cash provided by operating activities

$

420,463

$

431,219

$

281,809

$

150,475

$

197,164

Net cash used in investing activities

(391,498

)

(611,617

)

(302,341

)

(1,978,800

)

(67,114

)

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

542,941

186,255

56,427

1,873,221

(124,177

)

Depreciation and amortization

173,545

147,915

123,951

72,531

65,785

Interest expense

169,827

198,059

196,328

89,344

75,720

Capital expenditures

344,894

361,155

408,883

121,135

68,957

Balance sheet data:

Cash and cash equivalents(8)

$

746,278

$

174,372

$

168,515

$

132,620

$

87,620

Total assets

5,189,676

4,967,032

4,514,082

4,190,404

1,632,701

Total debt(8)

2,430,180

2,974,922

2,829,448

2,786,229

858,909

Shareholders' equity

2,057,273

1,120,962

921,163

546,543

398,092

(1)

As
a result of a decline in our share price, an overall reduction in industry valuations, and property operating performance in the current economic
environment, we recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $481.3 million ($392.6 million, net of taxes) during the year ended December 31, 2008, as we determined that a
portion of the value of our goodwill, indefinite-life intangible assets and long-lived assets was impaired. The impairment charge by property was as follows: Argosy Casino
Lawrenceburg, $214.1 million pre-tax ($189.3 million, net of taxes); Hollywood Casino Aurora, $43.7 million pre-tax and net of taxes; Empress Casino Hotel,
$94.4 million pre-tax ($60.4 million, net of taxes); Argosy Casino Alton, $14.1 million pre-tax and net of taxes; Bullwhackers, $14.2 million
pre-tax ($9.1 million, net of taxes); Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway, $82.7 million pre-tax ($64.0 million, net of taxes); Corporate overhead,
$18.1 million pre-tax ($12.0 million, net of taxes).

(2)

Reflects
the operations of Black Gold Casino at Zia Park since April 16, 2007, and Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club since October 17, 2007.



(3)

During
the year ended December 31, 2006, as a result of the increased asset values resulting from the reconstruction at Hollywood Casino Bay
St. Louis, we determined that all of the goodwill associated with the original purchase of the property was impaired. Accordingly, we recorded a pre-tax charge of
$34.5 million ($22.0 million, net of taxes).

(4)

Reflects
the operations of Argosy properties since the October 1, 2005 acquisition effective date.

(5)

For
purposes of comparability, certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.

(6)

Per
share data has been retroactively restated to reflect the increased number of Common Stock shares outstanding as a result of our March 7, 2005
stock split.

(7)

Since
we reported a loss from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2008, we were required by Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 128, "Earnings Per Share", to use basic weighted-average common shares outstanding, rather than diluted weighted-average common shares outstanding, when calculating diluted
earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2008.

(8)

Does
not include discontinued operations.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Our Operations

We are a leading, diversified, multi-jurisdictional owner and manager of gaming and pari-mutuel properties. We currently
own or operate nineteen facilities in fifteen jurisdictions, including Colorado, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Louisiana, Maine, Mississippi, Missouri, New Jersey, New Mexico, Ohio, Pennsylvania,
West Virginia, and Ontario. We believe that our portfolio of assets provides us with a diversified cash flow from operations.

We
have made significant acquisitions in the past, and expect to continue to pursue additional acquisition and development opportunities in the future. In 1997, we began our transition
from a pari-mutuel company to a diversified gaming company with the acquisition of the Charles Town property and the introduction of video lottery terminals in West Virginia. Since 1997,
we have continued to expand our gaming operations through strategic acquisitions, including the acquisitions of Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi, CRC Holdings, Inc.,
the Bullwhackers properties, Hollywood Casino Corporation, Argosy Gaming Company ("Argosy"), Black Gold Casino at Zia Park, and Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club.

The
vast majority of our revenues is gaming revenue, derived primarily from gaming on slot machines and, to a lesser extent, table games. Other revenues are derived from our management
service fee from Casino Rama, our hotel, dining, retail, admissions, program sales, concessions and certain other ancillary activities, and our racing operations. Our racing revenue includes our share
of pari-mutuel wagering on live races after payment of amounts returned as winning wagers, our share of wagering from import and export simulcasting, and our share of wagering from our
off-track wagering facilities ("OTWs").

We
intend to continue to expand our gaming operations through the implementation of a disciplined capital expenditure program at our existing properties and the continued pursuit of
strategic acquisitions of gaming properties, particularly in attractive regional markets.

Key
performance indicators related to gaming revenue are slot handle (volume indicator), table game drop (volume indicator) and "win" or "hold" percentages. Our typical property slot win
percentage is in the range of 6% to 10% of slot handle, and our typical table game win percentage is in the range of 15% to 25% of table game drop.

Our
properties generate significant operating cash flow, since most of our revenue is cash-based from slot machines and pari-mutuel wagering. Our business is
capital intensive, and we rely on cash flow from our properties to generate operating cash to repay debt, fund capital maintenance expenditures, fund new capital projects at existing properties and
provide excess cash for future development and acquisitions.

Merger Announcement and Termination

On June 15, 2007, we announced that we had entered into a merger agreement that, at the effective time of the transactions
contemplated thereby, would have resulted in our shareholders receiving $67.00 per share. Specifically, we, PNG Acquisition Company Inc. ("Parent") and PNG Merger Sub Inc., a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent ("Merger Sub"), announced that we had entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 15, 2007 (the "Merger Agreement"), that provided, among
other things, for Merger Sub to be merged with and into us (the "Merger"), as a result of which we would have continued as the surviving corporation and would have become a wholly-



owned
subsidiary of Parent. Parent is indirectly owned by certain funds managed by affiliates of Fortress Investment Group LLC ("Fortress") and Centerbridge Partners, L.P.
("Centerbridge").

On
July 3, 2008, we entered into an agreement with certain affiliates of Fortress and Centerbridge, terminating the Merger Agreement. In connection with the termination of the
Merger Agreement, we agreed to receive a total of $1.475 billion, consisting of a nonrefundable $225 million cash termination fee (the "Cash Termination Fee") and a $1.25 billion,
zero coupon, preferred equity investment (the "Investment"). Pursuant to the terms of the preferred equity purchase agreement, the purchasers made a nonrefundable $475 million payment (the
"Initial Investment") to us on July 3, 2008, in addition to the payment of the Cash Termination Fee. Under the terms of the purchase agreement, the purchasers deposited the remaining preferred
equity investment purchase consideration with an escrow agent, with the funds to be released from escrow upon the issuance of the Preferred Stock. On October 30, 2008,
following the receipt of required regulatory approvals and the satisfaction of certain other conditions, we closed the sale of the Investment and received the remaining preferred equity investment
purchase consideration of $775 million from the escrow agent.

Executive Summary

Factors affecting our results for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2007,
included the impairment loss recorded in the year ended December 31, 2008, decreases in consumer spending on gaming activities caused by current economic conditions, competitive pressures at
some of our properties, the impact of the Illinois and Colorado smoking bans that became effective on January 1, 2008, lobbying costs incurred for efforts primarily in Ohio, Maryland and Maine,
separation payments to Leonard DeAngelo, the opening of the casino at Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course, the opening of the permanent facility at Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway in
Bangor, Maine, the acquisitions of Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club and Black Gold Casino at Zia Park, the impact of the Argosy Casino Riverside hotel, the receipt of the Cash Termination Fee, net of
related expenses, and the expiration of the 3% tax surcharge at Hollywood Casino Aurora and Empress Casino Hotel from May 26, 2008 through December 14, 2008.

Financial Highlights:

•

Net revenues decreased by $13.7 million, or 0.6%, for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to the
year ended December 31, 2007, primarily due to decreases in consumer spending on gaming activities caused by current economic conditions, competitive pressures at some of our properties, as
well as the effect of the impact of the Illinois and Colorado smoking bans that became effective on January 1, 2008. These decreases were partially offset by increases in net revenues due to
the opening of the casino at Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course, the opening of the permanent facility at Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway, the acquisitions of Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club
and Black Gold Casino at Zia Park, and the impact of the Argosy Casino Riverside hotel.

•

As a result of a decline in our share price, an overall reduction in industry valuations, and property operating
performance in the current economic environment, we recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $481.3 million ($392.6 million, net of taxes) during the year ended
December 31, 2008, as we determined that a portion of the value of our goodwill, indefinite-life intangible assets and long-lived assets was impaired.

•

Loss from continuing operations changed by $584.3 million, or 117.4%, for the year ended December 31, 2008,
as compared to the year ended December 31, 2007, primarily due to the impairment loss recorded in the year ended December 31, 2008, as well as the overall decrease



in
net revenues and increases in gaming expense, food, beverage and other expense, general and administrative expense and depreciation expense.

•

Net loss changed by $313.4 million, or 195.8%, for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to the year
ended December 31, 2007, primarily due to the variances explained above, which were partially offset by the receipt of the Cash Termination Fee, net of related expenses.

Other Developments:

•

In February 2009, we filed a license application with the Maryland Video Lottery Facility Location Commission to be
considered for a Video Lottery Operation License for the Cecil County Zone in Cecil County, Maryland. On July 7, 2008, we had announced that we had secured an 18-month option to
purchase approximately 36 acres of land located in Perryville, Cecil County, Maryland from Principio Iron Company L.P.

•

In December 2008, the Board of Directors extended the expiration date for all previous stock option grants by three years.
Due to potential adverse tax consequences of IRS regulations, certain executives with in the money stock options elected not to take advantage of this extension for their in the money stock options or
elected to extend for less than three years.

•

In November 2008, the arbitrators of litigation between Capital Seven, LLC and Shawn A. Scott (collectively,
"Capital Seven"), the sellers of Bangor Historic Track, Inc. ("BHT"), and us issued their ruling regarding the disputed purchase price of BHT. Capital Seven was seeking $30 million plus
interest and other damages for breach of contract by us based on our payment of a $51 million purchase price for the purchase of BHT instead of an alleged $81 million purchase price
Capital Seven claimed was due under the purchase agreement. The arbitrators stated that, under the applicable tax rate, the purchase price was $61 million. The panel awarded $10 million
plus contractual interest to Capital Seven. Pursuant to the dispute resolution procedures, we had deposited the disputed $30 million in escrow, pending a resolution. This amount was included in
other assets within the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2007. On December 1, 2008, the escrowed funds were released, with $13.1 million being paid to Capital Seven and
the remainder being returned to us.

•

In November 2008, a ballot measure that would have amended the Ohio Constitution to allow a casino near the Town of
Wilmington in Southwest Ohio failed. We contributed towards the campaign to defeat the amendment. In Maryland, voters approved gaming expansion at five targeted regions throughout the state. In
Missouri, the state's $500 loss limit was repealed and, in Colorado, the state bet limit was increased from $5 to $100.

•

On October 30, 2008, following the receipt of required regulatory approvals and the satisfaction of certain other
conditions, we closed the sale of the Investment and received the remaining preferred equity investment purchase consideration of $775 million from the escrow agent. On July 3, 2008, we
had entered into an agreement with certain affiliates of Fortress and Centerbridge, terminating the Merger Agreement. In connection with the termination of the Merger Agreement, we had agreed to
receive a total of $1.475 billion, consisting of the Cash Termination Fee and the Investment. Pursuant to the terms of the preferred equity purchase agreement, the purchasers made the Initial
Investment to us on July 3, 2008, in addition to the payment of the Cash Termination Fee. Under the terms of the purchase agreement, the purchasers had deposited the remaining preferred equity
investment purchase consideration with an escrow agent, with the funds to be released from escrow upon the issuance of the Preferred Stock.



•

Pursuant to the terms of the preferred equity purchase agreement, and in conjunction with the closing of the sale of the
Investment, Wesley R. Edens, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Fortress, joined our Board of Directors, increasing the size of our Board to seven members.

•

We used a portion of the net proceeds from the Investment and the after-tax proceeds of the Cash Termination
Fee for the repayment of some of our existing debt, repurchases of our Common Stock, lobbying expenses for efforts in Ohio and the investment in corporate debt securities, with the remainder being
invested primarily in short-term securities. The repurchase of up to $200 million of our Common Stock over the twenty-four month period ending July 2010 was authorized
by our Board of Directors in July 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we repurchased 8,934,984 shares of our Common Stock in open market transactions for approximately
$152.6 million, at an average price of $17.05.

•

On September 5, 2008, the 153-room hotel at Charles Town Entertainment Complex was opened to the
public.

•

In deference to the proposed Merger, our Board of Directors had determined that the compensation to be paid in 2008 to the
non-employee directors be composed of a fixed amount of cash compensation (with no special payment, meeting fees or equity grants). Each non-employee director was expected to
receive $150,000, 50% of which was to be paid on January 25, 2008, and the balance of which was expected to be paid in equal monthly installments throughout 2008 (with the total balance payable
at the time of the closing of the Merger). If the Merger was not consummated, our Board of Directors would then consider whether equity awards were appropriate. As of June 30, 2008, each
non-employee director had received $112,500. On August 8, 2008, our Board of Directors approved changes to the compensation for the non-employee directors. Under the
approved program, in lieu of the $37,500 cash remaining to be paid to each non-employee director in 2008, each non-employee director was granted stock options to purchase
20,000 shares of our Common Stock at an exercise price of $29.34 per share, in lieu of further cash payments. The stock options were granted pursuant to our 2003 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan.

•

On August 4, 2008, we announced the departure of Leonard DeAngelo as an officer. Mr. DeAngelo received
benefits and separation payments in accordance with the employment agreement between Mr. DeAngelo and us dated as of July 31, 2006.

•

On July 16, 2008, we were served with a purported class action lawsuit brought by plaintiffs seeking to represent a
class of shareholders who purchased shares of our Common Stock between March 20, 2008 and July 2, 2008. The lawsuit alleges that our disclosure practices relative to the proposed
transaction with Fortress and Centerbridge and the eventual termination of that transaction were misleading and deficient in violation of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The complaint, which
seeks class certification and unspecified damages, was filed in federal court in Maryland. The complaint has been amended, among other things, to add three new named plaintiffs and to name Peter M.
Carlino, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and William J. Clifford, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, as additional defendants. We filed a motion to dismiss the complaint in
November 2008, and oral arguments for the motion were heard by the court on February 23, 2009. Following oral arguments, the court granted our motion and dismissed the complaint with prejudice.
We anticipate that the plaintiffs will file a motion for reconsideration with the court.

•

In July 2008, we exercised our clawback right for the accelerated change in control payments previously provided to
certain members of our management team in accordance with the Acknowledgement and Agreement that we had entered into with certain members of our management team on December 26, 2007, and
advised the affected executives of the amounts to



be
repaid and the due date. We have received the net amount from each executive, and are working with each executive to recover the applicable taxes.

•

In the third quarter of 2008, we paid certain members of our management team a total of approximately $3.1 million
in cash, which represents the external measure portion of our Annual Incentive Plan for 2007. The payments to the named executive officers were made as follows: Peter M. Carlino, $1.4 million;
William J. Clifford, $0.5 million; Leonard M. DeAngelo, $0.5 million; Jordan B. Savitch, $0.2 million; Robert S. Ippolito, $0.1 million. The external measure portion
provided for the payment of incentive compensation upon our achievement of pre-established goals regarding our free cash flow (ranking results versus the peer group from data reported in
the Standard & Poors Research Insight database). The payments were not made earlier as the external free cash flow measure is calculated using publicly-available information regarding the peer
group, which had not yet been published. Each named executive officer agreed and confirmed in writing that such payment would not be included in any future determination of any severance or change in
control payment that may be due under any employment agreement between such executive and us.

•

In July 2008, we made our annual stock option grant to executives and other eligible employees following the termination
of the Merger Agreement. We issued 1,651,500 stock options on July 8, 2008, at a price of $29.87. We had previously elected to defer our annual stock option grant to executives and other
eligible employees due to the anticipated Merger.

•

On July 1, 2008, the permanent Hollywood Slots at Bangor facility, which is called the Hollywood Slots Hotel and
Raceway, was opened. The permanent facility included 1,000 slot machines at opening, an attached parking garage and several restaurants. In addition, a 152-room hotel opened in August
2008.

•

In June 2008, we entered into the second term of our first layer of property insurance coverage in the amount of
$200 million. The $200 million coverage, which is effective from August 8, 2007 through December 31, 2010, is on an "all risk" basis, including, but not limited to,
coverage for "named windstorms," floods and earthquakes. In June 2008, we also purchased an additional $100 million of "all risk" coverage including, but not limited to, coverage for "named
windstorms," floods and earthquakes. The additional $100 million of "all risk" coverage excludes coverage for windstorms, "named windstorms," floods, and earthquakes, for Boomtown Biloxi and
Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis. An additional $300 million of "all risk" coverage was purchased, which is subject to certain exclusions including, among others, exclusions for
windstorms, "named windstorms," floods and earthquakes. The two additional coverage layers are effective from June 1, 2008 through June 1, 2009. There is a $25 million deductible
for "named windstorm" events, and lesser deductibles as they apply to other perils. All three layers are subject to specific policy terms, conditions and exclusions.

•

On February 19, 2008, the Illinois Gaming Board resolved to allow us to retain the Empress Casino Hotel.
Previously, in connection with our acquisition of Argosy, we entered into an agreement with the Illinois Gaming Board in which we agreed, in part, to enter into an agreement to divest the Empress
Casino Hotel by December 31, 2006, which date was later extended to June 30, 2008, subject to us having the right to request that the Illinois Gaming Board review and reconsider the
terms of the agreement. As a result of this decision, we plan to invest $55 million in the facility, in order to improve its competitive position in the market. We began these facility
enhancements in late 2008 and expect the gaming vessel, food, beverage, VIP amenity upgrades and external improvements to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2009.

•

On February 12, 2008, we opened Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course, which included, upon opening, 2,020
slot machines, a five-story garage, an innovative, multi-media



Hollywood
design theme and bars and restaurants ranging from casual dining to higher-end fare. The facility has capacity for 980 additional gaming devices, and we added 207 additional
slots in August 2008. The Epic Buffet was opened in October 2008 and Final Cut steakhouse was opened in December 2008.

•

On February 6, 2008, we announced that we named Timothy J. Wilmott to the position of President and Chief Operating
Officer.

•

On August 31, 2007 and November 28, 2007, we filed license applications with the Kansas Lottery Commission
to be considered as a Lottery Gaming Facility Manager for our proposed resorts in Cherokee County and Sumner County, respectively. In May 2008, the Kansas Lottery Commission approved our subsidiary's
contracts to act as a Lottery Gaming Facility Manager in both counties. The management contracts were sent to the Kansas Lottery Gaming Facility Review Board (the "Review Board") for their
consideration, and we presented our proposals to the Review Board in July 2008. In June 2008, in accordance with the management contracts, we paid privilege fees totaling $50.0 million to the
State of Kansas, which were refundable if the required approvals were not obtained or if we withdrew our application prior to obtaining all required approvals. In August 2008, we learned that we were
unsuccessful in our bid to manage a gaming facility in Sumner County, and the $25 million privilege fee paid to the State of Kansas for Sumner County was returned in September 2008. In
addition, in September 2008, we withdrew our application to manage the facility in Cherokee County for various reasons.

•

On September 23, 2008, Kansas Penn Gaming, LLC ("KPG," a wholly-owned subsidiary created to pursue a
development project in Cherokee County, Kansas) filed an action against HV Properties of Kansas, LLC ("HV") in the U.S. District Court for the District of Kansas seeking a declaratory judgment
from the U.S. District Court finding that KPG has no further obligations to HV under a Real Estate Sale Contract (the "Contract") that KPG and HV entered into on September 6, 2007, and that KPG
properly terminated this Contract under the terms of the Repurchase Agreement entered into between the parties effective September 28, 2007. HV filed a counterclaim claiming KPG breached the
Contract, and seeks $37.5 million in damages. On October 7, 2008, HV filed suit against us claiming that we are liable to HV for KPG's alleged breach based on a Guaranty Agreement signed
by us. Both cases were consolidated. We have filed a motion to dismiss HV's claims against us. This motion has been fully briefed and is pending.

•

On September 11, 2008, the Board of County Commissioners of Cherokee County, Kansas (the "County") filed suit
against KPG and us in the District Court of Shawnee County, Kansas. The petition alleges that KPG breached its pre-development agreement with the County when KPG withdrew its application
to manage a lottery gaming facility in Cherokee County and seeks in excess of $50 million in damages. In connection with their petition, the County obtained an ex-parte order
attaching the $25 million privilege fee paid to the Kansas Lottery Commission in conjunction with the gaming application for the Cherokee County zone. Defendants are currently contesting the
validity and scope of the attachment and intend to defend the merits of the case going forward.

•

In May 2006, the Illinois Legislature passed into law House Bill 1918, effective May 26, 2006, which singled out
four of the nine Illinois casinos, including our Empress Casino Hotel and Hollywood Casino Aurora, for a 3% tax surcharge to subsidize local horse racing interests. On May 30, 2006, Empress
Casino Hotel and Hollywood Casino Aurora joined with the two other riverboats affected by the law, Harrah's Joliet and the Grand Victoria Casino in Elgin, and filed suit in Circuit Court of the
Twelfth Judicial District in Will County, Illinois (the "Court"), asking the Court to declare the law unconstitutional. Empress Casino Hotel and Hollywood Casino Aurora began paying the 3% tax
surcharge into a protest fund which accrues interest during the



pendency
of the lawsuit, and have subsequently expensed approximately $30.3 million in incremental tax, including $5.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2008. In two
orders dated March 29, 2007 and April 20, 2007, the Court declared the law unconstitutional under the Uniformity Clause of the Illinois Constitution and enjoined the collection of this
tax surcharge. The State of Illinois requested, and was granted, a stay of this ruling. As a result, Empress Casino Hotel and Hollywood Casino Aurora continued paying the 3% tax surcharge into the
protest fund until May 25, 2008, when the 3% tax surcharge expired. The State of Illinois appealed the ruling to the Illinois Supreme Court. On June 5, 2008, the Illinois Supreme Court
reversed the trial court's ruling and issued a decision upholding the constitutionality of the 3% tax surcharge. On January 21, 2009, the four casino plaintiffs filed a petition for certiorari,
requesting the U.S. Supreme Court to hear the case. The accumulated funds will be returned to Empress Casino Hotel and Hollywood Casino Aurora if they ultimately prevail in the lawsuit.

•

On December 15, 2008, former Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich signed Public Act No. 95-1008
requiring the same four casinos to continue paying the 3% tax surcharge to subsidize Illinois horse racing interests. On January 8, 2009, the four casinos filed suit in the Circuit Court of the
Twelfth Judicial District in Will County, Illinois, asking the Court to declare the law unconstitutional. The 3% tax surcharge being paid pursuant to Public Act No. 95-1008 is paid
into a protest fund where it accrues interest. The accumulated funds will be returned to Empress Casino Hotel and Hollywood Casino Aurora if they ultimately prevail in the lawsuit.

•

We are continuing to build and develop several of our properties, including Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg and Empress Casino
Hotel. Additional information regarding our capital projects is discussed in detail in the section entitled "Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Expenditures" below.

Critical Accounting Policies

We make certain judgments and use certain estimates and assumptions when applying accounting principles in the preparation of our
consolidated financial statements. The nature of the estimates and assumptions are material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain factors or the
susceptibility of such factors to change. We have identified the policies related to the accounting for long-lived assets, goodwill and other intangible assets, income taxes and
litigation, claims and assessments as critical accounting policies, which require us to make significant judgments, estimates and assumptions.

We
believe the current assumptions and other considerations used to estimate amounts reflected in our consolidated financial statements are appropriate. However, if actual experience
differs from the assumptions and other considerations used in estimating amounts reflected in our consolidated financial statements, the resulting changes could have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated results of operations and, in certain situations, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.

The
development and selection of the critical accounting policies, and the related disclosures, have been reviewed with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors.

Long-lived assets

At December 31, 2008, we had a net property and equipment balance of $1,812.1 million within our consolidated balance
sheet, representing 34.9% of total assets. We depreciate property and equipment on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives are determined based
on the nature of the assets as well as our current operating strategy. We review the carrying value of our property and equipment for possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable based on undiscounted estimated future cash flows expected to result from its use and eventual disposition. The



factors
considered by us in performing this assessment include current operating results, trends and prospects, as well as the effect of obsolescence, demand, competition and other economic factors.
In estimating expected future cash flows for determining whether an asset is impaired, assets are grouped at the individual property level. In assessing the recoverability of the carrying value of
property and equipment, we must make assumptions regarding future cash flows and other factors. If these estimates
or the related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record an impairment loss for these assets. Such an impairment loss would be recognized as a non-cash component of
operating income. As a result of a decline in our share price, an overall reduction in industry valuations, and property operating performance in the current economic environment, we believed that
there were indicators of impairment as of December 31, 2008. As a result, we tested our long-lived assets for impairment as of December 31, 2008, and determined that a
portion of the value of our long-lived assets, primarily at our Bullwhackers property, was impaired. Accordingly, we recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of
$15.1 million ($10.0 million, net of taxes) during the year ended December 31, 2008 for these assets.

Goodwill and other intangible assets

At December 31, 2008, we had $1,598.6 million in goodwill and $693.8 million in other intangible assets within our
consolidated balance sheet, representing 30.8% and 13.4% of total assets, respectively, resulting from our acquisition of other businesses and payment for gaming licenses and racing permits. Two
issues arise with respect to these assets that require significant management estimates and judgment: (i) the valuation in connection with the initial purchase price allocation; and
(ii) the ongoing evaluation for impairment.

In
connection with our acquisitions, valuations are completed to determine the allocation of the purchase prices. The factors considered in the valuations include data gathered as a
result of our due diligence in connection with the acquisitions, projections for future operations, and data obtained from third-party valuation specialists as deemed appropriate. Goodwill is tested
annually, or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist, for impairment by comparing the fair value of the reporting units to their carrying amount. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit
exceeds its fair value, an impairment test is performed to determine the implied value of goodwill for that reporting unit. If the implied value is less than the carrying amount for that reporting
unit, an impairment loss is recognized for that reporting unit. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets"
("SFAS 142"), issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB"), we consider our gaming license, racing permit and trademark intangible assets as indefinite-life
intangible assets that do not require amortization. Rather, these intangible assets are tested annually, or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist, for impairment by comparing the fair
value of the recorded assets to their carrying amount. If the carrying amounts of the gaming license, racing permit and trademark intangible assets exceed their fair value, an impairment loss is
recognized. The evaluation of goodwill and indefinite-life intangible assets requires the use of estimates about future operating results of each reporting unit to determine their
estimated fair value. We use a market approach model, with EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, charges for stock compensation, impairment loss, depreciation and amortization, gain or loss on
disposal of assets, merger termination settlement fees, net of related expenses, and other expense, and inclusive of loss from joint venture) multiples, as we believe that EBITDA is a
widely-used measure of performance in the gaming industry and as we use EBITDA as the primary measurement of the operating performance of our properties (including the evaluation of
operating personnel). In addition, we believe that an EBITDA multiple is the principal basis for the valuation of gaming companies. Changes in the estimated EBITDA multiple or forecasted operations
can materially affect these estimates. Once an impairment of goodwill or other indefinite-life intangible assets has been recorded, it cannot be reversed. Because our goodwill and
indefinite-life intangible assets are not amortized, there may be volatility in reported income because impairment losses, if any, are likely to occur irregularly and in varying amounts.
Intangible assets that



have
a definite-life, including the management service contract for Casino Rama, are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or related service
contract. We review the carrying value of our intangible assets that have a definite-life for possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying
value may not be recoverable. If the carrying amount of the intangible assets that have a definite-life exceed their fair value, an impairment loss is recognized. As a result of a decline
in our share price, an overall reduction in industry valuations, and property operating performance in the current economic environment, we believed that there were indicators of impairment as of
December 31, 2008. As a result, we tested our goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment as of December 31, 2008, and determined that a portion of the value of these assets was
impaired in certain reporting units. Accordingly, we recorded pre-tax impairment charges of $397.2 million ($338.5 million, net of taxes) and $69.0 million
($44.1 million, net of taxes) during the year ended December 31, 2008 for our goodwill and indefinite-life intangible assets, respectively.

Income taxes

At December 31, 2008, we had a net deferred tax liability balance of $244.5 million within our consolidated balance
sheet. We account for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" ("SFAS 109"). Under SFAS 109, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined
based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of existing assets and liabilities and are measured at the prevailing enacted tax rates that will be in
effect when these differences are settled or realized. SFAS 109 also requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all
of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.

The
realizability of the deferred tax assets is evaluated quarterly by assessing the valuation allowance and by adjusting the amount of the allowance, if necessary. The factors used to
assess the likelihood of realization are the forecast of future taxable income and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the net deferred tax assets.

We
adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes" ("FIN 48"), which is an interpretation of SFAS 109, on
January 1, 2007. FIN 48 creates a single model to address uncertainty in tax positions, and clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise's
financial statements in accordance with SFAS 109 by prescribing the minimum recognition threshold a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in an enterprise's financial
statements. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, measurement, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. At December 31,
2008, we had a liability relating to FIN 48 of $68.6 million, which is included in noncurrent tax liabilities within the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2008. We
operate within multiple taxing jurisdictions and are subject to audit in each jurisdiction. These audits can involve complex issues that may require an extended period of time to resolve. In our
opinion, adequate provisions for income taxes have been made for all periods.

Litigation, claims and assessments

We utilize estimates for litigation, claims and assessments. These estimates are based on our knowledge and experience regarding
current and past events, as well as assumptions about future events. If our assessment of such a matter should change, we may have to change the estimate, which may have an adverse effect on our
results of operations. Actual results could differ from these estimates.



Results of Operations

The following are the most important factors and trends that contribute to our operating performance:

•

The fact that most of our properties operate in mature competitive markets. As a result, we expect a majority of our
future growth to come from prudent acquisitions of gaming properties, jurisdictional expansions (such as the recent openings in Pennsylvania and Maine) and property expansion in under-penetrated
markets.

•

The actions of government bodies can affect our operations in a variety of ways. For instance, the continued pressure on
governments to balance their budgets could intensify the efforts of state and local governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes. In addition, government bodies may restrict,
prevent or negatively impact operations in the jurisdictions in which we do business (such as through the Illinois, Colorado and Pennsylvania smoking bans that became effective on January 1,
2008).

•

The fact that a number of states are currently considering or implementing legislation to legalize or expand gaming. Such
legislation presents both potential opportunities to establish new properties (for instance, in Maryland) and potential competitive threats to business at our existing properties (such as in Kansas,
Maryland, Ohio, and Kentucky). The timing and occurrence of these events remain uncertain. We also face uncertainty regarding anticipated gaming expansion by one of our competitors in Baton Rouge,
Louisiana. Legalized gaming from casinos located on Native American lands can also have a significant competitive effect.

•

The continued demand for, and our emphasis on, slot wagering entertainment at our properties.

•

The successful expansion at Empress Casino Hotel and Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg.

•

The successful execution of the development and construction activities currently underway at a number of our facilities,
as well as the risks associated with the costs, regulatory approval and the timing for these activities.

•

The risks related to current economic conditions and the effect of such conditions on consumer spending for leisure and
gaming activities, which may negatively impact our operating results and our ability to access financing.

The
results of continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 are summarized below:

Year Ended December 31,




(in thousands)

Revenues:

Gaming

$

2,206,500

$

2,227,944

$

2,057,617

Management service fee

16,725

17,273

18,146

Food, beverage and other

334,206

320,520

275,700

Gross revenues

2,557,431

2,565,737

2,351,463

Less promotional allowances

(134,378

)

(128,944

)

(106,916

)

Net revenues

2,423,053

2,436,793

2,244,547

Operating expenses:

Gaming

1,163,458

1,155,062

1,061,904

Food, beverage and other

264,012

247,576

224,673

General and administrative

427,146

388,431

349,909

Hurricane

—

—

(128,253

)

Impairment loss

481,333

—

34,522

Depreciation and amortization

173,545

147,915

123,951

Total operating expenses

2,509,494

1,938,984

1,666,706

(Loss) income from continuing operations

$

(86,441

)

$

497,809

$

577,841



The
results of continuing operations by property for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 are summarized below:

Net Revenues

Income (loss) from

Continuing Operations

Year Ended December 31,




2008(5)


2006(6)

(in thousands)

Charles Town Entertainment Complex

$

477,032

$

500,800

$

485,197

$

114,726

$

127,277

$

122,938

Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg

432,082

478,719

474,046

(96,094

)

142,690

139,267

Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course(1)

224,935

48,488

50,303

11,530

(9,451

)


Hollywood Casino Aurora

198,693

251,877

245,475

13,009

73,914

70,140

Empress Casino Hotel

168,663

225,794

238,843

(63,922

)

38,821

47,822

Argosy Casino Riverside

186,132

174,426

153,441

48,526

42,388

37,744

Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge

131,013

135,869

144,001

43,829

47,417

52,097

Argosy Casino Alton

84,040

119,166

115,194

(301

)

29,709

21,373

Hollywood Casino Tunica

88,540

103,858

106,352

14,363

19,536

19,393

Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis

101,997

96,622

32,184

6,025

4,850

35,810

Argosy Casino Sioux City

54,774

54,417

53,909

14,634

13,259

13,363

Boomtown Biloxi

75,701

86,159

51,421

9,753

12,979

72,812

Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway(2)

55,780

46,689

40,871

(79,922

)

9,523

7,332

Bullwhackers

22,128

28,882

26,812

(16,922

)

1,149


Black Gold Casino at Zia Park(3)

90,255

58,572

—

27,755

16,702

—

Casino Rama management service contract

16,725

17,273

18,146

15,183

15,899

16,765

Raceway Park

7,549

7,814

8,352

(1,368

)

(1,119

)

(651

)

Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club(4)

7,014

1,368

—

(725

)

(3

)

—

Earnings from Pennwood Racing, Inc.

—

—

—

—

—

—

Corporate overhead

—

—

—

(146,520

)

(87,731

)

(79,940

)

Total

$

2,423,053

$

2,436,793

$

2,244,547

$

(86,441

)

$

497,809

$

577,841

(1)

Hollywood
Casino at Penn National Race Course includes the results of our Pennsylvania casino that opened on February 12, 2008, as well as the Penn
National Race Course and four OTWs.

(2)

On
July 1, 2008, the permanent Hollywood Slots at Bangor facility, which is called the Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway, was opened.

(3)

Reflects
results since the April 16, 2007 acquisition effective date.

(4)

Reflects
results since the October 17, 2007 acquisition effective date.

(5)

As
a result of a decline in our share price, an overall reduction in industry valuations, and property operating performance in the current economic
environment, we recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $481.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2008, as we determined that a portion of the value of our goodwill,
indefinite-life intangible assets and long-lived assets was impaired. The pre-tax impairment charge by property was as follows: Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg,



$214.1 million;
Hollywood Casino Aurora, $43.7 million; Empress Casino Hotel, $94.4 million; Argosy Casino Alton, $14.1 million; Bullwhackers, $14.2 million;
Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway, $82.7 million; Corporate overhead, $18.1 million.

(6)

During
the year ended December 31, 2006, as a result of the increased asset values resulting from the reconstruction at Hollywood Casino Bay
St. Louis, we determined that all of the goodwill associated with the original purchase of the property was impaired. Accordingly, we recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of
$34.5 million.

Revenues

Revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 are as follows (in thousands):

Year ended December 31,



Variance

Percentage

Variance

Gaming

$

2,206,500

$

2,227,944

$

(21,444

)

(1.0)%

Management service fee

16,725

17,273

(548

)

(3.2)%

Food, beverage and other

334,206

320,520

13,686

4.3%

Gross revenues

2,557,431

2,565,737

(8,306

)

(0.3)%

Less promotional allowances

(134,378

)

(128,944

)

(5,434

)

4.2%

Net revenues

$

2,423,053

$

2,436,793

$

(13,740

)

(0.6)%

Year ended December 31,



Variance

Percentage

Variance

Gaming

$

2,227,944

$

2,057,617

$

170,327

8.3%

Management service fee

17,273

18,146

(873

)

(4.8)%

Food, beverage and other

320,520

275,700

44,820

16.3%

Gross revenues

2,565,737

2,351,463

214,274

9.1%

Less promotional allowances

(128,944

)

(106,916

)

(22,028

)

20.6%

Net revenues

$

2,436,793

$

2,244,547

$

192,246

8.6%

Gaming revenue

2008 Compared with 2007

Gaming revenue decreased by $21.4 million, or 1.0%, to $2,206.5 million in 2008, primarily due to decreases at several of
our properties, which were partially offset by increases due to the opening of the casino at Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course, the acquisition of Black Gold Casino at Zia Park, the impact
of the hotel and successful marketing efforts at Argosy Casino Riverside, and the opening of the permanent facility at Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway.

Gaming
revenue at Empress Casino Hotel decreased by $55.8 million in 2008, primarily due to decreases in consumer spending on gaming activities caused by current economic
conditions, the impact of the Illinois smoking ban that became effective on January 1, 2008, an increase in cash back from promotional points programs, and competitive pressures.

Gaming
revenue at Hollywood Casino Aurora decreased by $52.1 million in 2008, primarily due to decreases in consumer spending on gaming activities caused by current economic
conditions, new competitive pressures and the impact of the Illinois smoking ban that became effective on January 1, 2008.

Gaming
revenue at Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg decreased by $43.7 million in 2008, primarily due to decreases in consumer spending on gaming activities caused by current economic
conditions as well as new competitive pressures.



Gaming
revenue at Argosy Casino Alton decreased by $34.0 million in 2008, primarily due to new competition in the market and the impact of the Illinois smoking ban that became
effective on January 1, 2008.

Gaming
revenue at Charles Town Entertainment Complex decreased by $22.5 million in 2008, primarily due to decreases in consumer spending on gaming activities caused by current
economic conditions as well as competitive pressures.

Gaming
revenue at Hollywood Casino Tunica decreased by $14.2 million in 2008, primarily due to decreases in consumer spending on gaming activities caused by current economic
conditions.

Gaming
revenue at Boomtown Biloxi decreased by $9.4 million in 2008, primarily due to continued competitive pressures, decreases in consumer spending on gaming activities caused
by current economic conditions and the impact of Hurricane Gustav and Hurricane Ike.

Gaming
revenue at Bullwhackers decreased by $6.7 million in 2008, primarily due to decreases in consumer spending on gaming activities caused by current economic conditions,
continued competitive pressures and the impact of the Colorado smoking ban that became effective on January 1, 2008.

Gaming
revenue at Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course, which opened its casino on February 12, 2008, was $170.5 million in 2008.

Gaming
revenue at Black Gold Casino at Zia Park increased by $29.6 million in 2008, primarily due to the acquisition of the property in mid-April 2007, as well as
favorable regional economic conditions and successful marketing efforts.

Gaming
revenue at Argosy Casino Riverside increased by $8.7 million in 2008, primarily due to the impact of its hotel and successful marketing efforts.

Gaming
revenue at Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway increased by $7.2 million in 2008, primarily due to the opening of the permanent facility on July 1, 2008.

2007 Compared with 2006

Gaming revenue increased by $170.3 million, or 8.3%, to $2,227.9 million in 2007, primarily due to the reopening of
Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis, the acquisition of Black Gold Casino at Zia Park, the reopening of Boomtown Biloxi and revenue growth at several of our properties, all of which were partially
offset by decreases at Empress Casino Hotel and Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge.

Gaming
revenue at Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis increased by $57.1 million in 2007, as the property was closed from August 28, 2005 until August 31, 2006 due
to Hurricane Katrina.

Gaming
revenue at Black Gold Casino at Zia Park, which we acquired in mid-April 2007, was $53.0 million in 2007.

Gaming
revenue at Boomtown Biloxi increased by $31.9 million in 2007, as the property was closed from August 28, 2005 until June 29, 2006 due to Hurricane Katrina.

Gaming
revenue at Argosy Casino Riverside increased by $16.4 million in 2007, primarily due to successful marketing promotions and increased patronage at the property due to the
opening of its hotel to the public in April 2007.

Gaming
revenue at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex increased by $14.4 million in 2007, primarily due to an increase in gaming play as a result of slot expansion and an
aggressive advertising and promotional campaign.

Gaming
revenue at Hollywood Casino Aurora increased by $6.2 million in 2007, primarily due to increases in slot and table game revenues resulting from the continued refinement of
marketing



programs
and the incentives offered to existing customers, as well as increases in slot hold, all of which were partially offset by a decrease in slot handle. Slot revenue benefited from the expansion
of highly popular low-denomination video slot machines, which generate a higher win per unit and hold percentages than other slot machines.

Gaming
revenue at Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway increased by $5.7 million in 2007, primarily due to continued growth in the Bangor market.

Gaming
revenue at Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg increased by $4.7 million in 2007, primarily due to an increase in poker room revenue, as the poker room was not in operation in the
first quarter of 2006, and decreases in sales incentives and point loyalty programs. The increase in gaming revenue was partially offset by decreases in slot and table game revenues.

Gaming
revenue at Empress Casino Hotel decreased by $12.8 million in 2007, primarily due to continued competitive pressures.

Gaming
revenue at Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge decreased by $8.3 million in 2007, primarily due to ongoing post-hurricane market stabilization.

Food, beverage and other revenue

2008 Compared with 2007

Food, beverage and other revenue increased by $13.7 million, or 4.3%, to $334.2 million in 2008, primarily due to the
opening of the casino at Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course, the acquisition of Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club, the impact of the hotel at Argosy Casino Riverside, and the opening of the
permanent facility at Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway, all of which were partially offset by decreases at Argosy Casino Alton, Hollywood Casino Tunica, Empress Casino Hotel and Hollywood Casino
Aurora.

Food,
beverage and other revenue at Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course increased by $8.7 million in 2008, as the casino opened on February 12, 2008.

Food,
beverage and other revenue at Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club, which we acquired in mid-October 2007, increased by $5.6 million in 2008.

Food,
beverage and other revenue at Argosy Casino Riverside increased by $5.2 million in 2008, primarily due to the impact of its hotel.

Food,
beverage and other revenue at Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway increased by $2.7 million in 2008, primarily due to the opening of the permanent facility on July 1,
2008.

Food,
beverage and other revenue at Argosy Casino Alton decreased by $2.4 million in 2008, primarily due to new competition in the region and the impact of the Illinois smoking
ban that became effective on January 1, 2008.

Food,
beverage and other revenue at Hollywood Casino Tunica decreased by $2.4 million in 2008, primarily due to decreases in consumer spending on gaming activities caused by
current economic conditions.

Food,
beverage and other revenue at Empress Casino Hotel decreased by $1.7 million in 2008, primarily due to the impact of the Illinois smoking ban that became effective on
January 1, 2008.

Food,
beverage and other revenue at Hollywood Casino Aurora decreased by $1.5 million in 2008, primarily due to decreases in consumer spending on gaming activities caused by
current economic conditions, new competitive pressures and the impact of the Illinois smoking ban that became effective on January 1, 2008.



2007 Compared with 2006

Food, beverage and other revenue increased by $44.8 million, or 16.3%, to $320.5 million in 2007, primarily due to the
reopening of Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis, the opening of the Argosy Casino Riverside hotel, the reopening of Boomtown Biloxi, the acquisition of Black Gold Casino at Zia Park, and our
purchase and opening of a gas station/convenience store near the Bullwhackers facility.

Food,
beverage and other revenue at Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis increased by $20.3 million in 2007, as the property was closed from August 28, 2005 until
August 31, 2006 due to Hurricane Katrina.

Food,
beverage and other revenue at Argosy Casino Riverside increased by $7.1 million in 2007, primarily due to the opening of its hotel to the public in April 2007.

Food,
beverage and other revenue at Boomtown Biloxi increased by $6.3 million in 2007, as the property was closed from August 28, 2005 until June 29, 2006 due to
Hurricane Katrina.

Food,
beverage and other revenue at Black Gold Casino at Zia Park, which we acquired in mid-April 2007, was $5.8 million in 2007.

Food,
beverage and other revenue at Bullwhackers increased by $2.4 million in 2007, primarily due to our purchase and opening of a gas station/convenience store near the
Bullwhackers facility during the third quarter of 2006.

Promotional allowances

2008 Compared with 2007

Promotional allowances increased by $5.4 million, or 4.2%, to $134.4 million in 2008, primarily due to the opening of the
casino at Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course and the impact of the hotel and gaming revenue growth at Argosy Casino Riverside.

Promotional
allowances at Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course increased by $2.7 million in 2008, as the casino opened on February 12, 2008.

Promotional
allowances at Argosy Casino Riverside increased by $2.1 million in 2008, primarily due to the impact of its hotel and gaming revenue growth.

2007 Compared with 2006

Promotional allowances increased by $22.0 million, or 20.6%, to $128.9 million in 2007, primarily due to the reopening of
Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and
Boomtown Biloxi, as well as increased wagering by some of our customers at Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course and the opening of the Argosy Casino Riverside hotel.

Promotional
allowances at Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis increased by $13.0 million in 2007, as the property was closed from August 28, 2005 until August 31,
2006 due to Hurricane Katrina.

Promotional
allowances at Boomtown Biloxi increased by $3.6 million in 2007, as the property was closed from August 28, 2005 until June 29, 2006 due to Hurricane
Katrina.

Promotional
allowances at Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course increased by $3.0 million in 2007, primarily due to an increase in wagering by customers who receive point
rebates.

Promotional
allowances at Argosy Casino Riverside increased by $2.6 million in 2007, primarily due to the opening of its hotel to the public in April 2007 and gaming revenue
growth.



Operating Expenses

Operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 are as follows (in thousands):

Year ended December 31,



Variance

Percentage

Variance

Gaming

$

1,163,458

$

1,155,062

$

8,396

0.7

%

Food, beverage and other

264,012

247,576

16,436

6.6

%

General and administrative

427,146

388,431

38,715

10.0

%

Impairment loss

481,333

—

481,333

100.0

%

Depreciation and amortization

173,545

147,915

25,630

17.3

%

Total operating expenses

$

2,509,494

$

1,938,984

$

570,510

29.4

%

Year ended December 31,



Variance

Percentage

Variance

Gaming

$

1,155,062

$

1,061,904

$

93,158

8.8

%

Food, beverage and other

247,576

224,673

22,903

10.2

%

General and administrative

388,431

349,909

38,522

11.0

%

Hurricane

—

(128,253

)

128,253

100.0

%

Impairment loss

—

34,522

(34,522

)

(100.0

)%

Depreciation and amortization

147,915

123,951

23,964

19.3

%

Total operating expenses

$

1,938,984

$

1,666,706

$

272,278

16.3

%

Gaming expense

2008 Compared with 2007

Gaming expense increased by $8.4 million, or 0.7%, to $1,163.5 million in 2008, primarily due to the opening of the
casino at Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course, the acquisition of Black Gold Casino at Zia Park, and the opening of the permanent facility at Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway, all of which
were partially offset by decreases at several of our properties.

Gaming
expense at Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course, which opened its casino on February 12, 2008, was $118.6 million in 2008.

Gaming
expense at Black Gold Casino at Zia Park increased by $15.4 million in 2008, primarily due to the acquisition of the property in mid-April 2007, as well as an
increase in gaming taxes resulting from higher gaming revenue.

Gaming
expense at Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway increased by $4.5 million in 2008, primarily due to the opening of the permanent facility on July 1, 2008.

Gaming
expense at Empress Casino Hotel decreased by $45.6 million in 2008, primarily due to a decrease in gaming taxes resulting from lower gaming revenue, the expiration of the
3% tax surcharge from May 26, 2008 through December 14, 2008, decreased marketing expenses and lower payroll costs.

Gaming
expense at Hollywood Casino Aurora decreased by $34.0 million in 2008, primarily due to a decrease in gaming taxes resulting from lower gaming revenue, the expiration of
the 3% tax surcharge from May 26, 2008 through December 14, 2008, decreased marketing expenses and lower payroll costs.

Gaming
expense at Argosy Casino Alton decreased by $15.2 million in 2008, primarily due to a decrease in gaming taxes resulting from lower gaming revenue.



Gaming
expense at Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg decreased by $13.9 million in 2008, primarily due to a decrease in gaming taxes resulting from lower gaming revenue and lower payroll
costs, partially offset by an increase in marketing expense.

Gaming
expense at Charles Town Entertainment Complex decreased by $11.0 million in 2008, primarily due to a decrease in gaming taxes resulting from lower gaming revenue.

Gaming
expense at Hollywood Casino Tunica decreased by $5.9 million in 2008, primarily due to a decrease in gaming taxes resulting from lower gaming revenue, decreased marketing
expenses and lower payroll costs.

Gaming
expense at Boomtown Biloxi decreased by $3.5 million in 2008, primarily due to a decrease in gaming taxes resulting from lower gaming revenue.

2007 Compared with 2006

Gaming expense increased by $93.2 million, or 8.8%, to $1,155.1 million in 2007, primarily due to the reopening of
Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis, the acquisition of Black Gold Casino at Zia Park, the reopening of Boomtown Biloxi, and increases and decreases in gaming taxes and other gaming expense at our
properties.

Gaming
expense at Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis increased by $32.9 million in 2007, as the property was closed from August 28, 2005 until August 31, 2006 due
to Hurricane Katrina.

Gaming
expense at Black Gold Casino at Zia Park, which we acquired in mid-April 2007, was $29.1 million for 2007.

Gaming
expense at Boomtown Biloxi increased by $13.5 million in 2007, as the property was closed from August 28, 2005 until June 29, 2006 due to Hurricane Katrina.

Gaming
expense at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex increased by $9.9 million in 2007, primarily due to increased gaming taxes and purses resulting from higher gaming
revenue.

Gaming
expense at Argosy Casino Riverside increased by $5.3 million in 2007, primarily due to an increase in gaming taxes resulting from higher gaming revenue.

Gaming
expense at Empress Casino Hotel decreased by $5.9 million in 2007, primarily due to decreases in marketing expenses and gaming taxes.

Gaming
expense at Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge decreased by $3.9 million in 2007, primarily due to decreased gaming taxes resulting from lower gaming revenue.

Gaming
expense at Argosy Casino Alton decreased by $3.3 million in 2007, primarily due to the expiration of the Illinois "hold harmless" tax minimum guarantee on July 1,
2007.

Food, beverage and other expense

2008 Compared with 2007

Food, beverage and other expense increased by $16.4 million, or 6.6%, to $264.0 million in 2008, primarily due to the
acquisition of Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club, the opening of the permanent facility at Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway, the opening of the casino at Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course, and
the impact of the hotel at Argosy Casino Riverside, all of which were partially offset by a decrease at Hollywood Casino Tunica.

Food,
beverage and other expense at Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club, which we acquired in mid-October 2007, increased by $5.7 million in 2008.



Food,
beverage and other expense at Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway increased by $5.0 in 2008, primarily due to the opening of the permanent facility on July 1, 2008.

Food,
beverage and other expense at Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course increased by $4.5 million in 2008, as the casino opened on February 12, 2008.

Food,
beverage and other expense at Argosy Casino Riverside increased by $2.0 million in 2008, primarily due to the impact of its hotel.

Food,
beverage and other expense at Hollywood Casino Tunica decreased by $2.0 million in 2008, primarily due to a decrease in the cost of food and beverages resulting from lower
food and beverage revenue, as well as lower payroll costs.

2007 Compared with 2006

Food, beverage and other expense increased by $22.9 million, or 10.2%, to $247.6 million in 2007, primarily due to the
opening of the Argosy Casino Riverside hotel, the reopening of Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis, the acquisition of Black Gold Casino at Zia Park, and the reopening of Boomtown Biloxi.

Food,
beverage and other expense at Argosy Casino Riverside increased by $5.8 million in 2007, primarily due to the opening of its hotel to the public in April 2007.

Food,
beverage and other expense at Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis increased by $5.0 million in 2007, as the property was closed from August 28, 2005 until
August 31, 2006 due to Hurricane Katrina.

Food,
beverage and other expense at Black Gold Casino at Zia Park, which we acquired in mid-April 2007, was $4.1 million in 2007.

Food,
beverage and other expense at Boomtown Biloxi increased by $3.2 million in 2007, as the property was closed from August 28, 2005 until June 29, 2006 due to
Hurricane Katrina.

General and administrative expense

General and administrative expense at the properties includes expenses such as compliance, facility maintenance, utilities, property
and liability insurance, surveillance and security, and certain housekeeping, as well as all expenses for administrative departments such as accounting, purchasing, human resources, legal and internal
audit.

2008 Compared with 2007

General and administrative expense increased by $38.7 million, or 10.0%, to $427.1 million in 2008, primarily due to an
increase in corporate overhead expense and the opening of the casino at Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course, both of which were partially offset by decreases at Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg
and Argosy Casino Alton.

Corporate
overhead expense increased by $38.7 million in 2008, primarily due to increased lobbying expenses, for efforts primarily in Ohio, Maryland and Maine, and separation
payments to Leonard DeAngelo, both of which were partially offset by no EBITDA-based bonuses being paid to corporate employees in 2008.

General
and administrative expense at Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course increased by $11.2 million in 2008, as the casino opened on February 12, 2008.

General
and administrative expense at Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg decreased by $7.8 million in 2008, primarily due to a decrease in the fee paid to the City of Lawrenceburg
resulting from lower adjusted gross receipts, as well as lower insurance, payroll and other costs.



General
and administrative expense at Argosy Casino Alton decreased by $4.2 million in 2008, primarily due to cost reduction measures.

2007 Compared with 2006

General and administrative expense increased by $38.5 million, or 11.0%, to $388.4 million in 2007, primarily due to the
reopening of Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi, pre-opening charges related to the Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course, the acquisition of Black Gold
Casino at Zia Park, and increased corporate overhead expense.

General
and administrative expense at Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis increased by $14.4 million in 2007, as the property was closed from August 28, 2005 until
August 31, 2006 due to Hurricane Katrina.

General
and administrative expense at Boomtown Biloxi increased by $12.9 million in 2007, as the property was closed from August 28, 2005 until June 29, 2006 due to
Hurricane Katrina.

General
and administrative expense at Penn National Race Course increased by $6.1 million in 2007, primarily due to a $2.5 million pre-opening charge for
Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board start-up fees and other expenses associated with the opening of the Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course, which opened on February 12,
2008.

General
and administrative expense at Black Gold Casino at Zia Park, which we acquired in mid-April 2007, was $5.1 million in 2007.

Corporate
overhead expense increased by $5.0 million in 2007, primarily due to the costs incurred relating to the expensing of equity-based compensation awards as required under
SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment", having increased by $4.9 million, as additional equity-based compensation awards were granted during 2007.

Hurricane

During the year ended December 31, 2006, our financial results benefited from a settlement agreement with our property and
business interruption insurance providers for a total of $225 million for Hurricane Katrina-related losses at our Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and
Boomtown Biloxi properties, as well as minor proceeds related to our National Flood Insurance coverage and auto insurance claims. Reflecting the settlement agreement, we recorded a pre-tax
gain of $128.3 million ($81.8 million, net of taxes).

Impairment loss

As a result of a decline in our share price, an overall reduction in industry valuations, and property operating performance in the
current economic environment, we recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $481.3 million ($392.6 million, net of taxes) during the year ended December 31, 2008, as we
determined that a portion of the value of our goodwill, indefinite-life intangible assets and long-lived assets was impaired. The impairment charge by property was as follows:
Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg, $214.1 million pre-tax ($189.3 million, net of taxes); Hollywood Casino Aurora, $43.7 million pre-tax and net of taxes; Empress
Casino Hotel, $94.4 million pre-tax ($60.4 million, net of taxes); Argosy Casino Alton, $14.1 million pre-tax and net of taxes; Bullwhackers,
$14.2 million pre-tax ($9.1 million, net of taxes); Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway, $82.7 million pre-tax ($64.0 million, net of taxes);
Corporate overhead, $18.1 million pre-tax ($12.0 million, net of taxes).

During
the year ended December 31, 2006, as a result of the increased asset values resulting from the reconstruction at Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis, we determined that
all of the goodwill



associated
with the original purchase of the property was impaired. Accordingly, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $34.5 million ($22.0 million, net of taxes).

Depreciation and amortization expense

2008 Compared with 2007

Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $25.6 million, or 17.3%, to $173.5 million in 2008, primarily due to
the opening of the casino at Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course and the opening of the permanent facility at Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway.

Depreciation
and amortization expense at Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course increased by $21.2 million in 2008, as the casino opened on February 12, 2008.

Depreciation
and amortization expense at Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway increased by $3.8 million in 2008, primarily due to the opening of the permanent facility on
July 1, 2008.

2007 Compared with 2006

Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $24.0 million, or 19.3%, to $147.9 million in 2007, primarily due to
the reopening of Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi, incremental depreciation at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex, the acquisition of Black Gold Casino at Zia Park, and
the opening of the Argosy Casino Riverside hotel.

Depreciation
and amortization expense at Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis increased by $8.6 million in 2007, as the property was closed from August 28, 2005 until
August 31, 2006 due to Hurricane Katrina.

Depreciation
and amortization expense at Boomtown Biloxi increased by $5.8 million in 2007, as the property was closed from August 28, 2005 until June 29, 2006 due
to Hurricane Katrina.

Depreciation
and amortization expense at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex increased by $3.5 million in 2007, primarily due to incremental depreciation for assets placed into
service subsequent to the same periods in 2006, including expanded gaming space, a 378-seat buffet and a new parking garage, which were completed in mid-2006.

Depreciation
and amortization expense at Black Gold Casino at Zia Park, which we acquired in mid-April 2007, was $3.5 million in 2007.

Depreciation
and amortization expense at Argosy Casino Riverside increased by $3.0 million in 2007, primarily due to the opening of its hotel to the public in April 2007.

Other income (expenses)

Other income (expenses) for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 are as follows (in thousands):

Year ended December 31,



Variance

Percentage

Variance

Interest expense

$

(169,827

)

$

(198,059

)

$

28,232

14.3

%

Interest income

8,362

4,016

4,346

108.2

%

Loss from joint venture

(1,526

)

(99

)

(1,427

)

(1,441.4

)%

Merger termination settlement fees, net of related expenses

195,426

—

195,426

100.0

%

Other

6,421

(11,427

)

17,848

156.2

%

Total other income (expenses)

$

38,856

$

(205,569

)

$

244,425

118.9

%



Year ended December 31,



Variance

Percentage

Variance

Interest expense

$

(198,059

)

$

(196,328

)

$

(1,731

)

(0.9

)%

Interest income

4,016

3,525


13.9

%

Loss from joint venture

(99

)

(788

)


87.4

%

Other

(11,427

)

(4,296

)

(7,131

)

(166.0

)%

Loss on early extinguishment of debt

—

(10,022

)

10,022

100.0

%

Total other expenses

$

(205,569

)

$

(207,909

)

$

2,340

1.1

%

Interest expense

Interest expense decreased by $28.2 million, or 14.3%, to $169.8 million in 2008, primarily due to lower outstanding
balances and lower interest rates on our $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility, which was partially offset by increased interest expense resulting from payments related to interest rate
swaps in 2008.

Interest income

Interest income increased by $4.3 million, or 108.2%, to $8.4 million in 2008, primarily due to interest earned on the
investment in corporate securities in 2008.

Merger termination settlement fees, net of related expenses

Merger termination settlement fees, net of related expenses, include the Cash Termination Fee of $225 million, partially offset
by $29.6 million in costs incurred for the termination of the Merger.

Other

Other increased by $17.8 million, or 156.2%, to $6.4 million in 2008, primarily due to foreign currency translation gains
that were recorded during the year ended December 31, 2008, partially offset by the write-off of costs incurred to procure licenses to manage gaming facilities in Kansas.

Other
increased by $7.1 million, or 166.0%, to $(11.4) million in 2007, primarily due to Merger-related costs and currency translation losses that were recorded during the year
ended December 31, 2007.

Loss on early extinguishment of debt

We recorded a $10.0 million loss on early extinguishment of debt during the year ended December 31, 2006, as a result of
the redemption of $175 million in aggregate principal amount of our outstanding 8


/


% senior subordinated notes due March 15, 2010. As a result of the redemption, we
recorded a loss on early extinguishment of debt of $10.0 million for the call premium and the write-off of the associated deferred financing fees.

Taxes

The increase in our effective tax rate to 222.2% for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to 45.2% for the year ended
December 31, 2007, primarily is a result of the nondeductible portion of the impairment loss related to goodwill and nondeductible lobbying expenses. Our effective income tax rate may vary from
period to period depending on, among other factors, the geographic and business mix of our earnings and the level of our tax credits.



The
increase in our effective tax rate to 45.2% for the year ended December 31, 2007, as compared to 42.4% for the year ended December 31, 2006, reflects the impact of
FIN 48 tax positions and an increase in nondeductible permanent differences.

Discontinued operations

On October 15, 2004, we announced the sale of The Downs Racing, Inc. and its subsidiaries to the Mohegan Tribal Gaming
Authority ("MTGA"). In January 2005, we received $280 million from the MTGA, and transferred the operations of The Downs Racing, Inc. and its subsidiaries to the MTGA. The sale was not
considered final for accounting purposes until the third quarter of 2006, as the MTGA had certain post-closing termination rights that remained outstanding. On August 7, 2006, we
entered into the Second Amendment to the Purchase Agreement and Release of Claims ("Amendment and Release") with the MTGA pertaining to the October 14, 2004 Purchase Agreement (the "Purchase
Agreement"), and agreed to pay the MTGA an aggregate of $30 million over five years, beginning on the first anniversary of the commencement of slot operations at Mohegan Sun at Pocono Downs, in
exchange for the MTGA's agreement to release various claims it raised against us under the Purchase Agreement and the MTGA's surrender of all post-closing termination rights it might have
had under the Purchase Agreement. As a result of the Amendment and Release, we recorded, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), a net book gain on the
$250 million sale ($280 million initial price, less $30 million payable pursuant to the Amendment and Release) of The Downs Racing, Inc. and its subsidiaries to the MTGA of
$114.0 million (net of $84.9 million of income taxes) during the year ended December 31, 2006. In addition, we recorded the present value of the $30 million liability
within debt, as the amount due to the MTGA is payable over five years. At December 31, 2008, the balance due to the MTGA equaled $14.2 million.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Historically, our primary sources of liquidity and capital resources have been cash flow from operations, borrowings from banks and
proceeds from the issuance of debt and equity securities.

Net
cash provided by operating activities was $420.5 million, $431.2 million and $281.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2008 included non-cash reconciling items, such as depreciation, amortization, the charge for
stock compensation and the impairment loss, of $605.5 million, partially offset by net loss of $153.3 million and net changes in asset and liability accounts of $31.7 million.

Net
cash used in investing activities totaled $391.5 million, $611.6 million and $302.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2008 included expenditures for property and equipment totaling $344.9 million, investment in corporate
debt securities totaling $47.3 million, and final purchase price adjustments for acquisition of businesses, such as Black Gold Casino at Zia Park and Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club, totaling
$0.4 million, all of which were partially offset by proceeds from the sale of property and equipment totaling $1.1 million.

Net
cash provided by financing activities totaled $542.9 million, $186.3 million and $56.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2008 included proceeds from the exercise of stock options totaling $2.4 million, the tax benefit
from stock options exercised totaling $1.1 million, proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt, insurance financing and preferred stock, net of related expenses, totaling
$447.8 million, $22.3 million and $1,246.4 million, respectively, all of which were partially offset by principal payments on long-term debt totaling
$994.0 million, $30.7 million in payments on insurance financing, and repurchases of Common Stock totaling $152.4 million.



On
July 3, 2008, we entered into an agreement with certain affiliates of Fortress and Centerbridge, terminating the Merger Agreement. In connection with the termination of the
Merger Agreement, we agreed to receive a total of $1.475 billion, consisting of the Cash Termination Fee and the Investment.
Pursuant to the terms of the preferred equity purchase agreement, the purchasers made the Initial Investment to us on July 3, 2008, in addition to the payment of the Cash Termination Fee. Under
the terms of the purchase agreement, the purchasers deposited the remaining preferred equity investment purchase consideration with an escrow agent, with the funds to be released from escrow upon the
issuance of the Preferred Stock. On October 30, 2008, following the receipt of required regulatory approvals and the satisfaction of certain other conditions, we closed the sale of the
Investment and received the remaining preferred equity investment purchase consideration of $775 million from the escrow agent.

We
used a portion of the net proceeds from the Investment and the after-tax proceeds of the Cash Termination Fee for the repayment of some of our existing debt, repurchases
of our Common Stock, lobbying expenses for efforts in Ohio and the investment in corporate debt securities, with the remainder being invested primarily in short-term securities. The
repurchase of up to $200 million of our Common Stock over the twenty-four month period ending July 2010 was authorized by our Board of Directors in July 2008. During the year ended
December 31, 2008, we repurchased 8,934,984 shares of our Common Stock in open market transactions for approximately $152.6 million, at an average price of $17.05.

Capital Expenditures

Capital expenditures are accounted for as either capital project or capital maintenance (replacement) expenditures. Capital project
expenditures are for fixed asset additions that expand an existing facility. Capital maintenance expenditures are expenditures to replace existing fixed assets with a useful life greater than one year
that are obsolete, worn out or no longer cost effective to repair.

The
following table summarizes our capital project expenditures by property for the year ended December 31, 2008:

Property

Actual

(in millions)

Charles Town Entertainment Complex

$

15.2

Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course

92.0

Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway

76.9

Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg

90.9

Other

2.7

Total

$

277.7

Our
most recent phase of development at Charles Town Entertainment Complex was the construction of a 153-room hotel, which opened to the public on September 5, 2008.

On
February 12, 2008, we opened Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course, which included, upon opening, 2,020 slot machines, a five-story garage, an innovative,
multi-media Hollywood design theme and bars and restaurants ranging from casual dining to higher-end fare. The facility has capacity for 980 additional gaming devices, and we added 207
additional slots in August 2008. The Epic Buffet was opened in October 2008 and Final Cut steakhouse was opened in December 2008.



The Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway in Bangor, Maine opened on July 1, 2008. The permanent facility included 1,000 slot machines at opening, an attached
parking garage and several restaurants. In addition, a 152-room hotel opened in August 2008.

The
Hollywood-themed expansion at Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg includes the addition of 1,500 parking spaces and 1,162 gaming positions, as well as enhanced amenities and a floor layout
that will better facilitate customer flow. The garage and pedestrian walkway opened in May 2008 and the gaming facility is scheduled to open in the second quarter of 2009.

During
the year ended December 31, 2008, we spent approximately $67.2 million for capital maintenance expenditures at our properties. The majority of the capital
maintenance expenditures were for slot machines and slot machine equipment.

Cash
generated from operations and cash available under the revolver portion of our $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility have funded our capital project and capital
maintenance expenditures in 2008.

The
following table summarizes our expected capital project expenditures by property for the year ended December 31, 2009, as well as the projects in their entirety:

Property

December 31, 2009

Project Total

(in millions)

Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg

$

139.4

$

336.0

Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course

5.5

329.5

Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway

3.6

138.9

Other

24.8

56.7

Total

$

173.3

$

861.1

The
Hollywood-themed expansion at Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg includes a 1,500 space parking garage and pedestrian walkway, which opened in May 2008, and a
two-level 270,000 square foot gaming vessel, which is expected to open in the second quarter of 2009. The new riverboat will allow 3,617 positions on one level and another 660
positions will be added to the second level, along with restaurants and other amenities on the gaming vessel. We plan to spend an aggregate of $336.0 million on the project.

Debt

Senior Secured Credit Facility

On October 3, 2005, we entered into a $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility to fund our acquisition of Argosy,
including payment for all of Argosy's outstanding shares, the retirement of certain long-term debt of Argosy and its subsidiaries, the payment of related transaction costs, and to provide
additional working capital. The $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility consists of three credit facilities comprised of a $750 million revolving credit facility (of which
$123.7 million was drawn at December 31, 2008) that matures on October 3, 2010, a $325 million Term Loan A Facility that matures on October 3, 2011 and a
$1.65 billion Term Loan B Facility that matures on October 3, 2012. The maturity dates for the Term Loan A Facility and the Term Loan B Facility may be accelerated to June 4, 2011
if the $200 million of 6


/


% senior subordinated notes are not retired before that date. The $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility also allows us to raise an
additional $300 million in senior secured credit for project development and property expansion.

During
the year ended December 31, 2008, our $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility amount outstanding decreased by $536.8 million, primarily due to principal
payments on long-term debt, partially offset by the issuance of long-term debt for items such as payment for capital expenditures,



funding
associated with the opening of the Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course, privilege payments to the State of Kansas, and payments for income taxes owed and lobbying efforts, primarily
in Ohio, Maryland and Maine. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we used a portion of the net proceeds from the Investment and the after-tax proceeds of the Cash Termination
Fee for the repayment of some of our existing debt, repurchases of our Common Stock, lobbying expenses for efforts in Ohio and the investment in corporate debt securities, with the remainder being
invested primarily in short-term securities.

The
$2.725 billion senior secured credit facility is secured by substantially all of the assets of Penn and its restricted subsidiaries.

Redemption of 8


/


% Senior Subordinated Notes

In February 2006, we called for the redemption of our $175 million 8


/


% senior subordinated notes. The
redemption price was $1,044.38 per $1,000 principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and was made on March 15, 2006. We recorded a $10.0 million loss on early extinguishment of
debt during the year ended December 31, 2006 for the call premium and the write-off of the associated deferred financing fees. We funded the redemption of the $175 million


/


% senior subordinated notes from available cash and borrowings under our revolving credit facility.



/


% Senior Subordinated Notes

On December 4, 2003, we completed an offering of $200 million of 6


/


% senior subordinated notes that
mature on December 1, 2011. Interest on the notes is payable on June 1 and December 1 of each year, beginning June 1, 2004.

We
may redeem all or part of the 6


/


% senior subordinated notes at certain specified redemption prices.

The


/


% senior subordinated notes are general unsecured obligations and are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by certain of our current and future wholly-owned
domestic subsidiaries. The 6


/


% senior subordinated notes rank equally with our future senior subordinated debt and junior to our senior debt, including debt under our
$2.725 billion senior secured credit facility. In addition, the 6


/


% senior subordinated notes will be effectively junior to any indebtedness of our non-U.S.
unrestricted subsidiaries.

The


/


% senior subordinated notes and guarantees were originally issued in a private placement pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended. On August 27, 2004, we completed an offer to exchange the notes and guarantees for notes and guarantees registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, having substantially identical terms.

On
May 9, 2008, Merger Sub announced that it had commenced a cash tender offer and consent solicitation for any and all of our 6


/


% senior subordinated notes. The
tender offer and consent solicitation was being conducted in connection with the Merger Agreement and the obligation to accept for purchase and to pay for such notes was subject to the satisfaction or
waiver of certain conditions, including the consummation of the Merger. In connection with the termination of the Merger Agreement, these offers were withdrawn.



/


% Senior Subordinated Notes

On March 9, 2005, we completed an offering of $250 million of 6


/


% senior subordinated notes that mature
on March 1, 2015. Interest on the notes is payable on March 1 and September 1 of each year, beginning September 1, 2005.



Effective
March 2010, we may redeem all or part of the 6


/


% senior subordinated notes at certain specified redemption prices.

The


/


% senior subordinated notes are general unsecured obligations and are not guaranteed by our subsidiaries.

The


/


% senior subordinated notes were issued in a private placement pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended.

On
May 9, 2008, Merger Sub announced that it had commenced a cash tender offer and consent solicitation for any and all of our 6


/


% senior subordinated notes. The
tender offer and consent solicitation was being conducted in connection with the Merger Agreement and the obligation to accept for purchase and to pay for such notes was subject to the satisfaction or
waiver of certain conditions, including the consummation of the Merger. In connection with the termination of the Merger Agreement, these offers were withdrawn.

Other Long-Term Obligations

On October 15, 2004, we announced the sale of The Downs Racing, Inc. and its subsidiaries to the MTGA. Under the terms of
the agreement, the MTGA acquired The Downs Racing, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including Pocono Downs (a standardbred horse racing facility located on 400 acres in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania)
and five Pennsylvania OTWs located in Carbondale, East Stroudsburg, Erie, Hazelton and the Lehigh Valley (Allentown). The sale agreement also provided the MTGA with certain post-closing
termination rights in the event of certain materially adverse legislative or regulatory events. In January 2005, we received $280 million from the MTGA, and transferred the operations of The
Downs Racing, Inc. and its subsidiaries to the MTGA. The sale was not considered final for accounting purposes until the third quarter of 2006, as the MTGA had certain post-closing
termination rights that remained outstanding. On August 7, 2006, we entered into the Amendment and Release with the MTGA pertaining to the Purchase Agreement, and agreed to pay the MTGA an
aggregate of $30 million over five years, beginning on the first anniversary of the commencement of slot operations at Mohegan Sun at Pocono Downs, in exchange for the MTGA's agreement to
release various claims it raised against us under the Purchase Agreement and the MTGA's surrender of all post-closing termination rights it might have had under the Purchase Agreement. We
recorded the present value of the $30 million liability within debt, as the amount due to the MTGA is payable over five years. At December 31, 2008, the balance due to the MTGA equaled
$14.2 million.

Covenants

Our $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility, $200 million 6


/


% and $250 million


/


% senior subordinated notes require us, among other obligations, to maintain specified financial ratios and to satisfy certain financial tests, including fixed charge coverage,
senior leverage and total leverage ratios. In addition, our $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility, $200 million 6


/


% and $250 million 6


/


%
senior subordinated notes restrict, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, incur guarantee obligations, amend debt instruments, pay dividends, create liens on
assets, make investments, make acquisitions, engage in mergers or consolidations, make capital expenditures, or engage in certain transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates and otherwise restricts
corporate activities.

During
the year ended December 31, 2008, we placed some of the funds received from the Investment into two unrestricted subsidiaries, in order to allow for maximum flexibility in
the deployment of the funds. The funds and activity maintained within the unrestricted subsidiaries are excluded from our covenant calculations.

At
December 31, 2008, we were in compliance with all required financial covenants.



Outlook

Based on our current level of operations, and anticipated revenue growth, we believe that cash generated from operations and from the
Investment, together with amounts available under our $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility will be adequate to meet our anticipated debt service requirements, capital expenditures and
working capital needs for the foreseeable future. We cannot assure you, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that our anticipated revenue growth will be
realized, or that future borrowings will be available under our $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility or otherwise will be available to enable us to service our indebtedness, including
the $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility and the notes, to retire or redeem the notes when required or to make anticipated capital expenditures. In addition, we expect a majority of
our future growth to come from acquisitions of gaming properties at reasonable valuations, greenfield projects, jurisdictional expansions and property expansion in under-penetrated markets. If we
consummate significant acquisitions in the future or undertake any significant property expansions, our cash requirements may increase significantly and we may need to make additional borrowings or
complete equity or debt financings to meet these requirements. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. Our future operating performance and our ability to service
or refinance our debt will be subject to future economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. See "Risk Factors—Risks Related to
Our Capital Structure" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of the risk related to our capital structure.

Commitments and Contingencies

Contractual Cash Obligations

At December 31, 2008, there was $123.7 million indebtedness outstanding under the revolving credit portion of our
$2.725 billion senior secured credit facility and approximately $596.8 million available for borrowing. The following table presents our contractual cash obligations at
December 31, 2008:

Payments Due By Period

Total


2010 - 2011

2012 - 2013

2014 and After

(in thousands)

Senior secured credit facility

Principal

$

1,959,784

$

97,750

$

698,784

$

1,163,250

$

—

Interest

275,236

95,881

155,273

24,082

—



/


% senior subordinated notes

Principal

200,000

—

200,000

—

—

Interest

41,250

13,750

27,500

—

—



/


% senior subordinated notes

Principal

250,000

—

—

—

250,000

Interest

109,688

16,875

33,750

33,750

25,313

Other long-term obligations

14,201

5,511

8,690

—

—

Purchase obligations

31,003

21,765

5,867

2,276

1,095

Capital expenditure commitments

67,712

67,712

—

—

—

Capital leases

6,195

2,020

2,178


1,838

Operating leases

46,971

6,985

9,880

7,155

22,951

Other liabilities reflected in the Company's consolidated balance sheets

12,839

12,839

—

—

—

Total

$

3,014,879

$

341,088

$

1,141,922

$

1,230,672

$

301,197



Other Commercial Commitments

The following table presents our material commercial commitments as of December 31, 2008 for the following future periods:

Total Amounts

Committed


2010 – 2011

2012 – 2013

2014 and After

(in thousands)

Letters of Credit(1)

$

27,472

$

27,472

$

—

$

—

$

—

Guarantees of New Jersey Joint

Venture Obligations(2)

6,117


1,000

4,617

—

Total

$

33,589

$

27,972

$

1,000

$

4,617

$

—

(1)

The
available balance under the revolving credit portion of our $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility is diminished by outstanding letters of
credit.

(2)

In
connection with our 50% ownership interest in Pennwood Racing, Inc. ("Pennwood"), our joint venture in New Jersey, we entered into a debt service
maintenance agreement with Pennwood's lender to guarantee up to 50% of Pennwood's $12.2 million term loan. Our obligation at December 31, 2008 under this guarantee was approximately
$6.1 million.

Interest Rate Swap Agreements

See Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" below.

New Accounting Pronouncements

In May 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 162, "The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles" ("SFAS 162"),
which identifies the sources of accounting principles and the framework for selecting the principles used in the preparation of financial statements of nongovernmental entities that are presented in
conformity with GAAP (the GAAP hierarchy). Any effect of applying the provisions of SFAS 162 shall be reported as a change in accounting principle in accordance with SFAS No. 154,
"Accounting Changes and Error Corrections." SFAS 162 is effective 60 days following the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's approval of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board amendments to AU Section 411, "The Meaning of Present Fairly in Conformity With Generally Accepted Accounting Principles." We adopted SFAS 162 as of its effective date, as
required. SFAS 162 did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements.

In
April 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ("FSP") FAS 142-3, "Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets" ("FSP FAS 142-3"),
which amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under SFAS 142. The intent
of FSP FAS 142-3 is to improve the consistency between the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under SFAS 142 and the period of expected cash flows used to measure
the fair value of the assets under SFAS No. 141 (revised), "Business Combinations" ("SFAS 141(R)") and other GAAP. FSP FAS 142-3 is effective for financial statements
issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2008. Early adoption of the standard is prohibited. We adopted FSP FAS 142-3 as of January 1,
2009, as required. We do not expect that the adoption of FSP FAS 142-3 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

In
March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, "Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities—an amendment of SFAS No. 133" ("SFAS 161"),
which requires enhanced disclosures about an entity's derivative and hedging activities. Specifically, entities are required to provide enhanced disclosures about: a) how and why an entity uses
derivative instruments; b) how



derivative
instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," and its related interpretations; and
c) how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entity's financial position, financial performance and cash flows. SFAS 161 is effective for financial statements issued
for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008, with early application encouraged. SFAS 161 encourages, but does not require, comparative disclosures for earlier
periods at initial adoption. We adopted SFAS 161 as of January 1, 2009, as required. We do not expect that the adoption of SFAS 161 will have a material impact on our consolidated
financial statements.

In
December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS 141(R), which is intended to improve reporting by creating greater consistency in the accounting and financial reporting of business
combinations. SFAS 141(R) requires that the acquiring entity in a business combination recognize all (and only) the assets and liabilities assumed in the transaction, establishes the
acquisition-date fair value as the measurement objective for all assets acquired and liabilities assumed, and requires the acquirer to disclose to investors and other users all of the
information that they need to evaluate and understand the nature and financial effect of the business combination. In addition, SFAS 141(R) modifies the accounting for transaction and
restructuring costs. SFAS 141(R) is effective for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after
December 15, 2008. We adopted SFAS 141(R) as of January 1, 2009, as required. We expect that the adoption of SFAS 141(R) will have an impact on our consolidated financial
statements, once we acquire companies in the future.

In
February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities-including an amendment of SFAS No. 115"
("SFAS 159"), which permits an entity to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. A business entity shall report unrealized gains and losses on items
for which the fair value option has been elected in earnings at each subsequent reporting date. SFAS 159 is effective as of the beginning of each reporting entity's first fiscal year that
begins after November 15, 2007. We did not elect the fair value option for any financial assets or financial liabilities.

In
September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" ("SFAS 157"), which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and
expands the disclosure requirements about fair value measurements. In February 2008, the FASB amended SFAS 157 through the issuance of FSP FAS 157-1, "Application of FASB
Statement No. 157 to FASB Statement No. 13 and Other Accounting Pronouncements That Address Fair Value Measurements for Purposes of Lease Classification or Measurement under Statement
13" ("FSP FAS 157-1") and FSP FAS 157-2, "Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157" ("FSP FAS 157-2"). FSP FAS 157-1,
which was effective upon the initial adoption of SFAS 157, amends SFAS 157 to exclude from its scope certain accounting pronouncements that address fair value measurements associated
with leases. FSP FAS 157-2, which was effective upon issuance, delays the effective date of SFAS 157 to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008 for nonfinancial
assets and nonfinancial liabilities that are not recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis (at least annually). In October 2008, the FASB issued FSP
FAS 157-3, "Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active" ("FSP FAS 157-3"), which was effective upon issuance.
FSP FAS 157-3 clarifies the application of SFAS 157 in a market that is not active and provides an example to illustrate key considerations in determining the fair value of a
financial asset when the market for that financial asset is not active. We adopted SFAS 157, as amended, and on a prospective basis, as of January 1, 2008. The January 1, 2008
adoption did not have a significant impact on us. We adopted SFAS 157, as amended, and on a prospective basis, as of January 1, 2009 to nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities
that are not recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis. We do not expect that the adoption of SFAS 157, as amended, and on a prospective



basis,
to nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The table below provides information at December 31, 2008 about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in
interest rates, including debt obligations and interest rate swaps. For debt obligations, the table presents notional amounts maturing during the year and the related weighted-average interest rates
at year-end. For interest rate swaps, the table presents notional amounts and weighted-average interest rates outstanding at each year-end. Notional amounts are used to
calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contract and the weighted-average variable rates are based on implied forward rates in the yield curve as of December 31, 2008.






Thereafter

Total

Fair Value

12/31/08

(in thousands)

Long-term debt

:

Fixed rate

$

5,511

$

5,407

$

203,283

$

—

$

—

$

250,000

$

464,201

$

389,201

Average interest rate

7.00

%

7.00

%

6.88

%

—

—

6.75

%

Variable rate

$

97,750

$

225,534

$

473,250

$

1,163,250

$

—

$

—

$

1,959,784

$

1,959,784

Average interest rate(1)

3.07

%

3.31

%

3.86

%

4.11

%

—

—

Leases

$

2,020

$

1,051

$

1,127

$


$


$

1,838

$

6,195

$

6,195

Average interest rate

6.62

%

5.68

%

5.67

%

7.72

%

7.72

%

7.72

%

Interest rate derivatives

:

Interest rate swaps

Variable to fixed(2)

$

974,000

$

500,000

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

N/A

$

(63,185

)

Average pay rate

4.15

%

4.39

%

N/A

Average receive rate(3)

1.73

%

2.03

%

N/A

(1)

Estimated
rate, reflective of forward LIBOR plus the spread over LIBOR applicable to variable-rate borrowing.

(2)

Notional
amounts outstanding at each year-end.

(3)

Estimated
rate, reflective of forward LIBOR.

In accordance with the terms of our $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility, we were required to enter into fixed-rate
debt or interest rate swap agreements in an amount equal to 50% of our consolidated indebtedness, excluding the revolving credit facility, within 100 days of the closing date of the
$2.725 billion senior secured credit facility.

On
October 25, 2005, we entered into four interest rate swap contracts with terms from three to five years, notional amounts of $224 million, $274 million,
$225 million, and $237 million, for a total of $960 million, and fixed interest rates ranging from 4.678% to 4.753%. The $224 million and $225 million swaps expired
on October 27, 2008. The annual weighted-average interest rate of the two remaining contracts is 4.73%. Under these two remaining contracts, we pay a fixed interest rate against a variable
interest rate based on the 90-day LIBOR rate. As of December 31, 2008, the applicable 90-day LIBOR rate was 3.535% for the two remaining swaps.

On
April 6, 2006, we entered into three interest rate swap contracts with a term of five years and notional amounts of $100 million each, for a total of $300 million
and fixed interest rates ranging from 5.263% to 5.266%. The annual weighted-average interest rate of the three contracts is 5.26%. Under these contracts, we pay a fixed interest rate against a
variable interest rate based on the 90-day LIBOR rate. As of December 31, 2008, the applicable 90-day LIBOR rate was 2.388% for the $300 million swaps. The
counterparty for one of the $100 million swaps is Lehman Brothers, which filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection during the year ended December 31, 2008. The fair value of this
$100 million swap was in a liability position at December 31, 2008.



On
September 5, 2007, we entered into two interest rate swap contracts with terms of nine months and notional amounts of $197 million and $181 million, for a total
of $378 million, and fixed interest rates of
5.01%. The $197 million swap expired on June 17, 2008, while the $181 million swap expired on July 18, 2008.

On
December 19, 2007, we entered into three monthly interest rate swap contracts, each with notional amounts of $146.25 million and fixed interest rates of 4.97% effective
December 31, 2007, 4.47% effective January 31, 2008 and 4.40% effective February 29, 2008. The $146.25 million swap matured on March 31, 2008.

On
October 23, 2008, we entered into two interest rate swap contracts with terms of two and three years and notional amounts of $200 million each, for a total of
$400 million and fixed interest rates ranging from 2.727% to 3.09%. The annual weighted-average interest rate of the two contracts is 2.91%. Under these contracts, we pay a fixed interest rate
against a variable interest rate based on the one-month LIBOR rate. As of December 31, 2008, the applicable one-month LIBOR rate was 0.471% for the $400 million
swaps.



ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Board
of Directors

Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries

We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, changes in shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008. These financial statements are the responsibility of
the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In
our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Penn National Gaming, Inc. and
subsidiaries at December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, in
conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

As
discussed in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts for uncertainty in income taxes in 2007.

We
have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Penn National Gaming Inc. and subsidiaries' internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission and our report dated February 27, 2009, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania

February 27, 2009



Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Balance Sheets

(in thousands, except share and per share data)

December 31,



Assets

Current assets

Cash and cash equivalents

$

746,278

$

174,372

Receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $3,797 and $3,241 at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively

43,574

56,427

Prepaid expenses and other current assets

95,386

52,825

Deferred income taxes

21,065

19,079

Total current assets

906,303

302,703

Property and equipment, net

1,812,131

1,688,393

Other assets

Investment in and advances to unconsolidated affiliate

14,419

15,548

Goodwill

1,598,571

2,013,139

Other intangible assets

693,764

777,441

Deferred financing costs, net of accumulated amortization of $38,914 and $27,680 at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively

34,910

46,144

Other assets

129,578

123,664

Total other assets

2,471,242

2,975,936

Total assets

$

5,189,676

$

4,967,032

Liabilities

Current liabilities

Current maturities of long-term debt

$

105,281

$

93,452

Accounts payable

35,540

28,581

Accrued expenses

106,769

163,579

Accrued interest

80,190

56,631

Accrued salaries and wages

55,380

54,149

Gaming, pari-mutuel, property, and other taxes

44,503

43,621

Income taxes payable

—

3,642

Insurance financing

8,093

16,515

Other current liabilities

34,730

33,704

Total current liabilities

470,486

493,874

Long-term liabilities

Long-term debt, net of current maturities

2,324,899

2,881,470

Deferred income taxes

265,610

385,089

Noncurrent tax liabilities

68,632

82,849

Other noncurrent liabilities

2,776

2,788

Total long-term liabilities

2,661,917

3,352,196

Shareholders' equity

Preferred stock ($.01 par value, 1,000,000 shares authorized, 12,500 and 0 issued and outstanding at December 31, 2008 and 2007)

—

—

Common stock ($.01 par value, 200,000,000 shares authorized, 78,148,488 and 88,579,070 shares issued at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively)



Treasury stock (1,698,800 shares issued at December 31, 2007)

—

(2,379

)

Additional paid-in capital

1,442,829

322,760

Retained earnings

662,355

815,678

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

(48,693

)

(15,984

)

Total shareholders' equity

2,057,273

1,120,962

Total liabilities and shareholders' equity

$

5,189,676

$

4,967,032

See
accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.



Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statements of Operations

(in thousands, except per share data)

Year ended December 31,




Revenues

Gaming

$

2,206,500

$

2,227,944

$

2,057,617

Management service fee

16,725

17,273

18,146

Food, beverage and other

334,206

320,520

275,700

Gross revenues

2,557,431

2,565,737

2,351,463

Less promotional allowances

(134,378

)

(128,944

)

(106,916

)

Net revenues

2,423,053

2,436,793

2,244,547

Operating expenses

Gaming

1,163,458

1,155,062

1,061,904

Food, beverage and other

264,012

247,576

224,673

General and administrative

427,146

388,431

349,909

Hurricane

—

—

(128,253

)

Impairment loss

481,333

—

34,522

Depreciation and amortization

173,545

147,915

123,951

Total operating expenses

2,509,494

1,938,984

1,666,706

(Loss) income from continuing operations

(86,441

)

497,809

577,841

Other income (expenses)

Interest expense

(169,827

)

(198,059

)

(196,328

)

Interest income

8,362

4,016

3,525

Loss from joint venture

(1,526

)

(99

)

(788

)

Merger termination settlement fees, net of related expenses

195,426

—

—

Other

6,421

(11,427

)

(4,296

)

Loss on early extinguishment of debt

—

—

(10,022

)

Total other income (expenses)

38,856

(205,569

)

(207,909

)

(Loss) income from continuing operations before income taxes

(47,585

)

292,240

369,932

Taxes on income

105,738

132,187

156,852

Net (loss) income from continuing operations

(153,323

)

160,053

213,080

Gain on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax

—

—

114,008

Net (loss) income

$

(153,323

)

$

160,053

$

327,088

(Loss) earnings per share-Basic

(Loss) income from continuing operations

$

(1.81

)

$

1.87

$

2.53

Discontinued operations, net of tax

—

—

1.35

Basic (loss) earnings per share

$

(1.81

)

$

1.87

$

3.88

(Loss) earnings per share-Diluted

(Loss) income from continuing operations

$

(1.81

)

$

1.81

$

2.46

Discontinued operations, net of tax

—

—

1.32

Diluted (loss) earnings per share

$

(1.81

)

$

1.81

$

3.78

See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity

(in thousands, except share data)

Preferred Stock

Common Stock

Accumulated

Other

Comprehensive

Income (Loss)

Treasury

Stock

Additional

Paid-In

Capital

Retained

Earnings

Total

Shareholders'

Equity

Comprehensive

Income

Shares

Amount

Shares

Amount

Balance, December 31, 2005

—

$

—

85,064,886

$


$

(2,379

)

$

206,763

$

340,469

$


$

546,543

Stock option activity, including tax benefit of $12,435

—

—

1,310,113


—

43,397

—

—

43,411

$

—

Restricted stock

—

—

440,000


—

1,783

—

—

1,787

—

Change in fair value of interest rate swap contracts, net of income taxes of $1,461

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

2,380

2,380

2,380

Foreign currency translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(46

)

(46

)

(46

)

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

—

327,088

—

327,088

327,088

Balance, December 31, 2006

—

—

86,814,999


(2,379

)

251,943

667,557

3,174

921,163

329,422

Stock option activity, including tax benefit of $20,460

—

—

1,824,071


—

68,851

—

—

68,870

—

Restricted stock

—

—

(60,000

)

—

—

1,966

—

—

1,966

—

Change in fair value of interest rate swap contracts, net of income taxes of $11,203

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(19,728

)

(19,728

)

(19,728

)

Foreign currency translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

—

—




Cumulative effect of adoption of FIN 48

—

—

—

—

—

—

(11,932

)

—

(11,932

)

—

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

—

160,053

—

160,053

160,053

Balance, December 31, 2007

—

—

88,579,070


(2,379

)

322,760

815,678

(15,984

)

1,120,962

140,895

Issuance of Preferred stock

12,500

—

—

—

—

1,246,400

—

—

1,246,400

—

Stock option activity, including tax benefit of $1,060

—

—

203,202


—

26,305

—

—

26,307

—

Share activity

—

—

(10,633,784

)

(107

)

2,379

(154,633

)

—

—

(152,361

)

—

Restricted stock

—

—

—

—

—

1,997

—

—

1,997

—

Change in fair value of interest rate swap contracts, net of income taxes of $13,072

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(23,216

)

(23,216

)

(23,216

)

Change in fair value of corporate debt securities

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(8,008

)

(8,008

)

(8,008

)

Foreign currency translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(1,485

)

(1,485

)

(1,485

)

Net loss

—

—

—

—

—

—

(153,323

)

—

(153,323

)

(153,323

)

Balance, December 31, 2008

12,500

$

—

78,148,488

$


$

—

$

1,442,829

$

662,355

$

(48,693

)

$

2,057,273

$

(186,032

)

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.



Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

(in thousands)

Year ended December 31,




Operating activities

Net (loss) income

$

(153,323

)

$

160,053

$

327,088

Adjustments to reconcile net (loss) income to net cash provided by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

173,545

147,915

123,951

Amortization of items charged to interest expense

12,625

13,011

11,361

Amortization of items charged to interest income

(912

)

—

—

Loss on sale of fixed assets

1,610

1,637

1,383

Loss from joint venture

1,526



Loss relating to early extinguishment of debt

—

—

2,255

Deferred income taxes

(91,098

)

18,265

14,394

Charge for stock compensation

26,857

25,465

20,562

Gain on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax

—

—

(114,008

)

Gain on hurricane insurance, net of tax

—

—

(81,799

)

Impairment loss

481,333

—

22,018

Decrease (increase), net of businesses acquired

Accounts receivable

12,853

(2,168

)

(6,197

)

Insurance receivable

—

100,000

(23,048

)

Prepaid expenses and other current assets

(27,722

)


(26,933

)

Other assets

25,747

(7,159

)

13,536

(Decrease) increase, net of businesses acquired

Accounts payable

(350

)

(22,234

)

12,379

Accrued expenses

(12,045

)

(12,436

)

4,155

Accrued interest

(12,729

)

(1,594

)

(1,974

)

Accrued salaries and wages

1,231

(6,003

)

5,585

Gaming, pari-mutuel, property and other taxes


(4,629

)

(127

)

Income taxes payable

(6,794

)

(3,584

)

(28,748

)

Other current and noncurrent liabilities

1,014

9,470

5,176

Other noncurrent tax liabilities

(13,787

)

14,187

—

Operating cash flows from discontinued operations

—

—


Net cash provided by operating activities

420,463

431,219

281,809

Investing activities

Expenditures for property and equipment

(344,894

)

(361,155

)

(408,883

)

Proceeds from hurricane

—

—

104,136

Proceeds from sale of property and equipment

1,066

15,020

2,406

Investment in corporate debt securities

(47,286

)

—

—

Acquisition of businesses and licenses, net of cash acquired

(384

)

(265,482

)

—

Net cash used in investing activities

(391,498

)

(611,617

)

(302,341

)

Financing activities

Proceeds from exercise of options

2,397

24,911

12,201

Repurchases of common stock

(152,361

)

—

—

Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt

447,833

426,065

195,678

Principal payments on long-term debt

(993,966

)

(282,360

)

(177,066

)

Proceeds from issuance of preferred stock, net of related expenses

1,246,400

—

—

Proceeds from insurance financing

22,255

29,009

32,522

Payments on insurance financing

(30,677

)

(31,830

)

(19,301

)

Increase in deferred financing cost

—

—

(42

)

Tax benefit from stock options exercised

1,060

20,460

12,435

Net cash provided by financing activities

542,941

186,255

56,427

Net increase in cash and cash equivalents

571,906

5,857

35,895

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

174,372

168,515

132,620

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$

746,278

$

174,372

$

168,515

Supplemental disclosure

Interest expense paid

$

183,264

$

199,425

$

198,605

Income taxes paid

$

190,287

$

88,546

$

127,787

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

1.    Business and Basis of Presentation

Penn National Gaming, Inc. ("Penn") and subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company") is a diversified, multi-jurisdictional owner
and manager of gaming and pari-mutuel properties. Penn is the successor to several businesses that have operated as Penn National Race Course since 1972. Penn was incorporated in
Pennsylvania in 1982 as PNRC Corp. and adopted its current name in 1994, when the Company became a public company. In 1997, the Company began its transition from a pari-mutuel company to a
diversified gaming company with the acquisition of the Charles Town property and the introduction of video lottery terminals in West Virginia. Since 1997, the Company has continued to expand its
gaming operations through strategic acquisitions, including the acquisitions of Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi, CRC Holdings, Inc., the Bullwhackers properties,
Hollywood Casino Corporation,
Argosy Gaming Company ("Argosy"), Black Gold Casino at Zia Park, and Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club.

The
Company currently owns or operates nineteen facilities in fifteen jurisdictions, including Colorado, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Louisiana, Maine, Mississippi, Missouri, New
Jersey, New Mexico, Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Ontario.

The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses for the
reporting periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

For
purposes of comparability, certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.

2.    Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Penn and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. Investment in and advances to an
unconsolidated affiliate that is 50% owned is accounted for under the equity method. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

3.    Merger Announcement and Termination

On June 15, 2007, the Company announced that it had entered into a merger agreement that, at the effective time of the
transactions contemplated thereby, would have resulted in the Company's shareholders receiving $67.00 per share. Specifically, the Company, PNG Acquisition Company Inc. ("Parent") and PNG
Merger Sub Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent ("Merger Sub"), announced that they had entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 15, 2007 (the "Merger
Agreement"), that provided, among other things, for Merger Sub to be merged with and into the Company (the "Merger"), as a result of which the Company would have continued as the surviving corporation
and would have become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent. Parent is indirectly owned by certain funds (the "Funds") managed by affiliates of Fortress Investment Group LLC ("Fortress") and
Centerbridge Partners, L.P. ("Centerbridge").

The
Merger Agreement provided that, upon termination under specified circumstances generally related to a competing acquisition proposal, the Company would have been required to pay a
termination fee of up to $200 million to Parent and, under certain circumstances if the Company's shareholders had not approved the Merger, the Company would have been required to reimburse
Parent for an aggregate amount not to exceed $17.5 million for transaction expenses incurred by Parent



and
its affiliates. Since the shareholder vote was obtained, the Company was unable to solicit, or terminate the Merger Agreement to accept, any third-party acquisition proposals. The Company's
reimbursement of Parent's expenses would have reduced the amount of any required termination fee that became payable by the Company. The Merger Agreement further provided that, upon termination under
specified circumstances related to, among other things, Parent's breach of the Merger Agreement, the failure to obtain financing or failure to obtain regulatory approval, Parent would have been
required to pay the Company a termination fee of $200 million. Affiliates of the Funds had agreed to fund Parent in the amount of the termination fee in the event it became payable.

On
July 3, 2008, the Company entered into an agreement with certain affiliates of Fortress and Centerbridge, terminating the Merger Agreement. In connection with the termination
of the Merger Agreement, the Company agreed to receive a total of $1.475 billion, consisting of a nonrefundable $225 million cash termination fee (the "Cash Termination Fee") and a
$1.25 billion, zero coupon, preferred equity investment (the "Investment"). Pursuant to the terms of the preferred equity purchase agreement, the purchasers made a nonrefundable
$475 million payment (the "Initial Investment") to the Company on July 3, 2008, in addition to the payment of the Cash Termination Fee. Under the terms of the purchase agreement, the
purchasers deposited the remaining preferred equity investment purchase consideration with an escrow agent, with the funds to be released from escrow upon the issuance of the Preferred Stock. On
October 30, 2008, following the receipt of required regulatory approvals and the satisfaction of certain other conditions, the Company closed the sale of the Investment and received the
remaining preferred equity investment purchase consideration of $775 million from the escrow agent.

The
Company used a portion of the net proceeds from the Investment and the after-tax proceeds of the Cash Termination Fee for the repayment of some of its existing debt,
repurchases of its Common Stock, lobbying expenses for efforts in Ohio and the investment in corporate debt securities, with the remainder being invested primarily in short-term
securities. The repurchase of up to $200 million of the Company's Common Stock over the twenty-four month period ending July 2010 was authorized by the Company's Board of Directors
in July 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company repurchased 8,934,984 shares of its Common Stock in open market transactions for approximately $152.6 million, at an
average price of $17.05.

Pursuant
to the terms of the preferred equity purchase agreement, and in conjunction with the closing of the sale of the Investment, Wesley R. Edens, the Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer of Fortress, joined the Company's Board of Directors, increasing the size of the Board to seven members.

On
December 26, 2007, the Company entered into a Change in Control Payment Acknowledgement and Agreement (the "Acknowledgement and Agreement") with certain members of its
management team. Pursuant to the Acknowledgement and Agreement, a portion of the payment due on a change in control to such executives was accelerated and paid on or before December 31, 2007.
The Acknowledgement and Agreements were entered into as part of actions taken to reduce the amount of "gross-up" payments pertaining to federal excise taxes that may have otherwise been
owed to such executives under the terms of their existing employment agreements in connection with the change in control payments due upon the consummation of the Merger. The accelerated change in
control payments were subject to a clawback right in the event the Merger was terminated pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement or the closing of the Merger otherwise failed to occur or if the
executive's employment with the Company was terminated prior to the effective date of the Merger under circumstances where the executive was not entitled to receive the remainder of his change in
control payment under the terms of his employment agreement. In July 2008, the Company exercised its clawback right for the accelerated change in control payments in accordance with the
Acknowledgement and Agreement, and advised the affected executives of the amounts to be repaid and the due date. The Company has received the net amount from each executive, and is working with each
executive to recover the applicable taxes.



4.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Cash and Cash Equivalents

The Company considers all cash balances and highly-liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less to be cash and
cash equivalents.

Concentration of Credit Risk

Financial instruments that subject the Company to credit risk consist of cash equivalents, corporate securities, interest rate swap
contracts and accounts receivable.

The
Company's policy is to limit the amount of credit exposure to any one financial institution, and place investments with financial institutions evaluated as being creditworthy, or in
short-term money market and tax-free bond funds which are exposed to minimal interest rate and credit risk. The Company has bank deposits and overnight repurchase agreements
that exceed federally-insured limits.

Concentration
of credit risk, with respect to casino receivables, is limited through the Company's credit evaluation process. The Company issues markers to approved casino customers only
following credit checks and investigations of creditworthiness.

The
Company's receivables of $43.6 million and $56.4 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, primarily consist of $10.8 million and
$21.9 million, respectively, due from the West Virginia Lottery for gaming revenue settlements and capital reinvestment projects at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex, and
$11.4 million and $13.4 million, respectively, for reimbursement of expenses paid on behalf of Casino Rama.

Accounts
are written off when management determines that an account is uncollectible. Recoveries of accounts previously written off are recorded when received. An allowance for doubtful
accounts is determined to reduce the Company's receivables to their carrying value, which approximates fair value. The allowance is estimated based on historical collection experience, specific review
of individual customer accounts, and current economic and business conditions. Historically, the Company has not incurred any significant credit-related losses.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The following methods and assumptions are used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instruments for which it is
practicable to estimate:

Cash and Cash Equivalents

The fair value of the Company's cash and cash equivalents approximates the carrying value of the Company's cash and cash equivalents,
due to the short maturity of the cash equivalents.

Investment in Corporate Debt Securities

The fair value of the investment in corporate debt securities is estimated based on quoted prices in active markets for identical
investments. The investment in corporate debt securities are measured at fair value on a recurring basis.

Long-term Debt

The fair value of the Company's $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility approximates its carrying value, as it is
variable-rate debt. The fair value of the Company's fixed-rate bonds is estimated based on quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments. The fair value of the
Company's other long-term obligations and capital leases approximates its carrying value.



Interest Rate Swap Contracts

Fair values are measured at the present value of all expected future cash flows based on the LIBOR-based swap yield curve as of the
date of the valuation. The fair values of the interest rate swap contracts are estimated based on inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the interest rate swap contracts (i.e, Level 2
inputs). No adjustment to standard industry pricing practice was made in connection with the Company's assessment of credit risk or the likelihood of nonperformance under the contracts.

The
estimated fair values of the Company's financial instruments are as follows (in thousands):



December 31,

Carrying

Amount

Fair

Value

Carrying

Amount

Fair

Value

Financial assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

746,278

$

746,278

$

174,372

$

174,372

Investment in corporate debt securities

40,190

40,190

—

—

Financial liabilities:

Long-term debt

Senior secured credit facility

1,959,784

1,959,784

2,496,625

2,496,625

Fixed-rate bonds and other long-term obligations

464,201

389,201

469,810

475,247

Capital leases

6,195

6,195

8,487

8,487

Interest rate swap contracts

63,185

63,185

26,896

26,896

See
Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Company's assessment of the inputs used to measure the fair value for the investment in
corporate debt securities and interest rate swap contracts.

Property and Equipment

Property and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation. Maintenance and repairs that neither add materially to the
value of the asset nor appreciably prolong its useful life are charged to expense as incurred. Gains or losses on the disposal of property and equipment are included in the determination of income.

Depreciation
of property and equipment is recorded using the straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives:

Land improvements

5 to 15 years

Building and improvements

25 to 40 years

Furniture, fixtures, and equipment

3 to 7 years

Leasehold
improvements are amortized over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the improvement or the related lease term.

The
estimated useful lives are determined based on the nature of the assets as well as the Company's current operating strategy.

The
Company reviews the carrying values of its property and equipment for possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may
not be recoverable based on undiscounted estimated future cash flows expected to result from its use and eventual disposition. The factors considered by the Company in performing this assessment
include current operating results, trends and prospects, as well as the effect of obsolescence, demand, competition and other economic factors. In estimating expected future cash flows for determining



whether
an asset is impaired, assets are grouped at the individual property level. In assessing the recoverability of the carrying value of property and equipment, the Company must make assumptions
regarding future cash flows and other factors. If these estimates or the related assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record an impairment loss for these assets. Such an
impairment loss would be recognized as a non-cash component of operating income. As a result of a decline in the Company's share price, an overall reduction in industry valuations, and
property operating performance in the current economic environment, the Company believed that there were indicators of impairment as of December 31, 2008. As a result, the Company tested its
long-lived assets for impairment as of December 31, 2008, and determined that a portion of the value of these long-lived assets, primarily at its Bullwhackers property, was
impaired. Accordingly, the Company recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $15.1 million ($10.0 million, net of taxes) during the year ended December 31, 2008 for
these assets.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

At December 31, 2008, the Company had $1,598.6 million in goodwill and $693.8 million in other intangible assets
within its consolidated balance sheet, representing 30.8% and 13.4% of total assets, respectively, resulting from the Company's acquisition of other businesses and payment for gaming licenses and
racing permits. Two issues arise with respect to these assets that require significant management estimates and judgment: (i) the valuation in connection with the initial purchase price
allocation; and (ii) the ongoing evaluation for impairment.

In
connection with the Company's acquisitions, valuations are completed to determine the allocation of the purchase prices. The factors considered in the valuations include data gathered
as a result of the Company's due diligence in connection with the acquisitions, projections for future operations, and data obtained from third-party valuation specialists as deemed appropriate.
Goodwill is tested annually, or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist, for impairment by comparing the fair value of the reporting units to their carrying amount. If the carrying amount of
a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment test is performed to determine the implied value of goodwill for that reporting unit. If the implied value is less than the carrying amount for
that reporting unit, an impairment loss is recognized for that reporting unit. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets" ("SFAS 142"), issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB"), the Company considers its gaming license, racing permit and trademark intangible assets as
indefinite-life intangible assets that do not require amortization. Rather, these intangible assets are tested annually, or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist, for
impairment by comparing the fair value of the recorded assets to their carrying amount. If the carrying amounts of the gaming license, racing permit and trademark intangible assets exceed their fair
value, an impairment loss is recognized. The evaluation of goodwill and indefinite-life intangible assets requires the use of estimates about future operating results of each reporting
unit to determine their estimated fair value. The Company uses a market approach model, with EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, charges for stock compensation, impairment loss, depreciation and
amortization, gain or loss on disposal of assets, merger termination settlement fees, net of related expenses, and other expense, and inclusive of loss from joint venture) multiples, as the Company
believes that EBITDA is a widely-used measure of performance in the gaming industry and as the Company uses EBITDA as the primary measurement of the operating performance of its properties
(including the evaluation of operating personnel). In addition, the Company believes that an EBITDA multiple is the principal basis for the valuation of gaming companies. Changes in the estimated
EBITDA multiple or forecasted operations can materially affect these estimates. Once an impairment of goodwill or other indefinite-life intangible assets has been recorded, it cannot be
reversed. Because the Company's goodwill and indefinite-life intangible assets are not amortized, there may be volatility in reported income because impairment losses, if any, are likely
to occur irregularly and in varying amounts. Intangible assets that have a definite-life, including the management service contract for



Casino
Rama, are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or related service contract. The Company reviews the carrying value of its intangible assets that have
a
definite-life for possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. If the carrying amount of the intangible assets
that have a definite-life exceed their fair value, an impairment loss is recognized. As a result of a decline in the Company's share price, an overall reduction in industry valuations, and
property operating performance in the current economic environment, the Company believed that there were indicators of impairment as of December 31, 2008. As a result, the Company tested its
goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment as of December 31, 2008, and determined that a portion of the value of these assets was impaired in certain reporting units. Accordingly, the
Company recorded pre-tax impairment charges of $397.2 million ($338.5 million, net of taxes) and $69.0 million ($44.1 million, net of taxes) during the year
ended December 31, 2008 for its goodwill and indefinite-life intangible assets, respectively.

Deferred Financing Costs

Deferred financing costs that are incurred by the Company in connection with the issuance of debt are deferred and amortized to
interest expense over the life of the underlying indebtedness, adjusted to reflect any early repayments.

Comprehensive Income

The Company accounts for comprehensive income in accordance with SFAS No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income," which
established standards for the reporting and presentation of comprehensive income in the consolidated financial statements. The Company presents comprehensive income in its consolidated statements of
changes in shareholders' equity.

Income Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" ("SFAS 109"). Under
SFAS 109, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of existing assets and liabilities and
are measured at the prevailing enacted tax rates that will be in effect when these differences are settled or realized. SFAS 109 also requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation
allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized.

The
realizability of the deferred tax assets is evaluated quarterly by assessing the valuation allowance and by adjusting the amount of the allowance, if necessary. The factors used to
assess the likelihood of realization are the forecast of future taxable income and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the net deferred tax assets.

The
Company adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes" ("FIN 48"), which is an interpretation of SFAS 109, on
January 1, 2007. FIN 48 creates a single model to address uncertainty in tax positions, and clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise's
financial statements in accordance with SFAS 109 by prescribing the minimum recognition threshold a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in an enterprise's financial
statements. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, measurement, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. The liability for
unrecognized tax benefits is included in noncurrent tax liabilities within the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2008 and 2007.

Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities

The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Thus, uses of derivatives are
limited to hedging and risk management purposes, in connection



with
managing interest rate exposures. SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" ("SFAS 133"), as amended, established accounting and reporting
standards for derivative instruments and hedging activities.

The
Company uses fixed and variable-rate debt to finance its operations. Both funding sources have associated risks and opportunities, and the Company's risk management
policy permits the use of derivatives to manage these exposures. Acceptable derivatives for this purpose include interest rate swaps, futures, options, caps, and similar instruments. The Company's use
of derivatives is strictly restricted to hedging (i.e., risk management) applications.

Currently,
the Company has a number of interest rate swaps in place, where the swaps serve to mitigate the income volatility associated with a portion of its variable-rate
funding. Swap coverage extends out through 2011. In effect, these swaps synthetically convert the portion of variable-rate debt being hedged to the equivalent of fixed-rate
funding. Under the terms of the swaps, the Company receives cash flows from the swap counterparties to offset the benchmark interest rate component of variable interest payments on the hedged
financings, in
exchange for paying cash flows based on the swaps' fixed rates. These two respective obligations are net-settled, periodically. The Company accounts for these swaps as cash flow hedges,
which requires determining a division of hedge results deemed effective and deemed ineffective. However, all of the Company's hedges were designed in such a way so as to perfectly offset specifically-
defined interest payments, such that no ineffectiveness has occurred—nor is any ineffectiveness going to occur, as long as the forecasted cash flows of the designated hedged items and the
associated swaps remain unchanged.

Under
cash flow hedge accounting, effective derivative results are initially recorded in other comprehensive income and later reclassified to earnings, coinciding with the income
recognition relating to the variable interest payments being hedged. During the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company recorded a $23.6 million increase and
$6.2 million decrease, respectively, in interest expense, which was previously reported in other comprehensive income. In the coming twelve months, the Company anticipates that approximately a
$34.0 million loss will be reclassified from other comprehensive income to earnings, as part of interest expense. As this amount represents effective hedge results, a comparable offsetting
amount of incrementally lower interest expense will be realized in connection with the variable funding being hedged.

Credit
risk relating to derivative counterparties is mitigated by using multiple, highly rated counterparties, and the credit quality of each is monitored on an ongoing basis.

Under
cash flow hedge accounting, derivatives are included in the consolidated balance sheets as assets or liabilities. Changes in the fair value of a derivative and settlements that are
highly effective and qualifying as a cash flow hedge, to the extent that they are effective, are recorded in other comprehensive income and later reclassified to earnings coincidently with the
earnings impacts of the hedged transaction (i.e., when the interest expense on the variable-rate liability is recorded in earnings). Any hedge ineffectiveness (which represents the
amount by which hedge results exceed the variability in the cash flows of the forecasted transaction due to the risk being hedged) is recorded in current period earnings.

Revenue Recognition and Promotional Allowances

Gaming revenue is the aggregate net difference between gaming wins and losses, with liabilities recognized for funds deposited by
customers before gaming play occurs, for chips and "ticket-in, ticket-out" coupons in the customers' possession, and for accruals related to the anticipated payout of
progressive jackpots. Progressive slot machines, which contain base jackpots that increase at a progressive rate based on the number of coins played, are charged to revenue as the amount of the
jackpots increase.



Revenue
from the management service contract for Casino Rama is based upon contracted terms, and is recognized when services are performed.

Food,
beverage and other revenue, including racing revenue, is recognized as services are performed. Racing revenue includes the Company's share of pari-mutuel wagering on
live races after payment of amounts returned as winning wagers, its share of wagering from import and export simulcasting, and its share of wagering from its off-track wagering facilities
("OTWs").

Revenues
are recognized net of certain sales incentives in accordance with the Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") consensus on Issue 01-9, "Accounting for Consideration
Given by a Vendor to a Customer (Including a Reseller of the Vendor's Products)" ("EITF 01-9"). The consensus in EITF 01-9 requires that sales incentives and
points earned in point-loyalty programs be recorded as a reduction of revenue. The Company recognizes incentives related to gaming play and points earned in point-loyalty programs as a direct
reduction of gaming revenue.

The
retail value of accommodations, food and beverage, and other services furnished to guests without charge is included in gross revenues and then deducted as promotional allowances.
The estimated cost of providing such promotional allowances is primarily included in food, beverage and other expense. The amounts included in promotional allowances for the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 are as follows:

Year ended December 31,




(in thousands)

Rooms

$

17,750

$

15,518

$

11,970

Food and beverage

103,038

101,040

85,884

Other

13,590

12,386

9,062

Total promotional allowances

$

134,378

$

128,944

$

106,916

The
estimated cost of providing such complimentary services for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 are as follows:

Year ended December 31,




(in thousands)

Rooms

$

7,280

$

6,538

$

5,156

Food and beverage

73,565

71,922

60,762

Other

6,034

5,471

5,644

Total cost of complimentary services

$

86,879

$

83,931

$

71,562

Earnings Per Share

The Company calculates earnings per share ("EPS") in accordance with SFAS No. 128, "Earnings Per Share" ("SFAS 128").
Basic EPS is computed by dividing net income applicable to common stock by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS reflects the additional dilution for
all potentially-dilutive securities such as stock options.

Beginning
in the fourth quarter of 2008, in conjunction with the issuance of 12,500 shares of Preferred Stock, the Company began to calculate EPS in accordance with SFAS 128, as
clarified by EITF 03-6, "Participating Securities and the Two-Class Method under FASB Statement No. 128" ("EITF 03-6"). This was necessary as
the Company determined that the Preferred Stock qualified as a participating security as defined in EITF 03-6. Under EITF 03-6, a security is considered a
participating security if the security may participate in undistributed earnings with common stock, whether that participation is conditioned upon the occurrence of a specified event or not. In
accordance with SFAS 128, a Company is required to use the two-class method when computing EPS when a Company has a security that qualifies as a "participating security." The
two-class method is an earnings allocation



formula
that determines EPS for each class of common stock and participating security according to dividends declared (or accumulated) and participation rights in undistributed earnings. A
participating security is included in the computation of basic EPS using the two-class method. Under the two-class method, basic EPS for the Company's Common Stock is computed
by
dividing net income applicable to Common Stock by the weighted-average common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS for the Company's Common Stock is computed using the more dilutive of
the two-class method or the if-converted method.

However,
since the Company reported a loss from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2008, it was required by SFAS 128 to use basic weighted-average common
shares outstanding, rather than diluted weighted-average common shares outstanding, when calculating diluted EPS for the year ended December 31, 2008. In addition, since the Company reported a
loss from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2008, the Preferred Stock was not deemed to be a participating security for the year ended December 31, 2008, pursuant to
EITF 03-6. The basic weighted-average common shares outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2008 was 84,535,877.

The
following table reconciles the weighted-average common shares outstanding used in the calculation of basic EPS to the weighted-average common shares outstanding used in the
calculation of diluted EPS for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006.

Year ended December 31,



(in thousands)

Determination of shares:

Weighted-average common shares outstanding

85,578

84,229

Assumed conversion of dilutive stock options

2,806

2,405

Diluted weighted-average common shares outstanding

88,384

86,634

Options
to purchase 8,804,578 shares were outstanding during the year ended December 31, 2008, but were not included in the computation of diluted EPS because they are
antidilutive since the Company reported a loss from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2008.

Options
to purchase 1,395,610 and 1,966,880 shares were outstanding during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, but were not included in the computation of
diluted EPS because they are antidilutive.

The
repurchase of up to $200 million of the Company's Common Stock over the twenty-four month period ending July 2010 was authorized by the Company's Board of
Directors in July 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company repurchased 8,934,984 shares of its Common Stock in open market transactions for approximately
$152.6 million, at an average price of $17.05.

Stock-Based Compensation

The Company accounts for stock compensation under SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment" ("SFAS 123(R)"),
which requires the Company to expense the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the award. This expense
must be recognized ratably over the requisite service period following the date of grant.

The
fair value for stock options was estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which requires management to make certain assumptions. The
risk-free interest rate was based on the U.S. Treasury spot rate with a remaining term equal to the expected life assumed at the date of grant. Expected volatility at December 31,
2008 was estimated based on the historical volatility of the Company's stock price over a period of 5.36 years, in order to match the expected life of the options at the grant date. There is no
expected dividend yield since the Company has not paid any cash dividends on its Common Stock since its initial public offering in May 1994, and since the Company



intends
to retain all of its earnings to finance the development of its business for the foreseeable future. The weighted-average expected life was based on the contractual term of the stock option
and expected employee exercise dates, which was based on the historical exercise behavior of the Company's employees. Forfeitures are estimated at the date of grant based on historical experience.
Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), the Company recorded forfeitures as they occurred for purposes of estimating pro forma compensation expense under SFAS No. 123, "Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation". The following are the weighted-average assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006:

Year ended December 31,




Risk-free interest rate

1.61%

4.24%

5.11%

Expected volatility

45.56%

37.68%

43.29%

Dividend yield

—

—

—

Weighted-average expected life (years)

5.36

4.73

4.26

Forfeiture rate

4.00%

4.00%

4.00%

Segment Information

In accordance with SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information" ("SFAS 131"), the
Company views each property as an operating segment, and aggregates all of its properties into one reportable segment, as the Company believes that they are economically similar, offer similar types
of products and services, cater to the same types of customers and are similarly regulated.

Statements of Cash Flows

The Company has presented the consolidated statements of cash flows using the indirect method, which involves the reconciliation of net
(loss) income to net cash flow from operating activities.

Acquisitions

The Company accounts for its acquisitions in accordance with SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations" ("SFAS 141"). The
results of operations of acquisitions are included in the consolidated financial statements from their respective dates of acquisition.

Certain Risks and Uncertainties

The Company's operations are dependent on its continued licensing by state gaming commissions. The loss of a license, in any
jurisdiction in which the Company operates, could have a material adverse effect on future results of operations.

The
Company is dependent on each gaming property's local market for a significant number of its patrons and revenues. If economic conditions in these areas deteriorate or additional
gaming licenses are awarded in these markets, the Company's results of operations could be adversely affected.

The
Company is dependent on the economy of the United States ("U.S.") in general, and any deterioration in the national economic, energy, credit and capital markets could have a material
adverse effect on future results of operations.

The
Company is dependent upon a stable gaming and admission tax structure in the locations that it operates in. Any change in the tax structure could have a material adverse affect on
future results of operations.

5.    New Accounting Pronouncements

In May 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 162, "The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles" ("SFAS 162"),
which identifies the sources of accounting principles and the framework for selecting the principles used in the preparation of financial statements of nongovernmental entities that



are
presented in conformity with GAAP (the GAAP hierarchy). Any effect of applying the provisions of SFAS 162 shall be reported as a change in accounting principle in accordance with SFAS
No. 154, "Accounting Changes and Error Corrections." SFAS 162 is effective 60 days following the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's approval of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board amendments to AU Section 411, "The Meaning of Present Fairly in Conformity With Generally Accepted Accounting Principles." The Company adopted SFAS 162 as of
its effective date, as required. SFAS 162 did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.

In
April 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ("FSP") FAS 142-3, "Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets" ("FSP FAS 142-3"),
which amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under SFAS 142. The intent
of FSP FAS 142-3 is to improve the consistency between the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under SFAS 142 and the period of expected cash flows used to measure
the fair value of the assets under SFAS No. 141 (revised), "Business Combinations" ("SFAS 141(R)"), and other GAAP. FSP FAS 142-3 is effective for financial statements
issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2008. Early adoption of the standard is prohibited. The Company adopted FSP FAS 142-3 as of
January 1, 2009, as required. The Company does not expect that the adoption of FSP FAS 142-3 will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.

In
March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, "Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities—an amendment of SFAS No. 133" ("SFAS 161"),
which requires enhanced disclosures about an entity's derivative and hedging activities. Specifically, entities are required to provide enhanced disclosures about: a) how and why an entity uses
derivative instruments; b) how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under SFAS 133 and its related interpretations; and c) how derivative instruments
and related hedged items affect an entity's financial position, financial performance and cash flows. SFAS 161 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods
beginning after November 15, 2008, with early application encouraged. SFAS 161 encourages, but does not require, comparative disclosures for earlier periods at initial adoption. The
Company adopted SFAS 161 as of January 1, 2009, as required. The Company does not expect that the adoption of SFAS 161 will have a material impact on its consolidated financial
statements.

In
December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS 141(R), which is intended to improve reporting by creating greater consistency in the accounting and financial reporting of business
combinations. SFAS 141(R) requires that the acquiring entity in a business combination recognize all (and only) the assets and liabilities assumed in the transaction, establishes the
acquisition-date fair value as the measurement objective for all assets acquired and liabilities assumed, and requires the acquirer to disclose to investors and other users all of the
information that they need to evaluate and understand the nature and financial effect of the business combination. In addition, SFAS 141(R) modifies the accounting for transaction and
restructuring costs. SFAS 141(R) is effective for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after
December 15, 2008. The Company adopted SFAS 141(R) as of January 1, 2009, as required. The Company expects that the adoption of SFAS 141(R) will have an impact on its
consolidated financial statements, once the Company acquires companies in the future.

In
February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities-including an amendment of SFAS No. 115"
("SFAS 159"), which permits an entity to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. A business entity shall report unrealized gains and losses on items
for which the fair value option has been elected in earnings at each subsequent reporting date. SFAS 159 is effective as of the beginning of each reporting entity's first fiscal year that
begins after November 15, 2007. The Company did not elect the fair value option for any financial assets or financial liabilities.



In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" ("SFAS 157"), which defines fair value, establishes a framework for
measuring fair value, and expands the disclosure requirements about fair value measurements. In February 2008, the FASB amended SFAS 157 through the issuance of FSP
FAS 157-1, "Application of FASB Statement No. 157 to FASB Statement No. 13 and Other Accounting Pronouncements That Address Fair Value Measurements for Purposes of
Lease Classification or Measurement under Statement 13" ("FSP FAS 157-1") and FSP FAS 157-2, "Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157" ("FSP
FAS 157-2"). FSP FAS 157-1, which was effective upon the initial adoption of SFAS 157, amends SFAS 157 to exclude from its scope certain accounting
pronouncements that address fair value measurements associated with leases. FSP FAS 157-2, which was effective upon issuance, delays the effective date of SFAS 157 to fiscal
years beginning after November 15, 2008 for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities that are not recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis
(at least annually). In October 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 157-3, "Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active" ("FSP
FAS 157-3"), which was effective upon issuance. FSP FAS 157-3 clarifies the application of SFAS 157 in a market that is not active and provides an example
to illustrate key considerations in determining the fair value of a financial asset when the market for that financial asset is not active. The Company adopted SFAS 157, as amended, and on a
prospective basis, as of January 1, 2008. The January 1, 2008 adoption did not have a significant impact on the Company. The Company adopted SFAS 157, as amended, and on a
prospective basis, as of January 1, 2009 to nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities that are not recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis.
The Company does not expect that the adoption of SFAS 157, as amended, and on a prospective basis, to nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, will have a material impact on its
consolidated financial statements. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the adoption of SFAS 157.

6.     Acquisitions

Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club

On October 17, 2007, pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement dated July 5, 2007, the Company completed the purchase of
Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club in Longwood, Florida from Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club, Inc. and Collins and Collins. In connection with the purchase, the Company also secured a right of first
refusal with respect to a majority stake in the Sarasota Kennel Club in Sarasota, Florida. The purchase price for the Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club provides for additional consideration to be paid by
the Company based upon certain future regulatory developments. Located on approximately 26 acres in Longwood, Florida, the Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club features year-round greyhound racing,
a simulcast wagering facility, a clubhouse lounge and two dining areas. The Company accounted for the acquisition in accordance with SFAS 141. The results of the Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club
have been included in the Company's consolidated financial statements since the acquisition date.

Black Gold Casino at Zia Park

On April 16, 2007, pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement dated November 7, 2006 among Zia Partners, LLC
("Zia"), Zia Park LLC (the "Buyer"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Penn, and (solely with respect to specified sections thereof which relate to the Company's guarantee of the Buyer's payment and
performance) Penn, the Buyer completed the acquisition of Black Gold Casino at Zia Park and all related assets of Zia. Penn funded this purchase with additional borrowings under its existing
$750 million revolving credit facility. The Company accounted for the acquisition in accordance with SFAS 141. As a result of the acquisition, goodwill of $144.2 million and other
intangible assets of $3.5 million are included within the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2008. The results of the Black Gold Casino at Zia Park have been included in the
Company's consolidated financial statements since the acquisition date.



7.     Hurricane Katrina

As a result of Hurricane Katrina's direct hit on the Mississippi Gulf Coast on August 29, 2005, two of the Company's casinos, Hollywood Casino Bay
St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi, were significantly damaged, many employees were displaced and operations ceased at the two properties. Boomtown Biloxi reopened on June 29, 2006 and
Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis reopened on August 31, 2006.

The
Company had significant levels of insurance in place at the time of Hurricane Katrina to cover the losses resulting from the hurricane, including an "all risk" insurance policy
covering "named windstorm" damage, flood damage, debris removal, preservation of property expense, demolition and increased cost of construction expense, and losses resulting from business
interruption and extra expenses, all as defined in the policies. The comprehensive business interruption and property damage insurance policies had an overall limit of $400 million, and was
subject to property damage deductibles for Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi of approximately $6.0 million and $3.5 million, respectively. The business
interruption insurance component of this policy was subject to a five-day deductible.

During
the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company's financial results benefited from a settlement agreement with its property and business interruption insurance providers for
a total of $225 million for Hurricane Katrina-related losses at its Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi properties, as well as minor proceeds related to its National Flood
Insurance coverage and auto insurance claims. Reflecting the settlement agreement, the Company recorded a pre-tax gain of $128.3 million ($81.8 million, net of taxes).

In
June 2008, the Company entered into the second term of its first layer of property insurance coverage in the amount of $200 million. The $200 million coverage, which is
effective from August 8, 2007 through December 31, 2010, is on an "all risk" basis, including, but not limited to, coverage for "named windstorms," floods and earthquakes. In June 2008,
the Company also purchased an additional $100 million of "all risk" coverage including, but not limited to, coverage for "named windstorms," floods and earthquakes. The additional
$100 million of "all risk" coverage excludes coverage for windstorms, "named windstorms," floods, and earthquakes, for Boomtown Biloxi and Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis. An additional
$300 million of "all risk" coverage was also purchased, which is subject to certain exclusions including, among others, exclusions for windstorms, "named windstorms," floods and earthquakes.
The two additional coverage layers are effective from June 1, 2008 through June 1, 2009. There is a $25 million deductible for "named windstorm" events, and lesser deductibles as
they apply to other perils. All three layers are subject to specific policy terms, conditions and exclusions.

8.     Property and Equipment

Property and equipment, net, consists of the following:

December 31,



(in thousands)

Land and improvements

$

216,834

$

188,379

Building and improvements

1,298,513

998,910

Furniture, fixtures, and equipment

692,851

503,969

Leasehold improvements

17,128

16,145

Construction in progress

183,056

423,209

Total property and equipment

2,408,382

2,130,612

Less accumulated depreciation and amortization

(596,251

)

(442,219

)

Property and equipment, net

$

1,812,131

$

1,688,393



Depreciation
and amortization expense, for property and equipment, totaled $165.9 million, $140.3 million and $117.3 million in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively.
Interest capitalized in connection with major construction projects was $13.8 million, $14.6 million and $8.0 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. During the year ended
December 31, 2008, the Company recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $15.1 million ($10.0 million, net of taxes), as it determined that a portion of the value of its
long-lived assets, primarily at its Bullwhackers property, was impaired.

9.     Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

The Company's goodwill and intangible assets had a gross carrying value of $2.3 billion and $2.8 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, and accumulated amortization of $34.7 million and $27.0 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The table below presents the gross carrying value,
accumulated amortization, and net book value of each major class of goodwill and intangible assets at December 31, 2008 and 2007:

December 31,



Gross

Carrying Value

Accumulated

Amortization

Net Book Value

Gross

Carrying Value

Accumulated

Amortization

Net Book Value

(in thousands)

Goodwill

$

1,598,571

$

—

$

1,598,571

$

2,013,139

$

—

$

2,013,139

Indefinite-life intangible assets

679,054

—

679,054

755,166

—

755,166

Other intangible assets

49,396

34,686

14,710

49,316

27,041

22,275

Total

$

2,327,021

$

34,686

$

2,292,335

$

2,817,621

$

27,041

$

2,790,580

Goodwill
consists mainly of goodwill from the acquisitions of Hollywood Casino Corporation in March 2003, Argosy in October 2005 and Black Gold Casino at Zia Park in April 2007.
Indefinite-life intangible assets consist mainly of gaming licenses and trademark intangible assets from the acquisition of Argosy and the placement of slot machines at Hollywood Casino at
Penn National Race Course.

During
the year ended December 31, 2008, goodwill decreased by $414.6 million, primarily due to the Company recording a pre-tax impairment charge of
$397.2 million ($338.5 million, net of taxes), as a portion of the value of the goodwill associated with the original purchase of Empress Casino Hotel, Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg,
Hollywood Casino Aurora and Argosy Casino Alton, and all of the goodwill associated with the original purchase of Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway, was impaired. In addition, during the year ended
December 31, 2008, indefinite-life intangible assets decreased by $76.1 million, primarily as the Company recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of
$69.0 million ($44.1 million, net of taxes), as a portion of the value of the indefinite-life intangible assets associated with the original purchase of Argosy, and all of
the indefinite-life intangible assets associated with the original purchase of Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway, was impaired.

During
the year ended December 31, 2007, goodwill increased by $143.7 million, primarily due to goodwill recorded as part of the completion of the Black Gold Casino at Zia
Park acquisition in April 2007 and the Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club acquisition in October 2007, offset by deferred tax adjustments relating to litigation accruals. In addition, gaming license, racing
permit and trademark intangible assets increased by $54.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2007, due to the Black Gold Casino at Zia Park and Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club
acquisitions and payment for the Category 1 slot machine license for the placement of slot machines at Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course.

The
Company's intangible asset amortization expense was $7.7 million, $7.6 million and $6.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.



The
following table presents expected intangible asset amortization expense based on existing intangible assets at December 31, 2008 (in thousands):


$

6,642


5,773


2,096




—

Thereafter

—

Total

$

14,710

10.   Long-term Debt

Long-term debt, net of current maturities, is as follows:

December 31,



(in thousands)

Senior secured credit facility

$

1,959,784

$

2,496,625

$200 million 6


/


% senior subordinated notes

200,000

200,000

$250 million 6


/


% senior subordinated notes

250,000

250,000

Other long-term obligations

14,201

19,810

Capital leases

6,195

8,487

2,430,180

2,974,922

Less current maturities of long-term debt

(105,281

)

(93,452

)

$

2,324,899

$

2,881,470

The
following is a schedule of future minimum repayments of long-term debt as of December 31, 2008 (in thousands):


$

105,281


231,992


677,660


1,163,326



Thereafter

251,838

Total minimum payments

$

2,430,180

At
December 31, 2008, the Company was contingently obligated under letters of credit issued pursuant to the $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility with face amounts
aggregating $27.5 million.

Senior Secured Credit Facility

On October 3, 2005, the Company entered into a $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility to fund the Company's
acquisition of Argosy, including payment for all of Argosy's outstanding shares, the retirement of certain long-term debt of Argosy and its subsidiaries, the payment of related transaction
costs, and to provide additional working capital. The $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility consists of three credit facilities comprised of a $750 million revolving credit
facility (of which $123.7 million was drawn at December 31, 2008) that matures on October 3, 2010, a $325 million Term Loan A Facility that matures on October 3,
2011 and a $1.65 billion Term Loan B Facility that matures on October 3, 2012. The maturity dates for the Term Loan A Facility and the Term Loan B Facility may be accelerated to
June 4, 2011 if the $200 million of 6


/


% senior subordinated notes are not retired



before
that date. The $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility also allows the Company to raise an additional $300 million in senior secured credit for project development and
property expansion.

During
the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company's $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility amount outstanding decreased by $536.8 million, primarily due to
principal payments on long-term debt, partially offset by the issuance of long-term debt for items such as payment for capital expenditures, funding associated with the opening
of the Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course, privilege payments to the State of Kansas, payments for income taxes owed and lobbying efforts, primarily in Ohio, Maryland and Maine. During the
year ended December 31, 2008, the Company used a portion of the net proceeds from the Investment and the after-tax proceeds of the Cash Termination Fee for the repayment of some of
its existing debt, repurchases of its Common Stock, lobbying expenses for efforts in Ohio and the investment in corporate debt securities, with the remainder being invested primarily in
short-term securities.

The
$2.725 billion senior secured credit facility is secured by substantially all of the assets of Penn and its restricted subsidiaries.

Interest Rate Swap Contracts

The Company has a policy designed to manage interest rate risk associated with its current and anticipated future borrowings. This
policy enables the Company to use any combination of interest rate swaps, futures, options, caps and similar instruments. To the extent the Company employs such financial instruments pursuant to this
policy, they are generally accounted for as hedging instruments. In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the underlying hedged item must expose the Company to risks associated with market
fluctuations and the financial instrument used must be designated as a hedge and must reduce the Company's exposure to market fluctuations throughout the hedge period. If these criteria are not met, a
change in the market value of the financial instrument and all associated settlements are recognized as gains or losses in the period of change. Net settlements pursuant to the financial instrument
are included as interest expense in the period.

In
accordance with the terms of its $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility, the Company was required to enter into fixed-rate debt or interest rate swap
agreements in an amount equal to 50% of the Company's consolidated indebtedness, excluding the revolving credit facility, within 100 days of the closing date of the $2.725 billion senior
secured credit facility.

On
October 25, 2005, the Company entered into four interest rate swap contracts with terms from three to five years, notional amounts of $224 million, $274 million,
$225 million, and $237 million, for a total of $960 million, and fixed interest rates ranging from 4.678% to 4.753%. The $224 million and $225 million swaps expired
on October 27, 2008. The annual weighted-average interest rate of the two remaining contracts is 4.73%. Under these two remaining contracts, the Company pays a fixed interest rate against a
variable interest rate based on the 90-day LIBOR rate. As of December 31, 2008, the applicable 90-day LIBOR rate was 3.535% for the two remaining swaps.

On
April 6, 2006, the Company entered into three interest rate swap contracts with a term of five years and notional amounts of $100 million each, for a total of
$300 million and fixed interest rates ranging from 5.263% to 5.266%. The annual weighted-average interest rate of the three contracts is 5.26%. Under these contracts, the Company pays a fixed
interest rate against a variable interest rate based on the 90-day LIBOR rate. As of December 31, 2008, the applicable 90-day LIBOR rate was 2.388% for the
$300 million swaps. The counterparty for one of the $100 million swaps is Lehman Brothers, which filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection during the year ended
December 31, 2008. The fair value of this $100 million swap was in a liability position at December 31, 2008.

On
September 5, 2007, the Company entered into two interest rate swap contracts with terms of nine months and notional amounts of $197 million and $181 million, for
a total of $378 million, and



fixed
interest rates of 5.01%. The $197 million swap expired on June 17, 2008, while the $181 million swap expired on July 18, 2008.

On
December 19, 2007, the Company entered into three monthly interest rate swap contracts, each with notional amounts of $146.25 million and fixed interest rates of 4.97%
effective December 31, 2007, 4.47% effective January 31, 2008 and 4.40% effective February 29, 2008. The $146.25 million swap matured on March 31, 2008.

On
October 23, 2008, the Company entered into two interest rate swap contracts with terms of two and three years and notional amounts of $200 million each, for a total of
$400 million and fixed interest rates ranging from 2.727% to 3.09%. The annual weighted-average interest rate of the two contracts is 2.91%. Under these contracts, the Company pays a fixed
interest rate against a variable interest rate based on the one-month LIBOR rate. As of December 31, 2008, the applicable one-month LIBOR rate was 0.471% for the
$400 million swaps.

Redemption of 8


/


% Senior Subordinated Notes

In February 2006, the Company called for the redemption of its $175 million 8


/


% senior subordinated notes. The
redemption price was $1,044.38 per $1,000 principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and was made on March 15, 2006. The Company recorded a $10.0 million loss on early
extinguishment of debt during the year ended December 31, 2006 for the call premium and the write-off of the associated deferred financing fees. The Company funded the redemption of
the $175 million 8


/


% senior subordinated notes from available cash and borrowings under its revolving credit facility.



/


% Senior Subordinated Notes

On December 4, 2003, the Company completed an offering of $200 million of 6


/


% senior subordinated notes
that mature on December 1, 2011. Interest on the notes is payable on June 1 and December 1 of each year, beginning June 1, 2004.

The
Company may redeem all or part of the 6


/


% senior subordinated notes at certain specified redemption prices.

The


/


% senior subordinated notes are general unsecured obligations and are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by certain of the Company's current and future
wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries. The 6


/


% senior subordinated notes rank equally with the Company's future senior subordinated debt and junior to its senior debt, including debt
under the Company's $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility. In addition, the 6


/


% senior subordinated notes will be effectively junior to any indebtedness of Penn's
non-U.S. unrestricted subsidiaries.

The


/


% senior subordinated notes and guarantees were originally issued in a private placement pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended. On August 27, 2004, the Company completed an offer to exchange the notes and guarantees for notes and guarantees registered under the Securities Act of 1933,
as amended, having substantially identical terms.

On
May 9, 2008, Merger Sub announced that it had commenced a cash tender offer and consent solicitation for any and all of the Company's $200 million 6


/


%
senior subordinated notes. The tender offer and consent solicitation was being conducted in connection with the Merger Agreement and the obligation to accept for purchase and to pay for such notes was
subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, including the consummation of the Merger. In connection with the termination of the Merger Agreement, these offers were withdrawn.





/


% Senior Subordinated Notes

On March 9, 2005, the Company completed an offering of $250 million of 6


/


% senior subordinated notes
that mature on March 1, 2015. Interest on the notes is payable on March 1 and September 1 of each year, beginning September 1, 2005.

Effective
March 2010, the Company may redeem all or part of the 6


/


% senior subordinated notes at certain specified redemption prices.

The


/


% senior subordinated notes are general unsecured obligations and are not guaranteed by the Company's subsidiaries.

The


/


% senior subordinated notes were issued in a private placement pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended.

On
May 9, 2008, Merger Sub announced that it had commenced a cash tender offer and consent solicitation for any and all of the Company's $250 million 6


/


%
senior subordinated notes. The tender offer and consent solicitation was being conducted in connection with the Merger Agreement and the obligation to accept for purchase and to pay for such notes was
subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, including the consummation of the Merger. In connection with the termination of the Merger Agreement, these offers were withdrawn.

Other Long-Term Obligations

On October 15, 2004, the Company announced the sale of The Downs Racing, Inc. and its subsidiaries to the Mohegan Tribal
Gaming Authority ("MTGA"). Under the terms of the agreement, the MTGA acquired The Downs Racing, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including Pocono Downs (a standardbred horse racing facility located
on 400 acres in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania) and five Pennsylvania OTWs located in Carbondale, East Stroudsburg, Erie, Hazelton and the Lehigh Valley (Allentown). The sale agreement also provided the
MTGA with certain post-closing termination rights in the event of certain materially adverse legislative or regulatory events. In January 2005, the Company received $280 million
from the MTGA, and transferred the operations of The Downs Racing, Inc. and its subsidiaries to the MTGA. The sale was not considered final for accounting purposes until the third quarter of
2006, as the MTGA had certain post-closing termination rights that remained outstanding. On August 7, 2006, the Company entered into the Second Amendment to the Purchase Agreement
and Release of Claims ("Amendment and Release") with the MTGA pertaining to the October 14, 2004 Purchase Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement"), and agreed to pay the MTGA an aggregate of
$30 million over five years, beginning on the first anniversary of the commencement of slot operations at Mohegan Sun at Pocono Downs, in exchange for the MTGA's agreement to release various
claims it raised against the Company under the Purchase Agreement and the MTGA's surrender of all post-closing termination rights it might have had under the Purchase Agreement. The
Company recorded the present value of the $30 million liability within debt, as the amount due to the MTGA is payable over five years. At December 31, 2008, the balance due to the MTGA
equaled $14.2 million.

Covenants

The Company's $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility, $200 million 6


/


% and $250 million


/


% senior subordinated notes require it, among other obligations, to maintain specified financial ratios and to satisfy certain financial tests, including fixed charge coverage,
senior leverage and total leverage ratios. In addition, the Company's $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility, $200 million 6


/


% and $250 million


/


% senior subordinated notes restrict, among other things, the Company's ability to incur additional indebtedness, incur guarantee obligations, amend debt instruments, pay dividends,
create liens on assets, make investments, make acquisitions, engage in mergers or



consolidations,
make capital expenditures, or engage in certain transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates and otherwise restricts corporate activities.

During
the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company placed some of the funds received from the Investment into two unrestricted subsidiaries, in order to allow for maximum
flexibility in the deployment of the funds. The funds and activity maintained within the unrestricted subsidiaries are excluded from the Company's covenant calculations.

At
December 31, 2008, the Company was in compliance with all required financial covenants.

11.   Commitments and Contingencies

Litigation

The Company is subject to various legal and administrative proceedings relating to personal injuries, employment matters, commercial
transactions and other matters arising in the normal course of business. The Company does not believe that the final outcome of these matters will have a material adverse effect on the Company's
consolidated financial position or results of operations. In addition, the Company maintains what it believes is adequate insurance coverage to
further mitigate the risks of such proceedings. However, such proceedings can be costly, time consuming and unpredictable and, therefore, no assurance can be given that the final outcome of such
proceedings may not materially impact the Company's consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Further, no assurance can be given that the amount or scope of existing insurance
coverage will be sufficient to cover losses arising from such matters.

The
following proceedings could result in costs, settlements, damages, or rulings that materially impact the Company's consolidated financial condition or operating results. In each
instance, the Company believes that it has meritorious defenses, claims and/or counter-claims, and intends to vigorously defend itself or pursue its claim.

In
conjunction with the Company's acquisition of Argosy in 2005, and subsequent disposition of the Argosy Casino Baton Rouge property, the Company became responsible for litigation
initiated over eight years ago related to the Baton Rouge casino license formerly owned by Argosy. On November 26, 1997, Capitol House filed an amended petition in the Nineteenth Judicial
District Court for East Baton Rouge Parish, State of Louisiana, amending its previously filed but unserved suit against Richard Perryman, the person selected by the Louisiana Gaming Division to
evaluate and rank the applicants seeking a gaming license for East Baton Rouge Parish, and adding state law claims against Jazz Enterprises, Inc., the former Jazz Enterprises, Inc.
shareholders, Argosy, Argosy of Louisiana, Inc. and Catfish Queen Partnership in Commendam, d/b/a the Belle of Baton Rouge Casino. This suit alleged that these parties violated the Louisiana
Unfair Trade Practices Act in connection with obtaining the gaming license that was issued to Jazz Enterprises, Inc./Catfish Queen Partnership in Commendam. The plaintiff, an applicant for a
gaming license whose application was denied by the Louisiana Gaming Division, sought to prove that the gaming license was invalidly issued and to recover lost gaming revenues that the plaintiff
contended it could have earned if the gaming license had been properly issued to the plaintiff. On October 2, 2006, the Company prevailed on a partial summary judgment motion which limited
plaintiff's damages to its out-of-pocket costs in seeking its gaming license, thereby eliminating any recovery for potential lost gaming profits. On February 6, 2007,
the jury returned a verdict of $3.8 million (exclusive of statutory interest and attorneys' fees) against Jazz Enterprises, Inc. and Argosy. After ruling on post-trial
motions, on September 27, 2007, the trial court entered a judgment in the amount of $1.4 million, plus attorneys' fees, costs and interest. The Company has established an appropriate
reserve and has bonded the judgment pending its appeal. Both the plaintiff and the Company have appealed the judgment to the First Circuit Court of Appeals in Louisiana and oral arguments took place
on August 28, 2008. The Company has the right to seek indemnification from two of the former Jazz Enterprises, Inc. shareholders for any liability suffered as a result of such



cause
of action, however, there can be no assurance that the former Jazz Enterprises, Inc. shareholders will have assets sufficient to satisfy any claim in excess of Argosy's recoupment rights.

In
May 2006, the Illinois Legislature passed into law House Bill 1918, effective May 26, 2006, which singled out four of the nine Illinois casinos, including the Company's Empress
Casino Hotel and Hollywood Casino Aurora, for a 3% tax surcharge to subsidize local horse racing interests. On May 30, 2006, Empress Casino Hotel and Hollywood Casino Aurora joined with the two
other riverboats
affected by the law, Harrah's Joliet and the Grand Victoria Casino in Elgin, and filed suit in the Circuit Court of the Twelfth Judicial District in Will County, Illinois (the "Court"), asking the
Court to declare the law unconstitutional. Empress Casino Hotel and Hollywood Casino Aurora began paying the 3% tax surcharge into a protest fund which accrues interest during the pendency of the
lawsuit. In two orders dated March 29, 2007 and April 20, 2007, the Court declared the law unconstitutional under the Uniformity Clause of the Illinois Constitution and enjoined the
collection of this tax surcharge. The State of Illinois requested, and was granted, a stay of this ruling. As a result, Empress Casino Hotel and Hollywood Casino Aurora continued paying the 3% tax
surcharge into the protest fund until May 25, 2008, when the 3% tax surcharge expired. The State of Illinois appealed the ruling to the Illinois Supreme Court. On June 5, 2008, the
Illinois Supreme Court reversed the trial court's ruling and issued a decision upholding the constitutionality of the 3% tax surcharge. On January 21, 2009, the four casino plaintiffs filed a
petition for certiorari, requesting the U.S. Supreme Court to hear the case. The accumulated funds will be returned to Empress Casino Hotel and Hollywood Casino Aurora if they ultimately prevail in
the lawsuit.

On
December 15, 2008, former Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich signed Public Act No. 95-1008 requiring the same four casinos to continue paying the 3% tax
surcharge to subsidize Illinois horse racing interests. On January 8, 2009, the four casinos filed suit in the Circuit Court of the Twelfth Judicial District in Will County, Illinois, asking
the Court to declare the law unconstitutional. The 3% tax surcharge being paid pursuant to Public Act No. 95-1008 is paid into a protest fund where it accrues interest. The
accumulated funds will be returned to Empress Casino Hotel and Hollywood Casino Aurora if they ultimately prevail in the lawsuit.

In
August 2007, a complaint was filed on behalf of a putative class of public shareholders of the Company, and derivatively on behalf of the Company, in the Court of Common Pleas of
Berks County, Pennsylvania (the "Complaint"). The Complaint names the Company's Board of Directors as defendants and the Company as a nominal defendant. The Complaint alleges, among other things, that
the Board of Directors breached their fiduciary duties by agreeing to the proposed transaction with Fortress and Centerbridge for inadequate consideration, that certain members of the Board of
Directors have conflicts with regard to the Merger, and that the Company and its Board of Directors have failed to disclose certain material information with regard to the Merger. The Complaint seeks,
among other things, a court order determining that the action is properly maintained as a class action and a derivative action enjoining the Company and its Board of Directors from consummating the
proposed Merger, and awarding the payment of attorneys' fees and expenses. The Company and the plaintiff had reached a tentative settlement in which the Company agreed to pay certain attorneys' fees
and to make certain disclosures regarding the events leading up to the transaction with Fortress and Centerbridge in the proxy statement sent to shareholders in November 2007. Final settlement was
contingent upon court approval and consummation of the transaction with Fortress and Centerbridge. Because the transaction with Fortress and Centerbridge was terminated as described in Note 3,
the Company expects to move for a dismissal of the complaint.

On
July 16, 2008, the Company was served with a purported class action lawsuit brought by plaintiffs seeking to represent a class of shareholders who purchased shares of the
Company's Common Stock between March 20, 2008 and July 2, 2008. The lawsuit alleges that the Company's disclosure practices relative to the proposed transaction with Fortress and
Centerbridge and the eventual termination of that transaction were misleading and deficient in violation of the Securities Exchange



Act
of 1934. The complaint, which seeks class certification and unspecified damages, was filed in federal court in Maryland. The complaint has been amended, among other things, to add three new named
plaintiffs and to name Peter M. Carlino, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and William J. Clifford, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, as additional defendants. The Company filed a
motion to dismiss the complaint in November 2008, and oral arguments for the motion were heard by the court on February 23, 2009. Following oral arguments, the court granted the Company's
motion and dismissed the complaint with prejudice. The Company anticipates that the plaintiffs will file a motion for reconsideration with the court.

On
September 11, 2008, the Board of County Commissioners of Cherokee County, Kansas (the "County") filed suit against Kansas Penn Gaming, LLC ("KPG," a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Penn created to pursue a development project in Cherokee County, Kansas) and the Company in the District Court of Shawnee County, Kansas. The petition alleges that KPG breached its
pre-development agreement with the County when KPG withdrew its application to manage a lottery gaming facility in Cherokee County and seeks in excess of $50 million in damages. In
connection with their petition, the County obtained an ex-parte order attaching the $25 million privilege fee paid to the Kansas Lottery Commission in conjunction with the gaming
application for the Cherokee County zone. Defendants are currently contesting the validity and scope of the attachment and intend to defend the merits of the case going forward.

On
September 23, 2008, KPG filed an action against HV Properties of Kansas, LLC ("HV") in the U.S. District Court for the District of Kansas seeking a declaratory judgment
from the U.S. District Court finding that KPG has no further obligations to HV under a Real Estate Sale Contract (the "Contract") that KPG and HV entered into on September 6, 2007, and that KPG
properly terminated this Contract under the terms of the Repurchase Agreement entered into between the parties effective September 28, 2007. HV filed a counterclaim claiming KPG breached the
Contract, and seeks $37.5 million in damages. On October 7, 2008, HV filed suit against the Company claiming the Company is liable to HV for KPG's alleged breach based on a Guaranty
Agreement signed by the Company. Both cases were consolidated. The Company has filed a motion to dismiss HV's claims against the Company. This motion has been fully briefed and is pending.

The
following dispute was concluded in the fourth quarter of 2008:

In
November 2005, Capital Seven, LLC and Shawn A. Scott (collectively, "Capital Seven"), the sellers of Bangor Historic Track, Inc. ("BHT"), filed a demand for arbitration
with the American Arbitration Association seeking $30 million plus interest and other damages. Capital Seven alleged a breach of
contract by the Company based on the Company's payment of a $51 million purchase price for the purchase of BHT instead of an alleged $81 million purchase price Capital Seven claimed was
due under the purchase agreement. The parties had agreed that the purchase price of BHT would be determined, in part, by the applicable gaming taxes imposed by Maine on the Company's operations. The
arbitrators issued their ruling in November 2008, stating that, under the applicable tax rate, the purchase price was $61 million. The panel awarded $10 million plus contractual interest
to Capital Seven. Pursuant to the dispute resolution procedures, the Company had deposited the disputed $30 million in escrow, pending a resolution. This amount was included in other assets
within the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2007. On December 1, 2008, the escrowed funds were released, with $13.1 million being paid to Capital Seven and the remainder
being returned to the Company.

Operating Lease Commitments

The Company is liable under numerous operating leases for airplanes, automobiles, land for the property on which some of its casinos
operate, other equipment and buildings, which expire at various



dates
through 2093. Total rental expense under these agreements was $30.7 million, $29.6 million and $28.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006,
respectively.

The
leases for land consist of annual base lease rent payments, plus, in some instances, a percentage rent based on a percent of adjusted gaming wins, as described in the respective
leases.

The
Company has an operating lease with the City of Bangor which covers the temporary facility and the permanent facility, which opened on July 1, 2008. Under the lease agreement,
there is a fixed rent provision, as well as a revenue-sharing provision which is equal to 3% of gross slot revenue. The final term of the lease, which commenced with the opening of the permanent
facility, is for an initial term of fifteen years, with three ten-year renewal options.

On
March 23, 2007, BTN, Inc. ("BTN"), one of the Company's wholly-owned subsidiaries, entered into an amended and restated ground lease (the "Amended Lease") with Skrmetta
MS, LLC. The lease amends the prior ground lease, dated October 19, 1993. The Amended Lease requires BTN to maintain a minimum gaming operation on the leased premises and to pay rent
equal to 5% of adjusted gaming win after gaming taxes have been deducted. The term of the Amended Lease expires on January 1, 2093.

The
future minimum lease commitments relating to the base lease rent portion of noncancelable operating leases at December 31, 2008 are as follows (in thousands):

Year ending December 31,


$

6,985


5,148


4,732


3,927


3,228

Thereafter

22,951

Total

$

46,971

Capital Expenditure Commitments

At December 31, 2008, the Company was contractually committed to spend approximately $67.7 million in capital
expenditures for projects in progress.

Employee Benefit Plans

The Company maintains a profit-sharing plan under the provisions of Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended, which covers all eligible employees. The plan enables participating employees to defer a portion of their salary in a retirement fund to be administered by the Company. The Company makes a
discretionary match contribution of 50% of employees' elective salary deferrals, up to a maximum of 6% of eligible employee compensation.

The
Company also has a defined contribution plan, the Charles Town Races Future Service Retirement Plan, covering substantially all of its union employees at the Charles Town
Entertainment Complex. The Company makes annual contributions to this plan for the eligible union employees and to the Penn National Gaming, Inc. 401(k) Plan for the eligible
non-union employees for an amount equal to the amount accrued for retirement expense, which is calculated as 0.25% of the daily mutual handle and 1.0% up to a base of the net video lottery
revenues and, after the base is met, it reverts to 0.5%.

The
Company maintains a non-qualified deferred compensation plan that covers most management and other highly-compensated employees. This plan was effective March 1,
2001. The plan allows the



participants
to defer, on a pre-tax basis, a portion of their base annual salary and bonus, and earn tax-deferred earnings on these deferrals. The plan also provides for
matching Company contributions that vest over a five-year period. The Company has established a Trust, and transfers to the Trust, on a periodic basis, an amount necessary to provide for
its respective future liabilities with respect to participant deferral and Company contribution amounts. The Company's matching contributions in 2008, 2007 and 2006 were $1.7 million,
$2.2 million and $1.5 million, respectively.

Agreements with Horsemen and Pari-Mutuel Clerks

The Company is required to have agreements with the horsemen at each of its racetracks to conduct its live racing and simulcasting
activities, with the exception of the Company's tracks in Ohio and New Mexico. In addition, in order to operate gaming machines in West Virginia, the Company must maintain agreements with each of the
Charles Town Horsemen, pari-mutuel clerks and breeders.

At
the Charles Town Entertainment Complex, the Company has an agreement with the Charles Town Horsemen with an initial term expiring on December 31, 2011, and an agreement with
the breeders that expires on June 30, 2009. The pari-mutuel clerks at Charles Town are represented under a collective bargaining agreement with the West Virginia Division of Mutuel
Clerks, which expires on December 31, 2010.

The
Company's agreement with the Pennsylvania Thoroughbred Horsemen at Penn National Race Course expires on September 30, 2011. The Company has a collective bargaining agreement
with Local 137 of the Sports Arena Employees (AFL-CIO) at Penn National Race Course with respect to pari-mutuel clerks, admissions and Telebet personnel which expires on
December 31, 2011. The Company also has an agreement in place with the Sports Arena Employees Local 137 (AFL-CIO) with respect to pari-mutuel clerks and admission
personnel at the Company's OTWs, which will expire on September 30, 2009.

The
Company's agreement with the Maine Harness Horsemen Association at Bangor Raceway expired at the end of the 2008 racing season. The parties are currently working cooperatively on a
three-year extension, which is expected to be executed before the start of the 2009 racing season.

Pennwood
Racing, Inc. also has an agreement in effect with the horsemen at Freehold Raceway, which expires in May 2009.

Throughout
the Argosy properties, the Seafarers Entertainment and Allied Trade Union represents approximately one thousand nine hundred of the Company's employees. At the Empress Casino
Hotel, the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Union ("UNITE/HERE") Local 1 represents approximately three hundred employees under a collective bargaining agreement which expires on
March 31, 2010. At certain of the Company's Argosy properties, the Seafarer International Union of North America, Atlantic, Gulf, Lakes and Inland Waters District/NMU, AFL-CIO, the
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, the Security Police and Fire Professionals of America, the American Maritime Officers Union, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local
176, and UNITE/HERE Local 10 represent certain of the Company's employees. The Company has collective bargaining agreements with these unions that expire at various times between July 2009 and October
2015. None of these unions individually represent more than fifty of the Company's employees.

If
the Company fails to maintain agreements with the horsemen at a track, it will not be permitted to conduct live racing and export and import simulcasting at that track and where
applicable, the OTWs. In West Virginia, the Company will not be permitted to operate its gaming machines if it fails to maintain agreements with the Charles Town Horsemen, pari-mutuel
clerks and breeders. In addition, the simulcasting agreements are subject to the horsemen's approval. If the Company fails to maintain necessary agreements, this failure could have a material adverse
effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Except for the closure of the facilities at Penn National Race



Course
and its OTWs from February 16, 1999 to March 24, 1999 due to a horsemen's strike, and a few days at other times and locations, the Company has been able to maintain the necessary
agreements. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain the required agreements.

New Jersey Joint Venture

On January 28, 1999, the Company, along with its joint venture partner, Greenwood Limited Jersey, Inc. ("Greenwood"),
purchased certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Freehold Racing Association, Garden State Racetrack and related entities, in a transaction accounted for as a purchase transaction.

In
1999, the Company made an $11.3 million loan to the joint venture and an equity investment of $0.3 million. In 2008, the balance of the loan was increased by
$0.5 million to $11.8 million to substitute a payment of interest on the loan. The loan is evidenced by a subordinated secured note, which is included in investment in and advances to
unconsolidated affiliate within the consolidated balance sheets. The $11.3 million portion of the note bears interest at prime plus 2.25% or a minimum of 10.00% (at December 31, 2008,
the interest rate was 10.00%). The $0.5 million portion of the note bears interest at the lesser of prime plus 2.00% or the 30-day LIBOR plus 3.00% (at December 31, 2008, the
interest rate was 3.41%). The Company has recorded interest income within the consolidated statements of operations of $1.2 million, $1.2 million and $1.2 million for the years
ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

The
joint venture, through Freehold Racing Association, was part of a multi-employer pension plan. For collectively bargained, multi-employer pension plans, contributions were made in
accordance with negotiated labor contracts and generally were based on days worked. With the passage of the Multi-Employer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1980, the joint venture may, under certain
circumstances, become subject to liabilities in excess of contributions made under collective bargaining agreements. Generally, these liabilities are contingent upon the termination, withdrawal, or
partial withdrawal from the plans. In June 2006, Freehold Racing Association withdrew from the multi-employer pension plan, and thereby became subject to payment of a withdrawal liability to the
multi-employer pension plan. In January 2008, the Company was informed that the multi-employer pension plan experienced a mass withdrawal termination as of December 25, 2007. At
December 31, 2008, the joint venture withdrawal liability was approximately $3.5 million for Freehold Racing Association, which is payable through November 2028.

The
Company and Greenwood entered into a Debt Service Maintenance Agreement with a bank in which each joint venture partner has guaranteed up to 50% of a $23.0 million term loan
to the joint venture. The Debt Service Maintenance Agreement remains in effect for the life of the loan and was due to expire on September 30, 2009. In 2008, the joint venture borrowed an
additional $1.75 million and the maturity date of the term loan was extended to September 30, 2013. At December 31, 2008, the outstanding balance on the loan to the joint venture
amounted to $12.2 million, of which the Company's obligation under its guarantee of the term loan was limited to approximately $6.1 million. The Company's investment in the joint venture
is accounted for under the equity method. The original investment was recorded at cost and has been adjusted by the Company's share of income (loss) of the joint venture and distributions received.
The Company's 50% share of the income (loss) of the joint venture is included in other income (expenses) within the consolidated statements of operations.

12.   Income Taxes

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are provided for the effects of temporary differences between the tax basis of an asset or liability and its reported amount
in the consolidated balance sheet. These temporary differences result in taxable or deductible amounts in future years.



The
components of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:

Year ended December 31,



(in thousands)

Deferred tax assets:

Stock-based compensation expense

$

17,510

$

11,111

Accrued expenses

21,973

18,945

Uncertain tax positions under FIN 48

12,751

9,458

State net operating losses

6,622

7,687

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

21,929

12,325

Gross deferred tax assets

80,785

59,526

Less valuation allowance

(3,860

)

(6,632

)

Net deferred tax assets

76,925

52,894

Deferred tax liabilities:

Property, plant and equipment

(86,342

)

(102,936

)

Intangibles

(235,128

)

(315,968

)

Net deferred tax liabilities

(321,470

)

(418,904

)

Net:

$

(244,545

)

$

(366,010

)

Reflected on consolidated balance sheets:

Current deferred tax assets, net

$

21,065

$

19,079

Noncurrent deferred tax liabilities, net

(265,610

)

(385,089

)

Net deferred taxes

$

(244,545

)

$

(366,010

)

For
income tax reporting, the Company has state net operating loss carryforwards aggregating approximately $179.1 million available to reduce future state income
taxes primarily for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the State of Mississippi as of December 31, 2008. The tax benefit associated with these net operating loss carryforwards is
approximately $6.7 million. Due to state tax statutes on annual net operating loss utilization limits, the availability of gaming tax credits, and income and loss projections in the applicable
jurisdictions, a $3.9 million valuation allowance has been recorded to reflect the net operating losses which are not presently expected to be realized. If not used, substantially all of the
carryforwards will expire at various dates from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2028.

The
$3.9 million valuation allowance represents the income tax effect of state net operating loss carryforwards of the Company, which are not presently expected to be utilized. In
the event that the valuation allowance is ultimately unnecessary, the majority would be treated as a reduction of tax expense.

In
addition, certain subsidiaries have accumulated state net operating loss carryforwards aggregating approximately $553.1 million for which no benefit has been recorded as they
are attributable to uncertain tax positions. The unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2008 attributable to these net operating losses was approximately $37.7 million. Due to the
uncertain tax position, these net operating losses are not included as components of deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2008. In the event of any benefit from realization of these net
operating losses, $8.3 million would be treated as an increase to equity, $0.5 million would be treated as a reduction to goodwill, and the remainder would be treated as a reduction of
tax expense. If not used, substantially all the carryforwards will expire at various dates from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2028.



The provision for income taxes charged to operations was as follows:

Year ended December 31,




(in thousands)

Current tax expense

Federal

$

157,043

$

75,959

$

108,958

State

35,461

28,536

33,067

Foreign

4,332

9,427


Total current

196,836

113,922

142,458

Deferred tax expense (benefit)

Federal

(78,895

)

16,223

16,260

State

(12,203

)

2,042

(1,866

)

Total deferred

(91,098

)

18,265

14,394

Total provision

$

105,738

$

132,187

$

156,852

The
following table reconciles the statutory federal income tax rate to the actual effective income tax rate for 2008, 2007 and 2006:

Year ended December 31,




Percent of pretax income

Federal taxes

35.0

%

35.0

%

35.0

%

State and local income taxes

(32.0

)%

6.8

%

5.5

%

Permanent differences

(217.9

)%

2.6

%

1.8

%

Foreign

(7.5

)%

1.2

%

0.1

%

Other miscellaneous items

0.2

%

(0.4

)%

—

(222.2

)%

45.2

%

42.4

%

Year ended December 31,




(in thousands)

Amount based upon pretax income

Federal taxes

$

(16,655

)

$

102,284

$

129,475

State and local income taxes

15,229

19,953

20,281

Permanent differences

103,707

7,460

6,742

Foreign

3,587

3,453


Other miscellaneous items

(130

)

(963

)


$

105,738

$

132,187

$

156,852

The
Company adopted the provisions of FIN 48 on January 1, 2007. As a result of the implementation of FIN 48, the Company recognized a liability for unrecognized tax
benefits of approximately $11.9 million, which was accounted for as a reduction to the January 1, 2007 retained earnings balance. The liability for unrecognized tax benefits is included
in noncurrent tax liabilities within the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2008 and 2007.



A
reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount for the liability for unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:

Noncurrent

tax liabilities

(in thousands)

Balance at January 1, 2007

$

56,960

Additions based on current year tax positions

3,122

Additions based on prior year tax positions

7,676

Currency translation adjustments

15,091

Balance at December 31, 2007

$

82,849

Additions based on current year tax positions

10,702

Additions based on prior year tax positions

2,105

Decreases due to settlements and/or reduction in liabilities

(6,984

)

Currency translation adjustments

(20,040

)

Balance at December 31, 2008

$

68,632

Included
in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2008 and 2007 were $31.7 million and $38.7 million, respectively, of tax positions that are
indemnified by a third party. The indemnification stems from a transaction that the Company completed in 2001 with The Continental Companies and CHC International, Inc. (the "Seller"), whereby
the Company acquired Casino Rouge in Baton Rouge, Louisiana and the management contract for Casino Rama in Orillia, Ontario, Canada. As part of the acquisition, Continental and the Company entered
into an Indemnification Agreement, whereby Continental indemnified the Company for any tax liabilities to arise subsequent to the acquisition for taxation years in which Continental was the owner. The
Canada Revenue Agency ("CRA") issued reassessments of CHC Canada's 1996 through 2000 taxation years. The Company and the Seller disagree with CRA's position, and the matter has been in Competent
Authority since 2004. The Indemnification Agreement provides that the Company does not receive payment until "final determination" by a taxing authority. The Company believes that it is more likely
than not that the matter in Competent Authority will be effectively settled within the next twelve months. Upon settlement, the Company will relieve its liability and reverse the indemnification
receivable. For years after April 2001 where the Company has no indemnification, it has included an appropriate amount of tax reserves in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, including accrued
interest and penalties.

Included
in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2008 and 2007 were $(20.0) million and $15.1 million, respectively, of currency translation
adjustments for foreign currency tax positions.

Included
in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2008 and 2007 were $36.6 million and $27.3 million, respectively, of tax positions that, if
reversed, would affect the effective tax rate.

The
Company is required under FIN 48 to disclose its accounting policy for classifying interest and penalties, the amount of interest and penalties charge to expense each period,
as well as the cumulative amounts recorded in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company will continue to classify any tax-related penalties and interest accrued related to unrecognized
tax benefits in taxes on income within the consolidated statements of operations.

During
the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company recognized approximately $2.5 million and $3.7 million, respectively, of interest and penalties, net
of deferred taxes. In addition, due to settlements and/or reductions in previously-recorded liabilities on uncertain tax positions, the Company had reductions in previously-accrued interest and
penalties of $0.8 million, net of deferred taxes, and $1.1 million, which were charged off against goodwill. The Company has accrued



approximately
$39.2 million (gross) for the payment of interest and penalties at December 31, 2008. These accruals were included in noncurrent tax liabilities within the consolidated
balance sheet at December 31, 2008.

As
of December 31, 2008, the Company is subject to U.S. Federal income tax examinations for the tax years 2005, 2006 and 2007. In addition, the Company is subject to state and
local income tax examinations for various tax years in the taxing jurisdictions in which the Company operates.

13.   Shareholders' Equity

Shareholder Rights Plan

On May 20, 1998, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized and declared a dividend distribution of one preferred stock
purchase right (the "Right" or "Rights") for each outstanding share of the Company's Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, payable to shareholders of record at the close of business on
March 19, 1999. In addition, a Right is issued for each share of Common Stock issued after March 19, 1999 and prior to the Rights' expiration. Each
Right entitles the registered holder to purchase from the Company one one-hundredth of a share (a "Preferred Stock Fraction") of the Company's Series A Preferred Stock (or another
series of preferred stock with substantially similar terms), or a combination of securities and assets of equivalent value, at a purchase price of $10.00 per Preferred Stock Fraction, subject to
adjustment. The description and terms of the Rights are set forth in a Rights Agreement (the "Rights Agreement") dated March 2, 1999, and amended on June 15, 2007, between the Company
and Continental Stock Transfer and Trust Company as Rights Agent.

The
Rights are attached to the shares of the Company's Common Stock until they become exercisable. Generally, the Rights will be exercisable beginning on a specified date after a person
or group acquires 15% or more of the Company's Common Stock (the "Stock Acquisition Date"), commences a tender or exchange offer that will result in such person or group acquiring 20% or more of the
outstanding Common Stock or a determination that a beneficial owner's ownership of a substantial amount of the Company's Common Stock (at least 10%) is intended to pressure the Company to take action
not in the long-term best interests of the Company or may have a material adverse impact ("Adverse Person") on the business or prospects of the Company. The Company is entitled to redeem
the Rights at a price of $.01 per Right (payable in cash or stock) at any time until 10 days following a Stock Acquisition Date or the date on which a person is determined to be an Adverse
Person. Upon the occurrence of certain events described in the Rights Agreement, each holder of Rights (other than Rights owned by a shareholder who has acquired 15% or more of the Company's
outstanding Common Stock or who is determined to be an Adverse Person, which Rights become void) will have the right to receive, upon exercise, Preferred Stock Fractions (or, in certain circumstances,
the Company's Common Stock, the acquiring company's Common Stock, cash, property or other securities of the Company) having a market value of twice the exercise price of each Right. Following any such
event, the Company may permit holders to surrender their Rights in exchange for Preferred Stock Fractions (or other property or securities, as the case may be) equal to half the value otherwise
purchasable or exchange each Right for one Preferred Share Fraction. A potential dilutive effect may exist upon the exercise of the Rights. Until a Right is exercised, the holder will have no rights
as a stockholder of the Company, including, without limitations, the right to vote as a stockholder or to receive dividends. The Rights are not exercisable until the distribution date, and will expire
at the close of business on March 18, 2009, unless earlier redeemed or exchanged by the Company.

On
June 15, 2007, immediately prior to the execution of the Merger Agreement, the Company and Continental Stock Transfer and Trust Company entered into Rights Agreement Amendment
No. 1. The Company was required to enter into Rights Agreement Amendment No. 1 pursuant to Section 4.12 of the Merger Agreement in order to render the Rights Agreement
inapplicable to the proposed Merger and other transactions contemplated under the Merger Agreement. Pursuant to Rights Agreement Amendment No. 1, none of Fortress, Centerbridge, PNG
Holdings LLC ("Holdings" and, together with



Fortress,
Centerbridge, Parent and Merger Sub, the "Fortress/Centerbridge Entities"), Parent or Merger Sub will be an Acquiring Person or an Adverse Person (as such terms are defined in the Rights
Agreement) to the extent any of the Fortress/Centerbridge Entities are beneficial owners of any Common Stock as a result of the approval, execution or delivery of the Merger Agreement or consummation
of the Merger.

On
July 3, 2008, the Company entered into Amendment No. 2 to the Rights Agreement between the Company and Continental Stock Transfer and Trust Company. Amendment
No. 2 supplements and adds certain definitions in the Rights Agreement and provides, among other things, that neither Fortress nor Centerbridge will be deemed to be Acquiring Persons or Adverse
Persons (as such terms are defined in the Rights Agreement) solely by virtue of the approval, execution or delivery of the agreement to purchase the Company's Preferred Stock, the purchase and
ownership of Preferred Stock pursuant to the terms of such purchase agreement or the receipt and ownership of Common Stock upon a redemption of the Preferred Stock.

Issuance of the $1.25 billion, Zero Coupon Preferred Equity Investment

In connection with the termination of the Merger Agreement, the Company issued 12,500 of Preferred Stock for $1.25 billion.
Pursuant to the terms of the preferred equity purchase agreement, the purchasers made the Initial Investment to the Company on July 3, 2008, in addition to the payment of the Cash Termination
Fee. Under the terms of the purchase agreement, the purchasers deposited the remaining preferred equity investment purchase consideration with an escrow agent, with the funds to be released from
escrow upon the issuance of the Preferred Stock. On October 30, 2008, following the receipt of required regulatory approvals and the satisfaction of certain other conditions, the Company closed
the sale of the Investment and received the remaining preferred equity investment purchase consideration of $775 million from the escrow agent.

The
Investment is generally non-voting, but possesses voting rights with respect to certain extraordinary events. The Investment is entitled to vote with the Common Stock on
an as-converted basis with respect to any change-in-control or other significant transaction if the consideration to be paid to shareholders is less than $45 per
share (which amount is subject to adjustment in certain circumstances). In addition, the approval of holders of a majority of the Investment shares is required to authorize (i) special
dividends to security holders of the Company; (ii) issuance by the Company of equity securities senior to or on a parity with the Investment; (iii) stock repurchases, including but not
limited to, by means of a tender offer which is funded by an asset sale outside the ordinary course (other than repurchases in the open market and repurchases by tender offer at not greater than a 20%
premium); and (iv) certain other amendments to the terms of the Investment. The Investment has an aggregate liquidation preference equal to $1.25 billion, the aggregate purchase price
paid for the Investment shares (the "Purchase Price"), subject to certain adjustments. In addition, the Investment terms provide that the Investment participates in any dividends paid on the Common
Stock. To the extent that the Company pays a special dividend, such special dividend will reduce the amount to be paid to the holders of the Investment upon a liquidation or redemption.

The
Company is required to redeem all of the outstanding shares of the Investment on June 30, 2015, unless a change-in-control transaction in which all
holders of shares of the Common Stock receive consideration in the transaction has occurred prior to that time. In the event of such a change-in-control transaction, the
holders of the Investment will receive cash and/or other consideration in such transaction (the same consideration as
the holders of Common Stock receive) with a value equal to the net present value of the Purchase Price, subject to increase or decrease in the event that the value of the consideration paid to the
holders of the Common Stock is greater than $67 per share or less than $45 per share, respectively, which thresholds are subject to adjustment in certain circumstances.



The
redemption price to be paid to the holders of the Investment on June 30, 2015 is equal to the Purchase Price, subject to increase or decrease in the event that the average
trading price of the Common Stock (measured over the 20 consecutive trading days prior to May 26, 2015) is greater than $67 per share or less than $45 per share, respectively. There is no
coupon payable with respect to the Investment. The Company shall redeem all of the Investment for cash, provided the Company may elect on or prior to June 1, 2015 to pay all or part of the
redemption price in shares of the Common Stock. At December 31, 2008, the redemption price was $593.9 million (27.8 million shares of Common Stock if the Company elected to redeem
through the issuance of Common Stock).

The
holders of the Investment are subject to the Investor Rights Agreement, dated as of July 3, 2008, by and among the Company, FIF V PFD LLC, Centerbridge Capital
Partners, L.P., DB Investment Partners, Inc. and Wachovia Investment Holdings, LLC. (the "Investor Rights Agreement"), which, among other things, contains a voting agreement
requiring certain Investment holders to vote all of their shares of Common Stock as directed by the Company and a standstill agreement restricting the activities of certain Investment holders. In
addition, Investment holders who may receive 20% or more of the outstanding Common Stock upon redemption would be subject to Subchapter 25G of the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law of 1988,
as amended (the "Control Share Statute"). The Control Share Statute prohibits any person or group that acquires more than 20% of the voting power of the Company from voting any securities held by such
person or group unless the shareholders vote to accord voting rights to such securities within 90 days of the time such threshold was exceeded. Under the Investment terms, unless such
shareholder approval is obtained, the Investment holders shall execute and deliver a proxy in favor of an attorney-in-fact to be designated by the Board of Directors covering
the number of shares of Common Stock necessary to avoid the application of the Control Share Statute.

The
Investor Rights Agreement also provides that until Fortress and its affiliates own less than two-thirds of the shares of the Investment issued to them on
October 30, 2008, Fortress and the Company must take all action in their power to appoint one designee of the purchasers (the "Purchaser Designee") as a Class II director on the Board of
Directors and to use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause the election of the Purchaser Designee at every meeting thereafter at which a Class II director is to be elected. The initial
Purchaser Designee is Wesley R. Edens. Mr. Edens is the founding principal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Fortress.

Under
the terms of the Investor Rights Agreement, the Company has agreed to file a short-form registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
for the registration and sale of Investment shares and certain shares of Common Stock owned by the purchasers ("Registrable Securities"), which it filed on December 30, 2008. The Company is
required to keep the shelf registration statement continuously effective under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, until the earlier of (i) such time as all Registrable Securities have been
sold and (ii) such time as the purchasers beneficially own (as defined in the Investor Rights Agreement) less than 2.5% of the Common Stock on a fully-diluted basis (including Common Shares
issuable upon redemption of the Investment shares at maturity). The purchasers and any permitted transferees of Registrable Securities are also entitled to four demand registrations and unlimited
piggyback registration during the term of the Investor Rights Agreement.

Pursuant
to the Investor Rights Agreement, the Investment holders may not directly or indirectly sell, transfer, pledge, encumber, assign or otherwise dispose of any portion of any
Investment shares to any person without the prior written consent of the Company prior to July 21, 2009. However, the Investment holders may sell, transfer, pledge, encumber, assign or
otherwise dispose of their Investment shares prior to July 21, 2009 if such transaction is made: (i) to an affiliate of any such Investment holder which agrees to be bound by the terms
of the Investor Rights Agreement; (ii) with the prior written consent of the Company's Board of Directors, to a person pursuant to a tender or exchange offer for Investment shares or Common
Stock by such person or a merger, consolidation or reorganization of the Company with such person; (iii) if the Company acknowledges in writing that it is



unable
to pay its debts, commences a voluntary case in bankruptcy or a voluntary petition seeking reorganization or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors; or (iv) if the Company
consents to the entry of an order for relief against it seeking liquidation, reorganization or a creditor's arrangement of the Company.

Under
the Investor Rights Agreement, each Investment holder has preemptive rights with respect to certain sales of Common Stock, stock options or securities convertible into Common Stock
for so long as such holder beneficially owns at least two-thirds of the shares of the Investment issued to it on October 30, 2008.

14.   Stock-Based Compensation

In April 1994, the Company's Board of Directors and shareholders adopted and approved the 1994 Stock Option Plan (the "1994 Plan"). The 1994 Plan permitted the
grant of options to purchase up to 12,000,000 shares of Common Stock, subject to antidilution adjustments, at a price per share no less than 100% of the fair market value of the Common Stock on the
date an option is granted with respect to incentive stock options only. The price would be no less than 110% of fair market value in the case of an incentive stock option granted to any individual who
owns more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of outstanding stock. The 1994 Plan provided for the granting of both
incentive stock options intended to qualify under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and nonqualified stock options, which do not so qualify. The options granted
prior to the 2003 Plan remain outstanding.

On
April 16, 2003, the Company's Board of Directors adopted and approved the 2003 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the "2003 Plan"). On May 22, 2003, the Company's
shareholders approved the 2003 Plan. The 2003 Plan was effective June 1, 2003 and permitted the grant of options to purchase Common Stock and other market-based and performance-based awards. Up
to 12,000,000 shares of Common Stock were available for awards under the 2003 Plan. The 2003 Plan provided for the granting of both incentive stock options intended to qualify under Section 422
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and nonqualified stock options, which do not so qualify. The exercise price per share may be no less than (i) 100% of the fair market value of
the Common Stock on the date an option is granted for incentive stock options and (ii) 85% of the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date an option is granted for nonqualified stock
options. This plan will remain in place until it terminates in 2013. However the shares which remained available for issuance under such plan as of November 12, 2008 are no longer available for
issuance and all future equity awards will be pursuant to the 2008 Plan described below.

On
August 20, 2008, the Company's Board of Directors adopted and approved the 2008 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the "2008 Plan"). On November 12, 2008, the
Company's shareholders approved the 2008 Plan. The 2008 Plan permits the Company to issue stock options (incentive and/or non-qualified), stock appreciation rights, restricted stock,
phantom stock units and other equity and cash awards to employees. Non-employee directors are eligible to receive all such awards, other than incentive stock options. The aggregate number
of shares of Common Stock that may be issued under the 2008 Plan shall not exceed 6,900,000. Awards of stock options and stock appreciation rights will be counted against the 6,900,000 limit as one
share of Common Stock for each share granted. However each share awarded in the form of restricted stock, phantom stock units or any other full value stock award will be counted as issuing 2.16 shares
of Common Stock for purposes of determining the number of shares available for issuance under the plan. At December 31, 2008, there were 6,900,000 options available for future grants under the
2008 Plan.

Stock
options that expire between November 1, 2009 and September 11, 2018 have been granted to officers, directors and employees to purchase Common Stock at prices ranging
from $7.75 to $61.82 per share. All options were granted at the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date the options were granted.



The
following table contains information on stock options issued under the plans for the three-year period ended December 31, 2008:

Number of

Option Shares

Weighted-Average

Weighted-Average

Remaining

Contractual

Term (in years)

Aggregate

Intrinsic Value

(in thousands)

Outstanding at December 31, 2005

7,733,814

$

17.09

5.34

$

122,844

Granted

1,784,400

33.34

Exercised

(1,310,113

)

9.31

Canceled

(97,500

)

22.16

Outstanding at December 31, 2006

8,110,601

$

21.87

4.97

$

160,225

Granted

1,458,750

42.21

Exercised

(1,824,071

)

13.66

Canceled

(495,375

)

28.44

Outstanding at December 31, 2007

7,249,905

$

27.58

4.87

$

231,837

Granted

1,834,000

29.56

Exercised

(203,202

)

11.80

Canceled

(76,125

)

37.00

Outstanding at December 31, 2008

8,804,578

$

28.27

6.30

$

17,677

Included
in the above are Common Stock options that were issued in 2003 to the Company's Chairman outside of the 1994 Plan and the 2003 Plan. These options were issued at $7.95 per
share, and are exercisable through February 6, 2013. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the number of these Common Stock options that were outstanding was 23,750. In addition, the Company
issued 160,000 restricted stock awards in 2004, which fully vest in May 2009, and issued 280,000 restricted stock awards in 2006, which fully vest by 2011. The restricted stock grants in 2004 and 2006
were made pursuant to the 2003 Plan. Due to the departure of one of the Company's senior executives, 60,000 of these awards were forfeited. On December 31, 2008, the Company modified the
expiration date of certain of its stock options from the seventh anniversary of the date of grant to the tenth anniversary of the date of grant. This modification resulted in additional compensation
costs related to stock-based compensation of $2.3 million pre-tax ($1.6 million after-tax) for the year ended December 31, 2008.

The
weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were $10.57, $16.08 and $14.58, respectively.

Number of

Option Shares

Weighted-Average

Exercise Price

Exercisable at December 31,


4,608,441

$

23.60


3,080,480

19.74


2,848,451

14.11

The
aggregate intrinsic value of stock options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $4.1 million, $74.6 million and
$37.4 million, respectively.

At
December 31, 2008, there were 4,608,441 shares that were exercisable, with a weighted-average exercise price of $23.60, a weighted-average remaining contractual term of
4.78 years, and an aggregate intrinsic value of $17.6 million.



The
following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at December 31, 2008:

Exercise Price Range

Total

$7.75 to

$29.22

$29.34 to

$33.12

$33.17 to

$61.82

$7.75 to

$61.82

Outstanding options

Number outstanding

4,006,539

2,973,665

1,824,374

8,804,578

Weighted-average remaining contractual life (years)

4.33

8.33

7.35

6.30

Weighted-average exercise price

$

20.64

$

31.14

$

40.35

$

28.27

Exercisable options

Number outstanding

3,426,539

613,915

567,987

4,608,441

Weighted-average exercise price

$

19.35

$

32.94

$

39.16

$

23.60

Compensation
costs related to stock-based compensation for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 totaled $26.9 million pre-tax
($19.8 million after-tax), $25.5 million pre-tax ($18.6 million after-tax), and $20.6 million pre-tax ($14.9 million after-tax),
respectively, and are included within the consolidated statements of operations under general and administrative expense.

At
December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, the total compensation cost related to nonvested awards not yet recognized equaled $67.0 million and
$41.6 million, respectively, including $63.9 million and $36.3 million for stock options, respectively, and $3.1 million and $5.3 million for restricted stock,
respectively. This cost is expected to be recognized over the remaining vesting periods, which will not exceed five years.

15.   Segment Information

In accordance with SFAS 131, the Company views each property as an operating segment, and aggregates all of its properties into one reportable segment, as
the Company believes that they are economically similar, offer similar types of products and services, cater to the same types of customers and are similarly regulated.

16.   Summarized Quarterly Data (Unaudited)

The following table summarizes the quarterly results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007:

Fiscal Quarter

First

Second

Third

Fourth

(in thousands, except per share data)


Net revenues

$

613,494

$

620,586

$

617,887

$

571,086

Income (loss) from operations

118,559

113,591

96,377

(414,968

)

Net income (loss)

40,736

37,023

147,491

(378,573

)

Basic earnings (loss) per common share

0.47

0.43

1.72

(4.77

)

Diluted earnings (loss) per common share

0.46

0.42

1.69

(4.77

)


Net revenues

$

596,258

$

625,244

$

629,450

$

585,841

Income from operations

124,780

128,420

133,879

110,730

Net income

42,941

38,299

46,590

32,223

Basic earnings per common share

0.51

0.45

0.54

0.37

Diluted earnings per common share

0.49

0.43

0.52

0.36



As a result of a decline in the Company's share price, an overall reduction in industry valuations, and property operating performance in the current economic
environment, the Company recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $481.3 million ($392.6 million, net of taxes) during the fourth quarter of 2008, as it determined that a
portion of the value of its goodwill, indefinite-life intangible assets and long-lived assets was impaired.

17.    Related Party Transactions

Executive Office Lease

The Company currently leases 42,348 square feet of executive office and warehouse space for buildings in Wyomissing, Pennsylvania from
affiliates of its Chairman and CEO.
Rent expense for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 amounted to $0.8 million, $0.7 million and $0.6 million, respectively. The leases for the office space
expire in March 2012, May 2012 and May 2013, and the lease for the warehouse space expires in July 2010. The future minimum lease commitments relating to these leases at December 31, 2008
equaled $2.9 million. The Company also paid $0.7 million, $3.7 million and $1.3 million in construction costs to these same affiliates for the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

18.    Subsidiary Guarantors

Under the terms of the $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility, most of Penn's subsidiaries are guarantors under the
agreement, with the exception of several subsidiaries. Each of the subsidiary guarantors is 100% owned by Penn. In addition, the guarantees provided by Penn's subsidiaries under the terms of the
$2.725 billion senior secured credit facility are full and unconditional, joint and several. There are no significant restrictions within the $2.725 billion senior secured credit
facility on the Company's ability to obtain funds from its subsidiaries by dividend or loan. However, in certain jurisdictions, the gaming authorities may impose restrictions pursuant to the authority
granted to them with regard to Penn's ability to obtain funds from its subsidiaries.

With
regard to the $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility, the Company has not presented condensed consolidating balance sheets, condensed consolidating statements of
operations and condensed consolidating statements of cash flows at, and for the years ended, December 31, 2007 and 2006, as Penn had no significant independent assets and no independent
operations at, and for the years ended, December 31, 2007 and 2006. However during the year ended December 31, 2008, we placed some of the funds received from the Preferred Stock
Investment into two unrestricted subsidiaries, in order to allow for maximum flexibility in the deployment of the funds and this resulted in significant independent assets. Summarized financial
information for the year ended December 31, 2008 for Penn, the subsidiary guarantors of the $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility and the subsidiary non-guarantors is
presented below.

Under
the terms of the $200 million 6


/


% senior subordinated notes, most of Penn's subsidiaries are guarantors under the agreement, with the exception of several
subsidiaries. Each of the subsidiary guarantors is 100% owned by Penn. In addition, the guarantees provided by Penn's subsidiaries under the terms of the $200 million 6


/


%
senior subordinated notes are full and unconditional, joint and several. There are no significant restrictions within the $200 million 6


/


% senior subordinated notes on the
Company's ability to obtain funds from its subsidiaries by dividend or loan. However, in certain jurisdictions, the gaming authorities may impose restrictions pursuant to the authority granted to them
with regard to Penn's ability to obtain funds from its subsidiaries.

With
regard to the $200 million 6


/


% senior subordinated notes, the Company has not presented condensed consolidating balance sheets, condensed consolidating
statements of operations and condensed consolidating statements of cash flows at, and for the years ended, December 31, 2007 and 2006, as Penn had no significant independent assets and no
independent operations at, and for the



years
ended, December 31, 2007 and 2006. However during the year ended December 31, 2008, we placed some of the funds received from the Preferred Stock Investment into two unrestricted
subsidiaries, in order to allow for maximum flexibility in the deployment of the funds and this resulted in significant independent assets. Summarized financial information for the year ended
December 31, 2008 for Penn, the subsidiary guarantors of the $200 million 6


/


% senior subordinated notes and the subsidiary non-guarantors is presented below.

Penn

Subsidiary

Guarantors

Subsidiary

Non-Guarantors

Eliminations

Consolidated

(in thousands)

$2.725 Senior Credit Facility

As of December 31, 2008

Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet

Total current assets

$

40,598

$

235,862

$

614,787

$

15,056

$

906,303

Property and equipment, net

17,707

1,781,982

12,442

—

1,812,131

Other assets

4,351,845

2,351,302

262,923

(4,494,828

)

2,471,242

Total assets

$

4,410,150

$

4,369,146

$

890,152

$

(4,479,772

)

$

5,189,676

Total current liabilities

$

105,147

$

332,812

$

17,468

$

15,059

$

470,486

Total long-term liabilities

2,247,736

3,667,014

97,151

(3,349,984

)

2,661,917

Total shareholders' equity

2,057,267

369,320

775,533

(1,144,847

)

2,057,273

Total liabilities and shareholders' equity

$

4,410,150

$

4,369,146

$

890,152

$

(4,479,772

)

$

5,189,676

Year Ended December 31, 2008

Condensed Consolidating Statement of Operations

Net revenues

$

—

$

2,387,358

$

35,695

$

—

$

2,423,053

Total operating expenses

94,925

2,352,864

61,705

—

2,509,494

(Loss) income from continuing operations

(94,925

)

34,494

(26,010

)

—

(86,441

)

Other income (expense)

239,920

(198,845

)

(2,219

)

—

38,856

Income (loss) before income taxes

144,995

(164,351

)

(28,229

)

—

(47,585

)

Taxes on income

38,851

66,563


—

105,738

Net income (loss)

$

106,144

$

(230,914

)

$

(28,553

)

$

—

$

(153,323

)

Year Ended December 31, 2008

Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows

Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities

$

(544,759

)

$

360,012

$

605,210

$

—

$

420,463

Net cash used in investing activities

(2,085

)

(388,361

)

(1,052

)

—

(391,498

)

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

552,233

(2,292

)

(7,000

)

—

542,941

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

5,389

(30,641

)

597,158

—

571,906

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

(2,929

)

172,745

4,556

—

174,372

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$

2,460

$

142,104

$

601,714

$

—

$

746,278

$200 million 6


/


% Senior Subordinated Notes

As of December 31, 2008

Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet

Total current assets

$

40,598

$

236,431

$

614,218

$

15,056

$

906,303

Property and equipment, net

17,707

1,794,424

—

—

1,812,131

Other assets

4,351,845

2,460,021

154,204

(4,494,828

)

2,471,242

Total assets

$

4,410,150

$

4,490,876

$

768,422

$

(4,479,772

)

$

5,189,676

Total current liabilities

$

105,147

$

338,765

$

11,515

$

15,059

$

470,486

Total long-term liabilities

2,247,736

3,681,006

83,159

(3,349,984

)

2,661,917

Total shareholders' equity

2,057,267

471,105

673,748

(1,144,847

)

2,057,273

Total liabilities and shareholders' equity

$

4,410,150

$

4,490,876

$

768,422

$

(4,479,772

)

$

5,189,676



Penn

Subsidiary

Guarantors

Subsidiary

Non-Guarantors

Eliminations

Consolidated

(in thousands)

Year Ended December 31, 2008

Condensed Consolidating Statement of Operations

Net revenues

$

—

$

2,406,328

$

16,725

$

—

$

2,423,053

Total operating expenses

94,925

2,376,103

38,466

—

2,509,494

(Loss) income from continuing operations

(94,925

)

30,225

(21,741

)

—

(86,441

)

Other income (expense)

239,920

(201,134

)


—

38,856

Income (loss) before income taxes

144,995

(170,909

)

(21,671

)

—

(47,585

)

Taxes on income

38,851

66,102


—

105,738

Net income (loss)

$

106,144

$

(237,011

)

$

(22,456

)

$

—

$

(153,323

)

Year Ended December 31, 2008

Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows

Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities

$

(544,759

)

$

367,455

$

597,767

$

—

$

420,463

Net cash used in investing activities

(2,085

)

(389,413

)

—

—

(391,498

)

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

552,233

(9,292

)

—

—

542,941

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

5,389

(31,250

)

597,767

—

571,906

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

(2,929

)

173,684

3,617

—

174,372

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$

2,460

$

142,434

$

601,384

$

—

$

746,278

19.    Investment in Corporate Securities

During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company made a $47.3 million investment in the corporate debt securities of
other gaming companies. The investment, which the Company is treating as available-for-sale securities, is included in other assets within the consolidated balance sheet at
December 31, 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company recorded an $8.0 million unrealized loss in other comprehensive income for this investment.

The
following is a schedule of the contractual maturities of the Company's investment in corporate securities at December 31, 2008 (in thousands):

Within one year

$

—

1 – 3 years

—

3 – 5 years

3,815

Over 5 years

36,375

Total

$

40,190

20.    Fair Value Measurements

Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS 157 for certain balance sheet items.
SFAS 157 establishes a hierarchy that prioritizes fair value measurements based on the types of inputs used for the various valuation techniques (market approach, income approach, and cost
approach). The levels of the hierarchy are described below:

•

Level 1: Observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.

•

Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or
indirectly; these include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets and quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active.

•

Level 3: Unobservable inputs that reflect the reporting entity's own assumptions.



The
Company's assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement requires judgment, and may affect the valuation of assets and liabilities and their
placement within the fair value hierarchy. The following table sets forth the assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, by input level, in the consolidated balance sheet at
December 31, 2008 (in thousands):

Quoted Prices in

Active Markets for

Identical Assets or

Liabilities (Level 1)

Significant Other

Observable Inputs

(Level 2)

Significant

Unobservable Inputs

(Level 3)

Total

Assets:

Investment in corporate debt securities

$

40,190

$

—

$

—

$

40,190

Liabilities:

Interest rate swap contracts

—

63,185

—

63,185

For
the year ended December 31, 2008, the valuation technique used to measure the fair value of the investment in corporate debt securities and interest rate swap contracts was
the market approach. The investment in corporate debt securities is included in other assets and the interest rate swap contracts are included in accrued interest within the consolidated balance sheet
at December 31, 2008.

21.    Discontinued Operations—Sale of The Downs Racing, Inc. and Subsidiaries

On October 15, 2004, the Company announced the sale of The Downs Racing, Inc. and its subsidiaries to the MTGA. In
January 2005, the Company received $280 million from the MTGA, and transferred the operations of The Downs Racing, Inc. and its subsidiaries to the MTGA. The sale was not considered
final for accounting purposes until the third quarter of 2006, as the MTGA had certain post-closing termination rights that remained outstanding. On August 7, 2006, the Company
entered into the Amendment and Release with the MTGA pertaining to the Purchase Agreement, and agreed to pay the MTGA an aggregate of $30 million over five years, beginning on the first
anniversary of the commencement of slot operations at Mohegan Sun at Pocono Downs, in exchange for the MTGA's agreement to release various claims it raised against the Company under the Purchase
Agreement and the MTGA's surrender of all post-closing termination rights it might have had under the Purchase Agreement. As a result of the Amendment and Release, the Company recorded, in
accordance with GAAP, a net book gain on the $250 million sale ($280 million initial price, less $30 million payable pursuant to the Amendment and Release) of The Downs
Racing, Inc. and its subsidiaries to the MTGA of $114.0 million (net of $84.9 million of income taxes) during the year ended December 31, 2006. In addition, the Company
recorded the present value of the $30 million liability within debt, as the amount due to the MTGA is payable over five years. At December 31, 2008, the balance due to the MTGA equaled
$14.2 million.



ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

We carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)). Based upon that
evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of the end of the period covered in this report, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure
that information required to be disclosed in reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the required time periods and is accumulated
and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) that occurred during the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2008, that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)). Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. In
addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Our
management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and concluded that it was effective as of December 31, 2008. In making this assessment,
we used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ("COSO") in

Internal Control—Integrated
Framework

.

The
effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm, as stated in their report below.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Board
of Directors

Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries

We
have audited Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal
Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries'
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the
accompanying Management's Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on
our audit.

We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In
our opinion, Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2008, based on the COSO criteria.

We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Penn National
Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2008 and our report dated February 27, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Philadelphia, Pennsylvannia

February 27, 2009



ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION

None

PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The information required by this item concerning directors is hereby incorporated by reference to the Company's definitive proxy
statement for its 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the "2009 Proxy Statement"), to be filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after December 31, 2008,
pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Act. Information required by this item concerning executive officers is included in Part I of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information called for in this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the 2009 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDERS MATTERS

The information called for in this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the 2009 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

The information called for in this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the 2009 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

The information called for in this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the 2009 Proxy Statement.



PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

(a) 1 and 2.

Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules. The following is a list of the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and its subsidiaries and supplementary data filed as part of
Item 8 hereof:

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firms

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2008 and 2007

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006

All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable, or not required, or because the required information is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or notes thereto.

3.    Exhibits, Including Those Incorporated by Reference.

The exhibits to this Report are listed on the accompanying index to exhibits and are incorporated herein by reference or are filed as part of this annual report on Form 10-K.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

PENN NATIONAL GAMING, INC.

By:

/s/ PETER M. CARLINO

Peter M. Carlino

Chairman of the Board and

Chief Executive Officer

Dated:
March 2, 2009

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.

Signature

Title

Date

/s/ PETER M. CARLINO

Peter M. Carlino

Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer)

March 2, 2009

/s/ WILLIAM J. CLIFFORD

William J. Clifford

Senior Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer and Principal
Accounting Officer)

March 2, 2009

/s/ HAROLD CRAMER

Harold Cramer

Director

March 2, 2009

/s/ WESLEY R. EDENS

Wesley R. Edens

Director

March 2, 2009

/s/ DAVID A. HANDLER

David A. Handler

Director

March 2, 2009

/s/ JOHN M. JACQUEMIN

John M. Jacquemin

Director

March 2, 2009

/s/ ROBERT P. LEVY

Robert P. Levy

Director

March 2, 2009

/s/ BARBARA Z. SHATTUCK

Barbara Z. Shattuck

Director

March 2, 2009



EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit

Description of Exhibit

2.1

Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of August 7, 2002, by and among Hollywood Casino Corporation, Penn National Gaming, Inc. and P Acquisition Corp. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the
Company's current report on Form 8-K, dated August 7, 2002).

2.2

Purchase Agreement by and among PNGI Pocono Corp., PNGI, LLC, and the Mohegan Tribal Gaming Authority, dated October 14, 2004. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Company's current report on
Form 8-K, filed October 20, 2004).

2.2(a)

Amendment No. 1 to Purchase Agreement, dated as of January 7, 2005, by and among PNGI Pocono Corp., PNGI, LLC, and The Mohegan Tribal Gaming Authority. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the
Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006).

2.2(b)

Second Amendment to Purchase Agreement and Release of Claims, dated as of August 7, 2006, between PNGI Pocono Inc. and The Mohegan Tribal Gaming Authority, and joined in by Penn National Gaming, Inc.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to the Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006).

2.3

Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of November 3, 2004, among Penn National Gaming, Inc., Argosy Gaming Company and Thoroughbred Acquisition Corp. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the
Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed November 5, 2004).

2.4

Agreement to Execute Securities Purchase Agreement, dated June 20, 2005, among Penn National Gaming, Inc., CP Baton Rouge Casino, L.L.C. and Columbia Sussex Corporation. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed June 22, 2005).

2.4(a)

Letter agreement, dated October 3, 2005, among Penn National Gaming, Inc., CP Baton Rouge Casino, L.L.C., Columbia Sussex Corporation and Wimar Tahoe Corporation amending Agreement to Execute Securities Purchase
Agreement. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed October 4, 2005).

2.5

Securities Purchase Agreement, dated October 3, 2005, among Argosy Gaming Company, Wimar Tahoe Corporation and CP Baton Rouge Casino, L.L.C. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's current
report on Form 8-K, filed October 4, 2005).

2.6

Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 7, 2006, by and among Zia Partners, LLC, Zia Park, LLC and (solely with respect to Section 2.6 and Articles VI and XII thereof) Penn National Gaming,
 Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed November 9, 2006).

2.6(a)

First Amendment to Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 13, 2007, by and among Zia Partners, LLC, Zia Park LLC and Penn National Gaming, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to
the Company's current report on Form 8-K filed on April 18, 2007).

2.6(b)

Second Amendment to Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 16, 2007, by and among Zia Partners, LLC, Zia Park LLC and Penn National Gaming, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.3 to
the Company's current report on Form 8-K filed on April 18, 2007).

2.7

Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 15, 2007, by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc., PNG Acquisition Company Inc. and PNG Merger Sub Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to
the Company's current report on Form 8-K filed on June 15, 2007).


Exhibit

Description of Exhibit

3.1

Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Penn National Gaming, Inc., filed with the Pennsylvania Department of State on October 15, 1996. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's
registration statement on Form S-3, File #333-63780, dated June 25, 2001).

3.2

Articles of Amendment to the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Penn National Gaming, Inc., filed with the Pennsylvania Department of State on November 13, 1996. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 3.2 to the Company's registration statement on Form S-3, File #333-63780, dated June 25, 2001).

3.3

Statement with respect to shares of Series A Preferred Stock of Penn National Gaming, Inc., filed with the Pennsylvania Department of State on March 16, 1999. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3
to the Company's registration statement on Form S-3, File #333-63780, dated June 25, 2001).

3.4

Articles of Amendment to the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Penn National Gaming, Inc., filed with the Pennsylvania Department of State on July 23, 2001. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 3.4 to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001).

3.5

Articles of Amendment to the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Penn National Gaming, Inc., filed with the Pennsylvania Department of State on December 28, 2007. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed on January 2, 2008).

3.6

Second Amended and Restated Bylaws of Penn National Gaming, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K filed on November 18, 2008).

3.7

Statement with Respect to Shares of Series B Redeemable Preferred Stock of Penn National Gaming, Inc., filed with the Pennsylvania Department of State on July 9, 2008. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K filed on July 9, 2008).

4.1

Specimen copy of Common Stock Certificate (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.6 to the Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2003).

4.2

Rights Agreement dated as of March 2, 1999, between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Continental Stock Transfer and Trust Company. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1 to the Company's current report on
Form 8-K, dated March 17, 1999).

4.2(a)

Amendment No. 1 to Rights Agreement, dated June 15, 2007, between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Continental Stock Transfer and Trust Company. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2(a) to the
Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007).

4.2(b)

Amendment No. 2 to Rights Agreement, dated June 15, 2007, between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Continental Stock Transfer and Trust Company. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Company's
current report on Form 8-K filed on July 9, 2008).

4.3

Indenture dated as of December 4, 2003 by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc., certain guarantors and U.S. Bank National Association relating to the 6


/


% Senior Subordinated Notes due
2011 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.12 to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003).

4.4

Form of Penn National Gaming, Inc. 6


/


% Senior Subordinated Note due 2011. (Included as Exhibit A to Exhibit 4.3).


Exhibit

Description of Exhibit

4.5

Form of Supplemental Indenture to be Delivered by Subsequent Guarantors by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc., certain guarantors and U.S. Bank National Association relating to the 6


/


%
Senior Subordinated Notes due 2011. (Included as Exhibit F to Exhibit 4.3).

4.6

Indenture dated as of March 9, 2005 by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association relating to the 6


/


% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2015.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed March 15, 2005).

4.6(a)

First Supplemental Indenture dated as of July 5, 2005 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association relating to the 6


/


% Senior Subordinated Notes due
2015. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.37 to the Company's registration statement on Form S-4, filed July 7, 2005 (File #333-125274)).

4.7

Form of Penn National Gaming, Inc. 6


/


% Senior Subordinated Note due 2015. (Included as Exhibit A to Exhibit 4.6).

4.8*

Specimen copy of Series B Redeemable Preferred Stock Certificate.

4.9

Investor Rights Agreement, dated as of July 3, 2008, by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc., FIF V PFD LLC, Centerbridge Capital Partners, L.P., DB Investment Partners, Inc. and Wachovia
Investment Holdings, LLC. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K filed on July 9, 2008).

9.1

Form of Trust Agreement of Peter D. Carlino, Peter M. Carlino, Richard J. Carlino, David E. Carlino, Susan F. Harrington, Anne de Lourdes Irwin, Robert M. Carlino, Stephen P. Carlino and Rosina E. Carlino Gilbert.
(Incorporated by reference to the Company's registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May 26, 1994).

10.1#

Penn National Gaming, Inc. 1994 Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May 26, 1994).

10.2#

Penn National Gaming, Inc. 2003 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan. (Incorporated by reference to Appendix A of the Company's Proxy Statement dated April 22, 2003 filed pursuant to Section 14(a) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended).

10.2(a)#

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Certificate for the Penn National Gaming, Inc. 2003 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.2(a) to the Company's annual report on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005).

10.2(b)#

Form of Incentive Stock Option Certificate for the Penn National Gaming, Inc. 2003 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.2(b) to the Company's annual report on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005).

10.2(c)#

Form of Restricted Stock Award for the Penn National Gaming, Inc. 2003 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.2(c) to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005).

10.3#*

Employment Agreement dated December 31, 2008 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Peter M. Carlino.

10.4#*

Employment Agreement dated December 31, 2008 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and William Clifford.

10.5#*

Employment Agreement dated December 31, 2008 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Jordan B. Savitch.

10.6#

Separation Agreement and General Release in the form attached as Exhibit A to the Employment Agreement dated July 31, 2006 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Leonard DeAngelo. (Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed on August 2, 2006).


Exhibit

Description of Exhibit

10.7#*

Employment Agreement dated December 31, 2008 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Robert S. Ippolito.

10.8

Form of Change in Control Payment Acknowledgement and Agreement between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Certain Executive Officers of Penn National Gaming, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 the
Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed on January 2, 2008).

10.8(a)

Schedule of executive officers entering into Change in Control Payment Acknowledgement and Agreement. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8(a) to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2007).

10.9

Consulting Agreement dated August 29, 1994, between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Peter D. Carlino. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 1994).

10.10

Amended and Restated Lease dated April 5, 2005 between Wyomissing Professional Center III, LP and Penn National Gaming, Inc. for portion of the Wyomissing Corporate Office. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed on April 8, 2005).

10.11

Lease dated January 25, 2002 between Wyomissing Professional Center II, LP and Penn National Gaming, Inc. for portion of the Wyomissing Corporate Office. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to
the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004).

10.11(a)

Commencement Agreement, dated May 21, 2002, in connection with Lease dated January 25, 2002 Wyomissing Professional Center II, LP and Penn National Gaming, Inc. for portion of the Wyomissing Corporate
Office. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12(a) to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004).

10.11(b)

First Lease Amendment, dated December 4, 2002, to Lease dated January 25, 2002 Wyomissing Professional Center II, LP and Penn National Gaming, Inc. for portion of the Wyomissing Corporate Office.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12(b) to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004).

10.12

Lease dated April 5, 2005 between Wyomissing Professional Center, Inc. and Penn National Gaming, Inc. for portion of the Wyomissing Corporate Office. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
Company's current report on Form 8-K filed on April 8, 2005).

10.13

Letter Agreement for the Construction of Certain Improvements, dated April 5, 2005, in connection with the Wyomissing Corporate Office. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's current report
on Form 8-K, filed on April 8, 2005).

10.14

Lease dated August 22, 2003 between The Corporate Campus at Spring Ridge 1250, L.P. and Penn National Gaming, Inc. for portion of the Wyomissing Corporate Office. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.13 to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004).

10.15

Agreement dated April 7, 2006 by and between PNGI Charles Town Gaming Limited Liability Company and the West Virginia Union of Mutuel Clerks, Local 553, Service Employees International Union, AFL—CIO.
(Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed on April 24, 2006).

10.16*

Agreement dated February 20, 2009 between PNGI Charles Town Gaming Limited Liability Company and Charles Town HBPA, Inc.


Exhibit

Description of Exhibit

10.17

Credit Agreement, dated October 3, 2005 by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc., the subsidiary guarantors party thereto, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and Lehman
Brothers Inc., as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., as Co-Syndication Agents, Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as Swingline Lender, Administrative
Agent and as Collateral Agent, and Calyon New York Branch, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and Bank of Scotland, as Co-Documentation Agents, and the lenders party thereto. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's
current report on Form 8-K, filed October 4, 2005).

10.17(a)

Amendment, dated September 18, 2006, to the Credit Agreement by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc., the subsidiary guarantors party thereto, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Goldman Sachs Credit
Partners L.P. and Lehman Brothers Inc., as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., as Co-Syndication Agents, Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as
Swingline Lender, Administrative Agent and as Collateral Agent, and Calyon New York Branch, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and Bank of Scotland, as Co-Documentation Agents, and the lenders party thereto. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed on September 21, 2006).

10.18

Ground Lease dated as of October 11, 1993 between R.M. Leatherman and Hugh M. Mageveney, III, as Landlord, and SRCT, as Tenant. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of HWCC-Tunica, Inc.'s registration
statement on Form S-1, File #33-82182, dated August 1, 1994).

10.19

Letter Agreement dated as of October 11, 1993 between R.M. Leatherman and Hugh M. Mageveney, III, as Landlord, and SRCT, as Tenant (relating to Ground Lease). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of
HWCC-Tunica, Inc.'s registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-82182, dated August 1, 1994).

10.20

Assignment of Lease and Assumption Agreement dated as of May 31, 1994 between SRCT and STP (relating to Ground Lease). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 of HWCC-Tunica, Inc.'s registration
statement on Form S-1, File #33-82182, dated August 1, 1994).

10.21#

Penn National Gaming, Inc. Nonqualified Stock Option granted to Peter M. Carlino, dated February 6, 2003. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.26 to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2003).

10.22

Ground Lease, dated March 23, 2007, between Skrmetta MS, LLC as Landlord and BTN, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Penn National Gaming, Inc., as Tenant. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007).

10.23

Penn-Argosy Merger Approval Agreement between the Illinois Gaming Board and Penn National Gaming, Inc., effective September 29, 2005. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's quarterly
report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005).

10.23(a)

First Amendment to the September 29, 2005 Penn-Argosy Merger Approval Agreement, dated April 25, 2006, between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and the Illinois Gaming Board. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006).


Exhibit

Description of Exhibit

10.24

Riverboat Gaming Development Agreement between the City of Lawrenceburg, Indiana and Indiana Gaming Company, L.P. dated as of April 13, 1994, as amended by Amendment Number One to Riverboat Development Agreement
between the City of Lawrenceburg, Indiana and Indiana Gaming Company L.P., dated as of December 28, 1995 (Incorporated by reference to Argosy Gaming Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995
(File #00-21122)).

10.24(a)

Second Amendment to Riverboat Gaming Development Agreement Between City of Lawrenceburg, Indiana, and the Indiana Gaming Company, L.P. dated August 20, 1996. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.23(a)
to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005).

10.24(b)

Third Amendment to Riverboat Gaming Development Agreement Between City of Lawrenceburg, Indiana, and the Indiana Gaming Company, L.P. dated June 24, 2004. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of
Argosy Gaming Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004 (File No. 1-11853)).

10.25

Claim Settlement Agreement among Penn National Gaming, Inc. and the insurance providers severally underwriting share of the Company's all-risk property insurance program, completed January 22, 2007.
(Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.24 to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006).

10.26#

Compensatory Arrangements with Certain Executive Officers. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.26 to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007)

10.27#

Penn National Gaming, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.27 to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
2006).

10.28#

Description of Penn National Gaming, Inc. Annual Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed on June 12, 2007).

10.29#

Employment Agreement by and between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Tim Wilmott dated December 31, 2008. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed on
January 7, 2009).

10.30

Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of July 3, 2008, by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc., FIF V PFD LLC, Centerbridge Capital Partners, L.P., DB Investment Partners, Inc. and Wachovia
Investment Holdings, LLC. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K filed on July 9, 2008).

10.31

Termination and Settlement Agreement, dated as of July 3, 2008, by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc., PNG Acquisition Company Inc., PNG Merger Sub Inc., PNG Holdings LLC, FIG PNG
Holdings LLC, Fortress Investment Fund V (Fund A) L.P., Fortress Investment Fund V (Fund D) L.P., Fortress Investment Fund V (Fund E) L.P., Fortress Investment Fund V (Fund B) L.P., Fortress Investment Fund V (Fund
C) L.P., Fortress Investment Fund V (Fund F) L.P., CB PNG Holdings LLC, Centerbridge Capital Partners, L.P., Centerbridge Capital Partners Strategic, L.P., Centerbridge Capital Partners SBS, L.P., DB Investment Partners,
 Inc., Wachovia Investment Holdings, LLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, Wachovia Bank, National Association and Wachovia Investment Holdings, LLC.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K filed on July 9, 2008).

10.32*

Penn National Gaming, Inc. 2008 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan.

10.33*

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Certificate for the Penn National Gaming, Inc. 2008 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan.


Exhibit

Description of Exhibit

10.34*

Form of Restricted Stock Award for the Penn National Gaming, Inc. 2008 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan.

10.35#*

Employment Agreement by and between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and John Finamore dated December 31, 2008.

14.1

Penn National Gaming, Inc. Code of Business Conduct. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 14.1 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed on April 24, 2006).

21.1*

Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23.1*

Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.

31.1*

CEO Certification pursuant to rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

31.2*

CFO Certification pursuant to rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

32.1*

CEO Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, As Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.2*

CFO Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, As Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

99.1*

Description of Governmental Regulation.

#

Compensation
plans and arrangements for executives and others.

*

Filed
herewith.