
10-K
10-K




                                                                   

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K
       FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

            X  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998

                                       OR

             TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

              For the transition period from _________ to _________

                         Commission File Number 0-24206

                           PENN NATIONAL GAMING, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



         Registrant's telephone number, including area code 610-373-2400

Securities  registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
                      
Securities  registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                              Title of Each Class 
                      Common stock par value .01 per share

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No ___



Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. X

 Aggregate market value of the voting common stock held by nonaffiliates of the
          Registrant as of March 19, 1999 was approximately $106,073,740.

Number of Shares of Common Stock outstanding as of March 19, 1999 - 14,757,059

Documents Incorporated by Reference

Registrants  Definitive  Proxy  Statement  with  respect  to annual  meeting  of
Shareholders to be held on May 5, 1999.

THIS REPORT INCLUDES "FORWARD-LOOKING  STATEMENTS" WITHIN THE MEANING OF SECTION
27A OF THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 AND SECTION 21E OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934, AS AMENDED.  ALL STATEMENTS  OTHER THAN STATEMENTS OF HISTORICAL  FACTS
INCLUDED  IN THIS  REPORT  LOCATED  ELSEWHERE  HEREIN  REGARDING  THE  COMPANY'S
OPERATIONS,   FINANCIAL   POSITION  AND  BUSINESS   STRATEGY,   MAY   CONSTITUTE
FORWARD-LOOKING   TERMINOLOGY  SUCH  AS  "MAY",  "WILL",   "EXPECT",   "INTEND",
"ESTIMATE",  "ANTICIPATE",  "BELIEVE" OR "CONTINUE"  OR THE NEGATIVE  THEREOF OR
VARIATIONS  THEREON OR SIMILAR  TERMINOLOGY.  ALTHOUGH THE COMPANY BELIEVES THAT
THE EXPECTATIONS REFLECTED IN SUCH FORWARD-LOOKING  STATEMENTS ARE REASONABLE AT
THIS TIME, IT CAN GIVE NO ASSURANCE  THAT SUCH  EXPECTATIONS  WILL PROVE TO HAVE
BEEN  CORRECT.  IMPORTANT  FACTORS  THAT COULD  CAUSE  ACTUAL  RESULTS TO DIFFER
MATERIALLY  FROM  THE  COMPANY'S  EXPECTATIONS  ("CAUTIOUNARY  STATEMENTS")  ARE
DISCLOSED IN THIS REPORT AND IN OTHER  MATERIALS  FILED WITH THE  SECURITIES AND
EXCHANGE COMMISSION.  ALL SUBSEQUENT WRITTEN AND ORAL FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
ATTRIBUTABLE  TO THE  COMPANY  OR PERSONS  ACTING ON ITS  BEHALF  ARE  EXPRESSLY
QUALIFIED IN THEIR ENTIRETY BY THE CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS.

References to "Penn National Gaming" or the "Company" include 
Penn National Gaming, Inc. and its subsidiaries.





                                     PART 1

ITEM 1                     BUSINESS

GENERAL

     The Company,  which began  operations in 1972, is a diversified  gaming and
pari-mutuel  wagering  company  that owns and operates  two  racetracks  and ten
off-track  wagering  facilities  ("OTWs") in Pennsylvania,  and the Charles Town
Joint Venture  which is an  entertainment  complex that includes a thoroughbred
racetrack and gaming  machines in Charles Town,  West Virginia (89% owned).  The
Company's  Pennsylvania  racetracks  include Penn National Race Course,  located
outside  Harrisburg,  one of two thoroughbred  racetracks in  Pennsylvania,  and
Pocono Downs,  located outside  Wilkes-Barre,  one of two harness  racetracks in
Pennsylvania.  The Company  intends to develop the one  additional  OTW that has
been allocated to it under  Pennsylvania law, after which it would operate 11 of
the 23 OTWs  currently  authorized in  Pennsylvania.  Between 1994 and 1998, the
Company  increased  total  wagers at a compound  annual  growth rate of 12.9% by
expanding  its  simulcast  and OTW  operations.

INDUSTRY OVERVIEW

         Pari-mutuel  wagering  on  thoroughbred  or  harness  racing  is pooled
wagering in which a pari-mutuel  wagering  system totals the amounts wagered and
adjusts the payouts to reflect the relative  amounts bet on different horses and
various  possible  outcomes.  The  pooled  wagers are (i) paid out to bettors as
winnings in accordance with the payoffs  determined by the pari-mutuel  wagering
system,  (ii) paid to the applicable  regulatory or taxing authorities and (iii)
distributed  to the track's  horsemen in the form of  "purses"  which  encourage
owners and  trainers  to enter their  horses in that  track's  live  races.  The
balance of the pooled wagers is retained by the wagering  facility.  Pari-mutuel
wagering is currently  authorized  in more than 40 states in the United  States,
all provinces in Canada and approximately 100 other countries around the world.

         Gaming  and  wagering  companies,  such as the  Company,  that focus on
pari-mutuel  horse race wagering  derive revenue  through wagers placed at their
own  tracks,  at their  OTWs and on their  own races at the  tracks  and OTWs of
others. While some states, such as New York, operate off-track betting locations
that are  independent  of  racetracks,  in other states  (such as  Pennsylvania)
racetrack  ownership  and  operation  is a  precondition  to OTW  ownership  and
operation.  Owning a racetrack in such a state,  then,  is akin to an "admission
ticket" to the OTW  business.  Over the past several  years,  attendance at live
racing has generally declined;  however the decline in revenues from live racing
has been more than  offset  by an  increase  in  telephone  wagering,  off-track
wagering in and gaming machine  operations.

STRATEGY

         The  Company  intends  to be a  leading  operator  in  the  pari-mutuel
wagering industry by capitalizing on its horse racing expertise and its numerous
wagering  locations and when  possible  expand them to include  gaming  machines
("Gaming  Wagering").  The Company plans to increase  revenue  significantly  by
using the following strategies:

         Focus  on  Gaming  Machine  Operations.  The  Company  intends  to seek
legislation to permit it to operate gaming machines at its racetracks  where not
now permitted and to expand  legislation in West Virginia.  Legislation has been
passed in West  Virginia,  subject to the  Governor's  signature or veto,  which
would allow coin out and reel slot machines at race tracks.  If such legislation
is signed by the  Governor,  the Company  intends to convert  some or all of its
current  machines to coin out and increase the maximum  number of machines  with
reel slot machines.

         Open Additional  OTWs. The Company operates ten of the 20 OTWs now open
in  Pennsylvania  and has the right to operate one of the three  remaining  OTWs
that have been  authorized in  Pennsylvania.  The Company's  OTWs are located in
Allentown,  Carbondale,  Chambersburg,  Erie,  Hazleton,  Johnstown,  Lancaster,
Reading,  Williamsport  and York,  Pennsylvania.  At OTWs,  customers  can place

wagers on thoroughbred and harness races simulcast from the Company's racetracks
and on import  simulcast  races from other tracks around the country.  Under the
Pennsylvania   Racing  Act,  only  licensed   thoroughbred  and  harness  racing
associations, such as the Company, can operate OTWs or accept customer wagers on
simulcast  races at Pennsylvania  racetracks.  The Company plans (subject to the
receipt of remaining regulatory approvals, including site approvals) to open and
operate an additional OTW in Stroudsburg,  Pennsylvania, and to seek legislation
in other jurisdictions to operate additional OTW's.

         Expand Simulcasting Operations.  Simulcasting involves the transmission
to, or the receipt of, the audio  and/or  video  signals of a live racing  event
through a satellite for  re-transmission at a different  wagering location.  The
Company  transmits  simulcasts  of  Company  races to other  wagering  locations
year-round and receives simulcasts of races from other locations for wagering by
its  customers  at the  Company's  facilities  year-round.  During the past five
years, the Company  expanded its  simulcasting  operations and took advantage of
favorable  changes in  pari-mutuel  wagering  and  simulcasting  laws in various
states and the  expanded use of  simulcasting  technology.  Import  simulcasting
generates  revenue for the Company by maximizing the number of events  available
to a patron for wagering at the  Company's  facilities  by  utilizing  idle time
between races at Company  racetracks and OTWs.  When  customers  place wagers on
import simulcast races, of the amount not returned to bettors as winning wagers,
a portion  is paid to the  state in which the  Company's  wagering  facility  is
located, a portion is paid to the "purse" fund for the horse owners and trainers
at the Company's  racetrack with which the wagering  facility is  associated,  a
portion is paid as a simulcast fee to the  originating  track and the balance is
retained by the wagering  facility and/or track.  In order to promote  wagering,
the Company has increased and expects to continue to increase  full-card  import
simulcasts  from  premier  racetracks.  The Company  currently  receives  import
simulcasts from  approximately 77 racetracks,  including premier racetracks such
as Belmont Park,  Churchill Downs,  Gulfstream Park, Hollywood Park, Santa Anita
and Saratoga.  The Company believes that  "full-card"  import  simulcasting,  in
which all of the races at a non-Company  track are import simulcast to a Company
wagering facility, has improved the wagering opportunities for its customers and
thereby increased the amount wagered at Company facilities.  Export simulcasting
generates  revenue for the Company by  increasing  the consumer base for Company
races  beyond  Company   racetracks  and  OTWs.  The  Company  transmits  export
simulcasts of Company races to  approximately  126 locations and receives a flat
percentage  of the amounts  wagered on Company races at  non-Company  locations,
while  incurring  minimal  additional  expense.  The Company intends to increase
export   simulcasting  of  races  from  Company-owned   tracks  to  out-of-state
racetracks, OTWs, casinos and other gaming facilities.

         Capitalize on Other Gaming and Pari-Mutuel Wagering Opportunities.  The
Company  intends  to  continue  identifying  opportunities  in  the  gaming  and
pari-mutuel  wagering  industries which complement the Company's core operations
and leverage its pari-mutuel management and operating strengths. Management also
intends to explore  other  opportunities  to  capitalize  upon changes in gaming
legislation, including legislation relating to gaming machines.

ACQUISITIONS

  Pocono Downs Acquisition

         On  November  27,  1996,  the  Company  acquired  Pocono  Downs  for an
aggregate  purchase  price of  $48.2  million  plus  approximately  $730,000  in
acquisition-related fees and expenses. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the
purchase  agreement,  the Company  will be required to pay the sellers of Pocono
Downs an additional  $10.0 million if, within five years after the  consummation
of the acquisition of Pocono Downs,  Pennsylvania authorizes any additional form
of gaming in which the Company may  participate.  The $10.0  million  payment is
payable in annual installments of $2.0 million a year for five years,  beginning
on the date that the Company first offers such additional form of gaming.  As of
March 19,  1999,  no such  additional  form of gaming in  Pennsylvania  has been
adopted, therefore no such payment is due at this time.

Charles Town Acquisition

         On  January  15,  1997,   the  Charles  Town  Joint  Venture   acquired
substantially  all of the assets of  Charles  Town  Races for an  aggregate  net
purchase price of approximately $16.0 million plus approximately $2.2 million in
acquisition-related  fees and expenses.  Prior to its acquisition by the Charles
Town Joint Venture, Charles Town Races conducted live thoroughbred horse racing,
on-site  pari-mutuel  wagering  on live  races  run at  Charles  Town  Races and
wagering on import simulcast races. The Company has refurbished and reopened the
facility as the Charles Town Entertainment  Complex, which features live racing,

dining,  simulcast wagering and, effective September 1997, gaming machines.  The
cost of the  refurbishment,  exclusive of the cost of the gaming  machines,  was
approximately $27.8 million.

GAMING MACHINE OPERATIONS AT CHARLES TOWN ENTERTAINMENT COMPLEX

         On  November  5,  1996,  Jefferson  County,  West  Virginia  approved a
referendum  authorizing the installation and operation of gaming machines at the
Charles Town Entertainment  Complex.  As a result,  the Company  consummated the
Charles  Town  Acquisition  on January  15,  1997.  In April  1997,  the Company
reopened the Charles Town Entertainment  Complex,  featuring live racing, dining
and  simulcast  wagering.  In  September  1997,  the Company  expanded  wagering
opportunities  by installing  gaming machines at the Charles Town  Entertainment
Complex.  The gaming  machines are dollar  bill-fed  video gaming  machines that
replicate  traditional  spinning  reel slot machines and also feature video card
games,  such as  blackjack  and  poker.  Legislation  has  been  passed  in West
Virginia,  subject to the Governor's  signature or veto,  which would allow coin
out and reel slot machines at racetracks.  If such  legislation is signed by the
Governor,  the Company intends to convert some or all of its current machines to
coin out and increase the maximum  number of machines  with reel slot  machines.
The West Virginia  Video Lottery Act specifies a 20% maximum  percentage of each
dollar  wagered on gaming  machines  which can be retained by the  Company.  The
balance of each dollar wagered must be paid out to the public as winning wagers.
Of the portion retained by the Company,  a portion is paid to taxing authorities
and other beneficiary organizations mandated by the State of West Virginia and a
portion is paid to the Charles Town Horsemen in the form of purses.  The Company
has  installed and is operating,  as of March, 1999,  899 gaming machines at the
Charles Town  Entertainment  Complex.  The Company has  obtained  all  necessary
approvals for the installation and operation of a total of 1,000 gaming machines
at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex and will increase the number of gaming
machines if demand  warrants and they are approved by the West Virginia  Lottery
Commission.

RACING AND PARI-MUTUEL OPERATIONS

         The Company's  racing and  pari-mutuel  revenues have been derived from
(i) wagering on the Company's live races (a) at the Company's racetracks, (b) at
the  Company's  OTWs,  (c) at  other  Pennsylvania  racetracks  and OTWs and (d)
through telephone wagering,  as well as wagering at the Company's  racetracks on
certain stakes races run at out-of-state racetracks  (collectively,  referred to
in the  Company's  financial  statements  as  "pari-mutuel  revenues  from  live
races"),   (ii)  wagering  on  full-card  import  simulcasts  at  the  Company's
racetracks and OTWs and through telephone wagering (collectively, referred to in
the  Company's  financial  statements  as  "pari-mutuel   revenues  from  import
simulcasting") and (iii) fees from wagering on export simulcasting Company races
at out-of-state  locations (referred to in the Company's financial statements as
"pari-mutuel revenues from export  simulcasting").  The Company's other revenues
have been derived from  admissions,  program sales,  food and beverage sales and
concessions and certain other ancillary activities.

Pari-Mutuel Revenues

     Revenues from Company races consist of the total amount  wagered,  less the
amount paid as winning wagers.  Of the amount not returned to bettors as winning
wagers, a portion is paid to the state in which the track is located,  a portion
is distributed  to the track's  horsemen in the form of "purses" and the balance
is retained by the wagering facility.  The Pennsylvania Racing Act specifies the
maximum  percentages of each dollar wagered on horse races in Pennsylvania which
can be retained by the Company  (prior to required  payments to the horse owners
(the  "Horsemen")  in  Pennsylvania  and  applicable  taxing  authorities).  The
percentages  vary, based on the type of wager;  the average  percentage which is
retained by the Company has approximated 20%. The balance of each dollar wagered
must be paid out to the public as winning wagers. With the exception of revenues
derived from wagers at the Company's racetracks and OTWs, the Company's revenues
on each race are determined  pursuant to such maximum  percentage and agreements
with the other  racetracks and OTWs at which  wagering is taking place.  Amounts
payable to the  Pennsylvania  Horsemen are determined  under agreements with the
Pennsylvania  Horsemen ("Horsemen  Agreements")and vary depending upon where the
wagering is  conducted  and the  racetrack  at which such races take place.  The
Pennsylvania  Horsemen receive their share of such wagering as race purses.  The
Company retains a higher percentage of wagers made at its own facilities than of
wagers made at other  locations.  The West  Virginia  Racing Act  provides for a
similar   disposition  of   pari-mutuel   wagers  placed  at  the  Charles  Town
Entertainment  Complex,  with the average  percentage of wagers  retained by the
Company having been approximately 20% (prior to required payments to the Charles
Town  Horsemen and to  applicable  West Virginia  taxing  authorities  and other
mandated beneficiary organizations).


  Simulcasting

     The Company has been transmitting simulcasts of its races to other wagering
locations and receiving simulcasts of races from other locations for wagering by
its customers at Company facilities  year-round,  for more than five years. When
customers place wagers on import  simulcast  races, the Company receives revenue
and incurs expense in substantially  the same manner as it would if the race had
been run at one of the  Company's  own  tracks:  of the amount not  returned  to
bettors as winning  wagers,  a portion is paid to the state in which the Company
wagering facility is located,  a portion is paid to the purse fund for the horse
owners or trainers  (thoroughbred  or harness) of the Company's  racetrack  with
which the wagering  facility is  associated,  a portion is paid to the racetrack
from which the race is simulcast and the balance is retained by the Company. The
Company believes that full-card import  simulcasting,  in which all of the races
at a non-Company track are import simulcast to a Company wagering facility,  has
improved the wagering  opportunities for its customers and thereby increased the
amount wagered at Company facilities. When the Company export simulcasts Company
races for wagering at non-Company  locations,  it receives a fixed percentage of
the amounts  wagered on that race from the  location to which the  simulcast  is
exported,  while incurring minimal  additional  expense.  During the years ended
December 31, 1997 and 1998, respectively, the Company received import simulcasts
from  approximately  75  and  77  racetracks,  respectively,  including  premier
racetracks such as Belmont Park,  Church Hill Downs, Gulfstream  Park, Hollywood
Park,  Santa Anita and Saratoga and  transmitted  export  simulcasts  of Company
races to 98 and 126 locations, respectively.

         Pursuant to an agreement among the members of the  Pennsylvania  Racing
Association,  the  Company  and the two other  Pennsylvania  racetracks  provide
simulcasts  of all their  races to all of each  other's  facilities  and set the
commissions  payable on such races.  In  addition,  the  Company has  short-term
agreements  with  various  racetracks  throughout  the  United  States to import
simulcast  from, and export  simulcast to, their  facilities;  these  agreements
include  import  simulcasts  of major stakes  races.  The Company  believes that
import   simulcasting  of  out-of-state   races,   including  full  card  import
simulcasting,  is  beneficial  economically  to the  Company  because  it  makes
available  wagering on higher quality races and which tends to increase the size
of the average wager.

  Telephone Wagering

         In 1983, the Company pioneered Telebet,  Pennsylvania's first telephone
account wagering system. A telebet customer opens an account by depositing funds
with the Company.  Account holders can then place wagers by telephone on Company
races and  import  simulcast  races to the extent of the funds on deposit in the
account; any winnings are posted to the account and are available for withdrawal
or future  wagers.  In December  1995,  Pocono Downs  instituted  Dial-A-Bet,  a
similar telephone account betting system.



Operating Data of the Company

         The following table summarizes certain key operating statistics for the
Company's  pari-mutuel  operations and their respective OTWs,  including the pro
forma  presentation of data assuming the acquisition of Pocono Downs occurred on
January 1, 1994:






(1)      Does not reflect attendance for wagering on simulcasts when live racing
         is not  conducted  (i) for all periods  presented,  in the case of Penn
         National Race Course (ii) for the years ended  December 31,  1994-1995,
         in the case of Pocono Downs.

(2)      Wagering on certain stakes races is included in Wagering on the
         Penn National Race Course races.

(3)      Amounts  equal  total  pari-mutuel  revenues,  less  purses paid to the
         Horsemen,  taxes payable and simulcast  commissions  or host track fees
         paid to other racetracks.

(4)      Does not include attendance for Charles Town Races.

Live Racing

     The following table summarizes the Company's live racing facilities:


         The Penn  National  Race Course is located on  approximately  225 acres
approximately  15 miles northeast of Harrisburg,  100 miles west of Philadelphia
and 200 miles east of Pittsburgh.  There is a total  population of approximately
1.4 million  persons within a radius of  approximately  35 miles around the Penn
National  Race Course and  approximately  2.2 million  persons  within a 50-mile
radius. The property includes a one mile all-weather  thoroughbred racetrack and
a 7/8-mile  turf track.  The  property  also  includes  approximately  400 acres
surrounding  the Penn  National  Race  Course  which are  available  for  future
expansion or development.



         The   Penn    National    Race    Course's   main   building   is   the
grandstand/clubhouse,  which is  completely  enclosed  and  heated  and,  at the
clubhouse  level,  fully  air-conditioned.   The  building  has  a  capacity  of
approximately  15,000 persons with seating for  approximately  9,000,  including
1,400 clubhouse dining seats.  Several other dining facilities and numerous food
and beverage  stands are situated  throughout the facility.  Television sets for
viewing live racing and  simulcasts  are located  throughout  the facility.  The
pari-mutuel  wagering  areas are divided  between  those  available for on-track
wagering and those available for simulcast wagering.

         The Penn National Race Course includes stables for approximately  1,250
horses, a blacksmith shop, veterinarians' quarters, jockeys' quarters, a paddock
building,  living quarters for grooms, a cafeteria and recreational  building in
the backstretch area and water and sewage treatment plants.  Parking  facilities
for approximately 6,500 vehicles adjoin the Penn National Race Course.

     The Company has  conducted  live racing at Penn  National Race Course since
1972,  and has held at least 204 days of live racing at the  facility in each of
the  last  five  years.  The  Penn  National  Race  Course  is one of  only  two
thoroughbred racetracks in Pennsylvania.  Post time at Penn National Race Course
is 7:30 p.m. on Wednesdays,  Fridays and Saturdays, and 5:00 p.m. on Sundays and
holidays.

         Pocono Downs is located on approximately  400 acres in Plains Township,
outside Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. There is a total population of approximately
785,000  persons within a radius of  approximately  35 miles around Pocono Downs
and  approximately  1.5 million  persons within a 50-mile  radius.  The property
includes a 5/8-mile  all-weather,  lighted  harness  track.  Pocono Downs's main
buildings  are the  grandstand  and the  clubhouse.  The clubhouse is completely
enclosed, heated and fully air-conditioned.  The grandstand has enclosed, heated
and air-conditioned seating for approximately 500 persons and permanent open-air
stadium-style seating for approximately 2,500 persons. The clubhouse is a tiered
dining  and  wagering  facility  that seats  approximately  1,000  persons.  The
clubhouse dining area seats 500 persons. Television sets for viewing live racing
and  simulcasts  are located  throughout  the  facility  along with  pari-mutuel
wagering areas.

         A two-story  14,000 square foot building  which houses the Pocono Downs
offices is located on the  property.  Pocono  Downs also  includes  stables  for
approximately  950 horses,  five  paddock  stables,  quarters  for  grooms,  two
blacksmith shops and a cafeteria for the Harness  Horsemen.  Parking  facilities
for approximately 5,000 vehicles adjoin the track.

         The acquisition of Pocono Downs was consummated  following the last day
of racing at Pocono Downs for the 1996 season.  The Company  resumed live racing
at Pocono Downs in April 1997.  The Company  conducted  134 and 135 days of live
harness   racing  at  the  facility   during  1997  and  1998  racing   seasons,
respectively. Post time at Pocono Downs is 7:15 p.m.

         The  Charles  Town  Entertainment  Complex is located on a portion of a
250-acre  parcel in  Charles  Town,  West  Virginia,  which is  approximately  a
60-minute drive from Baltimore,  Maryland and a 70-minute drive from Washington,
D.C. There is a total population of  approximately  3.1 million persons within a
50-mile radius and approximately 9.0 million persons within a 100-mile radius of
the  Charles  Town  Entertainment  Complex.  The  property  includes  a 3/4-mile
thoroughbred  racetrack.  The Charles Town Entertainment Complex's main building
is the  grandstand/clubhouse,  which is  completely  enclosed  and  heated.  The
clubhouse  dining room has seating for 600.  Additional  food and beverage areas
are situated throughout the facility.  The property surrounding the Charles Town
Entertainment  Complex,  including  the  site  of the  former  Shenandoah  Downs
Racetrack,  is available for future expansion or development.  In addition,  the
Company  has a right of first  refusal  for an  additional  250  acres  that are
adjacent  to  the  Charles  Town   Entertainment   Complex.   The  Charles  Town
Entertainment  Complex also includes stables,  an indoor paddock,  ample parking
and water and sewage treatment facilities.

         The Charles Town Races  reopened in April 1997.  The Company  conducted
159 and 206 days of  thoroughbred  racing at the  facility  during 1997 and 1998
racing seasons,  respectively.  Post time at the Charles Town Races is 7:15 p.m.
on Mondays,  Fridays and  Saturdays,  4:00 p.m. on  Wednesdays  and 1:00 p.m. on
Sundays. Although other regional racetracks offer nighttime thoroughbred racing,
Penn National Race Course and Charles Town Races are the only  racetracks in the
Eastern time zone conducting  year-round  nighttime  thoroughbred  horse racing,
which the Company believes  increases its  opportunities to export simulcast its
races during periods in which other racetracks are not conducting live racing.


OTWs

         The Company's  OTWs provide  areas for viewing  import  simulcasts  and
televised sporting events, placing pari-mutuel wagers and dining. The facilities
also provide convenient parking.



(1)   Consists of original construction costs, equipment and, for owned 
      properties, the cost of land and building.

(2)   The Company is licensed to operate one additional OTW and has identified a
      site to operate the OTW facility in Stroudsburg,  Pennsylvania, subject to
      receipt of all applicable approvals to operate this site.


         The  Company  considers  its  properties  adequate  for  its  presently
anticipated purposes.


POTENTIAL TENNESSEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

     In June 1997, the Company  acquired  twelve  one-month  options to purchase
approximately  100 acres of land in  Memphis,  Tennessee.  Since such time,  the
Company, through its subsidiary,  Tennessee Downs, Inc. ("Tennessee Downs"), has
pursued the  development  of a harness  track and simulcast  facility   which is
located  in the  northeastern  section of Memphis  (the  "Tennessee  Development
Project").  The Company  submitted an application to the Tennessee  State Racing
Commission (the  "Tennessee  Commission") in October 1997 for an initial license
for the  development  and  operation of a harness track and OTW facility at this
site.  A land  use  plan  for the  construction  of a  5/8-mile  harness  track,
clubhouse  and  grandstand  area was  approved  in October  1997 by the Land Use
Hearing Board for the City of Memphis and County of Shelby.  Tennessee Downs was
determined to be financially  suitable by the Tennessee  Commission and a public
comment  hearing  before the Tennessee  Commission was held in November 1997. In
December 1997, the Company  received the necessary  zoning and land  development
approvals from the Memphis City Council.

     In April 1998, the Tennessee  Commission  granted a license to the Company,
which  would  expire  on the  earlier  of:  (i)  December  31,  2000 or (ii) the
expiration of Tennessee Commission's term on June 30, 1998, if such term was not
extended  by the  Tennessee  Commission.  On May 1, 1998,  the  Tennessee  State
Legislature  voted  against  extending  the  life of the  Tennessee  Commission,
allowing  the  Tennessee  Commission's  term to  expire  on June 30,  1998.  The
Tennessee  Commission  held a meeting on May 29, 1998 at which it  rejected  the
Company's  request:  (i) to grant the  Company  an  extended  timeframe  for the
effectiveness of its racing license;  (ii) for racing days for the period ending
December 31, 2000; and (iii) to operate a temporary simulcast facility.  On July
28, 1998,  the Company  filed for a  preliminary  injunction  and a  declaratory
ruling on the legal status of racing in Memphis. On November 23, 1998, the court
ruled that the Racing  Control Act had not been  repealed and cannot be repealed
by implication by dissolving the Tennessee Commission.  It is the opinion of the
court that because the Racing  Control Act is still in force,  horse-racing  and
pari-mutuel betting is a legal, unregulated activity in Tennessee.  This opinion
has been appealed by the Tennessee Attorney General. The Company intends to



continue its efforts to develop and operate a harness track in Tennessee.  Costs
incurred as of December  31, 1998  regarding  the  Tennessee  license  amount to
$489,000 and are presented in prepaid expenses and other current assets.

         If the  State of  Tennessee  reinstates  the  Tennessee  Commission  or
otherwise  regulates  racing,  the  Company  plans to spend  approximately  $9.0
million in the next year to purchase  the land subject to the option and build a
combined  OTW  and  grandstand  facility.   The  Company  estimates  that  total
development   costs,   including   subsequent   track   construction,   will  be
approximately  $15.5  million.  In addition,  it will be permitted to pursue the
development of additional OTWs in Tennessee, provided it first obtains necessary
approvals,  including a public  referendum  for each proposed OTW site and other
necessary zoning and land development approvals.


NEW JERSEY JOINT VENTURE

         On January 28, 1999, pursuant to a First Amendment to an Asset Purchase
Agreement  by,  between  and among  Greenwood  New Jersey,  Inc.  ("Greenwood"),
International  Thoroughbred  Breeders  Inc.,  Garden  State  Race  Track,  Inc.,
Freehold Racing Association,  Atlantic City Harness,  Inc. and Circa 1850, Inc.,
the original parties to an Asset Purchase  Agreement  entered into as of July 2,
1998,  and the  Company  (the  "Agreement"),  and  pursuant to which the Company
entered into a joint  venture  ("Joint  Venture"),  the Company,  along with its
Joint  Venture  partner,  Greenwood,  agreed to purchase  certain  assets of the
Garden  State Race Track and Freehold  Raceway,  both located in New Jersey (the
"Acquisition").

     The  purchase  price  for the  Acquisition  is  approximately  $46  million
(subject to reduction of certain  disputed  items,  for which  amounts have been
placed in escrow).  The purchase price  consisted of $23 million in cash and $23
million  pursuant to two deferred  purchase price promissory notes in the amount
of $22 million and $1 million each.  The Company is  responsible  for 50% of the
purchase price. The parties to the Joint Venture are also contingently liable to
the  sellers  in  amounts  not to  exceed a total of $10  million,  if the Joint
Venture receives various approvals for off-track wagering or phone betting.

     The Joint  Venture is  contingent  upon,  among other  things,  the Company
obtaining  approvals  necessary  to effect the Joint  Venture,  which  approvals
include: (i) full and complete New Jersey regulatory approval (including but not
limited to approval of the New Jersey Racing Commission); (ii) Hart Scott Rodino
compliance;  and (iii) the  written  consent of a majority of the holders of its
$80 million Senior Notes issued December 17, 1997 to any necessary  modification
to the Indenture  dated December 12, 1997 to permit the Company's  investment in
the Joint  Venture.  At the initial  closing of the  Acquisition  on January 28,
1999, The Company loaned FR Park Racing,  LP, a New Jersey limited  partnership,
$11,250,000  (at the Company's  effective  borrowing rate as specified in Note 3
under "Credit Facilities"),  which is secured by certain assets. After obtaining
the above approvals,  the Company will invest an additional $11,750,000 into the
Joint  Venture with a portion of this amount  treated as capital and the balance
as debt. The Company will have a 50% interest in the Joint Venture.

MARKETING AND ADVERTISING

     The Company seeks to increase  wagering by broadening its customer base and
increasing  the  wagering  activity of its  existing  customers.  To attract new
customers,  the Company seeks to increase the racing  knowledge of its customers
through its television  programming,  and by providing "user friendly" automated
wagering systems and comfortable surroundings. The Company also seeks to attract
new customers by offering various types of promotions including family fun days,
premium give-away programs, contests and handicapping seminars.

Charles Town Gaming Machine Marketing Programs

     The Company's marketing efforts, which include print and radio advertising,
commenced in October 1997 and are focused on the  Washington,  D.C.,  Baltimore,
Maryland,  Northern  Virginia,  Eastern West Virginia and Southern  Pennsylvania
markets.  At the Charles Town Entertainment  Complex the Company established the
Silver  Screen Video Slots Club, a manual  player  tracking  system  designed to
reward  frequent  and active  customers.  In 1999,  the Company is  installing a
computerized  player tracking system at the Charles Town Entertainment  Complex,
which will further focus the Company's  marketing efforts.  In 1998, the Company

implemented  a coupon  program  where  customers  who  visit  the  Charles  Town
Entertainment  Complex can redeem the coupons  for $5. From these  coupons,  the
Company has compiled a database of customers  which will be integrated  into the
new player tracking system.

Televised Racing Program

         The   Company's   Racing  Alive   program  is  televised  by  satellite
transmission  commencing  approximately  one hour  before post time on each live
racing  day at the  Penn  National  Race  Course.  The  program  provides  color
commentary  on the races at the Penn National  Race Course  (including  wagering
odds, past performance information and handicapper analysis),  general education
on betting and handicapping,  interviews with racing  personalities and featured
races from other  thoroughbred  racetracks across the country.  The Racing Alive
program  is  shown  at the  Penn  National  Race  Course  and on  various  cable
television  systems in Pennsylvania  and is transmitted to all OTWs that receive
the Penn National Race Course races.  The Company has expanded  Racing Alive and
created additional televised  programming to cover racing at Pocono Downs and at
other  harness  racing  venues  throughout  the  United  States.  The  Company's
satellite  transmissions  are  encoded so that only  authorized  facilities  can
receive the program.

  Automated Wagering Systems

         To make wagering more "user  friendly" to the novice and more efficient
for the expert,  the Company leases Autotote  Corporation's  automated  wagering
equipment.  These  wagering  systems  enable the customer to choose a variety of
ways to place a bet through touch-screen  interactive terminals and personalized
portable  wagering  terminals,  provide  current  odds  information  and  enable
customers to place bets and credit winning tickets to their accounts. Currently,
more  than 35% of all  wagers  at Penn  National  are  processed  through  these
self-service terminals and Telebet.

  Modern Facilities

         The Company provides a comfortable,  upscale environment at each of its
OTWs,  including a full bar, a range of restaurant  services and an area devoted
to  televised   sporting  events.  The  Company  believes  that  its  attractive
facilities appeal to its current customers and to new customers, including those
who have not previously visited a racetrack.


GTECH GAMING MACHINE SUPPLY AND SERVICE AGREEMENT

         In June 1997, the Charles Town Joint Venture, which is operated as PNGI
Charles  Town Gaming,  LLC, an 89%  subsidiary  of the Company,  entered into an
agreement (the "GTECH Agreement") with GTECH relating to the lease, installation
and service of a video lottery system ("VLS") at the Charles Town  Entertainment
Complex. On November 18, 1998, the Company entered into an agreement to purchase
GTECH's  assets and rights  related to the  provision  of gaming  technology  at
Charles Town Races.  Under the terms of the agreement,  the Company  assumed the
ownership  and  operation of the 799 gaming  devices and the central  monitoring
system for consideration of $12.9 million.

PURSES; AGREEMENTS WITH HORSEMEN

     The  agreements  with the Horsemen at each of the Company's  racetracks set
forth the purses.  The continuation of these agreements is required to allow the
Company to conduct live racing and export and import simulcasting.  (See "Racing
and Pari-Mutuel Operations")

     The Penn National Race Course  Thoroughbred  Horsemen Agreement was entered
into in February  1996,  and expired on February 15,  1999.  Failing to reach an
agreement  through   negotiations,   on  February  16,  1999,  the  Pennsylvania
Thoroughbred  Horsemen  stopped racing at Penn National Race Course and withdrew
their   permission  for  the  Company  to  import  simulcast  races  from  other
racetracks.  This  resulted in the closure of Penn  National Race Course and its
six OTW facilities at Reading, Chambersburg,  York, Lancaster,  Williamsport and
Johnstown.  The Company  continued its efforts to negotiate a new agreement with
the Pennsylvania  Thoroughbred Horsemen and on March 23, 1999 the Company signed
a new Horsemen  agreement with the  Pennsylvania  Thoroughbred  Horsemen with an
initial term that expires on January 1, 2004. The Pennsylvania  Harness Horsemen
Agreement was entered into in November  1994,  became  effective in January 1995
and expires in January 2000.  The Company has an agreement with the Charles Town
Horsemen,  which expires on December 31, 2000. See, Management's  Discussion and
Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of  Operations  -  "Liquidity  and
Capital
 


Resources".  The West Virginia Video  LotteryAct also requires that the operator
of the Charles Town Entertainment Complex be subject to a written agreement with
the  pari-mutuel  clerks in order to operate  gaming  machines,  this  agreement
expires on December 31, 2000.


COMPETITION

         The Company faces  significant  competition  for wagering  dollars from
other racetracks and OTWs in Pennsylvania and neighboring  states (some of which
also offer  other  forms of  gaming),  other  gaming  venues such as casinos and
state-sponsored  lotteries,  including  the  Pennsylvania  Lottery  and the West
Virginia  Lottery.  The Company may also face competition in the future from new
OTWs or from new  racetracks.  From time to time,  Pennsylvania  has  considered
legislation  to permit  other  forms of gaming.  Although  Pennsylvania  has not
authorized   any  form  of  casino  or  other  gaming,   if  additional   gaming
opportunities   become   available   in  or  near   Pennsylvania,   such  gaming
opportunities  could have a material  adverse effect on the Company's  business,
financial condition and results of operations.

         The  Company's  live races  compete for wagering  dollars and simulcast
fees with live races and races  simulcast from other  racetracks both inside and
outside Pennsylvania  (including several in New York, New Jersey, West Virginia,
Ohio, Maryland and Delaware).  The Company's ability to compete successfully for
wagering dollars is dependent,  in part, on the quality of its live horse races.
The quality of horse races at some  racetracks  that  compete  with the Company,
either by live races or simulcasts, is higher than the quality of Company races.
The Company  believes that there has been some improvement over the last several
years in the quality of the horses racing at the Penn National Race Course,  due
to higher purses being paid as a result of the Company's increased  simulcasting
activities,  however,  there can be no  assurance  that the Company can continue
such improvement.

         The  Company's  OTWs  compete  with  the  OTWs  of  other  Pennsylvania
racetracks,  and new OTWs may compete  with the  Company's  existing or proposed
wagering facilities.  Competition between OTWs increases as the distance between
them decreases.  For example, the Company believes that its Allentown OTW, which
was acquired in the  acquisition of Pocono Downs and which is  approximately  50
miles from the Penn National Race Course and 35 miles from the Company's Reading
OTW, has drawn some patrons from the Penn National Race Course,  the Reading OTW
and the Company's  telephone wagering system;  and, the Company's Lancaster OTW,
which is  approximately 31 miles from the Penn National Race Course and 25 miles
from the Company's  York OTW, has drawn some patrons from the Penn National Race
Course, the York OTW and the Company's telephone wagering system.  Moreover, the
Company believes that a competitor's OTW in King of Prussia, Pennsylvania, which
is  approximately 23 miles from the Reading OTW, has drawn some patrons from the
Reading OTW.  Although  only one  competing  OTW remains  authorized  by law for
future  opening,  the opening of a new OTW in close  proximity to the  Company's
existing or future OTWs could have a material  adverse  effect on the  Company's
business, financial condition and results of operations.

         The Company's  gaming machine  operations face  competition  from other
gaming  machine  venues in West Virginia and in  neighboring  states  (including
Dover Downs in Dover, Delaware,  Delaware Park in northern Delaware,  Harrington
Raceway in southern  Delaware  and the casinos in Atlantic  City,  New  Jersey).
Venues in  Delaware  and New  Jersey,  in  addition  to video  gaming  machines,
currently offer mechanical slot machines that feature  physical  spinning reels,
pull-handles  and the ability to both accept and pay out coins.  Legislation has
been passed in West Virginia, subject to the Governor's signature or veto, which
would allow coin out and reel slot machines at race tracks.  If such legislation
is signed by the  Governor,  the Company  intends to convert  some or all of its
current  machines to coin out and increase the maximum  number of machines  with
reel slot machines. The failure to attract or retain gaming machine customers at
the Charles Town Entertainment Complex, whether arising from such competition or
from other  factors,  could have a material  adverse  effect upon the  Company's
business, financial condition and results of operations.


EFFECT OF INCLEMENT WEATHER AND SEASONALITY

         Because   horse  racing  is  conducted   outdoors,   variable   weather
contributes to the seasonality of the Company's  business.  Weather  conditions,


particularly  during the winter  months,  may cause  races to be canceled or may
curtail  attendance.  Because a substantial  portion of the Company's  racetrack
expenses  are fixed,  the loss of  scheduled  racing  days could have a material
adverse  effect on the Company's  business,  financial  condition and results of
operations.

         For the year ended December 31, 1998,  the Company  canceled a total of
five racing days because of inclement weather. The severe winter weather in 1996
resulted in the closure of the Company's OTW  facilities for two days in January
1996.  Because of the Company's growing  dependence upon OTW operations,  severe
weather  that causes the  Company's  OTWs to close could have an adverse  effect
upon the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.

         Attendance and wagering at the Company's facilities have been favorably
affected by special racing events which stimulate interest in horse racing, such
as the  Triple  Crown  races  in May and June and the  heavier  racing  schedule
throughout  the country  during the second and third  quarter of the year.  As a
result,  the Company's  revenues and net income have been greatest in the second
and third quarters of the year,  and lowest in the first and fourth  quarters of
the year.

REGULATION AND TAXATION

  General

     Company  subsidiaries  are  authorized to conduct  thoroughbred  racing and
harness  racing  in  Pennsylvania  under  the  Pennsylvania   Racing  Act.  Such
subsidiaries  are also  authorized,  under the  Pennsylvania  Racing Act and the
Federal Horseracing Act, to conduct import simulcast wagering.  The Charles Town
Joint  Venture is subject to the  provisions  of the West  Virginia  Racing Act,
which governs the conduct of thoroughbred horse racing in West Virginia, and the
West Virginia Video Lottery Act, which governs the operation of gaming  machines
in West  Virginia.  The Company's live racing,  pari-mutuel  wagering and gaming
machine  operations are contingent upon the continued  governmental  approval of
such operations as forms of legalized  gaming.  All of the Company's current and
proposed operations are subject to extensive  regulations and could be subjected
at any time to additional or more restrictive regulations, or banned entirely.

 Pennsylvania Racing Regulations

     The  Company's  horse racing  operations  at Penn  National Race Course and
Pocono Downs are subject to extensive  regulation under the Pennsylvania  Racing
Act, which  established the Pennsylvania  State Horse Racing  Commission and the
State  Harness   Racing   Commission   (together,   the   "Pennsylvania   Racing
Commissions")  which are  responsible  for,  among other  things,  (i)  granting
permission  annually to maintain racing  licenses and schedule race meets,  (ii)
approving,  after a public  hearing,  the  opening  of  additional  OTWs,  (iii)
approving  simulcasting  activities,  (iv)  licensing all  officers,  directors,
racing  officials and certain  other  employees of the Company and (v) approving
all contracts entered into by the Company affecting racing, pari-mutuel wagering
and OTW operations.

     As in  most  states,  the  regulations  and  oversight  applicable  to  the
Company's  operations in  Pennsylvania  are intended  primarily to safeguard the
legitimacy  of  the  sport  and  its  freedom  from  inappropriate  or  criminal
influences. The Pennsylvania Racing Commissions have broad authority to regulate
in the best interests of racing and may, to that end, disapprove the involvement
of certain  personnel  in the  Company's  operations,  deny  approval of certain
acquisitions  following their consummation or withhold permission for a proposed
OTW site for a variety of reasons,  including community opposition. For example,
the Pennsylvania State Thoroughbred  Racing Commission withheld approval for the
Company's  initial site for its Lancaster  OTW, but the Company  applied and was
ultimately  approved for another site in  Lancaster,  which opened in July 1996.
The Pennsylvania  legislature also has reserved the right to revoke the power of
the Pennsylvania Racing Commissions to approve additional OTWs and could, at any
time,  terminate   pari-mutuel  wagering  as  a  form  of  legalized  gaming  in
Pennsylvania or subject such wagering to additional restrictive regulation; such
termination would, and any further  restrictions  could, have a material adverse
effect  upon  the  Company's  business,   financial  condition  and  results  of
operations.

         The Company may not be able to obtain all  necessary  approvals for the
continued operation or expansion of its business. Even if all such approvals are
obtained,  the regulatory  process could delay  implementation  of the Company's
plans to open additional OTWs. The Company has had continued permission from the
Pennsylvania  State Horse Racing  Commission  to conduct live racing at the Penn
National  Race Course since it commenced  operations  in 1972,  and has obtained
permission from the Pennsylvania State Harness Racing Commission to conduct live
racing  at  Pocono  Downs.   Currently,   the  Company  has  approval  from  the


Pennsylvania  Racing Commissions to operate the ten OTWs that are currently open
and the one additional OTW the Company proposes to open. A Commission may refuse
to grant  permission to open additional OTWs or to continue to operate  existing
facilities.  The failure to obtain  required  regulatory  approvals would have a
material  adverse effect upon the Company's  business,  financial  condition and
results of operations.

West Virginia Racing and Gaming Regulation

         The Company's operations at the Charles Town Entertainment  Complex are
subject to  regulation  by the West Virginia  Racing  Commission  under the West
Virginia Racing Act, and by the West Virginia Lottery  Commission under the West
Virginia Video Lottery Act. The powers and responsibilities of the West Virginia
Racing Commission under the West Virginia Racing Act are  substantially  similar
in scope and effect to those of the Pennsylvania  Racing  Commissions and extend
to the  approval  and/or  oversight  of all  aspects of racing  and  pari-mutuel
wagering  operations.  The Charles Town Joint Venture has obtained from the West
Virginia Racing Commission a license to conduct racing and pari-mutuel  wagering
at the Charles Town Entertainment  Complex.  Pursuant to the West Virginia Video
Lottery  Act,  the  Company  has  obtained  approval  for the  installation  and
operation of a total of 1,000 gaming machines at the Charles Town  Entertainment
Complex.

  State and Federal Simulcast Regulation

         The Federal Interstate Horseracing Act, the Pennsylvania Racing Act and
the West Virginia  Racing Act require that the Company have a written  agreement
with each applicable  horsemen's  organization in order to simulcast  races. The
Company has entered into the Horsemen  Agreements,  and in accordance  therewith
has agreed on the  allocations of the Company's  revenues from import  simulcast
wagering to the purse funds for the Penn  National  Race  Course,  Charles  Town
Races and Pocono Downs.  Because the Company  cannot  conduct  import  simulcast
wagering  in  the  absence  of  the  Horsemen  Agreements,  the  termination  or
non-renewal of such Horsemen  Agreements could have a material adverse effect on
the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.

  Taxation

         The  Company  believes  that the  prospect  of  significant  additional
revenue  is one of the  primary  reasons  that  jurisdictions  permit  legalized
gaming. As a result, gaming companies are typically subject to significant taxes
and fees in addition to normal  federal and state income  taxes,  and such taxes
and fees are subject to increase at any time. The Company pays substantial taxes
and fees with respect to its operations.  From time to time, federal legislators
and officials  have proposed  changes in tax laws, or in the  administration  of
such laws,  affecting the gaming industry.  It is not possible to determine with
certainty the likelihood of changes in tax laws or in the administration of such
laws.  Such changes,  if adopted,  could have a material  adverse  effect on the
Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.

  Compliance with Other Laws

         The Company  and its OTWs are also  subject to a variety of other rules
and  regulations,   including   zoning,   construction  and  land-use  laws  and
regulations in Pennsylvania and West Virginia governing the serving of alcoholic
beverages. Currently,  Pennsylvania laws and regulations permit the construction
of off-track wagering  facilities,  but may affect the selection of a particular
OTW site because of parking, traffic flow and other similar considerations,  any
of which may serve to delay the  opening  of  future  OTWs in  Pennsylvania.  By
contrast,  West Virginia law does not permit the operation of OTWs.  The Company
derives a significant  portion of its other  revenues from the sale of alcoholic
beverages to patrons of its facilities.  Any  interruption or termination of the
Company's  existing  ability to serve alcoholic  beverages would have a material
adverse  effect on the Company's  business,  financial  condition and results of
operations.


  Restrictions on Share Ownership and Transfer

         The Pennsylvania Racing Act requires that any shareholder  proposing to
transfer  beneficial  ownership  of 5% or more of the  Company's  shares file an
affidavit with the Company setting forth certain  information about the proposed
transfer and  transferee,  a copy of which the Company is required to furnish to
the Pennsylvania Racing Commissions.  The certificates  representing the Company
shares owned by 5% beneficial  shareholders are required to bear certain legends
prescribed by the Pennsylvania  Racing Act. In addition,  under the Pennsylvania
Racing Act, the Pennsylvania Racing Commissions have the authority to order a 5%
beneficial  shareholder  of the  Company to  dispose of his Common  Stock of the
Company if it determines that continued ownership would be inconsistent with the
public  interest,  convenience  or  necessity  or the best  interest  of  racing
generally.  The West Virginia Video Lottery Act provides that a transfer of more
than 5% of the voting stock of a corporation which controls the license may only
be to persons who have met the licensing requirements of the West Virginia Video
Lottery Act or which transfer has been pre-approved by the West Virginia Lottery
Commission.  Any transfer that does not comply with this  requirement  voids the
license.

  Potential Tennessee Development Regulatory Compliance.

         If the Company successfully  completes the development of its potential
Tennessee  harness  track and OTWs,  the Company  will  likely  face  regulatory
requirements  that  are  similar  to the  requirements  affecting  its  existing
operations;  however,  given the absence of horse  racing in  Tennessee  at this
time, the Company may face more burdensome regulatory approvals or compliance in
light of the absence of an established regulatory framework.


ITEM 2                     PROPERTIES

     See, ITEM 1-BUSINESS - "RACING AND PARI-MUTUEL OPERATIONS"

         A solid waste landfill  ("Landfill") is on a parcel of land adjacent to
the Company's  Harness  Track.  The East Side Landfill  Authority (the "Landfill
Authority"),  which  operated  the  Landfill  from 1970 until 1982,  disposed of
municipal  waste on behalf of four  municipalities.  The  Landfill is  currently
subject  to  a  closure   order  issued  by  the   Pennsylvania   Department  of
Environmental  Resources ("PADER") which the four municipalities are required to
implement  pursuant to a 1986  Settlement  Agreement among the former trustee in
bankruptcy for Pocono Downs,  the Landfill  Authority,  the  municipalities  and
PADER (the  "Settlement  Agreement").  According to the Company's  environmental
consulting firm, the Landfill closure is  substantially  complete.  To date, the
municipalities  obligated  to  implement  the  closure  order  pursuant  to  the
Settlement   Agreement,   have  been  fulfilling  their  obligations  under  the
Settlement  Agreement or that the terms of the Settlement  Agreement will not be
amended in the future. In addition,  the Company may be liable for future claims
with respect to the Landfill  under the  Comprehensive  Environmental  Response,
Compensation  and Liability Act and analogous  state laws. The Company may incur
expenses in connection  with the Landfill in the future,  which expenses may not
be reimbursed  by the  municipalities.  Any such expenses  could have a material
adverse  effect on the Company's  business,  financial  condition and results of
operations.


Other Property and Equipment

         The Company  currently  leases  6,183 square feet of office space in an
office building in Wyomissing, Pennsylvania for the Company's executive offices.
The lease  expires in April 2000 and  provides for an annual  minimum  rental of
$71,100.  The office building is owned by an affiliate of Peter M. Carlino,  the
Chairman and Chief Executive  Officer of the Company.  The Company believes that
the lease  terms are not less  favorable  than lease  terms that could have been
obtained from an unaffiliated third party.

         The Company  currently  leases an aircraft from a company owned by John
Jacquemin,  a director of the Company. The lease expires in September,  2007 and
provides for monthly  payments of $8,356.  The Company  believes  that the lease
terms are not less favorable than lease terms that could have been obtained from
an unaffiliated third party.

EMPLOYEES AND LABOR RELATIONS

         At March 19, 1999, the Company had 1,654 permanent  employees,  of whom
837 were full-time and 817  part-time.  Employees of the Company who work in the
admissions  department  and  pari-mutuels  department  at the Penn National Race
Course,  Pocono Downs and the OTWs are represented  under collective  bargaining
agreements  between the Company and Sports Arena Employees' Union Local 137. The
agreements  extend until  October 3, 1999 for track  employees and until May 27,
1999 for OTW employees. The pari-mutuel clerks at Pocono Downs voted to unionize
in June 1997. The Company has held  negotiations  with this union,  but does not
have a contract to date.  Failure to reach  agreement  with this union would not
result in the suspension or termination of the Company's license to operate live
racing  at  Pocono  Downs  or  to  conduct  simulcast  or  OTW  operations.  The
pari-mutuel  clerks and racing  valets at Charles Town are  represented  under a
collective  bargaining  agreement  with the West  Virginia  Division  of  Mutuel
Clerks,  which  expires on December  31,  2000.  The Company  believes  that its
relations with its employees are satisfactory.


ITEM 3                     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

         In December  1997,  Amtote  International,  Inc.  ("Amtote"),  filed an
action  against the Company  and the  Charles  Town Joint  Venture in the United
States  District  Court  for the  Northern  District  of West  Virginia.  In its
complaint, Amtote (i) states that the Company and the Charles Town Joint Venture
allegedly  breached  certain  contracts with Amtote and its  affiliates  when it
entered into a wagering  services  contract with a third party (the "Third Party
Wagering Services  Contract"),  and not with Amtote,  effective January 1, 1998,
(ii) sought  preliminary and injunctive  relief through a temporary  restraining
order seeking to prevent the Charles Town Joint Venture from (a) entering into a
wagering services contract with a party other than Amtote and (b) having a third
party  provide such  wagering  services,  (iii) sought  declaratory  relief that
certain contracts allegedly bind the Charles Town Joint Venture to retain Amtote
for  wagering  services  through  September  2004  and  (iv)  seeks  unspecified
compensatory damages,  legal fees and costs associated with the action and other
legal and equitable relief as the Court deems just and appropriate.  On December
24, 1997, a temporary restraining order was issued, which prescribed performance
under the Third Party  Wagering  Contract.  On February 20, 1998,  the temporary
restraining  order was lifted by the court.  The Company intends to pursue legal
remedies in order to terminate Amtote and proceed under the Third Party Wagering
Services  Contract.  The Company  believes that this action,  and any resolution
thereof, will not have any material adverse impact upon its financial condition,
results,  or the  operations  of either the  Charles  Town Joint  Venture or the
Company.


ITEM 4                     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

         None




                                     PART II

ITEM 5 MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

         The  Company's  Common  Stock is quoted on The Nasdaq  National  Market
under the  symbol  "PENN".  The  following  table  sets  forth  for the  periods
indicated the high and low sales prices per share of the Company's  Common Stock
as reported on The Nasdaq National Market.



         The closing sale price per share of Common Stock on The Nasdaq National
Market on March 19,  1999,  was  $7.188.  As of March 19,  1999,  there were 738
holders of record of Common Stock.


                                 DIVIDEND POLICY

         Since the  Company's  initial  public  offering of Common  Stock in May
1994,  the  Company has not paid any cash  dividends  on its Common  Stock.  The
Company  intends to retain all of its earnings to finance the development of the
Company's  business,  and thus, does not anticipate paying cash dividends on its
Common Stock for the  foreseeable  future.  Payment of any cash dividends in the
future will be at the  discretion of the  Company's  Board of Directors and will
depend  upon,  among  other  things,   future  earnings,   operations,   capital
requirements,  the  general  financial  condition  of the  Company  and  general
business  conditions.  Moreover,  the Company's  existing  credit  facility (the
"Credit Facility")  prohibits the Company from authorizing,  declaring or paying
any dividends  until the Company's  commitments  under the Credit  Facility have
been  terminated and all amounts  outstanding  thereunder  have been repaid.  In
addition,  future bank  financing  may prohibit  the payment of dividends  under
certain conditions.





ITEM 6                     SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA

         The following selected  consolidated  financial data of the Company for
the years  ended  December  31,  1994,  1995,  1996 1997 and  1998,  except  for
Operating Data, are derived from financial  statements that have been audited by
BDO Seidman, LLP independent certified public accountants, adjusted as described
in the notes below. The selected  consolidated  financial data should be read in
conjunction with the consolidated  financial statements of the Company and Notes
thereto,  "Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of  Financial  Condition  and
Results of Operations" and the other financial information included herein.





(1)   Reflects the November 27, 1996  acquisition of Pocono Downs and the
      January 15, 1997  acquisition of a joint venture  interest in
      the Charles Town Entertainment Complex.  See "Business-Acquisitions."

(2)   Amounts equal total  pari-mutuel  revenues,  less purses paid to Horsemen,
      taxes payable to Pennsylvania and simulcast commissions or host track fees
      paid to other  racetracks.  Figures for the years ended  December 31, 1995
      and 1996 do not include purses paid at Penn National Speedway.

(3)   Supplemental  pro forma  amounts  for the year  ended  December  31,  1994
      reflect  (i) the  elimination  of $345,000  in  management  fees paid to a
      related   entity,   (ii)  the   inclusion   of   $133,000,   in  executive
      compensations,  (iii) the elimination of $413,000 of interest  expenses on
      Company  debt which was repaid with the  proceeds  of the  initial  public
      offering  in  1994,  (iv) the  elimination  of  $198,000  of loss on early
      extinguishment  of debt,  and (v) a provision for income taxes of $377,000
      as if the S corporations and  partnerships  comprising part of the Company
      prior to the  Reorganization  in 1994 had  been  taxed as C  corporations.
      There  were no  supplemental  pro  forma  adjustments  for any  subsequent
      periods.

(4)   Based on 8,400,000 shares of Common Stock outstanding before the initial
      public offering in May 1994, plus 4,500,000 shares sold by the Company in
      the initial public offering.




ITEM 7   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS 

OVERVIEW

         The Company's  pari-mutuel revenues have been derived from (i) wagering
on  the  Company's  live  races  (a)  at the  Company's  racetracks,  (b) at the
Company's  OTWs, (c) at other  Pennsylvania  racetracks and OTWs and (d) through
telephone wagering,  as well as wagering at the Company's  racetracks on certain
stakes races run at out-of-state  racetracks  (collectively,  referred to in the
Company's financial statements as "pari-mutuel  revenues from live races"), (ii)
wagering on full-card import simulcasts at the Company's racetracks and OTWs and
through telephone wagering (collectively, referred to in the Company's financial
statements as "pari-mutuel  revenues from import  simulcasting")  and (iii) fees
from wagering on export  simulcasting  Company races at  out-of-state  locations
(referred to in the Company's financial statements as "pari-mutuel revenues from
export  simulcasting").  The  Company's  other  revenues  have been derived from
admissions,  program  sales and certain  other  ancillary  activities,  food and
beverage  sales  and  concessions  and,  beginning  in  September  1997,  gaming
machines.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

         The  following  table sets  forth  certain  data from the  Consolidated
Statements of Income of the Company as a percentage of total revenues:



Year Ended December 31, 1998 compared to Year Ended December 31, 1997

     Total revenue increased by approximately $42.5 million or 38.1% from $111.5
million  in 1997 to  $154.1  million  in 1998.  Charles  Town  Races,  which was
purchased in January of 1997 and began racing  operations  on April 30, 1997 and
video lottery  machine  operations  on September  10, 1997,  accounted for $40.4
million of the increase. Revenues from video lottery machines increased by $31.7
million as a result of a full year of  operations  in 1998 compared to three and
one-half months of operations in 1997. Racing revenues increased by $6.2 million
due to a racing  season of 206 live race days at the Charles  Town Races in 1998
compared   to  159  live  races  days  in  1997  and  the  opening  of  the  new
simulcast-racing  center in January 1998.  Concession revenues increased by $2.2
million due to the increased attendance and the opening of the new buffet dining
area  during the year.  At Penn  National  Race  Course and its OTW  facilities,
revenues  increased  at the track ($.3  million)  due to an increase in on-track
wagering  and export  simulcast  wagering  and the  purchase  and opening of the
Johnstown OTW ($.9 million) on September 1, 1998. The increases were offset by a
decrease in revenues at Chambersburg OTW ($.6 million) due to the opening of the
Charles Town  Facility,  Reading OTW ($.3  million) and York OTW ($.3  million).
Revenues at Pocono  Downs and its OTW  facilities  resulted in a net increase of
$2.1 million  primarily due to the opening of new  facilities in Hazleton  ($2.2
million) and  Carbondale  ($2.4  million).  This was offset by a decrease at the
Pocono Downs  racetrack  ($2.1  million) due to the proximity of the two new OTW
facilities  and  decreases  at  Allentown  OTW ($.3  million)  and Erie OTW ($.2
million).

     Total operating expenses increased by approximately  $32.8 million or 32.2%
from  $101.8  million  in 1997 to $134.6  million  in 1998.  Charles  Town Races
accounted  for $32.6  million of the increase due primarily to the video lottery
operations  ($24.7  million),  racing  operations  ($5.9 million) and concession
operations ($2.1 million).  Penn National Race Course and its OTW facilities had
a net  decrease  in  operating  expenses  of $.6  million  due to an increase in
expenses  at the new  Johnstown  OTW  ($.8  million)  offset  by a  decrease  in
operating  expenses at the racetrack and other OTW  facilities  ($1.4  million).
Pocono Downs and its OTW facilities had a net increase in operating  expenses of
$.9 million due to the opening of Hazleton OTW ($1.9 million) and Carbondale OTW
($1.8 million).  The increase was offset by a decrease in operating  expenses at
the Pocono Downs racetrack ($1.8 million),  Allentown OTW ($.6 million) and Erie
OTW ($.4 million). Corporate expenses increased by $.6 million due to the hiring
of additional staff for OTW facility  management,  human resource management and
the leasing of additional office space.  Depreciation and amortization increased
by $1.7 million due primarily to depreciation associated with new facilities for
Charles Town Gaming  (September  1997),  Charles Town Simulcast  Center (January
1998),  Hazleton and Carbondale  OTW  facilities  (March 1998) and Johnstown OTW
(September 1998). Site development and restructuring  expenses were $2.4 million
in 1997.

     Income from operations  increased by approximately  $9.7 million or 100.0 %
from $9.7 million in 1997 to $19.5 million in 1998 due to the factors  described
above.

     Other expenses  increased by approximately $3.8 million or 105.6% from $3.6
million in 1997 to $7.4 million in 1998. Net interest expense  increased by $3.9
million  (primarily due to the 10.625% Senior Notes issued December 1997). Other
income  in 1998 of  $113,000  consisted  of a gain on the sale of  Casino  Magic
Corporation  stock of $148,000 offset by a write-off of deferred  financing cost
on the repurchase of the Company's 10.625% Senior Notes.

     Taxes on income increased by  approximately  $2.2 million from $2.3 million
in 1997 to $4.5 million in 1998, due to the increase in income for the year.

     The  extraordinary   item  in  1997  consisted  of  a  loss  on  the  early
extinquishment  of debt in the amount of  $1,482,000,  net of income taxes.  The
loss consists  primarily of write-offs of deferred finance costs associated with
the  retired  bank  notes  and  legal  and  bank  fees  relating  to  the  early
extinquishment of the debt.

     Net income  increased  by  approximately  $5.2 million from $2.3 million in
1997 to $7.5 million in 1998 due to the factors described above.



Year Ended December 31, 1997 compared to Year Ended December 31, 1996

         Total revenue increased by approximately  $48.7 million, or 77.5%, from
$62.8  million  in 1996 to  $111.5  million  in 1997.  Pocono  Downs,  which was
acquired in the fourth quarter of 1996 under the purchase method,  accounted for
$30.8  million of the  increase.  Charles  Town Races,  which was  purchased  in
January 1997, accounted for $16.5 million of the increase. The Company renovated
and refurbished the Charles Town Entertainment Complex following its acquisition
and commenced racing operations on April 30, 1997 and gaming machine operations,
with a soft opening,  on September 10, 1997. The remaining  revenue  increase of
$1.4  million was  primarily  due to an increase of  approximately  $6.2 million
associated with the opening of the Penn National OTW facility in Williamsport in
February  1997, a full year of operations  at the  Lancaster  OTW facility,  and
increased export of the Penn National Race Course live signal. This increase was
offset by a decrease in revenues of approximately  $4.2 million at the Company's
OTW  facilities  in Reading and York.  Management  believes that the decrease in
revenues at these  facilities was primarily due to the opening of a competitor's
OTW facility  and the opening of the  Company's  Lancaster  OTW facility in July
1996.  The  Company  also had a decrease  in  revenues of $.6 million due to the
closing of Penn National Speedway at the end of the 1996 season.

         Total operating expenses increased by approximately  $48.4 million,  or
90.7%,  from $53.4 million in 1996 to $101.8  million in 1997.  Pocono Downs and
Charles Town Races, which the Company did not operate in the corresponding prior
period,  accounted  for  $25.5  million  and  $17.5  million  of this  increase,
respectively. Operating expenses also increased by $5.4 million primarily due to
an increase of $4.4 million associated with the opening of the Company's new OTW
facility in  Williamsport in February 1997, and a full year of operations at the
Lancaster  OTW  facility.  This  increase  was offset by a decrease in operating
expenses of approximately $1.9 million at the Penn National Race Course facility
and at the Company's OTW  facilities in Reading and York  associated  with lower
revenues at those facilities. The increase in corporate expenses of $1.4 million
was due to increased personnel,  office space and other  administrative  expense
necessary to support the  expansion of the  Company.  The Company also  incurred
site development and  restructuring  charges in the amount of $2.4 million.  The
site  development  charges  ($1.7  million)  consist of $800,000  related to the
Charles Town Races Facility and $935,000  related to the  abandonment of certain
proposed  operating in 1997.  The  restructuring  charges  primarily  consist of
$350,000 in severance termination benefits and other charges at the Charles Town
Races facility,  $300,000 for the  restructuring  of the Erie,  Pennsylvania OTW
facility and $52,000 of property and equipment  written-off  in connection  with
the discontinuation of Penn National Speedway,  Inc. operations during 1997. The
Company  also had a decrease  in  expenses  of $.9 million due to the closing of
Penn National Speedway at the end of the 1996 season.

         Income from operations  increased by approximately  $275,000,  or 2.9%,
from $9.5 million in 1996 to $9.7  million in 1997 due to the factors  described
above.  The Company had other  expenses of  approximately  $3.7  million in 1997
compared  to  $156,000  in 1996,  primarily  as a result of  increased  interest
expense.  The increase in interest expense is due to the company  incurring bank
debt for the purchase of Pocono Downs and Charles Town Races, renovations to the
Charles Town  Facility and the issuance of 10.625%  Senior Notes on December 12,
1997 to repay existing bank debt.

         The extraordinary item consisted of a loss on the early  extinquishment
of debt in the amount of  $1,482,000,  net of income  taxes.  The loss  consists
primarily of write-offs of deferred  financing costs associated with the retired
bank notes and legal and bank fees relating to the early  extinquishment  of the
debt.

         Net income decreased by approximately  $3.2 million or 58.5%, from $5.5
million in 1996 to $2.3  million in 1997 based on the factors  described  above.
Income taxes decreased by $1.5 million from $3.8 million in 1996 to $2.3 million
in 1997 as a result of the decrease in income for the year.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

         Historically,  the Company's  primary  sources of liquidity and capital
resources  have  been  cash  flow from  operations,  borrowings  from  banks and
proceeds from issuance of equity securities.

         Net cash provided from  operating  activities was $11.9 million for the
year ended December 31, 1998. This consisted of net income and non-cash expenses
($13.6  million),  an increase in accounts  receivable  ($1.6  million) due from
other  tracks,  a decrease in accounts  payable and accrued  expenses due to the
completion of construction at Charles Town ($2.6 million), an increase in purses
due horsemen ($.9 million) a decrease in prepaid income taxes ($2.1 million) and
other changes in certain assets and liabilities ($.5 million).

         Cash flows used in investing activities for the year ended December 31,
1998 ($22.3 million)  consisted of renovation and  refurbishment  of the Charles
Town  facility and  racetrack  ($1.1  million),  completion  of the Hazleton and
Carbondale  OTW  facilities  ($3.2  million),  the purchase of the Johnstown OTW
facility ($1.3  million),  the purchase of the GTECH video lottery  machines and
central   monitoring   system  ($12.9  million)  and  $3.8  million  in  capital
expenditures at other facilities.

         Net cash flows used in  financing  activities  was  approximately  $4.6
million for the year ended  December 31,  1998.  The Company  purchased  424,700
shares of the  Company's  common stock ($2.4  million) and $11.0  million of the
Company's  10.625% Senior Notes at 97.25% during the year. In November 1998, the
Company  borrowed $9.0 million under its Credit  Facility to buy the GTECH video
lottery machines and central monitoring system.

         The  Company  is  subject  to  possible  liabilities  arising  from the
environmental condition at the landfill adjacent to Pocono Downs.  Specifically,
the Company may incur  expenses in  connection  with the landfill in the future,
which  expenses  may not be  reimbursed  by the four  municipalities,  which are
parties to the  settlement  agreement.  The  Company is unable to  estimate  the
amount, if any, that it may be required to expend. See ITEM 2 -"PROPERTIES".

         In the  first  quarter  of 1999,  the  Company  anticipates  a one time
material  loss  associated  with the  actions by the  Pennsylvania  Thoroughbred
Horsemen on February 16, 1999 that resulted in the closing of Penn National Race
Course and its six OTW  facilities at Reading,  Chambersburg,  York,  Lancaster,
Williamsport  and  Johnstown,  from February 16, 1999 through March 24, 1999. At
this time the Company has  insufficient  information to reasonably  quantify the
amount of the loss.

         Also in 1999,  the  Company  anticipates  spending  approximately  $9.0
million on capital expenditures at its racetrack and OTW facilities. The Company
anticipates   expending   approximately   $5.0   million  at  the  Charles  Town
Entertainment  Complex  for  player  tracking  ($1.5  million),  new video  slot
machines  ($.8  million),  interior  renovations  ($.4  million),  machinery and
equipment ($.7 million) and other projects  including  design and planning for a
new motel ($1.6 million). The Company also plans to spend approximately $578,000
at Pocono Downs,  $645,000 at Penn National,  $295,000 at the OTW facilities for
building  improvements  and equipment and $2.0 million on building  improvements
and  equipment  for its new OTW facility in  Stroudsburg,  Pennsylvania.  If the
State of Tennessee  reinstates the Tennessee Commission and the Company's racing
license or if the racing industry is regulated under another  government agency,
the Company  anticipates  expending an  additional  $9.0 million to complete the
first phase of the Tennessee project.

         The  Company  entered  into its  Credit  Facility  with  Bankers  Trust
Company,  as Agent in 1996.  This Credit  Facility  was amended and  restated on
January 29, 1999 with First Union National Bank replacing Bankers Trust Company,
as Agent. The amended Credit Facility provides for, subject to certain terms and
conditions,  a $20.0 million revolving credit facility, a $5.0 million term loan
due in one year, a $3.0 million sublimit for standby letters of credit and has a
four-year   term  from  its  closing.   The  Credit   Facility,   under  certain
circumstances, requires the Company to make mandatory prepayments and commitment
reductions and to comply with certain covenants,  including financial ratios and
maintenance  tests. In addition,  the Company may make optional  prepayments and
commitment  reductions pursuant to the terms of the Credit Facility.  Borrowings
under the Credit Facility will accrue interest, at the option of the Company, at


either a base rate plus an applicable  margin of up to 2.0% or a eurodollar rate
plus an applicable  margin of up to 3.0%. The Credit  Facility is secured by the
assets of the Company and  contains  certain  financial  ratios and  maintenance
tests.  On December 31, 1998, the Company was in compliance  with all applicable
ratios.

         The Company currently estimates that the cash generated from operations
and available borrowings under the Credit Facility will be sufficient to finance
its current operations,  planned capital expenditure requirements, and the costs
associated with first phase of the Tennessee  development  project.  The Company
intends to fund its portion of the Joint Venture with Greenwood New Jersey, Inc.
(up to $28.75  million)  from  cash on hand,  available  credit  lines and other
financing.  There can be no  assurance,  however,  that the Company  will not be
required to seek  additional  capital,  in addition to that  available  from the
foregoing  sources.  The Company may, from time to time, seek additional funding
through public or private financing, including equity financing. There can be no
assurance that adequate funding will be available as needed or, if available, on
terms acceptable to the Company.


Year 2000 Compliance

         The "Year 2000 issue" is typically  the result of software and hardware
being written using two digits rather than four to define the  applicable  year.
If the  Company's  software and hardware with  date-sensitive  functions are not
Year 2000  compliant,  these systems may recognize a date using "00" as the year
1900  rather  than the year  2000.  This  could  result in a system  failure  or
miscalculations  causing  disruptions  of  operations,  including,  among  other
things,  interruptions  in pari-mutuel  wagering or the inability to operate the
Company's video lottery machines.

         The  Company,  has been and is  currently  conducting  a review  of all
systems and  contacting  all  software  suppliers  to  determine  major areas of
exposure  to  Year  2000  issues.   The  Company   believes  that,   with  minor
modifications  and testing of its  systems,  the Year 2000 issue will not pose a
significant  operations problem.  The Company is using its internal resources to
reprogram or replace and test its software for Year 2000  modifications.  If the
Company is unable to make the  required  modifications  to existing  software or
convert to new  software  in a timely  manner,  the Year 2000 issue could have a
material adverse impact on the Company's operations.

         The  Company  has  initiated  formal   communication  with  significant
suppliers and third party vendors to determine the extent to which the Company's
operations are vulnerable to those third parties  failure to remediate their own
Year 2000  hardware and software  issues.  Most of these parties state that they
intend to be Year 2000 compliant by 2000. In the event that any of the Company's
significant  suppliers are unable to become Year 2000  compliant,  the Company's
business or operations  could be adversely  affected.  There can be no assurance
that the  systems  of  other  companies  on which  the  Company  relies  will be
compliant by the year 2000 and would not have an adverse effect on operations.

         The Company  does not expect the total cost  associated  with  required
modifications  to become Year 2000  compliant  to be  material to its  financial
position.

         The Company has not yet fully  developed  a  comprehensive  contingency
plan  addressing  situations that may result if the Company is unable to achieve
Year 2000 readiness of its critical operations.  Contingency plan development is
in process and the Company  expects to finalize its plan during the remainder of
1999.  There can be no  assurance  that the  Company  will be able to  develop a
contingency plan that will adequately  address issues that may arise in the year
2000.


ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

         All of the Company's  debt  obligations at December 31, 1998 were fixed
rate obligations,  and Management,  therefore, does not believe that the Company
has any material market risk from its debt obligations.




ITEM 8            FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL DATA





Report of Independent Certified Public Accountants



Penn National Gaming, Inc.
  and Subsidiaries
Wyomissing, Pennsylvania

We have audited the  accompanying  consolidated  balance sheets of Penn National
Gaming,  Inc. and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1998, and the related
consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each
of the three years in the period ended  December 31,  1998.  These  consolidated
financial  statements are the  responsibility of the Company's  management.  Our
responsibility  is  to  express  an  opinion  on  these  consolidated  financial
statements based on our audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally   accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable  assurance about whether the  consolidated  financial  statements are
free of material  misstatement.  An audit includes  examining,  on a test basis,
evidence  supporting the amounts and disclosures in the  consolidated  financial
statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant  estimates  made by  management,  as well as evaluating  the overall
consolidated  financial  statement  presentation.  We  believe  that our  audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated  financial statements referred to above present
fairly,  in all  material  respects,  the  financial  position of Penn  National
Gaming,  Inc. and Subsidiaries at December 31, 1997 and 1998, and the results of
their  operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended  December  31,  1998 in  conformity  with  generally  accepted  accounting
principles.

Philadelphia,  Pennsylvania               \s\BDO Seidman,  LLP
February 26, 1999,  except for            --------------------
Note 11 which is as of March 23, 1999        BDO Seidman, LLP 






                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                           Consolidated Balance Sheets
                 (In thousands, except share and per share data)


               See accompanying summary of significant accounting
            policies and notes to consolidated financial statements.




                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                           Consolidated Balance Sheets
                 (In thousands, except share and per share data)


               See accompanying summary of significant accounting
            policies and notes to consolidated financial statements.




                     Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                        Consolidated Statements of Income
                      (In thousands, except per share data)



               See accompanying summary of significant accounting
            policies and notes to consolidated financial statements.




                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                        Consolidated Statements of Income
                      (In thousands, except per share data)



               See accompanying summary of significant accounting
            policies and notes to consolidated financial statements.




                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
                        (In thousands, except share data)


               See accompanying summary of significant accounting
            policies and notes to consolidated financial statements.




                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                                 (In thousands)




                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                                 (In thousands)



               See accompanying summary of significant accounting
            policies and notes to consolidated financial statements.




1.      Summary of                 Basis of Presentation
        Significant
        Accounting                 The  consolidated  financial  statements
        Policies                   include the accounts of Penn  National
                                   Gaming,   Inc.  and  its   subsidiaries   
                                   (collectively   the  "Company").   All
                                   significant    intercompany    accounts   and
                                   transactions    have   been   eliminated   in
                                   consolidation.  Certain prior years'  amounts
                                   have been reclassified to conform to the 1998
                                   presentation.

                                   Description of Business

                                   The  Company  provides  pari-mutuel  wagering
                                   opportunities  on  both  live  and  simulcast
                                   thoroughbred  and harness  horse races at two
                                   racetracks   and   ten   off-track   wagering
                                   facilities  ("OTWs")  located in Pennsylvania
                                   and pari-mutuel  wagering  opportunities  and
                                   video gaming  machines at Charles Town Races,
                                   the  Company's  Charles  Town,  West Virginia
                                   thoroughbred  racetrack.  In March 1998,  the
                                   Company opened OTW facilities in Hazleton and
                                   Carbondale,  Pennsylvania  and  acquired  its
                                   tenth OTW facility in Johnstown, Pennsylvania
                                   from Ladbroke Racing  Management-Pennsylvania
                                   ("Ladbroke") in September 1998. The Company's
                                   sole operating segment is gaming activities.

                                   At each of its three racetracks,  the Company
                                   conducts pari-mutuel wagering on thoroughbred
                                   and   harness   races   from  the   Company's
                                   racetracks   and   simulcasts    from   other
                                   racetracks.  The Company also  simulcasts its
                                   Penn  National  Race Course and Pocono  Downs
                                   races for  wagering at other  racetracks  and
                                   OTWs,  including all Pennsylvania  racetracks
                                   and OTWs and locations outside  Pennsylvania.
                                   Wagering  on Penn  National  Race  Course and
                                   Pocono Downs races and races  simulcast  from
                                   other  racetracks  also  occurs  through  the
                                   Company's Pennsylvania  racetracks' telephone
                                   account betting network.

                                   Glossary of Terminology

                                   The  following  is a listing  of  terminology
                                   used throughout the financial statements:

                                             The  Company's  racetracks  -  Penn
                                             National     Race    Course    near
                                             Harrisburg,   Pennsylvania,  Pocono
                                             Downs      near       Wilkes-Barre,
                                             Pennsylvania and Charles Town Races
                                             in Charles Town, West Virginia.

                                             Gaming  machines  -  Video  lottery
                                             terminal gaming machines.

                                             OTW - Off-track wagering location.

                                             Pari-mutuel wagering - All wagering
                                             at the Company's racetracks, at the
                                             Company's  OTWs and all wagering on
                                             the   Company's   races   at  other
                                             racetracks and OTWs.

                                             Telebet   -    Telephone    account
                                             wagering.

                                             Totalisator   services  -  Computer
                                             services provided to the Company by
                                             various  totalisator  companies for
                                             processing pari-mutuel betting odds
                                             and wagering proceeds.


                                             Pari-mutuel revenues:

                                                  Live  races  -  The  Company's
                                                  share of pari-mutuel  wagering
                                                  on    live    races     within
                                                  Pennsylvania and West Virginia
                                                  and certain  stakes races from
                                                  racetracks      outside     of
                                                  Pennsylvania and West Virginia
                                                  after  payment  of the  amount
                                                  returned as winning wagers.

                                                  Import   simulcasting   -  The
                                                  Company's share of wagering at
                                                  the Company's  racetracks,  at
                                                  the  Company's   OTWs  and  by
                                                  Telebet on full cards of races
                                                  simulcast      from      other
                                                  racetracks.

                                                  Export   simulcasting   -  The
                                                  Company's share of wagering at
                                                  out-of-state locations on live
                                                  races    conducted    by   the
                                                  Company.

                                                  Gaming revenue - The Company's
                                                  share  of  net  winnings  from
                                                  gaming wins and losses.


                    A summary of pari-mutuel wagering for the
                        periods indicated is as follows:


                                   Racing Meet 
                                   
                                   The racing  seasons,  under the  management
                                   of the Company,  for the past three years
                                   consisted of the following number of live
                                   race days:


                                   Depreciation and Amortization

                                   Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
                                   and  amortization  of leasehold  improvements
                                   are computed by the  straight-line  method at
                                   rates   adequate  to  allocate  the  cost  of
                                   applicable assets over their estimated useful


                                   lives.  Depreciation and amortization for the
                                   years ended December 31, 1996,  1997 and 1998
                                   amounted  to   $1,301,000,   $3,193,000   and
                                   $4,705,000, respectively.

                                   The  excess of cost  over  fair  value of net
                                   assets  acquired  is being  amortized  on the
                                   straight-line   method   over  a   forty-year
                                   period.  Amortization  expense for 1996, 1997
                                   and 1998  amounted to $98,000,  $578,000  and
                                   $613,000, respectively. The Company evaluates
                                   the recoverability of the goodwill quarterly,
                                   or  more   frequently   whenever  events  and
                                   circumstances  warrant revised  estimates and
                                   considers  whether  the  goodwill  should  be
                                   completely  or  partially  written off or the
                                   amortization period accelerated.

                                   The Company  reviews the  carrying  values of
                                   its  long-lived and  identifiable  intangible
                                   assets  for  possible   impairment   whenever
                                   events or changes in circumstances  indicates
                                   that the  carrying  amount of the  assets may
                                   not  be  recoverable  based  on  undiscounted
                                   estimated  future operating cash flows. As of
                                   December 31, 1998, the Company has determined
                                   that no impairment has occurred.

                                   Deferred   financing  costs  are  charged  to
                                   operations  over the  life of the  underlying
                                   indebtedness.    Amortization   of   deferred
                                   financing  costs  for  1996,  1997  and  1998
                                   amounted to $34,000,  $269,000 and  $430,000,
                                   respectively.

                                   Income Taxes

                                   The   Company    recognizes    deferred   tax
                                   liabilities   and  assets  for  the  expected
                                   future tax  consequences  of events that have
                                   been  recognized in the  Company's  financial
                                   statements or tax returns. Under this method,
                                   deferred  tax   liabilities  and  assets  are
                                   determined  based on the  difference  between
                                   the financial  statement carrying amounts and
                                   tax bases of  assets  and  liabilities  using
                                   enacted  tax  rates in effect in the years in
                                   which  the   differences   are   expected  to
                                   reverse.

                                   Customer Deposits

                                   Customer  deposits  represent amounts held by
                                   the Company for telephone wagering.

                                   Cash and Cash Equivalents

                                   The Company  considers  all cash balances and
                                   highly  liquid   investments   with  original
                                   maturities of three months or less to be cash
                                   equivalents.

                                   Net Income Per Common Share

                                   Basic  net  income  per  share   includes  no
                                   dilution  and is  calculated  by dividing net
                                   income  by the  weighted  average  number  of
                                   common  shares  outstanding  for the  period.
                                   Dilutive  net income per share  reflects  the
                                   potential  dilution of securities  that could
                                   share in the net income of the Company  which
                                   consist of stock options and warrants  (using
                                   the treasury stock method).

                                   Deferred Financing Costs

                                   Deferred  financing  costs which are incurred
                                   by the  Company in  connection  with debt are
                                   charged  to  operations  over the life of the
                                   underlying  indebtedness  using the  interest
                                   method, adjusted  to give effect to any early
                                   repayments.


                                   Concentration of Credit Risk

                                   Financial   instruments   which   potentially
                                   subject the Company to credit risk consist of
                                   cash equivalents and accounts receivable.

                                   The  Company's  policy is to limit the amount
                                   of  credit  exposure  to  any  one  financial
                                   institution   and  place   investments   with
                                   financial  institutions  evaluated  as  being
                                   creditworthy,  or in short-term  money market
                                   and tax-free  bond funds which are exposed to
                                   minimal  interest  rate and credit  risk.  At
                                   December  31,  1998,  the  Company  had  bank
                                   deposits  which  exceeded  federally  insured
                                   limits by approximately  $3,298,000 and money
                                   market   and    tax-free    bond   funds   of
                                   approximately   $975,000.   Concentration  of
                                   credit   risk,   with   respect  to  accounts
                                   receivable,  is limited due to the  Company's
                                   credit evaluation  process.  The Company does
                                   not require  collateral  from its  customers.
                                   The Company's receivables consist principally
                                   of  amounts  due from  other  racetracks  and
                                   OTWs.  Historically,   the  Company  has  not
                                   incurred   any   significant   credit-related
                                   losses.

                                   Fair Value of Financial Instruments

                                   The  following  methods and  assumptions  are
                                   used to estimate the fair value of each class
                                   of  financial  instruments  for  which  it is
                                   practical to estimate.

                                         Cash and Cash  Equivalents:  The  
                                         carrying  amount approximates  the fair
                                         value due to the short maturity of the
                                         cash equivalents.

                                         Long-Term   Debt  and   Capital   Lease
                                         Obligations:  The  fair  value  of  the
                                         Company's  long-term  debt and  capital
                                         lease obligations is estimated based on
                                         the quoted  market  prices for the same
                                         or  similar  issues  or on the  current
                                         rates  offered to the  Company for debt
                                         of the same remaining  maturities.  The
                                         carrying amount approximates fair value
                                         since  the  Company's   interest  rates
                                         approximate current interest rates.

                                   Use of Estimates

                                   The  preparation  of financial  statements in
                                   conformity with generally accepted accounting
                                   principles   requires   management   to  make
                                   estimates  and  assumptions  that  affect the
                                   reported  amounts of assets  and  liabilities
                                   and  disclosure  of  contingent   assets  and
                                   liabilities  at the  date  of  the  financial
                                   statements   and  the  reported   amounts  of
                                   revenue and expenses at the reporting period.
                                   Actual   results   could  differ  from  those
                                   estimates.

                                   Recent Accounting Pronouncements

                                   In  June  1998,   the  Financial   Accounting
                                   Standards Board issued Statement of Financial
                                   Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for
                                   Derivative  Instruments"  ("SFAS 133").  SFAS
                                   133 is effective  for all fiscal  quarters of
                                   the  fiscal  years  beginning  after June 15,
                                   1999 and establishes accounting and reporting
                                   standards for derivative  instruments and for
                                   hedging activities. SFAS 133 requires that an
                                   entity  recognize all  derivatives  as either
                                   assets  or  liabilities   and  measure  those
                                   instruments at fair market value.  Presently,
                                   the   Company   does   not   use   derivative
                                   instruments  either in hedging  activities or
                                   as  investments.   Accordingly,  the  Company
                                   believes  that adoption of SFAS 133 will have
                                   no  impact  on  its  financial   position  or
                                   results of operations.

                                   The  Company has no comprehensive  income
                                   items as required by Statement of
                                   Financial Accounting Standards No. 130,
                                   "Comprehensive Income".

2.      Acquisitions               Pocono Downs Acquisition

                                   On November 27, 1996,  the Company  purchased
                                   all  of  the  capital  stock  of  The  Plains
                                   Company and the limited partnership interests
                                   in The Plains Company's  affiliated  entities
                                   (together,  "Pocono  Downs") for an aggregate
                                   purchase   price   of  $48.2   million   plus
                                   acquisition-related   fees  and  expenses  of
                                   $730,000.  Pocono Downs conducts live harness
                                   racing  at  the  harness   racetrack  located
                                   outside  Wilkes-Barre,  Pennsylvania,  export
                                   simulcasting   of  Pocono   Downs   races  to
                                   locations   throughout   the  United  States,
                                   pari-mutuel  wagering at Pocono  Downs and at
                                   OTWs  in  Allentown,   Erie,  Carbondale  and
                                   Hazleton,  Pennsylvania on Pocono Downs races
                                   and on  import  simulcast  races  from  other
                                   racetracks, and telephone account wagering on
                                   live and import simulcast races.

                                   The Pocono Downs  acquisition  was  accounted
                                   for using the purchase  method of accounting.
                                   Accordingly,  a portion of the purchase price
                                   was  allocated  to the  net  assets  acquired
                                   based on their  estimated  fair  values.  The
                                   balance of the purchase price was recorded at
                                   cost over net assets  acquired  as  goodwill,
                                   approximately  $10.4  million,  and is  being
                                   amortized over forty years on a straight-line
                                   basis.  The Company  recorded  an  additional
                                   increase to goodwill  of  approximately  $9.7
                                   million  and a  corresponding  increase  to a
                                   deferred  tax  liability,   representing  the
                                   difference  between  the  financial  and  tax
                                   bases of certain assets acquired. The results
                                   of  operations  of  Pocono  Downs  have  been
                                   included   in  the   Company's   consolidated
                                   financial statements since the effective date
                                   of the  acquisition.  The  Company  used  its
                                   credit  facility  (see  Note  3) and  cash of
                                   Pocono   Downs  to  fund   the   acquisition.
                                   Pursuant  to the  terms of the  Pocono  Downs
                                   purchase  agreement,   the  Company  will  be
                                   required to pay the  sellers of Pocono  Downs
                                   an  additional  $10 million  if,  within five
                                   years  after the  consummation  of the Pocono
                                   Downs  acquisition,  Pennsylvania  authorizes
                                   any  additional  form of  gaming in which the
                                   Company  may  participate.  The  $10  million
                                   payment    would   be   payable   in   annual
                                   installments  of $2 million  for five  years,
                                   beginning on the date that the Company  first
                                   offers such additional form of gaming.

                                   Charles Town Acquisition

                                   On February  26,  1996,  the Company  entered
                                   into a joint venture  agreement (the "Charles
                                   Town Joint Venture") with Bryant  Development
                                   Company and its  affiliates  ("Bryant"),  the
                                   holder of an option to purchase substantially
                                   all of the  assets  of  Charles  Town  Racing
                                   Limited  Partnership  and Charles Town Races,
                                   Inc.  (together,  "Charles Town") relating to
                                   the  Charles  Town Race Track and  Shenandoah
                                   Downs    (together,    the   "Charles    Town
                                   Entertainment  Complex") in Jefferson County,
                                   West Virginia. In connection with the Charles
                                   Town Joint Venture agreement, Bryant assigned
                                   the option to the Charles Town Joint Venture.
                                   In  November  1996,  the  Charles  Town Joint
                                   Venture  and  Charles  Town  entered  into an
                                   amended and  restated  option  agreement.  On
                                   November  5,  1996,  Jefferson  County,  West
                                   Virginia  approved  a  referendum  permitting
                                   installation   of  gaming   machines  at  the
                                   Charles  Town   Entertainment   Complex.   On
                                   January  15,  1997,  the  Charles  Town Joint
                                   Venture  acquired  substantially  all  of the
                                   assets  of  Charles  Town  for  approximately
                                   $16.0 million plus  acquisition-related  fees
                                   and expenses of approximately $2.2 million.
                                   Pursuant to the original operating  agreement
                                   governing the Charles Town Joint Venture, the

                                   Company held an 80% ownership interest in the
                                   Charles Town Joint  Venture and was obligated
                                   to  contribute  80% of the purchase  price of
                                   the Charles Town  acquisition  and 80% of the
                                   cost  of   refurbishing   the  Charles   Town
                                   Entertainment  Complex.  In  consideration of
                                   the fact that the Company contributed 100% of
                                   the  purchase   price  of  the  Charles  Town
                                   acquisition   and   100%   of  the   cost  of
                                   refurbishing  the Charles Town  Entertainment
                                   Complex,  the Company  amended its  operating
                                   agreement with Bryant to, among other things,
                                   increase the Company's  ownership interest in
                                   the  Charles  Town  Joint  Venture to 89% and
                                   decrease   Bryant's   interest   to  11%.  In
                                   addition,  the  amendment  provided  that the
                                   entire amount the Company has  contributed to
                                   the  Charles  Town  Joint   Venture  for  the
                                   acquisition and  refurbishment of the Charles
                                   Town Entertainment  Complex would be treated,
                                   as  between  the  parties,  as a loan  to the
                                   Charles Town Joint  Venture from the Company.
                                   Accordingly, prior to the distribution of any
                                   future  profits  pursuant to the Charles Town
                                   Joint Venture,  the Company must be repaid in
                                   full all such  contributions  or loans,  plus
                                   accrued  interest,  which as of December  31,
                                   1998 amounted to $52.0 million.

                                   Bryant had acquired its option from  Showboat
                                   Operating Company ("Showboat").  Showboat has
                                   retained an option (the "Showboat Option") to
                                   operate  any  casino  at  the  Charles   Town
                                   Entertainment   Complex   in  return   for  a
                                   management fee (to be negotiated at the time,
                                   based   on   rates    payable   for   similar
                                   properties)  and a right of first  refusal to
                                   purchase  or lease the site of any  casino at
                                   the  Charles   Town   Entertainment   Complex
                                   proposed to be leased or sold and to purchase
                                   any interest  proposed to be sold in any such
                                   casino on the same  terms  offered by a third
                                   party  or  otherwise   negotiated   with  the
                                   Charles  Town  Joint   Venture.   The  rights
                                   retained  by  Showboat   under  the  Showboat
                                   Option extend for a period of five years from
                                   November  6, 1996,  the date that the Charles
                                   Town Joint  Venture  exercised  its option to
                                   purchase the Charles Town Races,  and expires
                                   thereafter   unless   legislation  to  permit
                                   casino    gaming   at   the   Charles    Town
                                   Entertainment  Complex has been adopted prior
                                   to the end of the five-year  period.  If such
                                   legislation  has been  adopted  prior to such
                                   time,  then the rights of  Showboat  continue
                                   for a  reasonable  time  (not  less  than  24
                                   months) to permit completion of negotiations.

                                   While  the  express  terms  of  the  Showboat
                                   Option do not specify which activities at the
                                   Charles  Town  Entertainment   Complex  would
                                   constitute  operation  of a casino,  Showboat
                                   has   agreed   that  the   installation   and
                                   operation  of  gaming  devices  linked to the
                                   lottery (like the gaming machines the Company
                                   has  installed  and will continue to install)
                                   at the Charles Town  Entertainment  Complex's
                                   racetrack would not trigger  Showboat's right
                                   to exercise the Showboat Option.

                                   The Charles  Town Joint  Venture  refurbished
                                   and reopened  the Charles Town  Entertainment
                                   Complex  as  an  entertainment  complex  that
                                   features  live  racing,   dining,   simulcast
                                   wagering and,  effective  September 1997, the
                                   operation of gaming machines. The cost of the
                                   refurbishment was approximately $27.8 million
                                   inclusive of $614,000 of capitalized interest
                                   and  exclusive  of the  costs  of the  gaming
                                   machines.

                                   The Charles Town  acquisition  was  accounted
                                   for using the purchase  method of accounting.
                                   Accordingly,  a portion of the purchase price
                                   was  allocated  to the  net  assets  acquired
                                   based on their  estimated  fair  values.  The
                                   balance of the purchase price was recorded as
                                   cost over net assets  acquired  as  goodwill,
                                   approximately  $1.7  million,  and  is  being


                                   amortized over forty years on a straight-line
                                   basis.  The Company used its credit  facility
                                   (see Note 3) and cash from operations to fund
                                   the acquisition.

                                   The  results of  operations  of Charles  Town
                                   have   been   included   in   the   Company's
                                   consolidated   financial   statements   since
                                   January 15, 1997,  the effective  date of the
                                   acquisition.


3. Long-Term Debt          Long-term debt and capital lease obligations are as 
   and Capital Lease       follows:
   Obligations                 

                                   Credit Facilities

                                   At  December  31,   1998,   the  Company  was
                                   contingently   obligated   under  letters  of
                                   credit   with   face   amounts    aggregating
                                   $1,886,000.   These   amounts   consisted  of
                                   $1,786,000 relating to the horsemens' account
                                   balances  and   $100,000   for   Pennsylvania
                                   pari-mutuel taxes.

                                   In November 1996, the Company entered into an
                                   agreement with a bank group which provides an
                                   aggregate    of   $75   million   of   credit
                                   facilities,   which  included  a  $5  million
                                   revolving   credit   facility   (the  "Credit
                                   Facility").  Simultaneously  with the closing
                                   of the Credit  Facility,  the Company  repaid
                                   amounts  outstanding  under  its  old  credit
                                   facility and replaced it. The Credit Facility
                                   consisted of two term loan  facilities of $47
                                   million and $23 million (together,  the "Term
                                   Loans")  which were used for the Pocono Downs
                                   and Charles Town acquisitions,  respectively,
                                   and which were used for a portion of the cost
                                   of   refurbishment   of  the   Charles   Town
                                   Entertainment Complex, and a revolving credit
                                   facility   of  $5  million   (together,   the
                                   "Loans").  The  Term  Loans  were  repaid  in
                                   December   1997  with  the  proceeds  of  the
                                   Company's debt offering.  See "Debt Offering"
                                   hereinafter.   At  such   time,   the  Credit
                                   Facility  was amended and restated to provide
                                   for a $12 million  revolving credit facility,

                                  
                                   including a $3 million  sublimit  for standby
                                   letters of credit,  which matures in December
                                   2002.

                                   On January 28, 1999, the Company entered into
                                   a second  amendment  and  restatement  of the
                                   Credit  Facility.  The  Credit  Facility,  as
                                   amended, provides for a $20 million revolving
                                   credit  facility,   including  a  $3  million
                                   sublimit for standby  letters of credit and a
                                   $5 million term loan.  Under the terms of the
                                   Credit  Facility,  as  amended,  the  Company
                                   borrowed  an  additional  $11.5  million,  of
                                   which $11.2  million of the proceeds was used
                                   to finance its share of the New Jersey  Joint
                                   Venture  (see Note 4). The  revolving  credit
                                   facility is secured by  substantially  all of
                                   the  assets of the  Company,  except  for the
                                   assets  of the  Charles  Town  facility.  The
                                   revolving   credit   facility   provides  for
                                   certain  covenants,   including  those  of  a
                                   financial nature.

                                   At  the  Company's   option,   the  revolving
                                   facility may bear interest at the highest of:
                                   (1)  1/2  of  1% in  excess  of  the  federal
                                   reserve reported certificate of deposit rate,
                                   (2) the rate  that the bank  group  announces
                                   from time to time as its prime  lending  rate
                                   and (3) 1/2 of 1% in  excess  of the  federal
                                   funds rate plus an applicable margin of up to
                                   2% or the  revolving  facility  may also bear
                                   interest at a rate tied to a eurodollar  rate
                                   plus an  applicable  margin of up to 3%.  The
                                   outstanding amount under this credit facility
                                   as of December  31, 1998 was $9.0  million at
                                   an interest rate of 7.8125%.

                                   Mandatory   repayments   of   the   revolving
                                   facility are required in an amount equal to a
                                   percentage  of the net cash proceeds from any
                                   issuance  or  incurrence  of equity or funded
                                   debt by the Company,  that  percentage  to be
                                   dependent upon the then  outstanding  balance
                                   of the  revolving  facility and the Company's
                                   leverage  ratio.   Mandatory   repayments  of
                                   varying  percentages are also required in the
                                   event of  either  asset  sales in  excess  of
                                   stipulated  amounts  or defined  excess  cash
                                   flow.

                                   Debt Offering

                                   On December 12, 1997, the Company and certain
                                   of its subsidiaries  (as guarantors)  entered
                                   into a  purchase  agreement  for the sale and
                                   issuance of $80,000,000  aggregate  principal
                                   amount of its 10.625%  Senior  Notes due 2004
                                   (the  "Offering").  The net  proceeds  of the
                                   Offering  were used for repayment of existing
                                   indebtedness,  for capital  expenditures  and
                                   for general corporate  purposes.  Interest on
                                   the notes  will  accrue  from  their  date of
                                   original issuance (the "Issue Date") and will
                                   be payable semi-annually, commencing in 1998.
                                   The notes will be redeemable,  in whole or in
                                   part, at the option of the Company in 2001 or
                                   thereafter at the redemption prices set forth
                                   in the  Offering,  plus  accrued  and  unpaid
                                   interest to the date of redemption.

                                   The  notes  are  general   unsecured   senior
                                   obligations  of the Company and rank  equally
                                   in  right  of  payment  to any  existing  and
                                   future  unsubordinated  indebtedness  of  the
                                   Company  and senior in right of payment  with
                                   all   existing   and   future    subordinated
                                   indebtedness  of the  Company.  The notes are
                                   unconditionally guaranteed (the "Guarantees")
                                   on a senior basis by certain of the Company's
                                   existing    subsidiaries   (the   "Subsidiary
                                   Guarantors").   The  Guarantees  are  general
                                   unsecured   obligations   of  the  Subsidiary
                                   Guarantors  and  rank  equally  in  right  of
                                   payment to any unsubordinated indebtedness of

                                   the Subsidiary  Guarantors and rank senior in
                                   right of  payment  to all other  subordinated
                                   obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors. The
                                   notes are  effectively  subordinated in right
                                   of payment to all secured indebtedness of the
                                   Company,   including   indebtedness  incurred
                                   under  the  amended  $20  million   revolving
                                   credit facility.

                                   On September 3, 1998, the Company repurchased
                                   $11 million of the 10.625%  Senior  Notes due
                                   2004  at  97.25%  of  the  principal   amount
                                   ($10,697,500)   plus   accrued   interest  of
                                   $253,229  in  public   market   trading.   In
                                   conjunction with the repurchase of the notes,
                                   the Company  recorded a write-off of deferred
                                   financing costs  associated with this portion
                                   of the long-term debt. The  extinguishment of
                                   these  notes did not  result in any  material
                                   net loss.

                                   The following is a schedule of future minimum
                                   lease payments under  capitalized  leases and
                                   repayments  of long-term  debt as of December
                                   31, 1998:


                                   On February 18, 1997, the Company completed a
                                   secondary public offering of 1,725,000 shares
                                   of common  stock and used $19  million of the
                                   $23 million proceeds  therefrom to reduce the
                                   then  outstanding Term Loan amounts (see Note
                                   7).

4.      Commitments                Operating Agreements
        and
        Contingencies              In November  1997,  the Company  signed a new
                                   Totalisator  services and equipment agreement
                                   for all of its subsidiaries. The agreement is
                                   for five years,  expiring on March 31,  2003.
                                   The  new   agreement   provides   for  annual
                                   payments  based on a specified  percentage of
                                   the total  amount  wagered  at the  Company's
                                   facilities  with a minimum  annual payment of
                                   $1,475,000.

                                   The  Company is also  liable  under  numerous
                                   operating  leases  for   automobiles,   other
                                   equipment and buildings, which expire through
                                   2004.   Total  rental   expense  under  these
                                   agreements  was   $1,001,000,   $807,000  and
                                   $1,169,000  for the years ended  December 31,
                                   1996, 1997 and 1998, respectively.

                                   The  future  lease  commitments  relating  to
                                   noncancelable operating leases as of December
                                   31, 1998 are as follows:


                                   In June 1997, the Charles Town Joint Venture,
                                   which  is  operated  as  PNGI   Charles  Town
                                   Gaming,   LLC,  an  89%   subsidiary  of  the
                                   Company,   entered  into  an  agreement  (the
                                   "GTECH Agreement") with GTECH relating to the
                                   lease,  installation  and  service of a video
                                   lottery  system  ("VLS") at the Charles  Town
                                   Entertainment  Complex.  The GTECH  Agreement
                                   included a minimum annual fee of $4.3 million
                                   if more than 799 gaming  machines were placed
                                   in  operation.  Due to  significant  economic
                                   benefits to the Company, on November 18, 1998
                                   the  Company  entered  into an  agreement  to
                                   purchase GTECH's assets and rights related to
                                   the provision of gaming technology at Charles
                                   Town Races. Under the terms of the agreement,
                                   the  Company   assumed  the   ownership   and
                                   operation of the 799 gaming  machines and the
                                   central  monitoring  system for consideration
                                   of $12.9 million.

                                   Employment and Consulting Agreements

                                   The Company has  employment  agreements  with
                                   its Chairman and Chief  Financial  Officer at
                                   annual base salaries of $225,000 and $95,000,
                                   respectively. The agreements became effective
                                   June 1, 1994 and,  as amended,  terminate  on
                                   June 30, 1999.  Each agreement  prohibits the
                                   employee  from  competing  with  the  Company
                                   during its term and for one year  thereafter,
                                   and requires a death  benefit  payment by the
                                   Company equal to 50% of the employee's annual
                                   salary in effect at the time of death.

                                   The  Company  signed a  consulting  agreement
                                   with its former  Chairman  expiring in August
                                   1999 at an annual  payment  of  $125,000.  On
                                   July 1, 1998,  the  consulting  agreement was
                                   amended to  increase  the  annual  payment to
                                   $135,000.

                                   The Company has an employment  agreement with
                                   its President and Chief Operating  Officer at
                                   an  annual  base  salary  of  $210,000.   The
                                   agreement  was to terminate on June 12, 1998,
                                   but has been  extended  until June 12,  1999.
                                   The  agreement  prohibits  the employee  from
                                   competing  with the  Company  during its term
                                   and for two years thereafter,  and requires a
                                   death benefit payment by the Company equal to
                                   50% of the employee's annual salary in effect
                                   at the time of his death.

                                   The  Company  has two  profit  sharing  plans
                                   under the provisions of Section 401(k) of the
                                   Internal  Revenue  Code,  The  Penn  National
                                   Gaming,  Inc.  Profit  Sharing Plan (the Penn
                                   National  401(k) Plan") and the Pocono Downs,
                                   Inc.  Profit  Sharing Plan (the "Pocono Downs
                                   401(k)   Plan"),   that  cover  all  eligible
                                   employees who are not members of a bargaining
                                   unit. Both plans enable employees choosing to
                                   participate  to  defer  a  portion  of  their
                                   salary   in   a   retirement   fund   to   be
                                   administered  by the Company.  The  Company's

                                   contributions  to the  Penn  National  401(k)
                                   Plan  are  set at 50% of  employees  elective
                                   salary  deferrals  which  may be made up to a
                                   maximum of 6% of employee  compensation.  The
                                   Company has no  obligation  to  contribute to
                                   the Pocono Downs 401(k)  plan.  However,  for
                                   the years ended December 31, 1996,  1997, and
                                   1998,  the  Company  has  made  discretionary
                                   contributions to the Pocono Downs 401(k) Plan
                                   based  upon  a  percentage  of  the  employee
                                   elective  deferrals which may be made up to a
                                   maximum of 15% of employee compensation.  The
                                   Company made  contributions to these plans of
                                   approximately $89,000,  $145,000 and $172,000
                                   for the years ended December 31, 1996,  1997,
                                   and 1998,  respectively.  Charles  Town has a
                                   defined     contribution     plan    covering
                                   substantially  all of its employees.  Charles
                                   Town makes monthly contributions equal to the
                                   amount accrued for retirement expense,  which
                                   is  calculated  as .25% of the  daily  mutual
                                   handle  and  .5% of  the  net  video  lottery
                                   revenues.  Total  contributions for the years
                                   ended   December   31,  1997  and  1998  were
                                   $114,000 and $185,000, respectively.

                                   On December 31, 1998,  the Company merged the
                                   Pocono Downs,  Inc.  Profit Sharing Plan into
                                   the Penn National  Gaming,  Inc.  401(k) Plan
                                   and   spun   off   the   assets    into   the
                                   non-bargaining  unit employees in the Charles
                                   Town Races Future  Services  Retirement  Plan
                                   and  merged   those   assets  into  the  Penn
                                   National  401(k)  Plan.  The  results  of the
                                   merger is that the Company  operates the Penn
                                   National  401(k) Plan for all  non-bargaining
                                   unit  employees  at all  locations  while the
                                   Charles Town Races Future Services Retirement
                                   Plan is for bargaining  unit employees at the
                                   Charles Town facility.

                                   OTW and Operating Facilities

                                   On July 7, 1998, the Company  entered into an
                                   agreement  with  Ladbroke to  purchase  their
                                   Johnstown,  Pennsylvania  OTW  facility.  The
                                   agreement  provided  for a purchase  price of
                                   $1,225,000 for the assignment of the facility
                                   lease and the sale of assets and was  subject
                                   to numerous contingencies, including approval
                                   by  the   Pennsylvania   State  Horse  Racing
                                   Commission.   Approval   for  the   sale  and
                                   transfer of the  Johnstown  OTW was  received
                                   from the Harness Racing  Commission on August
                                   14,  1998 and the  Pennsylvania  State  Horse
                                   Racing  Commission on August 20, 1998.  Under
                                   the  terms  of the  agreements,  the  Company
                                   sub-leased  the  facility  from  Ladbroke and
                                   operated the facility from September 1, 1998,
                                   the effective date of the agreement,  through
                                   December  30,  1998,  the closing date of the
                                   agreement,  for $12,500  per month,  at which
                                   time the  Company  assumed  full  rights  and
                                   ownership of the facility.

                                   On July 14, 1998, the Company  entered into a
                                   lease  agreement  for an OTW facility in East
                                   Stroudsburg.  The lease is for  approximately
                                   14,000   square  feet  at  the  Eagle's  Glen
                                   Shopping  Plaza located in East  Stroudsburg,
                                   Pennsylvania.  The initial  term of the lease
                                   is  for  ten   years   with  two   additional
                                   five-year  renewal  options  available.   The
                                   agreement     is    subject    to    numerous
                                   contingencies,   including  approval  by  the
                                   Harness  Racing  Commission.  On  November 6,
                                   1998, the Company  submitted its  application
                                   for such approval. If approved by the Harness
                                   Racing  Commission,  the  Company  expects to
                                   spend  approximately  $2  million to have the
                                   facility  constructed  and operational by the
                                   end of 1999.

                                   The    Company   is   subject   to   possible
                                   liabilities    arising   from   environmental
                                   conditions at the landfill adjacent to Pocono
                                   Downs  Racetrack.  Specifically,  the Company
                                   may incur  expenses  in  connection  with the
                                   landfill in the future,  which  expenses  may
                                   not be reimbursed by the four  municipalities

                                   which are parties to an  existing  settlement
                                   agreement.  The Company is unable to estimate
                                   the amount,  if any,  that it may be required
                                   to expend.

                                   Potential Tennessee Development Project

                                   In June 1997,  the  Company  acquired  twelve
                                   one-month  options to purchase  approximately
                                   100  acres  of  land in  Memphis,  Tennessee.
                                   Since such time,  the  Company,  through  its
                                   subsidiary, Tennessee Downs, Inc. ("Tennessee
                                   Downs"),  has  pursued the  development  of a
                                   harness track and simulcast  facility, which 
                                   is located in the northeastern section of 
                                   Memphis   (the "Tennessee Development
                                   Project"). The Company
                                   submitted  an  application  to the  Tennessee
                                   State  Racing   Commission   (the  "Tennessee
                                   Commission")  in October  1997 for an initial
                                   license for the  development and operation of
                                   a  harness  track  and OTW  facility  at this
                                   site. A land use plan for the construction of
                                   a  5/8-mile  harness  track,   clubhouse  and
                                   grandstand  area was approved in October 1997
                                   by the Land Use Hearing Board for the City of
                                   Memphis and County of Shelby. Tennessee Downs
                                   was determined to be financially  suitable by
                                   the Tennessee Commission and a public comment
                                   hearing  before the Tennessee  Commission was
                                   held in November  1997. In December 1997, the
                                   Company  received  the  necessary  zoning and
                                   land  development  approvals from the Memphis
                                   City  Council.  In April 1998,  the Tennessee
                                   Commission  granted a license to the Company,
                                   which  would  expire on the  earlier  of: (i)
                                   December 31, 2000 or (ii) the  expiration  of
                                   Tennessee Commission's term on June 30, 1998,
                                   if  such  term  was  not   extended   by  the
                                   Tennessee  Commission.  On May 1,  1998,  the
                                   Tennessee  State  Legislature  voted  against
                                   extending   the   life   of   the   Tennessee
                                   Commission,     allowing    the     Tennessee
                                   Commission's term to expire on June 30, 1998.
                                   The  Tennessee  Commission  held a meeting on
                                   May  29,  1998  at  which  it  rejected   the
                                   Company's  request:  (i) to grant the Company
                                   an extended timeframe   for the effectiveness
                                   of its racing  license;  (ii) for racing days
                                   for the period ending  December 31, 2000; and
                                   (iii)  to  operate  a   temporary   simulcast
                                   facility. On July 28, 1998, the Company filed
                                   for   a   preliminary    injunction   and   a
                                   declaratory  ruling  on the  legal  status of
                                   racing in Memphis.  On November 23, 1998, the
                                   court  ruled that the Racing  Control Act had
                                   not been  repealed  and cannot be repealed by
                                   implication   by  dissolving   the  Tennessee
                                   Commission.  It is the  opinion  of the court
                                   that because the Racing  Control Act is still
                                   in  force,   horse-racing   and   pari-mutuel
                                   betting is a legal  unregulated  activity  in
                                   Tennessee.  This opinion has been appealed by
                                   the Tennessee  Attorney General.  The Company
                                   intends to  continue  its  efforts to develop
                                   and  operate  a harness  track in  Tennessee.
                                   Costs   incurred  as  of  December  31,  1998
                                   regarding the Tennessee  license  amounted to
                                   $489,000   and  are   presented   in  prepaid
                                   expenses and other current assets.


                                   New Jersey Joint Venture

                                   On  January  28,  1999,  pursuant  to a First
                                   Amendment to an Asset Purchase  Agreement by,
                                   between and among Greenwood New Jersey,  Inc.
                                   ("Greenwood"),   International   Thoroughbred
                                   Breeders,  Inc.,  Garden  State  Race  Track,
                                   Inc., Freehold Racing  Association,  Atlantic
                                   City Harness,  Inc. and Circa 1850, Inc., the
                                   original   parties   to  an  Asset   Purchase
                                   Agreement  entered  into as of July 2,  1998,
                                   and  the  Company  (the   "Agreement"),   and
                                   pursuant to which the Company  entered into a
                                   joint venture ("Joint Venture"), the Company,
                                   along   with  its  Joint   Venture   partner,
                                   Greenwood,  agreed to purchase certain assets
                                   of the Garden  State Race Track and  Freehold
                                   Raceway,  both  located  in New  Jersey  (the
                                   "Acquisition").     46

                                   The  purchase  price for the  Acquisition  is
                                   approximately   $46   million   (subject   to
                                   reduction of up to  approximately  $1 million
                                   based upon the resolution of certain disputed
                                   items,  for which amounts have been placed in
                                   escrow).  The purchase  price will consist of
                                   $23 million in cash and $23 million  pursuant
                                   to two  deferred  purchase  price  promissory
                                   notes in the  amount  of $22  million  and $1
                                   million each. The Company is responsible  for
                                   50% of the purchase price. The parties to the
                                   Joint Venture are also contingently liable to
                                   the  sellers in amounts not to exceed a total
                                   of $10 million, if the Joint Venture receives
                                   various  approvals for off-track  wagering or
                                   phone betting.

                                   The Joint Venture is contingent  upon,  among
                                   other things, the Company obtaining approvals
                                   necessary to effect the Joint Venture,  which
                                   approvals include:  (i) full and complete New
                                   Jersey regulatory approval (including but not
                                   limited to approval of the New Jersey  Racing
                                   Commission);    (ii)   Hart   Scott    Rodino
                                   compliance;  and (iii) the written consent of
                                   a majority  of the holders of its $80 million
                                   Senior Notes issued  December 17, 1997 to any
                                   necessary modification to the Indenture dated
                                   December  12,  1997 to permit  the  Company's
                                   investment  in  the  Joint  Venture.  At  the
                                   initial closing of the Acquisition on January
                                   28, 1999,  the Company loaned FR Park Racing,
                                   LP,  a  New   Jersey   limited   partnership,
                                   $11,250,000   (at   the   Company's effective
                                   borrowing  rate as  specified in Note 3 under
                                   "Credit  Facilities"),  which is  secured  by
                                   certain  assets.  After  obtaining  the above
                                   approvals,   the   Company   will  invest  an
                                   additional $11,750,000 into the Joint Venture
                                   with a portion of this amount  being  treated
                                   as  capital  and the  balance  as  debt.  The
                                   Company will have a 50% interest in the Joint
                                   Venture.

5. Income Taxes 
            The provision for income taxes charged to operations was as follows:





       Deferred  tax  assets  and   liabilities  are comprised of the following:


      The  following  is a  reconciliation  of  the
      statutory  federal  income  tax  rate  to the
      actual  effective  income  tax  rate  for the
      following periods:


6.      Supplemental               Cash paid during the year for interest was
        Disclosures of             $506,000, $4,346,000 and $8,192,000
        Cash Flow                  in 1996, 1997 and 1998, respectively.
        Information
        
                                   Cash paid  during the year for  income  taxes
                                   was $2,490,000,  $3,649,000 and $4,207,000 in
                                   1996, 1997 and 1998, respectively.

                                   Noncash  investing and  financing  activities
                                   were as follows:

                                   During  1996,  the Company  purchased  Pocono
                                   Downs  for an  aggregate  purchase  price  of
                                   $47,320,000,   net  of  cash   acquired.   In
                                   conjunction with the acquisition, liabilities
                                   were assumed as follows:


                                   During  1996,  the Company  issued a $250,000
                                   long-term  note payable for the incurrence of
                                   prepaid Charles Town Acquisition costs.


     7. Common  
                                   Stock On February 18,  1997,  the Company  
                                   completed a secondary public offering of
                                   1,725,000 shares of its common stock. 
                                   The net proceeds of $23 million  were used to
                                   reduce $19  million of the Term Loan  amounts
                                   outstanding under the Credit  Facility  with 
                                   the balance of the  proceeds  used to finance
                                   a portion  of the cost of the  refurbishment
                                   of the  Charles  Town  Entertainment
                                   Complex (see Note 2 for Acquisitions).

                                   From August 21, 1998 to  September  10, 1998,
                                   the Company  purchased  424,700 shares of its
                                   common stock in public  market  trading.  The
                                   total   cost  of   these   transactions   was
                                   $2,378,465 or $5.60 per share average price.

                                   In  April  1994,   the  Company's   Board  of
                                   Directors   and   shareholders   adopted  and
                                   approved the Stock Option Plan (the  "Plan").
                                   On April 30, 1997, the  shareholders  and the
                                   Board of  Directors  approved  an increase in
                                   the number of  authorized  shares  underlying
                                   stock options to be granted from 1,290,000 to
                                   2,000,000 shares. Therefore, the Plan permits
                                   the  grant  of  options  to  purchase  up  to
                                   2,000,000 shares of Common Stock,  subject to
                                   antidilution  adjustments,  at  a  price  per
                                   share no less  than  100% of the fair  market
                                   value  of the  Common  Stock  on the  date an
                                   option is granted  with  respect to incentive
                                   stock  options  only.  The price  would be no
                                   less  than 110% of fair  market  value in the
                                   case of an incentive  stock option granted to
                                   any  individual who owns more than 10% of the
                                   total combined voting power of all classes of
                                   outstanding  stock. The Plan provides for the
                                   granting  of  both  incentive  stock  options
                                   intended to qualify  under Section 422 of the
                                   Internal    Revenue   Code   of   1986,   and
                                   nonqualified  stock  options  which do not so
                                   qualify.   Unless  the  Plan  is   terminated
                                   earlier by the Board of  Directors,  the Plan
                                   will terminate in April 2004.

                                   Stock options that expire  between August 20,
                                   2000 and August 6, 2008 have been  granted to
                                   officers  and  directors  to purchase  Common
                                   Stock at prices  ranging from $3.33 to $17.63
                                   per share.  All  options  and  warrants  were
                                   granted  at  market  prices at date of grant.
                                   The following  table contains  information on
                                   stock  options  issued under the Plan for the
                                   three-year period ended December 31, 1998:









                                   In addition,  300,000  common  stock  options
                                   were issued to the Chairman  outside the Plan
                                   on  October  23,  1996.  These  options  were
                                   issued   at   $17.63   per   share   and  are
                                   exercisable through October 23, 2006.

                                   Exercisable at year-end:



                                   The following  table  summarizes  information
                                   about stock options  outstanding  at December
                                   31, 1998:


                                   Warrants outstanding have been granted to the
                                   underwriters of the Company's  initial public
                                   offering  at a price of $4.00 per share which
                                   expire on June 2, 1999.



           A  summary   of  the   warrant   transactions follows:


                                   During   1995,   the   Financial   Accounting
                                   Standards   Board   adopted    Statement   of
                                   Financial   Accounting   Standards  No.  123,
                                   "Accounting  for  Stock-Based   Compensation"
                                   ("SFAS   123"),    which   has    recognition
                                   provisions  that establish a fair value based
                                   method of accounting for stock-based employee
                                   compensation plans and established fair value
                                   as the measurement  basis for transactions in
                                   which an entity  acquires  goods or  services
                                   from  nonemployees  in  exchange  for  equity
                                   instruments.   SFAS  123  also  has   certain
                                   disclosure   provisions.   Adoption   of  the
                                   recognition   provisions  of  SFAS  123  with
                                   regard    to    these    transactions    with
                                   nonemployees   was   required  for  all  such
                                   transactions  entered into after December 15,
                                   1994,   and   the   Company   adopted   these
                                   provisions  as  required.   The   recognition
                                   provision with regard to the fair value based
                                   method of accounting for stock-based employee
                                   compensation  plans is  optional.  Accounting
                                   Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  "Accounting
                                   for Stock  Issued to  Employers"  ("APB 25"),
                                   uses  what  is  referred  to as an  intrinsic
                                   value based method of accounting. The Company
                                   has  decided to  continue to apply APB 25 for
                                   its   stock-based    employee    compensation
                                   arrangements.  Accordingly,  no  compensation
                                   cost has been  recognized.  Had  compensation
                                   cost for the Company's  employee stock option
                                   plan been determined  based on the fair value
                                   at the grant date for  awards  under the plan
                                   consistent  with the method of SFAS 123,  the
                                   Company's net income and net income per share
                                   would  have  been  reduced  to the pro  forma
                                   amounts indicated below:



                                         The  fair  value  of  each  option  and
                                         warrant  grant is estimated on the date
                                         of  grant   using   the   Black-Scholes
                                         option-pricing model with the following
                                         weighted  average  assumptions used for
                                         grants in 1996, 1997 and 1998: dividend
                                         yield  of 0%;  expected  volatility  of
                                         20%; risk-free interest rate of 6%; and
                                         expected  lives  of  five  years.   The
                                         effects  of  applying  SFAS 123 in this
                                         pro forma disclosure are not indicative
                                         of  future  amounts.  SFAS 123 does not
                                         apply   to   awards   prior   to  1995.
                                         Additional  awards in future  years are
                                         anticipated.

8.       Shareholder               On May 20,  1998,  the Board of  Directors
         Rights Plan               of the Company authorized  and  declared a 
                                   dividend  distribution  of one Preferred
                                   Stock purchase right (the "Rights") for
                                   each  outstanding   share  of  the  Company's
                                   common  stock,  par value $.01 per share (the
                                   "Common Shares"),  payable to shareholders of
                                   record at the close of  business on March 19,
                                   1999.  Each  Right  entitles  the  registered
                                   holder  to  purchase  from  the  Company  one
                                   one-hundredth  of a share (a "Preferred Stock
                                   Fraction"),  or a  combination  of securities
                                   and assets of equivalent value, at a purchase
                                   price of $40.00 per Preferred  Stock Fraction
                                   (the    "Purchase    Price"),    subject   to
                                   adjustment.  The description and terms of the
                                   Rights  are set  forth in a Rights  Agreement
                                   (the "Rights  Agreement") dated March 2, 1999
                                   between  the Company  and  Continental  Stock
                                   Transfer and Trust  Company as Rights  Agent.
                                   All terms not  otherwise  defined  herein are
                                   used as defined in the Rights Agreement.

                                   The  Rights  will  be  exercisable  only if a
                                   person or group  acquires  15% or more of the
                                   Company's    common    stock   (the    "Stock
                                   Acquisition  Date"),  announces  a tender  or
                                   exchange  offer  that  will  result  in  such
                                   person or group  acquiring 20% or more of the
                                   outstanding  common  stock or is a beneficial
                                   owner  of  a  substantial  amount  of  Common
                                   Shares  (at least 10%)  whose  ownership  may
                                   have  a  material  adverse  impact  ("Adverse
                                   Person") on the  business or prospects of the
                                   Company.  The  Company  will be  entitled  to
                                   redeem  the  Rights  at a price  of $.01  per
                                   Right  (payable  in cash or stock) at anytime
                                   until 10 days following the Stock Acquisition
                                   Date or the date on  which a person  has been
                                   determined  to be an Adverse  Person.  If the
                                   Company is involved  in certain  transactions
                                   after the Rights become exercisable, a Holder
                                   of  Rights  (other  than  Rights  owned  by a
                                   shareholder  who has  acquired 15% or more of
                                   the Company's  outstanding common stock or is
                                   determined  to be an  Adverse  Person,  which
                                   Rights  become  void)  is  entitled  to buy a
                                   number  of  the  acquiring  company's  Common
                                   Shares or the Company's  common stock, as the
                                   case may be,  having a market  value of twice
                                   the exercise price of each Right. A potential
                                   dilutive  effect may exist upon the  exercise
                                   of the  Rights.  Until a Right is  exercised,


                                   the   holder   will   have  no  rights  as  a
                                   stockholder   of  the   Company,   including,
                                   without  limitations,  the right to vote as a
                                   stockholder  or  to  receive  dividends.  The
                                   Rights   are  not   exercisable   until   the
                                   Distribution  Date  and  will  expire  at the
                                   close of business on March 18,  2009,  unless
                                   earlier redeemed or exchanged by the Company.

9.       Loss  From                In 1997,  the  Company  recorded  an
         Retirement                extraordinary  loss of $1,482,000 after taxes
         of Debt                   for the early retirement of debt. The 
                                   extraordinary loss consists primarily of
                                   write-offs  of deferred  finance  costs
                                   associated  with the retired  notes and legal
                                   and  bank   fees   relating   to  the   early
                                   extinguishment of the debt.

10.      Site  Development         During 1997, the Company  incurred site
         and Restructuring         development (1,735,000) and restructuring
         Charges                   ($702,000) charges of $2,437,000.  The site
                                   development  charges consist of $800,000
                                   related to the Charles Town Races facility
                                   and $935,000 related to the abandonment of
                                   certain proposed operating sites during 1997.
                                   The restructuring charges primarily consistof
                                   $350,000 in  severance  termination  benefits
                                   and other  charges at the Charles  Town Races
                                   facility;  $300,000 for the  restructuring of
                                   the  Erie,   Pennsylvania  OTW  facility  and
                                   $52,000 of property and equipment written off
                                   in  connection  with the  discontinuation  of
                                   Penn  National  Speedway,   Inc.   operations
                                   during  1997.  These  charges,  net of income
                                   taxes,  decreased  the  1997 net  income  and
                                   diluted  net income  per share by  $1,462,000
                                   and $.09 per share, respectively.

11.     Subsequent                 The  Company's  contract  with the Penn
        Event                      National Race Course Thoroughbred  Horsemen
                                   ("Horsemen") expired on February 15, 1999.
                                   On that date, the Horsemen stopped
                                   live racing at Penn  National Race Course and
                                   withdrew their  permission for the Company to
                                   import simulcast races from other racetracks,
                                   resulting  in the  closure  of Penn  National
                                   Race  Course  and its six OTW  facilities  at
                                   Reading,   Chambersburg,   York,   Lancaster,
                                   Williamsport  and Johnstown.  Effective March
                                   23, 1999,  the parties  signed a new Horsemen
                                   Agreement  with an initial term which expires
                                   on January 1, 2004.




12.      Subsidiary  Summarized  financial  information for years ended December
         31, 1998 and 1997 for Guarantors Penn National Gaming, Inc. ("Parent"),
         the Subsidiary Guarantors and Subsidiary   Nonguarantors is as follows:








Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (In Thousands)



ITEM 9 CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING 
       AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

       Not Applicable


                                    PART III

ITEM 10  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

                  The  information  required  by  Item  10  is  incorporated  by
                  reference from the Company's  definitive  proxy statement with
                  respect to the Company's  Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
                  held on May 5,  1999.  Such  proxy  statement  shall  be filed
                  pursuant to Regulation  14A  promulgated  under the Securities
                  Exchange  Act of 1934,  as amended,  within 120 days after the
                  end of the fiscal year  covered by this Annual  Report on Form
                  10-K.


ITEM 11  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

                  The  information  required  by  Item  11  is  incorporated  by
                  reference from the Company's  definitive  proxy statement with
                  respect to the Company's  Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
                  held on May 5,  1999.  Such  proxy  statement  shall  be filed
                  pursuant to Regulation  14A  promulgated  under the Securities
                  Exchange  Act of 1934,  as amended,  within 120 days after the
                  end of the fiscal year  covered by this Annual  Report on Form
                  10-K.


ITEM 12  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS
                  AND MANAGEMENT

                  The  information  required  by  Item  12  is  incorporated  by
                  reference from the Company's  definitive  proxy statement with
                  respect to the Company's  Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
                  held on May 5,  1999.  Such  proxy  statement  shall  be filed
                  pursuant to Regulation  14A  promulgated  under the Securities
                  Exchange  Act of 1934,  as amended,  within 120 days after the
                  end of the fiscal year  covered by this Annual  Report on Form
                  10-K.




ITEM 13  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

                  The  information  required  by  Item  13  is  incorporated  by
                  reference from the Company's  definitive  proxy statement with
                  respect to the Company's  Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
                  held on May 5,  1999.  Such  proxy  statement  shall  be filed
                  pursuant to Regulation  14A  promulgated  under the Securities
                  Exchange  Act of 1934,  as amended,  within 120 days after the
                  end of the fiscal year  covered by this Annual  Report on Form
                  10-K.





                                     PART IV

ITEM 14  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND
                  REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(A) (1)           The Financial Statements included in the Index to Part II, 
                  Item 8, are filed as part of this Report

    (2)                  List of Exhibits

EXHIBIT
 NOS.                  DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBIT

1.       Purchase Agreement.

2.1      Agreement  and Plan of  Reorganization  dated  April 11, 1994 among the
         Registrant,  Carlino Family Partnership,  Carlino Financial Corporation
         and  the   shareholders  and  general  partners  of  the  entities  now
         comprising Penn national Gaming, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the
         Company's registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May
         26, 1994.)

2.1.1    Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Reorganization  dated April 26, 1994
         among the registrant,  Carlino Family  Partnership,  Carlino  Financial
         Corporation and the  shareholders  and general partners of the entities
         now comprising Penn national Gaming, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to
         the Company's registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated
         May 26, 1994.)

2.2      Agreement and Plan of  Reorganization  dated April 11, 1994 between the
         Registrant  and Thomas J.  Gorman.  (Incorporated  by  reference to the
         Company's registration statement on Form S-1, File #33/77758, dated May
         26, 1994.)

2.2.1    Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Reorganization  dated April 26, 1994
         between the Registrant and Thomas J. Gorman. (Incorporated by reference
         to the Company's  registration  statement on Form S-1, File  #33-77758,
         dated May 26, 1994.)

2.3      Closing  Agreement  dated  January 15, 1997 among  Charles  Town Races,
         Inc.,  Charles Town Racing Limited  Partnership,  and PNGI Charles Town
         Gaming Limited  Liability  Company.  (Incorporated  by reference to the
         Company's  registration  statement on Form 8-K,  File  #0-24206,  dated
         January 30, 1997.)

2.4      Amended and Restated Operating  Agreement dated as of December 31, 1996
         among Penn National Gaming of West Virginia,  Inc., Bryant  Development
         Company  and  PNGI  Charles  Town  Gaming  limited  Liability  Company.
         (Incorporated by reference to the Company's  registration  statement on
         Form 8-K, File #0-24206, dated January 30, 1997.)

2.5      Letter dated  January 14, 1997 from Peter M. Carlino to James A. Reeder
         (Incorporated by reference to the Company's  registration  statement on
         Form 8-K, File #0-24206, dated January 30, 1997.)

2.6      First  Amendment  and  Consent  dated as of  January  7, 1997 among the
         Company,  Bankers  Trust  Company as Agent,  CoreStates  Bank,  N.A. as
         Co-Agent,  and certain banks party to the Credit  Agreement dated as of
         November  27,  1996   (Incorporated   by  reference  to  the  Company's
         registration  statement on Form 8-K, File  #0-24206,  dated January 30,
         1997.)

2.7      Amended and  Restated  Option  Agreement  dated as of February 17, 1995
         among   Charles  Town  Races,   Inc.,   Charles  Town  Racing   Limited
         Partnership,  and PNGI Charles Town Gaming  limited  Liability  Company
         (Incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 2.1 of the  Company's  Form 8-K,
         File #0-24206, dated January 30, 1997)

2.8      Transfer,  Assignment and  Assumption  Agreement and Bill of Sale dated
         January 15, 1997 among  Charles Town Races,  Inc.,  Charles Town Racing
         Limited  Partnership,  and PNGI Charles Town Limited  Liability Company
         (Incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 2.2 of the Company's Form 10-Q ,
         File #0-24206, dated November 14, 1997.)

2.9      Second Amended and Restated Operating Agreement dated as of October 17,
         1997, among Penn National Gaming of West Virginia,  Inc., BDC Group and
         PNGI Charles Town Gaming Limited  Liability  Company  (Incorporated  by
         reference to the Company's Form 10-Q, File #0-24206, dated November 14,
         1997.)

2.10     Purchase Agreement dated September 13, 1996 between the Company and the
         Estate of Joseph B. Banks for the  purchase of Pocono  Downs Race Track
         and two related  OTW  facilities.  (Incorporated  by  reference  to the
         Company's Form 10-Q , File #0-24206, dated November 13, 1996.)

3.1      Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Registrant,filed with
         the Pennsylvania Department of State on April 12, 1994.  (Incorporated
         by  reference to the  Company's  registration statement on Form S-1, 
         File #33-77758, dated May 26, 1994.)

3.2      By-laws of Registrant (Incorporated by reference to the Company's
         registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated
         May 26, 1994.)

4.1      Indenture.  (Incorporated by reference to the Company's registration
         statement on Form S-4, File #333-45337, dated January 30, 1998.)

4.2      Registration  Rights  Agreement dated as of December 17, 1997 among the
         Company,   certain  subsidiaries,   BT  Alex.  Brown  Incorporated  and
         Jefferies & Company,  Inc.  (Incorporated by reference to the Company's
         registration statement on Form S-4, File #333-45337,  dated January 30,
         1998.)

5        Opinion  of  Morgan,  Lewis &  Bockius  regarding  validity  of  Notes.
         (Incorporated by reference to the Company's  registration  statement on
         Form S-4, File #333-45337, dated January 30, 1998.)

9.1      Form of Trust Agreement of Peter D. Carlino, Peter M. Carlino, 
         Richard J. Carlino, David E. Carlino, Susan F. Harrington,
         Anne de Lourdes Irwin, Robert M. Carlino, Stephen P. Carlino and 
         Rosina E. Carlino Gilbert.  (Incorporated by reference to
         the Company's registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758,
         dated May 26, 1994.)

10.1     1994 Stock Option  Plan.  (Incorporated  by reference to the  Company's
         registration  statement  on Form  S-1,  File  #33-77758,  dated May 26,
         1994.)

10.2     Employment  Agreement  dated April 12, 1994 between the  Registrant and
         Peter  M.  Carlino.   (Incorporated   by  reference  to  the  Company's
         registration  statement  on Form  S-1,  File  #33-77758,  dated May 26,
         1994.)

10.3     Credit  Agreement,  dated as of November 27, 1996,  among Penn National
         Gaming,  inc.,  various banks,  CoreStates  bank, N.A., as Co-Agent and
         Bankers Trust Company, as Agent.  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
         10.1  of  the  Company's  registration  statement  on  Form  8-K,  File
         #0-24206, dated December 12, 1996.)

10.4     Employment  Agreement  dated April 12, 1994 between the  Registrant and
         Robert  S.  Ippolito.  (Incorporated  by  reference  to  the  Company's
         registration  statement  on Form  S-1,  File  #33-77758,  dated May 26,
         1994.)

10.8     Consolidation  of PRA  Agreement  dated may 18, 1992 and PRA  Amendment
         dated  February  9, 1993 among all members of the  Pennsylvania  Racing
         Association.  (Incorporated by reference to the Company's  registration
         statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated may 26, 1994.)

10.11    Lease  dated  march 7,  1991  between  Shelbourne  Associated  and PNRC
         Limited  Partnership.  (Incorporated  by  reference  to  the  Company's
         registration  statement  on Form  S-1,  File  #33-77758,  dated May 26,
         1994.)

10.13    Lease dated June 30, 1993 between John E. Kyner, Jr. and Sandra R.
         Kyner, and PNRC Chambersburg,  Inc.  (Incorporated by reference to
         the Company's  registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758,
         dated May 26, 1994.)

10.34    Warrant  Agreement  between the  Registrant  and  Fahnestock & Co. Inc.
         (Incorporated by reference to the Company's  registration  statement on
         Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May 26, 1994.)

10.38    Consulting  Agreement  dated August 29,  1994,  between the Company and
         Peter D.  Carlino.  (Incorporated  by reference to the  Company's  Form
         10-K, File #0-24206 dated March 23, 1995.)

10.39    Lese dated July 7, 1994,  between North Mall Associates and the Company
         for the York OTW.  (Incorporated  by  reference to the  Company's  Form
         10-K, File #0-24206 dated March 23, 1995.)

10.41.1  Lease dated March 31, 1995 between Wyomissing  Professional Center III,
         LP and the Company for the Wyomissing  Corporate Office.  (Incorporated
         by reference to the Company's Form 10-K,  File #0-24206 dated March 20,
         1996.)


10.42    Employment Agreement dated June 1, 1995 between the Company and William
         J. Bork.  (Incorporated  by reference to the Company's Form 10-K,  File
         #0-24206 dated March 20, 1996.)

10.43    Lease  dated  July  17,  1995  between  E.  Lampeter   Associates   and
         Pennsylvania  National  Turf  Club,  Inc.  for the  Lancaster  OTW,  as
         amended.  (Incorporated  by reference to the Company's Form 10-K,  File
         #0-24206 dated March 20, 1996.)

10.44    Agreement  dated  September 1, 1995 between  Mountainview  Thoroughbred
         racing Association and Pennsylvania national Turf Club, Inc. and Sports
         Arena Employees' Union Local 137 (non-primary location.)  (Incorporated
         by reference to the Company's Form 10-K,  File #0-24206 dated March 20,
         1996.)

10.45    Agreement  dated December 27, 1995 between  Pennsylvania  national Turf
         Club, Inc. and Teleview Racing Patrols, Inc. (Incorporated by reference
         to the Company's Form 10-K, File #0-24206 dated March 20, 1996.)

10.47    Agreement  dated  February  15,  1996 among  Mountainview  Thoroughbred
         Racing   Association,   Pennsylvania   national  Turf  Club,  Inc.  and
         Pennsylvania    Division,    horsemen's   Benevolent   and   Protection
         Association,  Inc.  (Incorporated  by reference to the  Company's  Form
         10-K, File #0-24206 dated March 20, 1996.)

10.50    Formation  Agreement  dated  February  26, 1996 between the Company and
         Bryant Development Company. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's
         Form 10-K, File #0-24206 dated March 20, 1996.)

10.51    Assignment of Agreement of Sale dated March 6, 1996 between the Company
         and Montgomery  Realty Growth Fund, Inc.  (Incorporated by reference to
         the Company's Form 10-Q, File #0-24206, dated May 14, 1996.)

10.56    Amended and  Restated  Option  Agreement  dated as of February 17, 1995
         between the PNGI Charles  Town Gaming  Limited  Liability  Company (The
         Joint Venture) and Charles Town Racing Limited  Partnership and Charles
         Town Races, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q,
         File #0-24206, dated November 13,1996.)

10.57    General  Contractor  Agreement  dated  December 23, 1996,  between PNGI
         Charles Town Gaming Limited Liability  Company and Warfel  Construction
         Company.  (Incorporated  by reference to the Company's Form 10-K,  File
         #0-24206, dated March 27, 1997.)

10.58    Agreement  dated  March 19,  1997,  between  PNGI  Charles  Town Gaming
         Limited Liability Company and the Charles Town HBPA, Inc. (Incorporated
         by reference to the Company's Form 10-K, File #0-24206, dated March 27,
         1997.)

10.59    Agreement dated March 21, 1997, between PNGI Charles Town Gaming 
         Limited Liability Company and The West Virginia Thoroughbred Breeders
         Association.  (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-K, 
         File #0-24206, dated March 27, 1997.)

10.60    Agreement  between PNGI Charles Town Gaming Limited  Liability  Company
         and The West  Virginia  Union of  Mutuel  Clerks,  Local  533,  Service
         Employees  International Union, AFL-CIO.  (Incorporated by reference to
         the Company's Form 10-K, File #0-24206, dated March 27, 1997.)

10.61    General Contractor Agreement dated March 26, 1997, between PNGI Charles
         Town Gaming Limited Liability Company and Myers Building Systems,  Inc.
         (Incorporated  by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q,  File #0-24206,
         dated May 15, 1997.)

10.62    Agreement  dated June 25,  1997,  between the PNGI  Charles Town Gaming
         Limited  Liability  Company  and GTECH  Corporation.  (Incorporated  by
         reference to the Company's Form 10-Q,  File #0-24206,  dated August 12,
         1997.)

10.63    Purchase Option dated June 20, 1997,  between the Company and Roosevelt
         Boyland  Devisees.  (Incorporated  by reference to the  Company's  Form
         10-Q, File #0-24206, dated August 12, 1997.)

10.64    Purchase Option dated June 20, 1997, between the Company and Joyce M. 
         Peck.  (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form
         10-Q, File #0-24206, dated August 12, 1997.)

10.65    Purchase Option dated June 20, 1997, between the Company and Alan J. 
         Aste.  (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form
         10-Q, File #0-24206, dated August 12, 1997.)

10.66    Fourth Amendment Waiver and Consent dated as of October 20, 1997, among
         the Company, Bankers Trust, as Agent, CoreStates Bank, N.A. as Co-Agent
         and certain  banks party to the Credit  Agreement  dated as of November
         17, 1996.  (Incorporated  by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q, File
         #0-24206, dated November 14, 1997.)


10.67    Agreement  dated  October 2, 1996 between  Pennsylvania  National  Turf
         Club, Inc., Mountainview Racing Association and Sports Arena Employees'
         union Local No. 137 (Primary  Location.)  (Incorporated by reference to
         the Company's Form 10-K, File #0-24206, dated March 27, 1998.)

10.68    Lease dated July 1, 1997 between  Laurel Mall  Associated and the Downs
         Off-Track  Wagering,  Inc.  (Incorporated by reference to the Company's
         Form 10-K, File #0-24206, dated March 27, 1998.)

10.69    General Contractor Agreement dated August 15, 1997, between Pocono 
         Downs, Inc. and S.G. Mastriani Construction Management.
         (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-K, File #0-24206,
         dated March 27, 1998.)

10.70    General Contractor Agreement dated October 15, 1997, between Pocono 
         Downs, Inc. and S.G. Mastriani Construction Management.
         (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-K, File #0-24206, 
         dated March 27, 1998.)

10.71    General  Contractor  Agreement dated November 12, 1997,  between Pocono
         Downs, Inc. and Warfel Construction Company. (Incorporated by reference
         to the Company's Form 10-K, File #0-24206, dated March 27, 1998.)

10.72    Totalisator  Agreement  dated November 19, 1997,  between Penn National
         Gaming, Inc. and AutoTote Systems,  Inc.  (Incorporated by reference to
         the Company's Form 10-K, File #0-24206, dated March 27, 1998.)

10.73    Amended and  Restated  Credit  Facility  dated as of December 17, 1997,
         among the Company,  certain lenders,  Bankers Trust Company,  as Agent,
         and CoreStates Bank,  N.A., as Co-Agent.  (Incorporated by reference to
         the Company's Form 10-K, File #0-24206, dated March 27, 1998.)

10.74    Waiver dated March 25,  1998,  between the  Company,  certain  lenders,
         Bankers Trust Company as Agent, and CoreStates Bank, N.A., as Co-Agent.
         (Incorporated  by reference to the Company's Form 10-K,  File #0-24206,
         dated March 27, 1998.)

10.75    General  Contractor  Agreement  dated  April  24,  1998,  between  Penn
         National Turf Club and Warfel  Construction  Company.  (Incorporated by
         reference to the Company's Form 10-Q,  File  #0-24206,  dated March 31,
         1998.)

10.76    First  Amendment  and Waiver  dated May 15, 1998,  among Penn  National
         Gaming,  Inc.,   CoreStates  Bank,  N.A.  and  Bankers  Trust  Company.
         (Incorporated  by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q,  File #0-24206,
         dated March 31, 1998.)

10.77    Purchase   Agreement  dated  July  7,  1998,  between  Ladbroke  Racing
         Management  -  Pennsylvania   and  Mountainview   Thoroughbred   Racing
         Association.  (Incorporated  by reference to the  Company's  Form 10-Q,
         File #0-24206, dated June 30, 1998.)

10.78    Lease  Agreement  between Penn National  Gaming,  Inc. and Eagle Valley
         Realty dated July 14, 1998. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's
         Form 10-Q, File #0-24206, dated September 30, 1998.)

10.79    Joint  Venture  Agreement  dated October 30, 1998 between Penn National
         Gaming, Inc. and Greenwood New Jersey, Inc.  (Incorporated by reference
         to the Company's Form 10-Q, File #0-24206, dated September 30, 1998.)

10.80    Amendment  dated  November 2, 1998 to Joint Venture  Agreement  between
         Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Greenwood New Jersey, Inc. (Incorporated
         by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q, File #0-24206, dated September
         30, 1998.)

10.81    Rights  Agreement  dated as of  March 2,  1999  between  Penn  National
         Gaming,  Inc.,  and  Continental  Stock  Transfer  and  Trust  Company.
         (Incorporated  by reference to the Company's  Form 8-K, File  #0-24206,
         dated March 2, 1999.)

10.82    First  Amendment to Asset  Purchase  Agreement  dated as of January 28,
         1999  by  and  among   Greenwood   New  Jersey,   Inc.,   International
         Thoroughbred  Breeders,  Inc., Garden State Race Track, Inc.,  Freehold
         Racing  Association,  Atlantic City Harness Inc., Circa 1850, Inc., and
         Penn National Gaming, Inc.  (Incorporated by reference to the Company's
         Form 8-K, File #0-24206, dated January 28, 1999.)

10.83    First  Amendment  to Joint  Venture  Agreement  dated as of January 28,
         1999,  by and between  Greenwood  New Jersey,  Inc.  and Penn  National
         Gaming, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 8-K, File
         #0-24206, dated January 28, 1999.)

10.84    Purchase Agreement dated November 17, 1998 between the Company and
         GTECH Corporation.


10.85    Assignment and Assumption of Lease Agreement dated December 31, 1998 
         between Mountainview Thoroughbred Racing Association and
         Ladbroke Racing Management-Pennsylvania.

10.86    Subordination, Non-Disturbance and Attornment Agreement dated 
         December 31, 1998 between Mountainview Thoroughbred Racing
         Association and CRIIMI MAE Services Limited Partnership.

10.87    Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of 
         January 28, 1999 between the Company and various banks, First Union
         National Bank, as Agent.

10.88    Live Racing Agreement dated March 23, 1999 between Pennsylvania 
         National Turf Club, Inc. and Mountainview Thoroughbred Racing
         Association and Pennsylvania Horsemen's Benevolent and Protection 
         Association, Inc.

21       Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23.1     Consent  of  BDO  Seidman,  LLP.  (Incorporated  by  reference  to  the
         Company's  registration  statement on Form S-3, file #333-18861,  dated
         February 11, 1997.)

23.2     Consent  of  Robert  Rossi  & Co.  (Incorporated  by  reference  to the
         Company's  registration  statement on Form S-3, File #333-18861,  dated
         February 11, 1997.)

23.3     Consent of Leonard J. Miller & Associates, Chartered.  (Incorporated by
         reference to the  Company's  registration  statement on Form S-3,  File
         #333-18861, dated February 11, 1997.)

23.4     Consent of Morgan,  Lewis & Bockius LLP  (included in its opinion filed
         as Exhibit 5.1 hereto).  (Incorporated  by  reference to the  Company's
         registration statement of Form S-3, File #333-18861, dated February 11,
         1997.)

23.6     Consent of Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP (included in Exhibit 5) 
         (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form S-4, File
         #333-45337, dated January 30, 1997.)

24.1     Powers of Attorney.  (Incorporated by reference to the Company's 
         registration statement on Form S-3, File #333-18861, dated
         February 11, 1997.)

27.1     Financial Data Schedule.


99       Press Release of Penn National Gaming,  Inc.,  issued January 20, 1995.
         (Incorporated  by reference to the Company's  Form 8-K, File  #0-24206,
         dated January 21, 1997.)

(B)  Reports on Form 8-K

         None






                                   SIGNATURES

         Pursuant to the  requirements  of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                                     PENN NATIONAL GAMING, INC.


                                                     By  \s\Peter M. Carlino    
                                                     ----------------------- 
                                                     Peter M. Carlino, 
                                                     Chairman of the Board

Dated:  March 30  , 1999

         Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities Act of 1934 this report
has been signed below by the following  persons on behalf of the  registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.





                           EXHIBIT INDEX



