10-K


a07-5320_110k.htm

10-K

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington,
D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13
OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO
SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For
the transition period from                      
to

Commission File
Number 0-24206

Penn National Gaming, Inc.

(Exact name of registrant
as specified in its charter)

Pennsylvania

23-2234473

(State or other
  jurisdiction of

Incorporation or Organization)

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

Wyomissing
  Professional Center

825 Berkshire Blvd., Suite 200

Wyomissing, Pennsylvania


(Zip Code)

(Address of
  principal executive offices)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:
(610) 373-2400

Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each

exchange on which registered

None

None

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of
the Act:

Common Stock, par value $.01 per share

(Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act. Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of
the Act. Yes

o

No

x

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports to be filed by Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file
such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days. Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.

x

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a
non-accelerated filer. See definition of “accelerated filer and large
accelerated filer” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act (Check one):

Large accelerated filer

x

Accelerated
  filer

o

Non-accelerated
  filer

o

Indicate by a check mark
whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act). Yes

o

No

x

As of June 30, 2006
(the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second
fiscal quarter), the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $2.8 billion. Such aggregate
market value was computed by reference to the closing price of the Common Stock
as reported on the Nasdaq National Market on June 30, 2006. For purposes
of making this calculation only, the registrant has defined affiliates as
including all directors, executive officers and beneficial owners of more than
ten percent of the Common Stock of the Company.

The number of shares of the
registrant’s Common Stock outstanding as of February 14, 2007 was
85,388,598.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE

Portions
of the registrant’s definitive proxy statement for its 2007 annual meeting of
shareholders are incorporated by reference into Part III.

TABLE
OF CONTENTS

Page

PART I

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS


ITEM 1A.

RISK FACTORS


ITEM
  1B.

UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS


ITEM 2.

PROPERTIES


ITEM 3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS


ITEM
  4.

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A
  VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS


PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S
  COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS


ITEM
  6.

SELECTED CONSOLIDATED
  FINANCIAL DATA


ITEM
  7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND
  ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


ITEM
  7A.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE
  DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK


ITEM
  8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
  SUPPLEMENTARY DATA


ITEM
  9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS
  WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE


ITEM
  9A.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES


ITEM 9B.

OTHER
  INFORMATION


PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE
  OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT


ITEM
  11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION


ITEM
  12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF
  CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDERS MATTERS


ITEM
  13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND
  RELATED TRANSACTIONS


ITEM
  14.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES
  AND SERVICES


PART IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL
  STATEMENT SCHEDULES


i

IMPORTANT FACTORS
REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This document
includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A
of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. These
statements are included throughout the document, including the section entitled
“Risk Factors,” and relate to our business strategy, our prospects and our
financial position. These statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking
terminology such as “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “may,” “will,”
“should” or “anticipates” or the negative or other variation of these or
similar words, or by discussions of future events, strategies or risks and
uncertainties. Specifically, forward-looking statements may include,
among others, statements concerning:

·

our
expectations of future results of operations or financial condition;

·

our
expectations for our properties;

·

the
timing, cost and expected impact of planned capital expenditures on our results
of operations;

·

the
impact of our geographic diversification;

·

our
expectations with regard to further acquisitions and the integration of any
companies we have acquired or may acquire;

·

the
outcome and financial impact of the litigation in which we are periodically
involved;

·

the
actions of regulatory, legislative, executive or judicial decisions at the
federal, state or local level with regard to our business and the impact of any
such actions;

·

our
ability to maintain regulatory approvals for our existing businesses and to
receive regulatory approval for new businesses;

·

our
expectations for the continued availability and cost of capital; and

·

the
divestiture of the Empress Casino Hotel in Joliet, Illinois pursuant to an
agreement with the Illinois Gaming Board.

Although we believe
that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are
reasonable, they are inherently subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions
about our subsidiaries and us, and accordingly, our forward-looking
statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors
described below under the heading “Risk Factors” and in the information
incorporated by reference herein. Important factors that could cause actual
results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include,
without limitation, risks related to the following:

·

the
passage of state, federal or local legislation that would expand, restrict,
further tax or prevent gaming operations in or adjacent to the jurisdictions in
which we do business;

·

increases
in our effective rate of taxation at any of our properties or at the corporate
level;

·

the
activities of our competitors;

·

successful
completion of the various capital projects at our gaming and pari-mutuel
facilities;

·

the
existence of attractive acquisition candidates, the costs and risks involved in
the pursuit of those acquisitions and our ability to integrate those
acquisitions;

·

our
ability to maintain regulatory approvals for our existing businesses and to
receive regulatory approvals for new businesses;

·

our
dependence on key personnel;

·

the
risks involved in divesting the Empress Casino Hotel in Joliet, Illinois,
pursuant to an agreement with the Illinois Gaming Board, including without
limitation receiving an acceptable purchase price;

ii

·

the
availability and cost of financing;

·

the
maintenance of agreements with our horsemen, pari-mutuel clerks and other
organized labor groups;

·

the
impact of terrorism and other international hostilities; and

·

other
factors as discussed in our filings with the United States Securities and
Exchange Commission.

All subsequent written and oral forward-looking
statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly
qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements included in this
document. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise,
except as required by law. In light of these risks, uncertainties and
assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed in this document may
not occur.

iii

PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Overview

We are a leading, diversified, multi-jurisdictional
owner and operator of gaming and pari-mutuel properties. The Company was
incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1982 as PNRC Corp. and adopted its current name
in 1994, when the Company became a public company. In 1997, we began our
transition from a pari-mutuel company to a diversified gaming company with the
acquisition of the Charles Town property and the introduction of video lottery
terminals in West Virginia. Since 1997, we have continued to expand our gaming
operations through strategic acquisitions, including the acquisition of
Hollywood Casino Corporation in March 2003 and Argosy Gaming Company (“Argosy”)
in October 2005. We now own or operate seventeen facilities in thirteen
jurisdictions, including Colorado, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Louisiana, Maine,
Mississippi, Missouri, New Jersey, Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and
Ontario. In addition, on November 7, 2006, we agreed to acquire Zia Park
racetrack and its Black Gold Casino in New Mexico. The transaction is expected
to close mid-2007, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing
conditions, including regulatory approval. We believe that our portfolio of
assets provides us with a diversified cash flow from operations. We intend to
continue to expand our gaming operations through the implementation of a
disciplined capital expenditure program at our existing properties and the
continued pursuit of strategic acquisitions of gaming properties in attractive
markets. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the terms “we”, “us”, “our”,
“the Company” and “Penn National” refer to Penn National Gaming, Inc. and
it subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise.

The
following table summarizes certain features of our properties and our managed
facility as of December 31, 2006:

Location

Type of Facility

Approx.

Gaming

Square

Footage

Gaming

Machines

Table

Games(1)

Hotel

Rooms

Owned Gaming Properties:

Charles Town
  Entertainment

Complex

Charles Town, WV

Land-based gaming/

Thoroughbred racing

151,450

4,183

—

—

Argosy Casino
  Lawrenceburg

Lawrenceburg, IN

Dockside gaming

74,300

2,417



Hollywood Casino
  Aurora

Aurora, IL

Dockside gaming

53,000

1,172


—

Empress Casino
  Hotel(2)

Joliet, IL

Dockside gaming

50,000

1,211



Argosy Casino
  Riverside

Riverside, MO

Dockside gaming

56,400

1,800


—

Hollywood Casino
  Baton Rouge

Baton Rouge, LA

Dockside gaming

28,000

1,141


—

Argosy Casino
  Alton

Alton, IL

Dockside gaming

23,000

1,103


—

Hollywood Casino
  Tunica

Tunica, MS

Dockside gaming

54,000

1,334



Hollywood Casino
  Bay St. Louis

Bay St. Louis, MS

Land-based gaming

40,000

1,005



Argosy Casino
  Sioux City

Sioux City, IA

Dockside gaming

20,500



—

Boomtown Biloxi

Biloxi, MS

Dockside gaming

80,850

1,400


—

Hollywood Slots at
  Bangor

Bangor, ME

Land-based gaming

12,400


—

—

Bullwhackers

Black Hawk, CO

Land-based gaming

16,660


—

—

Operated Gaming Property:

Casino Rama

Orillia, Ontario

Land-based gaming

93,000

2,505



Racing Properties:

Penn National Race
  Course(3)

Grantville, PA

Thoroughbred racing

—

—

—

—

Bangor Historic
  Track

Bangor, ME

Harness racing

—

—

—

—

Raceway Park

Toledo, OH

Harness racing

—

—

—

—

Freehold
  Raceway(4)

Monmouth, NJ

Harness racing

—

—

—

—

Total

753,560

21,304


1,474

(1)

Excludes poker tables.

(2)

In order to obtain regulatory approval from the
Illinois Gaming Board for the acquisition of Argosy, we agreed to enter into a
sale agreement for the Empress Casino Hotel by June 30, 2008.

(3)

In addition to our racetrack, Penn National Race Course
operates six off-track wagering facilities, located in Pennsylvania.

(4)

Pursuant to a joint venture with Greenwood
Limited Jersey, Inc., a subsidiary of Greenwood Racing, Inc.


Recent Developments

—Hollywood Casino
at Penn National

In late December 2006,
the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board (the “PGCB”) granted us a Category 1
slot machine license for the placement of slot machines at our planned
Hollywood Casino racing and gaming facility at Penn National Race Course. In August 2006,
we commenced construction of the integrated racing and gaming facility at Penn
National Race Course. In preparation for the construction, we closed and razed
the aged grandstand and clubhouse at Penn National Race Course, and opened a
new 24,000 square foot temporary facility offering pari-mutuel wagering, food
and beverage service, more than 250 television monitors, administrative offices
and facilities for jockeys. The Hollywood Casino at Penn National will be a
365,000 square foot facility, and will be sized for 3,000 slot machines, with
2,000 positions planned at opening. At opening, the new facility will also
include a food court, entertainment bar and lounge, trackside dining room, and
a sports bar. A connected five-story self parking garage, with capacity for
2,500 cars, will be constructed and supplemented by approximately 1,200 surface
parking spaces for self and valet parking.

—Hurricane Katrina

As a result of Hurricane Katrina’s direct hit on the
Mississippi Gulf Coast on August 29, 2005, two of our casinos, Hollywood
Casino Bay St. Louis (formerly known as Casino Magic—Bay St. Louis) and
Boomtown Biloxi, were significantly damaged, many employees were displaced and
operations ceased at the two properties. Boomtown Biloxi reopened on June 29,
2006 and Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis reopened on August 31, 2006.

We had significant levels of insurance in place at the
time of Hurricane Katrina to cover the losses resulting from the hurricane,
including an “all risk” insurance policy covering “named windstorm” damage,
flood damage, debris removal, preservation of property expense, demolition and
increased cost of construction expense, and losses resulting from business
interruption and extra expenses, all as defined in the policies. The
comprehensive business interruption and property damage insurance policies had
an overall limit of $400 million, and was subject to property damage
deductibles for Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi of
approximately $6.0 million and $3.5 million, respectively. The
business interruption insurance component of this policy was subject to a
five-day deductible.

During the year ended December 31, 2006, our
financial results benefited from a settlement agreement with our property and
business interruption insurance providers for a total of $225 million for
Hurricane Katrina-related losses at our Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and
Boomtown Biloxi properties, as well as minor proceeds related to our National
Flood Insurance coverage and auto insurance claims. Reflecting the settlement
agreement, we recorded a pre-tax gain of $128.3 million ($81.8 million,
net of taxes).

On August 8, 2006, we
renewed our property insurance coverage in the amount of $200 million. The
$200 million coverage is “all risk”, including “named windstorm”, flood and
earthquake. Also, we purchased an additional $250 million of “all risk”
coverage that is subject to certain exclusions including, among others,
exclusion for “named windstorms”, floods and earthquakes. There is a $25
million deductible for “named windstorm” events, and lesser deductibles as they
apply to other perils.

Owned Gaming
Properties

Charles Town
Entertainment Complex

The complex is located
within approximately a one-hour drive from Baltimore, Maryland and Washington,
D.C., and is the only gaming property located conveniently west of these two
cities. The Charles Town Entertainment Complex has 151,450 square feet of
gaming space, with approximately 4,183 gaming machines. The complex also
features live thoroughbred racing at a refurbished,


¤


-mile
all-weather, lighted thoroughbred racetrack with a 3,000-seat grandstand,
parking for 6,048 vehicles as well as simulcast


wagering
and dining. In 2006, we completed construction of a 378-seat buffet and a
new parking garage, which doubled our structured parking to 5,048 spaces. In
addition, we continue to build and develop the Charles Town Entertainment
Complex, with plans for the current expansion of the property including a 153-room
on-site hotel and a 65,000 square foot expansion of the gaming floor. The
expansion of the gaming floor will enable us to initially add 800 gaming
machines, with capacity for an additional 1,000 gaming machines thereafter. The
complex has been approved to operate a maximum of 6,500 gaming machines. The
expanded gaming floor is expected to be completed in two phases, with the first
phase being completed in May 2007.

Argosy Casino
Lawrenceburg

The Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg is located on the Ohio
River in Lawrenceburg, Indiana, approximately 15 miles west of Cincinnati and
is the closest casino to the Cincinnati metropolitan area, its principal target
market. The casino also services the major metropolitan markets of Dayton and
Columbus, Ohio and, to a lesser extent, Indianapolis, Indiana and Lexington,
Kentucky. The casino has 74,300 square feet of gaming space on three levels
with approximately 2,417 slot machines, 74 table games and 15 poker tables.

The complex also features
a 300-room hotel, a land-based entertainment pavilion and support
facility featuring a 350-seat buffet restaurant, two specialty restaurants, an
entertainment lounge, a 1,710 space parking garage and a 1,640 space remote
parking lot. We are moving forward with the construction of a planned casino
development. The development includes a 1,500 space parking garage which is
expected to open in the second quarter of 2008, a two-level 270,000 square foot
riverboat, and numerous infrastructure upgrades to allow more convenient access
to the property, which are expected to open in the second quarter of 2009. The
new riverboat will allow up to 4,000 positions on one level and another 400
positions will be added to the second level, along with restaurants and other
amenities on the gaming riverboat.

Hollywood Casino
Aurora

Hollywood Casino Aurora, part of the Chicagoland
market, is located in Aurora, Illinois, the second largest city in Illinois,
approximately 35 miles west of Chicago. The facility is easily accessible from
major highways, can be reached by train from downtown Chicago, and is
approximately 30 miles from both the O’Hare International and Midway airports.
Hollywood Casino Aurora has a 53,000 square foot single-level dockside
casino facility with 1,172 gaming machines, 21 gaming tables and 5 poker
tables.

The facility features two
upscale lounges, a steakhouse, the Hollywood Epic Buffet®, a fast food outlet,
a high-end customer lounge and a private dining room for premium players.
Hollywood Casino Aurora also has two parking garages with approximately 1,564
parking spaces and a gift shop.

Empress Casino
Hotel

The Empress Casino Hotel, part of the Chicagoland
market, is located on the Des Plaines River in Joliet, Illinois, approximately
40 miles southwest of Chicago. This barge-based casino provides 50,000
square feet of gaming space on two levels with approximately 1,211 slot
machines, 20 table games and 3 poker tables.

The casino theme evokes
Northern California’s wine country and features a 150,000 square foot
entertainment pavilion with three restaurants, an entertainment lounge and
banquet/conference facilities. The complex also includes a 100-room
hotel, surface parking areas with approximately 1,616 spaces and an 80-space
recreational vehicle park. In order to obtain regulatory approval from the
Illinois Gaming Board for the acquisition of Argosy, we agreed to enter into a
sale agreement for the Empress Casino Hotel by June 30, 2008.


Argosy Casino
Riverside

The Argosy Casino Riverside is located on the Missouri
River approximately five miles from downtown Kansas City in Riverside,
Missouri. The casino primarily attracts customers who reside in the northern
and western regions of the Kansas City metropolitan area. This Las Vegas-style
casino features approximately 56,400 square feet of gaming space with
approximately 1,800 slot machines, 40 table games and 7 poker tables.

This state-of-the-art
Mediterranean-themed casino features an innovative “floating” casino
floor that provides a seamless transition between the casino and land-based
support areas, which include an entertainment facility featuring 6 food and
beverage areas, including a buffet, steak house, deli, coffee bar, VIP lounge
and sports/entertainment lounge and 14,000 square feet of banquet/conference
facilities. Argosy Casino Riverside currently has parking for approximately
2,800 vehicles. Construction continues on a 258-room hotel that is
expected to open in April 2007. This hotel will increase the total
banquet/conference facilities to 19,000 square feet, and parking to 3,000
spaces.

Hollywood Casino
Baton Rouge

Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge (formerly known as Casino
Rouge) is currently one of two dockside riverboat gaming facilities operating
in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. The Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge property features a
riverboat casino, reminiscent of a nineteenth century Mississippi River
paddlewheel steamboat. The riverboat features approximately 28,000 square feet
of gaming space, 1,141 gaming machines and 27 table games.

The facility also includes a two-story, 58,000-square
foot dockside building featuring a variety of amenities, including a
steakhouse, a 268-seat buffet, a premium players’ lounge, a nightclub
that doubles as a players’ event area, a lobby bar, a public atrium, two
meeting rooms, 1,548 parking spaces, a players’ club booth, a deli and a gift
shop.

In February 2007, we completed a renovation of
the dockside building’s interior décor. The renovation includes a completely
new art deco themed interior design for the lobby and entry corridor as well as
a new nightclub, lobby bar, gift shop, and employee dining room.

In February 2007,
concurrent with the completion of the renovation, the property was re-named
from Casino Rouge to Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge. In connection with the new
name, also added were a new marquee, sky tracker lights, new signage, Hollywood
memorabilia displays, cast member uniforms and a digital video system
throughout the property. In addition, the advertising, marketing and
entertainment programs have been enhanced to complement the Hollywood theme.

Argosy Casino Alton

The Argosy Casino Alton is located on the Mississippi
River in Alton, Illinois, approximately 20 miles northeast of downtown St.
Louis and primarily services the St. Louis metropolitan market. The target
customers of the Argosy Casino Alton are drawn largely from the northern and
eastern regions of the greater St. Louis metropolitan area, as well as portions
of central and southern Illinois. The Argosy Casino Alton is a three-deck
gaming facility featuring 23,000 square feet of gaming space with approximately
1,103 slot machines and 20 table games.

The Argosy Casino Alton
includes an entertainment pavilion and features a 124-seat buffet, a
restaurant and a 400-seat main showroom. The facility includes parking
areas with 1,258 spaces.

Hollywood Casino
Tunica

Hollywood Casino Tunica is located in Tunica,
Mississippi. Tunica County is the closest resort gaming jurisdiction to, and is
easily accessible from, the Memphis, Tennessee metropolitan area. The Tunica
market has become a regional destination resort, attracting customers from
surrounding markets such as


Nashville, Tennessee,
Atlanta, Georgia, St. Louis, Missouri, Little Rock, Arkansas, and Tulsa,
Oklahoma. Hollywood Casino Tunica features 54,000 square feet of gaming space
at a single-level casino with approximately 1,334 slot machines, 31 table
games and 6 poker tables.

Hollywood Casino Tunica’s
494-room hotel and 123-space recreational vehicle park provide
overnight accommodations for its patrons. The casino includes multimedia
displays of memorabilia from famous adventure motion pictures. Additional
entertainment amenities include a steakhouse, the Hollywood Epic Buffet, a 1950’s-style
diner, an entertainment lounge, a premium players’ club, a themed bar facility,
a non-smoking slot room, an indoor pool and showroom as well as banquet and
meeting facilities. There is also an 18-hole championship golf course
adjacent to the facility that is owned and operated through a joint venture of
three gaming companies. In addition, Hollywood Casino Tunica offers parking for
1,635 cars.

Hollywood Casino
Bay St. Louis

Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis reopened on August 31, 2006 after
being closed for approximately one year due to extensive damage caused by
Hurricane Katrina. Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis was formerly known as Casino
Magic—Bay St. Louis, but, concurrent, with its August 31, 2006 opening, it
was re-named as Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis. Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis
offers a 40,000 square foot casino. Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis features 20
table games, 6 poker tables and 1,005 slot machines, with room to expand
to 1,270 slot machines.

In addition, the damaged
areas of the existing 291-room hotel tower were completely
refurbished. The waterfront Hollywood Hotel features a 10,000 square foot
ballroom including nine separate meeting rooms offering more than 17,000 square
feet of meeting space. Hollywood offers live entertainment on weekends in three
separate venues including Shakers martini bar, Club Royale and starting in March monthly
concerts in the ballroom. The Bridges golf course is an 18-hole
championship golf course reopened in mid-October after being
masterfully renovated by Seaside Golf Development under the watchful eye
of Arnold Palmer’s Course Design Group. Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis
has three restaurants including Tuscany Steaks & Seafood® (fine dining),
the Hollywood Epic Buffet and Jackpot Java a 24-hour deli style
cafe. The Bridges Clubhouse reopened with a new pro shop and grill in
February 2007. Other amenities include a RV Park with 100 sites and
Tokens gift shop.

Argosy Casino Sioux
City

The Argosy Casino Sioux
City is located on the Missouri River in downtown Sioux City, Iowa. The
riverboat features 20,500 square feet of gaming space with approximately 659
slot machines, 21 table games and 6 poker tables. The casino is complemented by
adjacent barge facilities featuring buffet dining facilities, meeting space,
389 parking spaces and administrative support offices.

Boomtown Biloxi

Boomtown Biloxi, which had
been closed since late August 2005 as a result of extensive damage caused
by Hurricane Katrina, reopened on June 29, 2006 with a re-modeled interior,
including approximately 1,100 new slot machines, 22 table games and a 350-seat
buffet. In early September 2006, Boomtown Biloxi opened its pier-based
expansion, with 300 additional slot machines, for a total of 1,400 slot
machines, 7 poker tables and a full-service restaurant.

Hollywood Slots at Bangor

Hollywood Slots at Bangor
is situated near historic Bass Park, where Bangor Raceway is located, in
downtown Bangor, Maine. The facility includes a small restaurant, full beverage
service, 220 parking spaces and 12,400 square feet of gaming space with
approximately 475 slot machines.

In late December 2006,
we completed the purchase of the former Holiday Inn in Bangor, Maine, where we
will be building the permanent Hollywood Slots at Bangor facility. Due to the
results currently generated by our temporary facility and a substantial number
of patrons driving significant distances to


Hollywood
Slots at Bangor, we are adding a hotel to the plans for the permanent facility,
which will feature a two-story, semi-circular, glass tower casino area, a
four-story parking garage, restaurants, retail space and a new simulcast
facility for off-track wagering. Construction of the facility, which will open
with 1,000 slot machines and have capacity for 1,500 gaming machines, is
planned to commence in the first half of 2007, following the demolition of the
existing hotel and adjacent buildings.

Bangor Raceway is located
at historic Bass Park in downtown Bangor, Maine. Harness racing has been
conducted continuously at Bass Park since 1893 and it was once part of racing’s
Grand Circuit during the 1920s. In 2006, Bangor Raceway conducted 44 days
of harness racing from late April through early November on its
one-half mile track. With over 12,000 square feet of space, the facility can
seat 3,500 patrons and features a restaurant and cocktail lounge.

Bullwhackers

The Bullwhackers
properties include the Bullwhackers Casino, the adjoining Bullpen Sports Casino
and the Silver Hawk Saloon and Casino. The Bullwhackers properties are located
in Black Hawk, Colorado and include 16,660 square feet of gaming space
consisting of 899 slot machines. The properties also include a 344-car
parking area.

Racing Properties

Penn National Race Course

Penn National Race Course
is located in Grantville, Pennsylvania, and is 15 miles northeast of
Harrisburg, 100 miles west of Philadelphia and 200 miles east of Pittsburgh.
Penn National is one of only two operating thoroughbred racetracks in
Pennsylvania. The property includes a one-mile all-weather, lighted
thoroughbred racetrack, and a


¤


-mile
turf track. The property also includes approximately 400 acres that are
available for future expansion or development.

In late December 2006,
the PGCB granted us a Category 1 slot machine license for the placement of slot
machines at our planned Hollywood Casino racing and gaming facility at Penn
National Race Course. In August 2006, we commenced construction of the
integrated racing and gaming facility at Penn National Race Course. In
preparation for the construction, we closed and razed the aged grandstand and
clubhouse at Penn National Race Course, and opened a new 24,000 square foot
temporary facility offering pari-mutuel wagering, food and beverage services,
more than 250 television monitors, administrative offices and facilities for
jockeys. The Hollywood Casino at Penn National will be a 365,000 square foot
facility, and will be sized for 3,000 slot machines, with 2,000 positions
planned at opening. At opening, the new facility will also include a food
court, entertainment bar and lounge, trackside dining room, and a sports bar. A
connected five-story self parking garage, with capacity for 2,500 cars, will be
constructed and supplemented by approximately 1,200 surface parking spaces for
self and valet parking.

Raceway Park

Raceway Park is a 58,250
square foot facility, with a


¤


-mile harness
racing track located in Toledo, Ohio. The facility also features simulcast
wagering and has a 1,977 theatre-style seating capacity and parking for
3,000 vehicles.

Freehold Raceway

Through our joint venture,
we own Freehold Raceway located in Freehold in Western Monmouth County, New
Jersey. The property features a half-mile oval harness track and a 150,000
square foot grandstand.


Off-track wagering
facilities (“OTWs”)

Our OTWs and racetracks
provide areas for viewing import simulcast races of thoroughbred and harness
horse racing, televised sporting events, placing pari-mutuel wagers and dining.
We operate six of the twenty-one OTWs in operation in Pennsylvania; one
remaining OTW is authorized for operation. Only licensed racing associations
can operate OTWs or accept customer wagers on simulcast races. We have been
transmitting simulcasts of our races to other OTWs, thoroughbred and harness
horse racetracks, and greyhound dog racetracks, throughout the United States,
and receiving simulcasts of races from other thoroughbred and harness horse
racetracks for wagering by customers at our OTW locations and our horse
racetrack facilities, year-round, for more than thirteen years. Import
simulcasts typically include races from premier horse racetracks such as
Belmont Park, Churchill Downs, Gulfstream Park, Hollywood Park, Santa Anita and
Saratoga.

Account
Wagering/Internet Wagering

In 1983, we pioneered Telebet®, the complete account
wagering operation for Penn National Race Course. The platform offers account
wagering on more than 80 U.S. racetracks, and currently has more than 7,300
active account betting customers from the 14 states that permit account
wagering as well as the U.S. Virgin Islands.

We have also developed
strategic relationships to further our wagering activities. In
August 1999, we entered into an agreement with eBet Limited, an Internet
wagering operation in Australia, to license their eBetUSA.com technology in the
U.S. Through eBetUSA.com, Inc., our wholly-owned subsidiary, we use
the eBetUSA.com technology to permit on-line pari-mutuel horseracing wagering
over the internet in selected jurisdictions with the approval of the
Pennsylvania State Horse Racing Commission and applicable federal and state
laws, rules and regulations, as permitted. We currently accept wagers from
residents of 14 U.S. states and the U.S. Virgin Islands.

Operated Gaming
Property

Casino Rama

Through CHC Casinos Canada Limited, our indirectly
wholly-owned subsidiary, we operate Casino Rama, a full service gaming
and entertainment facility, on behalf of the Ontario Lottery and Gaming
Corporation, an agency of the Province of Ontario. Casino Rama is located on
the lands of the Mnjikaning First Nation, approximately 90 miles north of
Toronto. The property has approximately 93,000 square feet of gaming space,
2,505 gaming machines, 101 table games and 12 poker tables. In addition, the
property includes a 5,000-seat entertainment facility, a 289-room
hotel and 3,170 parking spaces. The majority of the capital for construction of
the hotel and entertainment facility was financed by an affiliate of the
Mnjikaning First Nation, and is being repaid out of the revenue of Casino Rama
pursuant to the terms of the Development and Operating Agreement described
below.

The Development and Operating Agreement under which
CHC Casinos Canada Limited operates the facility, which we refer to as the
management service contract for Casino Rama, sets out the duties, rights and
obligations of CHC Casinos Canada Limited. As the operator, CHC Casinos Canada
Limited is entitled to a base fee equal to 2.0% of gross revenues of the casino
and an incentive fee equal to 5.0% of the casino’s net operating profit.

The management service
contract terminates on July 31, 2011, and the Ontario Lottery and Gaming
Corporation has the option to extend the term of the agreement and CHC Casinos
Canada Limited’s appointment as operator for two successive periods of five
years each commencing on August 1, 2011.


Trademarks

We own a number of trademarks registered with the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office (“U.S. PTO”), including but not limited to, “Telebet,”
“World Series of Handicapping,” and “Players’ Choice.” We also have a
number of trademark applications pending with the U.S. PTO.

BTN, Inc., our wholly-owned subsidiary,
entered into a License Agreement with Boomtown, Inc., dated August 8,
2000 pursuant to which it uses “Boomtown” and other trademarks.

As a result of our
acquisitions of Hollywood Casino Corporation and Argosy, we own the service
marks “Hollywood Casino” and “Argosy” which are registered with the U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office. We have been informed that our rights to the “Hollywood Casino”
and “Argosy” service marks are well established and have competitive value to
the Hollywood Casino and Argosy properties. We have also acquired other
trademarks used by the Hollywood Casino and Argosy facilities and their related
services. These marks are either registered or are the subject of pending
applications with the U.S. PTO.

Competition

Gaming Operations

The gaming industry is characterized by a high degree
of competition among a large number of participants, some of which have
financial and other resources that are greater than our resources. Competitive
gaming activities include traditional and Native American casinos, video
lottery terminals and other forms of legalized gaming in the U.S. and other
jurisdictions.

Legalized gaming is currently permitted in various
forms throughout the U.S. and in several Canadian provinces. In addition, other
jurisdictions may legalize gaming in the near future and established gaming
jurisdictions could award additional gaming licenses or permit the expansion of
existing gaming operations. New or expanded operations by other persons will
increase competition for our gaming operations and could have a material
adverse impact on us.

Charles
Town, West Virginia.

Our
gaming machine operations at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex face
competition in neighboring states of Pennsylvania, Delaware, and New Jersey
(including, but not limited to, Dover Downs, Delaware Park and Harrington
Raceway in Delaware and the casinos in Atlantic City, New Jersey). On February 16,
2007, the West Virginia House of Delegates passed a bill to allow counties to
determine, by local election, whether to permit certain table games at
racetracks in the state. The West Virginia Senate is currently considering the
bill. In Pennsylvania, slot operations commenced at Philadelphia Park, Mohegan
Sun at Pocono Downs, and Chester Downs, and slot licenses have been issued to
us at Penn National Race Course, The Meadows outside of Pittsburgh, two stand-alone
casinos in Philadelphia and one in Pittsburgh. The Maryland legislature is
currently considering legislation permitting slot machine gaming. In Delaware,
legislation to increase the number of video lottery terminals at gaming
facilities from 2,500 to 4,000 passed and was signed by the Governor of
Delaware in 2006. This bill also allows gaming facilities in Delaware to
operate 24 hours per day, with the exception of Sundays and certain
holidays. The Delaware legislature is also considering a bill that would permit
two stand-alone casinos, in addition to the existing gaming facilities at
the state’s three racetracks.

Lawrenceburg,
Indiana.

The
Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg is the closest casino to the Cincinnati metropolitan
area, and faces competition from two other riverboat casinos in the Cincinnati
market. The nearest competitor is located approximately 15 miles further south
of Lawrenceburg in Rising Sun, Indiana. Another competitor is located 40 miles
from Lawrenceburg in Switzerland County, Indiana. On February 24, 2007,
the Indiana House of Representatives passed a bill that would allow the
operation of 2,500 slot machines at each of Indiana’s two racetracks. The bill
will now move to the Indiana Senate for consideration. Casino gaming is not currently
permitted under the laws of either Ohio or Kentucky. The Ohio legislature has
considered, at various times, legislation that would allow Ohio voters to
approve certain types of casino gaming at racetracks. In November 2006,
Ohio voters rejected a proposed constitutional amendment that would have
established a tuition grant program for Ohio students to attend


public or private colleges
in the state by allowing up to 3,500 slot machines at each of the state’s seven
existing racetracks and two locations in downtown Cleveland. Legislation has
been introduced in Kentucky to allow gaming at racetracks and casinos, subject
to referendum. To date, neither Ohio nor Kentucky has enacted such proposed
legislation. The commencement of casino gaming in Ohio or Kentucky could have
an adverse effect on the financial results of our Lawrenceburg casino.

Chicagoland.

Aurora and Joliet are part of the
Chicagoland market that includes properties in the Chicago suburbs in both
Illinois and northern Indiana. Hollywood Casino Aurora and Empress Casino Hotel
face competition from numerous other riverboat casinos in the Chicago-area
market, dockside casinos that are located in Illinois and dockside casinos that
are located in Indiana. Due to significantly higher gaming taxes imposed on
Illinois riverboats, the Indiana riverboats have been able to spend greater
amounts on marketing and other amenities, which has significantly increased
their ability to compete with the Illinois riverboats. Any increase in gaming
taxes or admission fees imposed on Illinois riverboats could have an adverse
impact on the financial results of our Chicagoland casinos.

New competition in the region is currently limited by
state legislation. The Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act and the regulations
promulgated by the Illinois Gaming Board under the Riverboat Gambling Act
authorize only 10 owners’ licenses for riverboat gaming operations in Illinois
and permit a maximum of 1,200 gaming positions at any time for each of the 10
licensed sites. All authorized owners’ licenses have been granted; however, one
of the licenses has remained dormant due to a bankruptcy proceeding and ongoing
dispute among the investors in such license, their host city, the Illinois
Gaming Board and Illinois government. Illinois is currently seeking to sell
this tenth license. In the event that these disputes are fully resolved and a
sale is consummated, this license will likely become operational. We may face
additional competition if such a licensee were to open a gaming facility in the
area around Chicagoland. The legislature has considered, at various times,
legislation that would expand gaming in the state of Illinois. Should the
Illinois legislature enact such gaming-expansion legislation, the financial
results of our Chicagoland casinos could be adversely affected.

Riverside,
Missouri.

The
Argosy Casino Riverside currently faces competition from three other casinos in
this market. The Kansas legislature has considered, at various times,
legislation to expand casino gaming in its state. During previous legislative
sessions, as well as the current legislative session, legislation was
introduced in Missouri that would increase admission and gaming taxes, while
removing the loss limit in the State. Should Kansas enact such legislation or
Missouri increase admission or gaming taxes, our Riverside casino’s financial
results could be adversely affected.

Alton,
Illinois.

The
Argosy Casino Alton faces competition from four other riverboat casino
companies currently operating in the St. Louis, Missouri area, including one
other Illinois licensee. In addition, two casino projects (one in downtown St.
Louis and another in south St. Louis County) are in various stages of
development and are pending regulatory approvals. As an Illinois licensee, the
Argosy Casino Alton is not subject to Missouri’s $500-loss limit. Should
the Illinois legislature enact gaming-expansion legislation or increase
admission or gaming taxes, our Alton casino’s financial results could be
adversely affected.

Baton
Rouge, Louisiana.

Hollywood
Casino Baton Rouge faces competition from land-based and riverboat casinos
throughout Louisiana and on the Mississippi Gulf Coast, casinos on Native
American lands and from non-casino gaming opportunities within Louisiana. The
principal competitor to Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge is the Belle of Baton
Rouge, which is the only other licensed riverboat casino in Baton Rouge. We
face competition from eleven casinos on the Mississippi Gulf coast, which is
approximately 120 miles east of Baton Rouge; many of these casinos are
destination resorts that attract customers from the Baton Rouge area. Subsequent
to Hurricane Katrina, Mississippi Gulf Coast casinos are allowed to operate as
land-based facilities. Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge also faces competition from
two major riverboat casinos, one land-based casino in the New Orleans area,
which is approximately 75 miles from Baton Rouge, and three Native American
casinos in Louisiana. The two closest Native American casinos are land-based
facilities located approximately 45 miles southwest and approximately


65 miles northwest of
Baton Rouge. In addition, we face competition from a racetrack located
approximately 55 miles from Baton Rouge that began operating approximately
1,500 gaming machines in December 2003. We also face competition from
approximately 3,000 video poker machines located in truck stops, restaurants,
bars and off-track betting facilities located in certain surrounding parishes. In
addition, another gaming operator has filed documents with the Louisiana Gaming
Control Board to place a third riverboat casino in Baton Rouge, subject to
various approvals, including local referendum. Should East Baton Rouge Parish
voters approve an expansion of gaming in the Baton Rouge market, the financial
results of Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge could be adversely affected.

Tunica
County, Mississippi.

Hollywood
Casino Tunica faces intense competition from nine other casinos operating in
north Tunica County and Coahoma County. The Tunica County market is segregated
into two casino clusters, Casino Center and Casino Strip, where Hollywood
Casino Tunica is located, as well as three stand-alone properties. A
shuttle service provides transportation between the various Tunica County
casinos. In addition, we compete with another casino located approximately 40
miles south of the Casino Strip cluster in Coahoma County. The close proximity
of the casinos in Tunica County has contributed to the competition between
casinos because it allows consumers to visit a variety of casinos in a short
period of time. The Mississippi Gaming Control Act does not limit the number of
licenses that may be granted. Any significant increase in new competition in or
around Tunica County could negatively impact the operations of Hollywood Casino
Tunica.

Hollywood Casino Tunica also competes to some extent
with a land-based casino complex operated by the Mississippi Band of Choctaw
Indians in central Mississippi, approximately 200 miles south and east of
Memphis, Tennessee. In addition, Hollywood Casino Tunica may eventually face
competition from the opening of gaming casinos closer to Memphis, such as in
DeSoto County, Mississippi, which is the only county between Tunica County and
the Tennessee border. DeSoto County has defeated gaming proposals on three
separate occasions, most recently in November 1996. In November 2006,
Southland Park Gaming & Racing, formerly Southland Greyhound Park, in
West Memphis, Arkansas, opened a gaming facility with more than 800 electronic “games
of skill”. The facility is located across the Mississippi River from Memphis. Casino
gaming is not currently legalized in Tennessee; however, the legalization of
gaming in Tennessee could have a material adverse impact on Hollywood Casino
Tunica.

Mississippi
Gulf Coast.

As a result of Hurricane Katrina’s direct
hit on the Mississippi Gulf Coast on August 29, 2005, two of the Company’s
casinos, Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi, were significantly
damaged, many employees were displaced and operations ceased at the two
properties. Boomtown Biloxi reopened on June 29, 2006 and Hollywood Casino
Bay St. Louis reopened on August 31, 2006.

Prior to Hurricane Katrina, dockside gaming grew rapidly on the
Mississippi Gulf Coast, increasing from no dockside casinos in March 1992
to twelve operating dockside casinos on December 31, 2004. Nine of these
facilities were located in Biloxi, two were located in Gulfport and one was
located in Bay St. Louis. Including the Company’s casinos, seven of the casinos
in Biloxi have re-opened, one of the Gulfport casinos reopened and two Bay St.
Louis properties opened in 2006. Prior to Hurricane Katrina, our Bay St. Louis
property was the only casino in the Bay St. Louis market. Currently there are
two casinos in the Bay St. Louis market, with three additional proposed casinos
to come online in the next few years. As of December 31, 2006, the
Mississippi Gulf Coast has 10 casinos operating, compared to the 12 that were
open prior to Hurricane Katrina.

During the 2005 special session of the Mississippi
legislature, a bill to allow Gulf Coast casinos to rebuild on land was approved
and signed by the Governor of Mississippi. In addition, the Mississippi Gaming
Control Act does not limit the number of licenses that may be granted and there
are a number of additional sites located in the Gulf Coast region that are in
various stages of development. Any significant increase in the competition in
the region could negatively impact our existing operations.

Sioux
City, Iowa.

The
Argosy Casino Sioux City competes primarily with land-based Native American
casinos that are not required to report gaming revenues and other operating
statistics, therefore market comparisons cannot be made. In June 2006,
Wild Rose Casino & Resort opened in Emmetsburg,


Iowa. We also compete with
certain providers and operators of video gaming in the neighboring state of
South Dakota. Additionally, to a lesser extent, we compete with slot machines
at a pari-mutuel racetrack in Council Bluffs, Iowa, and with two riverboat
casinos in the Council Bluffs/Omaha, Nebraska market, approximately 90 miles
south of Sioux City.

Bangor,
Maine.

Hollywood
Slots at Bangor is the only facility with slot machines in the state of Maine.
The closest competitors offering slot machines are Foxwoods and Mohegan Sun in
Connecticut, Newport Grand Casino in Rhode Island and Horizon’s Edge casino
cruise ship operating in Lynn, Massachusetts, all approximately 300 miles away.

Black
Hawk, Colorado.

The
Black Hawk gaming market is characterized by intense competition. The primary
competitive factors in the market are location, availability and convenience of
parking, number of slot machines and gaming tables, promotional incentives,
types and pricing of non-gaming amenities, name recognition and overall atmosphere.
There are currently 20 gaming facilities in the Black Hawk market and six
gaming facilities in nearby Central City. Central City and Black Hawk gaming
facilities compete for visitors, but historically, Black Hawk has enjoyed an
advantage over Central City because customers had to drive through Black Hawk
to reach Central City. During 2004, Central City completed construction of, and
opened, a road directly connecting Central City and Black Hawk with Interstate
70, which allows customers to reach Central City without driving through Black
Hawk.

Ontario.

Our operation of Casino Rama
through CHC Casinos Canada Limited faces competition in Ontario from three
other commercial casinos, six charity casinos and at least 17 racetracks with
gaming machines in the province. All of the casinos (including Casino Rama) and
gaming machine facilities are operated by or on behalf of the Ontario Lottery
and Gaming Corporation, an agency of the Province of Ontario. The Ontario
Lottery and Gaming Corporation also operates several province-wide lotteries.

There are two charity
casinos and six racetracks with gaming machine facilities that directly affect
Casino Rama. The two charity casinos together have 105 gaming tables and 1,051
gaming machines. The number of gaming machines at the racetracks ranges from
250 to over 1,950 each. There are also two commercial casinos located in
Niagara Falls, Ontario, 80 miles southwest of Toronto with a total of 186 gaming
tables and 4,866 gaming machines.

Racing Operations

Our racing operations face
significant competition for wagering dollars from other racetracks and OTWs,
some of which also offer other forms of gaming, as well as other gaming venues
such as casinos and state-sponsored lotteries, including the
Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware, Ohio and West Virginia lotteries. Our
account wagering operations compete with other providers of such services
throughout the country. We also may face competition in the future from new
OTWs, new racetracks or new providers of account wagering. From time to time,
states consider legislation to permit other forms of gaming. If additional
gaming opportunities become available near our racing operations, such gaming
opportunities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations.

U.S. and Foreign
Revenues

Our net revenues from
continuing operations in the U.S. for 2006, 2005 and 2004 were approximately
$2,226.4 million, $1,350.5 million and $1,089.0 million, respectively. Our
revenues from operations in Canada for 2006, 2005 and 2004 were approximately $18.1
million, $18.6 million, and $16.3 million, respectively.

Segments

In accordance with SFAS No. 131, “Disclosures
about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information” (“SFAS 131”), the
Company views each property as an operating segment. Historically, the Company
aggregated its gaming properties that were economically similar, offered
similar types of


products and services,
catered to the same types of customers and were similarly regulated into a
reportable segment called gaming, and aggregated its racing properties that
were economically similar, offered similar products and services, catered to
the similar types of customers and were similarly regulated into a reportable
segment called racing.

Beginning in the first
quarter of 2006, the Company modified its segment reporting from two reportable
segments to one reportable segment, as the Company believes that its gaming and
racing properties can now be aggregated together in accordance with SFAS 131,
due to ongoing changes at its racing properties, including the upcoming
introduction of slot machines at Penn National Race Course.

Management

Name

Age

Position

Peter M. Carlino


Chairman and Chief
  Executive Officer

William J. Clifford


Senior Vice
  President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer

Leonard M. DeAngelo


Executive Vice
  President of Operations

Robert S. Ippolito


Vice President,
  Secretary and Treasurer

Jordan B. Savitch


Senior Vice President
  and General Counsel

Peter
M. Carlino.

Mr. Carlino
has served as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since April 1994.
From 1984 to 1994, he devoted a substantial portion of his time to developing,
building and operating residential and commercial real estate projects located
primarily in central Pennsylvania. Since 1976, Mr. Carlino has been
President of Carlino Financial Corporation, a holding company that owns and
operates various Carlino family businesses, in which capacity he has been
continuously active in strategic planning and monitoring its operations.

William
J. Clifford.

Mr. Clifford
joined us in August 2001 and was appointed to his current position as
Senior Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer in October 2001.
From March 1997 to July 2001, Mr. Clifford served as the Chief
Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of Finance with Sun International
Resorts, Inc., Paradise Island, Bahamas. From November 1993 to February 1997,
Mr. Clifford was Financial, Hotel and Operations Controller for Treasure
Island Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas. From May 1989 to November 1993,
Mr. Clifford was Controller for Golden Nugget Hotel and Casino, Las Vegas.
Prior to May 1989, Mr. Clifford held the positions of Controller for
the Dunes Hotel and Casino, Las Vegas, Property Operations Analyst with Aladdin
Hotel and Casino, Las Vegas, Casino Administrator with Las Vegas Hilton, Las
Vegas, Senior Internal Auditor with Del Webb, Las Vegas, and Agent, Audit
Division, of the Nevada Gaming Control Board, Las Vegas and Reno.

Leonard
M. DeAngelo.

Mr. DeAngelo
joined us in July 2003 as Executive Vice President of Operations. From December 2000
to July 2003, Mr. DeAngelo served as President of the Atlantic City
Hilton Casino Resort. Prior to being named President of the Atlantic City
Hilton, Mr. DeAngelo served for three years as Corporate Senior Vice
President of Casino Marketing with Sun International Resorts, Inc., where,
in addition to his marketing responsibilities, he also oversaw information
technology initiatives relating to the casinos, including operations,
marketing, data warehousing and online projects. From November 1995 to December 1997,
Mr. DeAngelo was President of the Sands Hotel and Casino in Atlantic City.
He served with the Sands in other executive positions beginning in 1983,
holding the titles of Director of Casino Administration, Vice President Casino
Administration and Senior Vice President before being named President. He began
his career in the gaming and hotel industry in 1979 at Bally’s Park Place Hotel
and Casino in Atlantic City.


Robert S. Ippolito.

In July 2001, we appointed
Mr. Ippolito to the position of Vice President. Mr. Ippolito has
served as our Secretary and Treasurer since April 1994 and as our Chief
Financial Officer from April 1994 until July 2001. Mr. Ippolito
brings more than 23 years of gaming and racing experience to the management
team both as a manager at a major accounting firm and as an officer of
companies in the racing business.

Jordan B. Savitch.

Mr. Savitch joined us in
September 2002 as Senior Vice President and General Counsel. From
June 1999 to April 2002, Mr. Savitch served as a director and
senior executive at iMedium, Inc., a venture-backed software company
offering innovative software solutions for increasing sales effectiveness. From
1995 to 1999, Mr. Savitch served as senior corporate counsel at Safeguard
Scientifics, Inc., a NYSE-listed company specializing in identifying,
developing and operating emerging technology companies. Mr. Savitch also
spent four years in private practice as an associate at Willkie Farr &
Gallagher, LLP in New York, New York.

Governmental Regulations

The gaming and racing
industries are highly regulated, and we must maintain our licenses and pay
gaming taxes to continue our operations. Each of our facilities is subject to
extensive regulation under the laws, rules and regulations of the
jurisdiction where it is located. These laws, rules and regulations
generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the
owners, managers, and persons with financial interests in the gaming operations.
Violations of laws in one jurisdiction could result in disciplinary action in
other jurisdictions. A more detailed description of the regulations to which we
are subject is contained in Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K,
which exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.

Our businesses are subject
to various federal, state and local laws and regulations in addition to gaming
regulations. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to,
restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental
matters, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes,
and marketing and advertising. Such laws and regulations could change or could
be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be
enacted. Material changes, new laws or regulations, or material differences in
interpretations by courts or governmental authorities could adversely affect
our operating results.

Employees and Labor Relations

As of December 31,
2006, we had 14,874 full- and part-time employees.

We are required to have
agreements with the horsemen at each of our racetracks to conduct our live
racing and simulcasting activities. In addition, in order to operate gaming
machines in West Virginia, we must maintain agreements with each of the Charles
Town horsemen, pari-mutuel clerks and breeders. At the Charles Town
Entertainment Complex, we have an agreement with the Charles Town horsemen that
expires on December 31, 2007 and an agreement with the breeders that
expires on June 30, 2007. The pari-mutuel clerks at Charles Town are
represented under a collective bargaining agreement with the West Virginia
Division of Mutuel Clerks which expires on December 31, 2010.

Our agreement with the Pennsylvania
thoroughbred horsemen at Penn National Race Course expires on September 30,
2011. We have an agreement with Local 137 at Penn National Race Course with
respect to pari-mutuel clerks and admissions and Telebet personnel that expires
on December 31, 2007. We also have an agreement in place with the Sports
Arena Employees Local 137 (AFL-CIO) with respect to pari-mutuel clerks and
admission personnel at our OTWs. That agreement, which we are currently
documenting, will expire on September 30, 2009.

We expect to enter into a
new, long-term, agreement with the Maine Harness Horsemen Association prior to
the start of the 2007 racing season. Pennwood Racing, Inc. also has an
agreement in effect with the horsemen at Freehold Raceway which expires in May 2009.


Throughout our Argosy
properties, the Seafarers Entertainment and Allied Trade Union represents
approximately two thousand employees. Additionally, at the Alton property, the
Seafarer International Union of North America, Atlantic, Gulf, Lakes and Inland
Waters District/NMU, AFL-CIO represents eight of our employees, the
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers represents nine of our
employees, the Security Police and Fire Professionals of America represents
fifty-nine of our employees. At our Indiana and Iowa properties, the American
Maritime Officers Union represents eighteen of our employees. We have
collective bargaining agreements with these unions that expire at various times
between July 2007 and June 2011. At the Empress Casino Hotel, the
Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Union (“UNITE/HERE”), Local 1
represents approximately three hundred employees. The Hotel Employees and
Restaurant Employees Joliet labor agreement expires on March 31, 2010. At
Raceway Park, the pari-mutuel tellers are represented by SEIU Local 47, which
has subcontracted with UNITE/HERE Local 10 to handle the business affairs of
the pari-mutuel tellers, and the current contract expires on May 31, 2007.

Available Information

For more information about
us, visit our web site at www.pngaming.com. Our electronic filings with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (including all annual reports on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K,
and any amendments to these reports), including the exhibits, are available
free of charge through our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we
electronically file them with or furnish them to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.

ITEM
1A. RISK FACTORS

Risks Related to Our Business

A substantial portion of our revenues and income from
operations is derived from our Charles Town, West Virginia and Argosy Casino
Lawrenceburg, Indiana facilities.

For
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 42.7% and 45.4% of
our net revenue and income from operations, respectively, were collectively
derived from our Charles Town and Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg operations. Our
ability to meet our operating and debt service requirements is substantially
dependent upon the continued success of these facilities. The operations at
these facilities could be adversely affected by numerous factors including:

·

risks
related to local and regional economic and competitive conditions, such as a
decline in the number of visitors to the facility, a downturn in the overall
economy in the market, a decrease in gaming activities in the market or an
increase in competition within and outside the state;

·

changes
in local and state governmental laws and regulations (including changes in laws
and regulations affecting gaming operations and taxes) applicable to a
facility;

·

impeded
access to the facility due to weather, road construction or closures of primary
access routes; and

·

the
occurrence of floods and other natural disasters.

If any of these events
occur, our operating revenues and cash flow could decline significantly.

We
may face disruption in integrating and managing facilities we may acquire in
the future.

We expect to continue
pursuing expansion and acquisition opportunities, and we regularly evaluate
opportunities for acquisition of other properties, which evaluations may
include discussions and the review of confidential information after the
execution of nondisclosure agreements with potential acquisition candidates,
some potentially significant in relation to our size.

We could face significant
challenges in managing and integrating the expanded or combined operations of
the Company and any other properties we may acquire. The integration of any
other properties we may acquire will require the dedication of management
resources that may temporarily


divert
attention from our day-to-day business. The process of integrating properties
that we may acquire also may interrupt the activities of those businesses,
which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition
and results of operations.

Management of new
properties, especially in new geographic areas, may require that we increase
our managerial resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage
the combined operations effectively or realize any of the anticipated benefits
of our acquisitions. We also cannot assure you that if acquisitions are
completed, that the acquired businesses will generate sufficient revenue to
offset the associated costs or other effects.

Our ability to achieve our
objectives in connection with any acquisition we may consummate may be highly
dependent on, among other things, our ability to retain the senior level
property management teams of such acquisition candidates. If, for any reason,
we are unable to retain these management teams following such acquisitions or
if we fail to attract new capable executives, our operations after consummation
of such acquisitions could be materially adversely affected.

The occurrence of some or
all of the above described events could have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations or financial condition.

We face risks related to the development and expansion
of our current properties.

We expect to use a portion
of our cash on hand, cash flow from operations and available borrowings under
our revolving credit facility for significant capital expenditures at certain
of our properties. Any proposed enhancement may require us to significantly
increase the size of our existing work force at those properties. We cannot be
certain that management will be able to hire and retain a sufficient number of
employees to operate and manage these facilities at their optimal levels. The
failure to employ the necessary work force could adversely affect our operations
and ultimately harm profitability. In addition, these enhancements could
involve risks similar to construction risks including cost over-runs, delays,
market deterioration and timely receipt of required licenses, permits or
authorizations, among others. Our failure to complete any new development or
expansion project as planned, on schedule, within budget or in a manner that
generates anticipated profits, could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.

We face a number of challenges prior to opening new
gaming facilities.

No assurance can be given
that the expected timetable for opening new gaming facilities will be met in
light of the uncertainties inherent in the development of the regulatory
framework, the licensing process, legislative action and litigation.

We face significant competition from other gaming
operations and racing operations.

Gaming operations.

The gaming industry is
characterized by a high degree of competition among a large number of participants,
including riverboat casinos, dockside casinos, land-based casinos, video
lottery and poker machines not located in casinos, Native American gaming,
Internet gaming and other forms of gambling in the United States. In a broader
sense, our gaming operations face competition from all manner of leisure and
entertainment activities, including shopping, high school, collegiate and
professional athletic events, television and movies, concerts and travel.
Legalized gaming is currently permitted in various forms throughout the U.S.,
in several Canadian provinces and on various lands taken into trust for the
benefit of certain Native Americans in the U.S. and Canada. Other
jurisdictions, including states adjacent to states in which we currently have
facilities, may legalize gaming in the near future. In addition, established
gaming jurisdictions could award additional gaming licenses or permit the
expansion of existing gaming operations. New or expanded operations by other
persons will increase competition for our gaming operations and could have a
material adverse impact on us.

Gaming competition is
particularly intense in most of the markets where we operate. As competing
properties are opened, our operating results may be negatively affected. Some
of our competitors have more gaming industry experience, are larger and have
significantly greater financial and other resources. In addition, some of our
direct competitors in certain markets may have superior facilities and/or
operating


conditions.
There could be further competition in our markets as a result of the upgrading
or expansion of facilities by existing market participants, the entrance of new
gaming participants into a market or legislative changes.

We expect each existing or
future market in which we participate to be highly competitive. The competitive
position of each of our casino properties is discussed in detail in the
subsection entitled “Competition—Gaming Operations” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Racing operations.

Our racing operations face
significant competition for wagering dollars from other racetracks and
off-track wagering facilities, some of which also offer other forms of gaming,
as well as other gaming venues such as casinos and state-sponsored lotteries, including
the Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maine, Ohio, Delaware and West Virginia
lotteries. Our account wagering operations compete with providers of such
services throughout the country. We also may face competition in the future
from new off-track wagering facilities, new racetracks or new providers of
account wagering. From time to time, states consider legislation to permit
other forms of gaming. If additional gaming opportunities become available near
our racing operations, such gaming opportunities could have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We are or may become involved in legal proceedings
that, if adversely adjudicated or settled, could impact our financial
condition.

From time to time, we are defendants
in various lawsuits relating to matters incidental to our business. The nature
of our business subjects us to the risk of lawsuits filed by customers, past
and present employees, competitors, business partners and others in the
ordinary course of business. As with all litigation, no assurance can be
provided as to the outcome of these matters and in general, litigation can be
expensive and time consuming. We may not be successful in the defense of these
lawsuits, which could result in settlements or damages that could significantly
impact our business, financial condition and results of operations (see, for
example, the lawsuits listed in Item 3 below).

We face extensive regulation from gaming and other
regulatory authorities.

Licensing requirements.

As owners and operators of gaming
and pari-mutuel wagering facilities, we are subject to extensive state, local
and, in Canada, provincial regulation. State, local and provincial authorities
require us and our subsidiaries to demonstrate suitability to obtain and retain
various licenses and require that we have registrations, permits and approvals
to conduct gaming operations. Various regulatory authorities, including the
Colorado Limited Gaming Control Commission, the Illinois Gaming Board, the
Indiana Gaming Commission, the Iowa Gaming and Racing Commission, the Louisiana
Gaming Control Board, the Mississippi State Tax Commission, the Mississippi
Gaming Commission, the Missouri Gaming Commission, the New Jersey Racing
Commission, the Ohio State Racing Commission, the Alcohol and Gaming Commission
of Ontario, the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board, the Pennsylvania State Horse
Racing Commission, the West Virginia Racing Commission, the West Virginia
Lottery Commission, the Maine Gambling Control Board and the Maine Harness
Racing Commission, have broad discretion, and may, for any reason set forth in
the applicable legislation, rules and regulations, limit, condition,
suspend, fail to renew or revoke a license or registration to conduct gaming
operations or prevent us from owning the securities of any of our gaming
subsidiaries or prevent another person from owning an equity interest in us.
Like all gaming operators in the jurisdictions in which we operate, we must
periodically apply to renew our gaming licenses or registrations and have the
suitability of certain of our directors, officers and employees approved. We
cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such renewals or approvals.
Regulatory authorities have input into our operations, for instance, hours of
operation, location or relocation of a facility, numbers and types of machines
and loss limits. Regulators may also levy substantial fines against or seize
our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries or the people involved in
violating gaming laws or regulations. Any of these events could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We have demonstrated
suitability to obtain and have obtained all governmental licenses,
registrations, permits and approvals necessary for us to operate our existing
gaming and pari-mutuel facilities. We


cannot
assure you that we will be able to retain them or demonstrate suitability to
obtain any new licenses, registrations, permits or approvals. In addition, the
loss of a license in one jurisdiction could trigger the loss of a license or
affect our eligibility for a license in another jurisdiction. As we expand our
gaming operations in our existing jurisdictions or to new areas, we may have to
meet additional suitability requirements and obtain additional licenses,
registrations, permits and approvals from gaming authorities in these
jurisdictions. The approval process can be time-consuming and costly and we
cannot be sure that we will be successful.

Gaming authorities in the
U.S. generally can require that any beneficial owner of our securities file an
application for a finding of suitability. If a gaming authority requires a
record or beneficial owner of our securities to file a suitability application,
the owner must generally apply for a finding of suitability within 30 days or
at an earlier time prescribed by the gaming authority. The gaming authority has
the power to investigate such an owner’s suitability and the owner must pay all
costs of the investigation. If the owner is found unsuitable, then the owner
may be required by law to dispose of our securities.

Potential changes in
legislation and regulation of our operations.

Regulations governing the conduct
of gaming activities and the obligations of gaming companies in any
jurisdiction in which we have or in the future may have gaming operations are
subject to change and could impose additional operating, financial or other
burdens on the way we conduct our business.

Moreover, legislation to
prohibit or limit gaming may be introduced in the future in states where gaming
has been legalized. In addition, from time to time, legislators and special
interest groups have proposed legislation that would expand, restrict or
prevent gaming operations or which may otherwise adversely impact our
operations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Any expansion of gaming or
restriction on or prohibition of our gaming operations or enactment of other
adverse regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our
operating results. For example, in October 2005, the Illinois House of
Representatives voted to approve proposed legislation that would eliminate
riverboat gambling. If the Illinois Senate were to pass a bill eliminating
riverboat gambling, our business would be materially impacted. However,
leadership in the Illinois Senate has indicated that the Senate will not pass
this bill. In addition, legislation enacting smoking bans can also adversely
affect our business.

Taxation and fees.

We believe that the prospect of
significant revenue is one of the primary reasons that jurisdictions permit
legalized gaming. As a result, gaming companies are typically subject to
significant taxes and fees in addition to normal federal, state, local and
provincial income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any
time. We pay substantial taxes and fees with respect to our operations. From
time to time, federal, state, local and provincial legislators and officials
have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws,
affecting the gaming industry. In addition, worsening economic conditions could
intensify the efforts of state and local governments to raise revenues through
increases in gaming taxes. It is not possible to determine with certainty the
likelihood of changes in tax laws or in the administration of such laws. Such
changes, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations. The large number of state and
local governments with significant current or projected budget deficits makes
it more likely that those governments that currently permit gaming will seek to
fund such deficits with new or increased gaming taxes, and worsening economic
conditions could intensify those efforts. Any material increase, or the
adoption of additional taxes or fees, could have a material adverse effect on
our future financial results.

Compliance with other laws.

We are also subject to a variety of
other rules and regulations, including zoning, environmental, construction
and land-use laws and regulations governing the serving of alcoholic beverages.
If we are not in compliance with these laws, it could have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We depend on our key personnel.

We are highly dependent on
the services of Peter M. Carlino, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and
other members of our senior management team. Our ability to retain key
personnel is affected by the competitiveness of our compensation packages and
the other terms and conditions of employment,


our
continued ability to compete effectively against other gaming companies and our
growth prospects. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
of operations.

Compliance with changing regulation of corporate
governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and
compliance risks.

New or changing laws and
regulations relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including
new SEC regulations and NASDAQ National Market rules, are creating uncertainty
for companies. These new or changed laws and regulations are subject to varying
interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, recent issuance
and/or lack of guidance. As a result, their application in practice may evolve
over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This
could result in continuing uncertainty and higher costs regarding compliance
matters. Due to our commitment to maintain high standards of compliance with
laws and public disclosure, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations
and standards have resulted in and are likely to continue to result in
increased general and administrative expenses. In addition, we are subject to
different parties’ interpretation of our compliance with these new and changing
laws and regulations. A failure to comply with any of these new laws or
regulations could have a materially adverse effect on the company. For
instance, if our gaming authorities, the SEC, our independent auditors or our
shareholders and potential shareholders conclude that our compliance with the
regulations is unsatisfactory, this may result in a negative public perception
of our company, subject us to increased regulatory scrutiny, penalties or
otherwise adversely affect us.

Inclement weather and other conditions could seriously
disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations.

The operations of our
facilities are subject to disruptions or reduced patronage as a result of
severe weather conditions, natural disasters and other casualties. Because many
of our gaming operations are located on or adjacent to rivers, these facilities
are subject to risks in addition to those associated with land-based casinos,
including loss of service due to casualty, forces of nature, mechanical
failure, extended or extraordinary maintenance, flood, hurricane or other
severe weather conditions. For example, in late August 2005, we closed
Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis (formerly known as Casino Magic—Bay St. Louis)
in Bay St. Louis, Mississippi, Boomtown Biloxi casino in Biloxi, Mississippi
and Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge (formerly known as Casino Rouge) in Baton
Rouge, Louisiana in anticipation of Hurricane Katrina. Hollywood Casino Baton
Rouge subsequently reopened on August 30, 2005. However, due to the
extensive damage sustained, operations at Boomtown Biloxi and Hollywood Casino
Bay St. Louis did not resume operations until June 29, 2006 and August 31,
2006, respectively. In addition, several of our casinos are subject to risks generally
associated with the movement of vessels on inland waterways, including risks of
collision or casualty due to river turbulence and traffic. Many of our casinos
operate in areas which are subject to periodic flooding that has caused us to
experience decreased attendance and increased operating expenses. Any flood or
other severe weather condition could lead to the loss of use of a casino
facility for an extended period.

The extent to which we can recover under our insurance
policies for damages sustained at our Gulf Coast properties in the event of
future

hurricanes,

as well as changes
in the local gaming market as a result of the hurricane could adversely affect
our business.

On August 28, 2005,
we closed Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis in Bay St. Louis, Mississippi and
Boomtown Biloxi casino in Biloxi, Mississippi in anticipation of Hurricane
Katrina. Due to the extensive damage sustained, operations at Boomtown Biloxi
and Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis did not resume operations until June 29,
2006 and August 31, 2006, respectively. We maintain significant property
insurance, including business interruption coverage, for both Hollywood Casino
Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi. However, there can be no assurances that we
will be fully or promptly compensated for weather-related losses at any of our
facilities in the event of future hurricanes. The infrastructure damage caused
by Hurricane Katrina to the communities surrounding our Bay St. Louis and
Biloxi properties could adversely affect the local gaming markets by making
travel and staffing more difficult. The reopening dates and plans of our
competitors could also adversely affect our future operating results.


We are subject to environmental laws and potential
exposure to environmental liabilities.

We are subject to various
federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern our
operations, including emissions and discharges into the environment, and the
handling and disposal of hazardous and nonhazardous substances and wastes. Failure
to comply with such laws and regulations could result in costs for corrective
action, penalties or the imposition of other liabilities or restrictions. From
time to time, we have incurred and are incurring costs and obligations for
correcting environmental noncompliance matters. To date, none of these matters
have had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or
results of operations; however, there can be no assurance that such matters
will not have such an effect in the future.

We also are subject to
laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for
releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these
laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may
be liable for the costs of remediating contaminated soil or groundwater on or
from its property, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or
caused, the contamination, as well as incur liability to third parties impacted
by such contamination. The presence of contamination, or failure to remediate
it properly, may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent property. The
Bullwhackers and Silver Hawk Casinos are located within the geographic
footprint of the Clear Creek/Central City Superfund Site, a large area of
historic mining activity which is the subject of state and federal clean-up
actions. Although we have not been named a potentially responsible party for
this Superfund Site, it is possible that as a result of our ownership and
operation of these properties (on which mining may have occurred in the past),
we may incur costs related to this matter in the future. Furthermore, we are
aware that there is or may be soil or groundwater contamination at certain of
our facilities resulting from current or former operations. These matters are
in various stages of investigation, and we are not able at this time to
estimate the costs that will be required to resolve them. To date, none of
these matters or other matters arising under environmental laws has had a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of
operations; however, there can be no assurance that such matters will not have
such an effect in the future.

The concentration and evolution of the slot machine
manufacturing industry could impose additional costs on us.

A majority of our revenues
are attributable to slot machines operated by us at our gaming facilities. It
is important, for competitive reasons, that we offer the most popular and up to
date slot machine games with the latest technology to our customers.

We believe that a
substantial majority of the slot machines sold in the U.S. in recent years were
manufactured by a few select companies. In addition, we believe that one
company in particular provided a majority of all slot machines sold in the U.S.
in recent years.

In recent years, the
prices of new slot machines have escalated faster than the rate of inflation.
Furthermore, in recent years, slot machine manufacturers have frequently
refused to sell slot machines featuring the most popular games, instead
requiring participation lease arrangements in order to acquire the machines.
Participation slot machine leasing arrangements typically require the payment
of a fixed daily rental. Such agreements may also include a percentage payment
of coin-in or net win. Generally, a participation lease is substantially more
expensive over the long term than the cost to purchase a new machine.

For competitive reasons,
we may be forced to purchase new slot machines or enter into participation
lease arrangements that are more expensive than our current costs associated
with the continued operation of our existing slot machines. If the newer slot
machines do not result in sufficient incremental revenues to offset the increased
investment and participation lease costs, it could hurt our profitability.

We depend on agreements with our horsemen and
pari-mutuel clerks.

The Federal Interstate
Horseracing Act of 1978, as amended, the West Virginia Racing Act and the
Pennsylvania Racing Act require that, in order to simulcast races, we have
written agreements with the


horse
owners and trainers at our West Virginia and Pennsylvania race tracks. In
addition, in order to operate gaming machines in West Virginia, we are required
to enter into written agreements regarding the proceeds of the gaming machines
with a representative of a majority of the horse owners and trainers, a
representative of a majority of the pari-mutuel clerks and a representative of
a majority of the horse breeders.

Effective October 1,
2004, we signed an agreement with the Pennsylvania Thoroughbred Horsemen at
Penn National Race Course that expires on September 30, 2011. At the
Charles Town Entertainment Complex, we have an agreement with the Charles Town
Horsemen that became effective on January 1, 2005 and expires on December 31,
2007. The pari-mutuel clerks at Charles Town are represented under a collective
bargaining agreement with the West Virginia Division of Mutuel Clerks which
expires on December 31, 2010. We expect to enter in a new, long-term,
agreement with the Maine Harness Horsemen Association prior to the start of the
2007 racing season.

If we fail to maintain
operative agreements with the horsemen at a track, we will not be permitted to
conduct live racing and export and import simulcasting at that track and
off-track wagering facilities, and, in West Virginia, we will not be permitted
to operate our gaming machines. In addition, our simulcasting agreements are
subject to the horsemen’s approval. If we fail to renew or modify existing
agreements on satisfactory terms, this failure could have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Work stoppages, organizing drives and other labor
problems could negatively impact our future profits.

Some of our employees are
represented by labor unions. A lengthy strike or other work stoppages at
any of our casino properties or construction projects could have an adverse
effect on our business and results of operations. We cannot provide any
assurance that we will not experience additional and more successful union
activity in the future.

Risks Related to Our Capital Structure

Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect
our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our
debt.

We
continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. Our substantial
indebtedness could have important consequences to our financial health. For
example, it could:

·

increase
our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a
downturn in our business;

·

require
us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt
service, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working
capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;

·

limit
our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and
the industry in which we operate;

·

place
us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are not as
highly leveraged;

·

limit,
along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness,
among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds; and

·

result
in an event of default if we fail to satisfy our obligations under our debt or
fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in
our debt, which event of default could result in all of our debt becoming
immediately due and payable and could permit certain of our lenders to
foreclose on our assets securing such debt.


Any of the above listed
factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations. In addition, we may incur substantial
additional indebtedness in the future, including to fund acquisitions. The
terms of our existing indebtedness do not, and any future debt may not, fully
prohibit us from doing so. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the
related risks that we now face could intensify.

The availability and cost of financing could have an
adverse effect on business.

We intend to finance our
current and future expansion and renovation projects primarily with cash flow
from operations, borrowings under our current senior secured credit facility
and equity or debt financings. If we are unable to finance our current or
future expansion projects, we will have to adopt one or more alternatives, such
as reducing or delaying planned expansion, development and renovation projects
as well as capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt, or
obtaining additional equity financing or joint venture partners, or modifying
our senior secured credit facility. These sources of funds may not be
sufficient to finance our expansion, and other financing may not be available
on acceptable terms, in a timely manner or at all. In addition, our existing
indebtedness contains certain restrictions on our ability to incur additional
indebtedness. If we are unable to secure additional financing, we could be
forced to limit or suspend expansion, development and renovation projects,
which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of
operations.

Our indebtedness imposes restrictive covenants on us.

Our existing senior
secured credit facility requires us, among other obligations, to maintain
specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial tests, including fixed
charge coverage and total leverage and senior leverage ratios. In addition, our
existing senior secured credit facility restricts, among other things, our
ability to incur additional indebtedness, incur guarantee obligations, repay
indebtedness or amend debt instruments, pay dividends, create liens on assets,
make investments, make acquisitions, engage in mergers or consolidations, make
capital expenditures, or engage in certain transactions with subsidiaries and
affiliates and otherwise restrict corporate activities. A failure to comply
with the restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facility and the
indentures governing our existing senior subordinated notes could lead to an event
of default thereunder which could result in an acceleration of such
indebtedness. In addition, the indentures relating to our senior subordinated
notes restrict, among other things, our ability to incur additional
indebtedness (excluding certain indebtedness under senior secured credit
facility), make certain payments and dividends or merge or consolidate. A
failure to comply with the restrictions in any of the indentures governing the
notes could result in an event of default under such indenture which could
result in an acceleration of such indebtedness and a default under our other
debt, including our existing senior subordinated notes and our senior secured
credit facility.

To service our indebtedness, we will require a
significant amount of cash, which depends on many factors beyond our control.

Based on our current level
of operations, we believe our cash flow from operations, available cash and
available borrowings under our existing senior secured credit facility will be
adequate to meet our future liquidity needs for the next few years. We cannot
assure you, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from
operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our
existing senior secured credit facility in amounts sufficient to enable us to
fund our liquidity needs, including with respect to our indebtedness. In
addition, if we consummate significant acquisitions in the future, our cash
requirements may increase significantly. As we are required to satisfy amortization
requirements under our existing senior secured credit facility or as other debt
matures, we may also need to raise funds to refinance all or a portion of our
debt. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our debt,
including our existing senior secured credit facility, on attractive terms,
commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our future operating performance and
our ability to service or refinance the notes, extend or refinance our debt,
including our existing senior secured credit facility, will be subject to
future economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many
of which are beyond our control.


The price of our common stock may fluctuate
significantly.

Our stock price may
fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as variations in
operating results, actions by various regulatory agencies and legislatures,
litigation, operating competition, market perceptions, progress with respect to
potential acquisitions, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by
securities analysts, the actions of rating agencies, the operating and stock
price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us,
and news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions.

ITEM
1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM
2. PROPERTIES

The following describes
our principal real estate properties:

Charles Town Entertainment
Complex.

We
own a 288-acre parcel in Charles Town, West Virginia, a portion of which
contains the Charles Town Entertainment Complex. The property also includes a


¤


-

mile all weather, lighted
thoroughbred racetrack and an enclosed grandstand/clubhouse.

Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg.

The Argosy VI is a riverboat
casino, which we own. We own and lease 52 acres in Lawrenceburg, Indiana, a
portion of which serves as the dockside embarkation for the Argosy VI, and
includes an entertainment pavilion, a hotel, and a parking garage. In addition,
we own a 52 acre parcel on Route 50 which we use for remote parking.

Hollywood Casino Aurora.

We own a dockside barge structure
and land-based pavilion in Aurora, Illinois. The property also includes two
parking garages under capital lease agreements.

Empress Casino Hotel.

We own approximately 260 acres in
Joliet, Illinois, which includes a barge-based casino, a hotel and an
entertainment pavilion.

Argosy Casino Riverside.

We own approximately 34 acres in
Riverside, Missouri, which includes a barge-based casino, an
entertainment facility and a parking garage.

Hollywood Casino Baton
Rouge.

The
Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge (formerly known as Casino Rouge) is a four-story
riverboat casino, which we own. We own a 17.4 -acre site on the east bank of
the Mississippi River in the East Baton Rouge Downtown Development District.
The property site serves as the dockside embarkation for the Hollywood Casino
Baton Rouge and features a two-story building. We also own 5.5 acres of land
that are used primarily for offices, warehousing, and parking.

Argosy Casino Alton.

The
Alton Belle II is a riverboat casino, which we own. We lease a 2.5 acre parcel
in Alton, Illinois, a portion of which serves as the dockside boarding for the
Alton Belle II.  The dockside facility
includes an entertainment pavilion and office space.  In addition, we lease an office building
adjacent to the property and own an office building nearby.

Hollywood Casino Tunica.

We
lease approximately 70 acres of land in Tunica, Mississippi, which contains a
single-level casino and other land-based facilities. Hollywood Casino
Tunica is located amongst a cluster of gaming facilities, including those
operated by Resorts International and Boyd Gaming Corporation.

Hollywood Casino Bay St.
Louis.

We own approximately 614 acres in the
city of Bay St. Louis, Mississippi, including the 17-acre marina. The
property includes an 18-hole golf course, one hotel, and other land-based
facilities, all of which we own.

Argosy Casino Sioux City.

We have a lease in Sioux City,
Iowa, for the landing rights, which includes the dockside embarkation for the
Argosy IV. The Argosy IV is a riverboat casino. We own the Argosy IV as well as
adjacent barge facilities.


Boomtown
Biloxi.

We lease
17 land acres, most of which is utilized for the gaming
location under a 99-year lease that began in 1994. We also lease
approximately 5 acres of submerged tidelands at the casino site from the State
of Mississippi under a ten-year lease with a five-year option to renew. We own
the barge on which the casino is located and all of the land-based facilities.
In addition, we own 6.5 acres in adjacent property, which we plan to
utilize for additional parking and to develop the property.

Bangor
Raceway and Hollywood Slots at Bangor.

We lease approximately 26 acres
located at Bass Park in Bangor, Maine, which consists of over 12,000 square
feet of grandstand space with seating for 3,500 patrons. In addition, the
Hollywood Slots at Bangor facility, which we lease, consists of just over 2 acres
and is located near our Bass Park property. In late December of 2006 we
purchased the former Holiday Inn in Bangor Maine, which included 7.8 acres of
land.

Bullwhackers.

Our Bullwhackers Casino, the
adjoining Bullpen Sports Casino and the Silver Hawk Saloon and Casino are
located on an approximately four-acre site. We own the Bullwhackers Casino and
Silver Hawk Saloon and Casino properties and lease Bullpen Sports Casino
property. On August 30, 2006, we purchased the gas station/ convenience
store located approximately 7 miles east of Bullwhackers Casino on Highway 119.
This is approximately a 7.6 acre site.

Casino
Rama.

We
do not own any of the land located at or near the casino or Casino Rama’s
facilities and equipment. The Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation has a
long-term ground lease with an affiliate of the Mnjikaning First Nation, for
the land on which Casino Rama is situated. Under the Development and Operating
Agreement, CHC Casinos Canada Limited has been granted full access to Casino
Rama during the term of the Development and Operating Agreement to perform its
services under the Agreement. The Casino Rama facilities are located on
approximately 57 acres.

Penn
National Race Course.

We
own approximately 625 acres in Grantville, Pennsylvania, of which 225 is where
the Penn National Race Course is located. Currently, the property includes a
one-mile all-weather thoroughbred racetrack and a


¤


-mile
turf track, and a temporary simulcast facility. The property also includes
approximately 400 acres surrounding the Penn National Race Course that are
available for future expansion or development.

Raceway
Park.

We
own approximately 92 acres in Toledo, Ohio, where Raceway Park is located. The
property includes a


¤


-mile
harness race track, including a clubhouse and a grandstand.

Freehold
Raceway.

Through
our joint venture, we own a 51-acre site in Freehold in Western Monmouth
County, New Jersey where Freehold Raceway in located. The property features a
half-mile oval harness track and a grandstand.

Off-track wagering
facilities (“OTWs”).

We
own one of our existing OTW facilities and lease the remaining five facilities.
The following is a list of our OTW facilities and their locations:

Our OTW Locations

Location

Size (Sq. Ft.)

Owned/Leased

Date Opened

Reading, PA

22,500

Leased

May 1992

Chambersburg, PA

12,500

Leased

April 1994

York, PA

25,000

Leased

March 1995

Lancaster, PA

24,000

Leased

July 1996

Williamsport, PA

14,000

Owned

February 1997

Johnstown, PA

14,220

Leased

September 1998

Other.

We lease 32,196 square feet of
office and warehouse space for buildings in Wyomissing, Pennsylvania for our
executive offices from affiliates of Peter M. Carlino, our Chairman and Chief


Executive Officer.
We believe the lease terms for the executive office and warehouse to be no less
favorable than such lease terms that could have been obtained from unaffiliated
third parties.

ITEM 3. LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS

We are subject to various legal and administrative
proceedings relating to personal injuries, employment matters, commercial
transactions and other matters arising in the normal course of business. The
Company does not believe that the final outcome of these matters will have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position or
results of operations. In addition, the Company maintains what it believes is
adequate insurance coverage to further mitigate the risks of such proceedings.
However, such proceedings can be costly, time consuming and unpredictable and,
therefore, no assurance can be given that the final outcome of such proceedings
may not materially impact the Company’s consolidated financial condition
or results of operations. Further, no assurance can be given that the amount or
scope of existing insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover losses arising
from such matters.

The following proceedings could result in costs,
settlements, damages, or rulings that materially impact the Company’s
consolidated financial condition or operating results. In each instance, we
believe that we have meritorious defenses, claims and/or counter-claims, and we
intend to vigorously defend ourselves or pursue our claim.

In October 2002, in response to the Company’s
plans to relocate the river barge underlying the Boomtown Biloxi casino to an
adjacent property, the lessor of the property on which the Boomtown Biloxi
casino conducts a portion of its dockside operations filed a lawsuit against
the Company in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Mississippi
seeking a declaratory judgment that (i) the Company must use the leased
premises for a gaming use or, in the alternative, (ii) after the move, the
Company will remain obligated to make the revenue-based rent payments to
plaintiff set forth in the lease. The plaintiff filed this suit immediately
after the Mississippi Gaming Commission approved the Company’s request to
relocate the barge. Since such approval, the Mississippi Department of Marine
Resources and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers have also approved the Company’s
plan to relocate the barge. In March 2004, the trial court ruled in favor
of the Company on all counts. The plaintiff appealed the decision to the Fifth
Circuit, which upheld the tenant’s right to relocate but remanded the case to
the trial court because there was insufficient evidence in the record to
determine whether the casino barge would be relocated to a place which would
trigger the increased rent obligation under the lease. The trial is scheduled
for May 14, 2007. The Company has filed a motion for summary judgment. The
parties have also engaged in active settlement negotiations, but have not yet
reached a final settlement of this matter.

In November 2005, Capital Seven, LLC and Shawn A.
Scott (“Capital Seven”), the sellers of Bangor Historic Track (“BHT”), filed a
demand for arbitration with the American Arbitration Association seeking
$30 million plus interest and other damages. Capital Seven alleges a
breach of contract by the Company based on the Company’s payment of a
$51 million purchase price for the purchase of BHT instead of an alleged
$81 million purchase price the sellers claim is due under the purchase
agreement. The parties had agreed that the purchase price of BHT would be
determined, in part, by the applicable gaming taxes imposed by Maine on the
Company’s operations, and currently are disputing the effective tax rate. The
dispute is currently in its initial stages. Pursuant to the dispute resolution
procedures, the Company deposited $30 million in escrow, pending a resolution. This amount is included within the other
assets line item on the Company’s consolidated balance sheets at December 31,
2006 and 2005. The parties recently completed their selection of arbitrators.

In conjunction with the Company’s merger with Argosy
Gaming Company (“Argosy”), and subsequent disposition of the Argosy Casino
Baton Rouge property, the Company became responsible for litigation initiated
over eight years ago related to the Baton Rouge property formerly owned by
Argosy. On November 26, 1997, Capitol House filed an amended petition in
the Nineteenth Judicial District Court for East Baton Rouge Parish, State of
Louisiana, amending its previously filed but unserved suit against Richard
Perryman, the person selected by the Louisiana Gaming Division to evaluate and
rank the


applicants seeking a
gaming license for East Baton Rouge Parish, and adding state law claims against
Jazz Enterprises, Inc., the former Jazz Enterprises, Inc.
Shareholders, Argosy, Argosy of Louisiana, Inc. and Catfish Queen
Partnership in Commendam, d/b/a the Belle of Baton Rouge Casino. This suit
alleges that these parties violated the Louisiana Unfair Trade Practices Act in
connection with obtaining the gaming license that was issued to Jazz
Enterprises, Inc./Catfish Queen Partnership in Commendam. The plaintiff,
an applicant for a gaming license whose application was denied by the Louisiana
Gaming Division, seeks to prove that the gaming license was invalidly issued
and seeks to recover lost gaming revenues that the plaintiff contends it could
have earned if the gaming license had been properly issued to the plaintiff. On
October 2, 2006, the Company prevailed on a partial summary judgment
motion which limited plaintiff’s damages to its out-of-pocket costs in seeking
its gaming license, thereby eliminating any recovery for potential lost gaming
profits. On February 6, 2007, the jury returned a verdict of $3.8 million
(exclusive of statutory interest) against Jazz Enterprises, Inc. and
Argosy. Pursuant to the verdict, the Company established an appropriate reserve
at December 31, 2006. The Company is in the process of preparing
post-trial motions seeking to overturn the verdict. The Company has the right
to seek indemnification from two of the former Jazz Enterprises, Inc.
shareholders for any liability suffered as a result of such cause of action,
however, there can be no assurance that the former Jazz Enterprises, Inc.
shareholders will have assets sufficient to satisfy any claim in excess of
Argosy’s recoupment rights.

In May 2006, the
Illinois Legislature passed into law House Bill 1918, effective May 26,
2006, which singled out four of the nine Illinois casinos, including the
Company’s Empress Casino Hotel and Hollywood Casino Aurora, for a 3% tax
surcharge to subsidize local horse racing interests. We began paying this tax
surcharge during the three months ended June 30, 2006, and we will
continue to pay this tax surcharge in upcoming periods. On May 30, 2006,
Empress Casino Hotel and Hollywood Casino Aurora joined with the two other
riverboats affected by the law, Harrah’s Joliet and the Grand Victoria Casino
in Elgin, and filed suit in the Circuit Court of the Twelfth Judicial District
in Will County, Illinois (the “Court”), asking the Court to declare the law
unconstitutional. The State agreed to the entry of an order that establishes a
protest fund for all of the tax surcharge payments and enjoins the Treasurer
from making any payments out of that fund pending the final outcome of the
litigation. Should the casinos prevail with their challenge, the incremental
taxes paid under protest would be refunded. We anticipate a long process before
a resolution to this matter can be reached.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION
OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None.


PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR
REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS

Range of Market
Price

Our
common stock is quoted on The NASDAQ National Market under the symbol “PENN.”
The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the high and low sales
prices per share of our common stock as reported on The NASDAQ National Market.

High

Low


First Quarter

$

42.48

$

30.95

Second Quarter

43.59

35.00

Third Quarter

39.09

31.01

Fourth Quarter

41.99

36.57


First Quarter

$

34.84

$

28.74

Second Quarter

36.61

29.75

Third Quarter

38.60

31.00

Fourth Quarter

33.52

26.30

The closing sale price per
share of our common stock on The NASDAQ National Market on February 14,
2007, was $44.78. As of February 14, 2007, there were approximately 663
holders of record of our common stock. All references to sales prices of our
common stock have been retroactively restated to reflect the increased number
of our common stock shares outstanding pursuant to the March 7, 2005 stock
split.

Dividend Policy

Since our initial public
offering of common stock in May 1994, we have not paid any cash dividends
on our common stock. We intend to retain all of our earnings to finance the
development of our business, and thus, do not anticipate paying cash dividends
on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Payment of any cash dividends
in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will
depend upon, among other things, our future earnings, operations and capital
requirements, our general financial condition and general business conditions.
Moreover, our existing credit facility prohibits us from authorizing, declaring
or paying any dividends until our commitments under the credit facility have been
terminated and all amounts outstanding thereunder have been repaid. In
addition, future financing arrangements may prohibit the payment of dividends
under certain conditions.


ITEM 6. SELECTED
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA

The following
selected consolidated financial and operating data for the year ended December 31,
2006 is derived from our consolidated financial statements that have been
audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public
accounting firm. The following selected consolidated financial and operating
data for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003, and 2002 are
derived from our consolidated financial statements that had been audited by BDO
Seidman, LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm. The selected
consolidated financial and operating data should be read in conjunction with
our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto, “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and
the other financial information included herein.

The following is a
listing of our acquisitions and dispositions that occurred during the five-year
period ended December 31, 2006:

·

In
April 2002, we acquired the Bullwhackers Casino and related properties.

·

In
March 2003, we acquired Hollywood Casino Corporation.

·

In
January 2005, we transferred the operations of The Downs Racing, Inc.
and its subsidiaries to the Mohegan Tribal Gaming Authority (“MTGA”). The sale
was not considered final until the third quarter of 2006, as the MTGA had
certain post-closing termination rights that remained outstanding until August 7,
2006.

·

In
July 2005, the Hollywood Casino Shreveport property was disposed of.

·

In October 2005, we
acquired Argosy Gaming Company (“Argosy”) and divested the Argosy Casino Baton
Rouge property.


Year Ended December 31,


2005(1)


2003(2)

2002(3)

(in thousands, except per share data)

Income statement data:(4)

Net revenues

$

2,244,547

$

1,369,105

$

1,105,290

$

980,520

$

608,327

Total operating
  expenses

1,666,706

1,125,557

891,510

803,985

510,083

Income from
  continuing operations

577,841

243,548

213,780

176,535

98,244

Other expenses,
  net

(207,909

)

(101,778

)

(76,152

)

(76,878

)

(52,381

)

Income from
  continuing operations before income taxes

369,932

141,770

137,628

99,657

45,863

Taxes on income

156,852

54,593

50,288

37,463

17,534

Net income from
  continuing operations

213,080

87,177

87,340

62,194

28,329

Income (loss)
  from discontinued operations

114,008

33,753

(15,856

)

(10,723

)

2,534

Net income

$

327,088

$

120,930

$

71,484

$

51,471

$

30,863

Per
  share data:(5)

Earnings (loss) per
  share—Basic

Income from
  continuing operations

$

2.53

$

1.05

$

1.09

$

0.79

$

0.38

Discontinued
  operations, net of tax

1.35

0.41

(0.20

)

(0.14

)

0.03

Basic earnings per share

$

3.88

$

1.46

$

0.89

$

0.65

$

0.41

Earnings (loss) per
  share—Diluted

Income from
  continuing operations

$

2.46

$

1.02

$

1.05

$

0.77

$

0.36

Discontinued
  operations, net of tax

1.32

0.39

(0.19

)

(0.14

)

0.03

Diluted earnings per share

$

3.78

$

1.41

$

0.86

$

0.63

$

0.39

Weighted shares outstanding—Basic

84,229

82,893

80,510

78,946

75,550

Weighted shares
  outstanding—Diluted

86,634

85,857

83,508

81,224

78,188

Other
  data:

Net cash provided
  by operating activities

$

281,809

$

150,475

$

197,164

$

140,779

$

101,641

Net cash used in
  investing activities

(302,341

)

(1,978,800

)

(67,114

)

(331,607

)

(102,064

)

Net cash provided
  by (used in) financing activities

56,427

1,873,221

(124,177

)

217,459

18,312

Depreciation and
  amortization

123,951

72,531

65,785

57,471

34,518

Interest expense

196,328

89,344

75,720

76,616

42,104

Capital
  expenditures

408,883

121,135

68,957

56,733

88,533

Balance sheet data:

Cash and cash
  equivalents(6)

$

168,515

$

132,620

$

87,620

$

81,567

$

54,536

Total assets

4,514,082

4,190,404

1,632,701

1,609,599

765,480

Total debt(6)

2,829,448

2,786,229

858,909

990,123

375,018

Shareholders’ equity

921,163

546,543

398,092

309,878

247,000

(1)

Reflects
the operations of Argosy properties since the October 1, 2005 acquisition
effective date.

(2)

Reflects
the operations of the Hollywood Casino properties since the March 1, 2003
acquisition effective date.

(3)

Reflects
operations included since the April 25, 2002 acquisition of Bullwhackers.

(4)

For
purposes of comparability, certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to
conform to the current year presentation.

(5)

Per
share data has been retroactively restated to reflect the increased number of
common stock shares outstanding as a result of our March 7, 2005 and June 25,
2002 stock splits.

(6)

Does
not include discontinued operations.


ITEM
7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

Our Operations

We are a leading,
diversified, multi-jurisdictional owner and operator of gaming and pari-mutuel
properties. We now own or operate seventeen facilities in thirteen
jurisdictions, including Colorado, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Louisiana, Maine,
Mississippi, Missouri, New Jersey, Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia and
Ontario. In addition, on November 7, 2006, we agreed to acquire Zia Park
Racetrack and its Black Gold Casino (“Zia Park”) in New Mexico. The transaction
is expected to close mid-2007, subject to the satisfaction of customary
closing conditions, including regulatory approval. We believe that our
portfolio of assets provides us with a diversified cash flow from operations.

We have made significant
acquisitions in the past few years, and expect to continue to pursue additional
acquisition and development opportunities in the future. On March 3, 2003,
we acquired Hollywood Casino Corporation, which significantly increased our
revenues and cash flow. On February 12, 2004, we purchased Bangor Historic
Track, Inc., in Bangor, Maine. On October 3, 2005, we completed our
largest acquisition to date, acquiring Argosy Gaming Company (“Argosy”). In
early November 2005, we opened a temporary gaming facility in Bangor,
Maine. On July 5, 2004, Pennsylvania Governor Edward G. Rendell signed
into law the Pennsylvania Race Horse Development and Gaming Act. Our plan is to
develop a completely new gaming and racing facility at our Penn National Race
Course in Grantville, Pennsylvania. Under this plan, we expect to open a new
permanent facility with 2,000 slot machines around the first quarter of 2008 at
an estimated cost of $310 million, inclusive of the $50 million
gaming license fee, with the ability to add 1,000 machines as soon as demand
warrants. We have a master plan to accommodate up to 5,000 gaming devices,
based on demand. In late December 2006, the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board
(the “PGCB”) granted us a Category 1 slot machine license.

The vast majority of our
revenues is gaming revenue, derived primarily from gaming on slot machines and,
to a lesser extent, table games. Other revenues are derived from our management
service fee from Casino Rama, our hotel, dining, retail, admissions, program
sales, concessions and certain other ancillary activities, and our racing
operations. Our racing revenue is derived from wagering on our live races,
wagering on import simulcasts at our racetracks and off-track wagering
facilities (“OTWs”) and through account wagering, and fees from wagering on
export simulcasting our races.

Beginning in the first
quarter of 2006, we modified our segment reporting from two reportable segments
to one reportable segment, as we believe that our gaming and racing properties
can now be aggregated together in accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 131, “Disclosures about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information” (“SFAS 131”), due to ongoing changes at our
racing properties, including the upcoming introduction of slot machines at Penn
National Race Course.

We intend to continue to
expand our gaming operations through the implementation of a disciplined
capital expenditure program at our existing properties and the continued
pursuit of strategic acquisitions of gaming properties, particularly in
attractive regional markets.

Key
performance indicators related to revenues are:

·

Gaming
revenue indicators—slot handle (volume indicator), table game drop (volume
indicator) and “win” or “hold” percentages. Our typical property slot win
percentage is in the range of 6% to 10% of slot handle and our typical table
games win percentage is in the range of 15% to 25% of table game drop; and

·

Racing
revenue indicators—pari-mutuel wagering commissions (volume indicator) earned
on wagering on our live races, wagering on import simulcasts at our racetracks
and OTWs and through account wagering, and fees from wagering on export
simulcasting our races at out-of-state locations.


Our properties generate
significant operating cash flow, since most of our revenue is cash-based from
slot machines and pari-mutuel wagering. Our business is capital intensive, and
we rely on cash flow from our properties to generate operating cash to repay
debt, fund capital maintenance expenditures, fund new capital projects at
existing properties and provide excess cash for future development and
acquisitions.

Executive Summary

Factors affecting our
results for the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to the year
ended December 31, 2005, included the October 2005 Argosy
acquisition, the settlement of our business interruption and property damage
claims under our all-risk property insurance program resulting from Hurricane
Katrina’s impact on Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis (formerly known as Casino
Magic—Bay St. Louis) and Boomtown Biloxi, the recognition of a gain on the sale
of discontinued operations, growth at several of our properties, including the
Charles Town Entertainment Complex, the contribution of Hollywood Slots at
Bangor (which opened in November 2005) and the recording of a goodwill
impairment charge for Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis.

Highlights for the
year:

·

Net revenues increased
$875.4 million, or 63.9%, for the year ended December 31, 2006, as
compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, primarily due to the
acquisition of Argosy, growth at several of our properties, including the
Charles Town Entertainment Complex, and the contribution of Hollywood Slots at
Bangor.

·

Net
income and diluted earnings per share increased by approximately 170% for the
year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to the year ended December 31,
2005.

·

The
results of operations of Argosy, which we acquired on October 3, 2005,
have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the October 1,
2005 acquisition effective date.

·

During
the year ended December 31, 2006, our financial results benefited from a
settlement agreement with our property and business interruption insurance
providers for a total of $225 million for Hurricane Katrina-related losses
at our Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi properties, as well
as minor proceeds related to our National Flood Insurance coverage and auto
insurance claims. Reflecting the settlement agreement, we recorded a pre-tax
gain of $128.3 million ($81.8 million, net of taxes).

·

As
a result of our entry into the Second Amendment to the Purchase Agreement and
Release of Claims (“Amendment and Release”) with the Mohegan Tribal Gaming
Authority (“MTGA”), we recorded, in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles (“GAAP”), a net book gain on the $250 million sale ($280
million initial price, less $30 million payable pursuant to the Amendment and
Release) of The Downs Racing, Inc. and its subsidiaries to the MTGA of
$114.0 million (net of $84.9 million of income taxes) during the year
ended December 31, 2006.

·

As a result of the
increased asset values resulting from the reconstruction at Hollywood Casino
Bay St. Louis, we determined that all of the goodwill associated with the
original purchase of the property was impaired. Accordingly, we recorded a
pre-tax charge of $34.5 million ($22.0 million, net of taxes) during the year
ended December 31, 2006.

Other Developments:

·

On
November 7, 2006, Zia Park, LLC (the “Buyer”), one of our wholly-owned
subsidiaries, entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement (the “Asset Purchase
Agreement”) with Zia Partners, LLC (“Zia”) and (solely with respect to
specified sections thereof which relate to our guarantee described below) us,
whereby the Buyer will acquire from Zia the Black Gold Casino and Zia Park
Racetrack, located on approximately 320 acres in Hobbs, New Mexico, and all
related assets of Zia for a purchase price of $200 million in cash, subject to
a working capital adjustment and certain


other adjustments, and
will assume specific liabilities of Zia. Upon the execution of the Asset
Purchase Agreement, the Buyer made a deposit of $10 million toward the purchase
price. We have guaranteed the payment and performance of the Buyer’s
obligations under the Asset Purchase Agreement. The transaction is expected to
close by mid-2007, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions,
including regulatory approval. We intend to fund this purchase with additional
borrowings under our existing $750 million revolving credit facility.

·

On
August 8, 2006, we renewed our property insurance coverage in the amount
of $200 million. The $200 million coverage is “all risk”, including “named
windstorm”, flood and earthquake. Also, we purchased an additional $250 million
of “all risk” coverage that is subject to certain exclusions including, among
others, exclusion for “named windstorms”, floods and earthquakes. There is a
$25 million deductible for “named windstorm” events, and lesser
deductibles as they apply to other perils. The premium for this coverage was
$10.1 million higher during the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared
to the year ended December 31, 2005.

·

On
July 27, 2006, we announced
that, by mutual agreement, Kevin DeSanctis, our President and Chief Operating
Officer, would be leaving us. In accordance with an agreement effective October 9,
2006, Mr. DeSanctis ceased to be an executive officer. In order to
facilitate an orderly transition, Mr. DeSanctis remained an employee
through February 9, 2007. We have retained Heidrick & Struggles
International, Inc. to assist us in identifying a successor to Mr. DeSanctis.

·

Boomtown
Biloxi and Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis reopened on June 29, 2006 and August 31,
2006, respectively.

·

Argosy
Casino Lawrenceburg continues to move forward with the construction of a
planned casino development. The development includes a 1,500 space parking
garage, a two-level 270,000 square foot riverboat, and numerous infrastructure
upgrades to allow more convenient access to the property. Due to ongoing
environmental and archeological studies at the site, the expected opening date
for the parking facility will now be the second quarter of 2008, while the
expanded casino floor will now open in the second quarter of 2009. The new
riverboat will allow up to 4,000 positions on one level, and another 400
positions will be added to the second level, along with restaurants and other
amenities on the gaming riverboat.

·

In
late December 2006, the PGCB granted us a Category 1 slot machine license
for the placement of slot machines at our planned Hollywood Casino racing and
gaming facility at Penn National Race Course. In August 2006, we commenced
construction of the integrated racing and gaming facility at Penn National Race
Course. In preparation for the construction, we closed and razed the aged
grandstand and clubhouse at Penn National Race Course, and opened a new 24,000
square foot temporary facility offering pari-mutuel wagering, food and beverage
services, more than 250 television monitors, administrative offices and
facilities for jockeys. The Hollywood Casino at Penn National will be a 365,000
square foot facility, and will be sized for 3,000 slot machines, with 2,000
positions planned at opening.

·

In
late December 2006, we completed the purchase of the former Holiday Inn in
Bangor, Maine, where we will be building the permanent Hollywood Slots at
Bangor facility. Due to the results currently generated by our temporary
facility and a substantial number of patrons driving significant distances to
Hollywood Slots at Bangor, we are adding a hotel to the plans for the permanent
facility, which will feature a two-story, semi-circular, glass tower casino
area, a four-story parking garage, restaurants, retail space and a new
simulcast facility for off-track wagering. Construction of the facility, which
will open with 1,000 slot machines and have capacity for 1,500 gaming machines,
is planned to commence in the first half of 2007, following the demolition of
the existing hotel and adjacent buildings.

·

At
the Charles Town Entertainment Complex, we completed construction of a 378-seat
buffet and a new parking garage, which doubled our structured parking to 5,048
spaces. In addition, we continue


to build and develop the
Charles Town Entertainment Complex, with the current expansion of the property
including a hotel and a 65,000 square foot expansion of the gaming floor. The
expansion of the gaming floor, which is expected to be completed in two phases,
will enable us to initially add 800 more slot machines, with capacity for
an additional 1,000 slot machines thereafter. We expect the opening of the
first phase of expansion to occur in May 2007.

·

Argosy
Casino Riverside continues to make progress on the 258-room hotel
that is expected to open in April 2007.

·

In
May 2006, the Illinois Legislature passed into law House Bill 1918,
effective May 26, 2006, which singled out four of the nine Illinois
casinos, including our Empress Casino Hotel and Hollywood Casino Aurora, for a
3% tax surcharge to subsidize local horse racing interests. We began paying
this tax surcharge during the three months ended June 30, 2006, and we
will continue to pay this tax surcharge in upcoming periods. On May 30,
2006, Empress Casino Hotel and Hollywood Casino Aurora joined with the two
other riverboats affected by the law, Harrah’s Joliet and the Grand Victoria
Casino in Elgin, and filed suit in the Circuit Court of the Twelfth Judicial
District in Will County, Illinois (the “Court”), asking the Court to declare
the law unconstitutional. The State agreed to the entry of an order that
establishes a protest fund for all of the tax surcharge payments and enjoins
the Treasurer from making any payments out of that fund pending the final
outcome of the litigation. Should the casinos prevail with their challenge, the
incremental taxes paid under protest would be refunded. We anticipate a long
process before a resolution to this matter can be reached.

·

In
Ohio, as the owner of Raceway Park in Toledo, we provided support during 2006
for a proposed constitutional amendment that would have established a tuition
grant program for Ohio students to attend public or private colleges in the
state by allowing up to 3,500 slot machines at each of the state’s seven
existing racetracks and two locations in downtown Cleveland. On November 7,
2006, the proposed constitutional amendment was voted down by Ohio citizens.
Our efforts and funding of this referendum reduced our earnings on a short-term
basis.

·

In
April 2006, we entered into $300 million of new interest rate swap
agreements, which brought our swapped portion of LIBOR rate debt to $1.3
billion. The effective date of the swap agreements was May 8, 2006, and
will be for a period of five years.

·

On
March 15, 2006, we redeemed $175 million in aggregate principal
amount of our outstanding 8


¤


% senior
subordinated notes due March 15, 2010. The redemption price was $1,044.38
per $1,000 principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the scheduled
redemption date. We funded the redemption of the notes from available cash and
borrowings under our revolving credit facility.

For 2007, we will be
focused on the above initiatives and other factors affecting the business
similar to the drivers of our 2006 results, as discussed in “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The
risks to achieving our financial objectives for 2007 are discussed in the “Risk
Factors” and “Important Factors Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” sections
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2006.

Critical Accounting
Policies

We make certain judgments and use certain estimates
and assumptions when applying accounting principles in the preparation of our
consolidated financial statements. The nature of the estimates and assumptions
are material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to
account for highly uncertain factors or the susceptibility of such factors to
change. We have identified the policies related to the accounting for
long-lived assets, goodwill and other intangible assets, income taxes and
litigation, claims and assessments as critical accounting policies, which
require us to make significant judgments, estimates and assumptions.


We believe the current assumptions and other
considerations used to estimate amounts reflected in our consolidated financial
statements are appropriate. However, if actual experience differs from the assumptions
and other considerations used in estimating amounts reflected in our
consolidated financial statements, the resulting changes could have a material
adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, and in certain
situations, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.

The development and
selection of the critical accounting policies, and the related disclosures,
have been reviewed with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors.

Long-lived assets

At December 31, 2006,
we had a net property and equipment balance of $1,365.9 million, representing
30% of total assets. We depreciate property and equipment on a straight-line
basis over their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives are
determined based on the nature of the assets as well as our current operating
strategy. We review the carrying value of our property and equipment for
possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that
the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable based on
undiscounted estimated future cash flows expected to result from its use and
eventual disposition. The factors considered by us in performing this
assessment include current operating results, trends and prospects, as well as
the effect of obsolescence, demand, competition and other economic factors. In
estimating expected future cash flows for determining whether an asset is
impaired, assets are grouped at the individual property level. In assessing the
recoverability of the carrying value of property and equipment, we must make
assumptions regarding future cash flows and other factors. If these estimates
or the related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to
record an impairment loss for these assets. Such an impairment loss would be
calculated based upon the discounted future cash flows expected to result from
the use of the asset, and would be recognized as a non-cash component of
operating income.

Goodwill and other
intangible assets

At December 31, 2006, we had $1,869.4 million
in goodwill and $726.1 million in other intangible assets on our
consolidated balance sheet, representing 41% and 16% of total assets,
respectively, resulting from our acquisition of other businesses. Two issues
arise with respect to these assets that require significant management
estimates and judgment: (i) the valuation in connection with the initial
purchase price allocation; and (ii) the ongoing evaluation for impairment.

In connection with our
acquisitions, valuations were completed to determine the allocation of the
purchase prices. The factors considered in the valuations included data
gathered as a result of our due diligence in connection with the acquisitions
and projections for future operations. Goodwill is tested at least annually for
impairment by comparing the fair value of the recorded assets to their carrying
amount. If the carrying amount of the goodwill exceeds its fair value, an
impairment loss is recognized.

In accordance
with SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (“SFAS 142”), we
consider our gaming license and trademark intangible assets as indefinite-life
intangible assets that do not require amortization. Rather, these intangible
assets are tested at least annually for impairment by comparing the fair value
of the recorded assets to their carrying amount. If the carrying amounts of the
gaming license and trademark intangible assets exceed their fair value, an
impairment loss is recognized.

The annual evaluation of goodwill and
indefinite-life intangible assets requires the use of estimates about future
operating results of each reporting unit to determine their estimated fair
value. Changes in forecasted operations can materially affect these estimates.
Once an impairment of goodwill or other indefinite-life intangible assets has
been recorded, it cannot be reversed. Because our goodwill and indefinite-life
intangible assets are not amortized, there may be volatility in reported
income because impairment losses, if any, are likely to occur irregularly and
in varying amounts. Intangible assets that have a definite-life, including the
management service contract for Casino Rama, are amortized on a straight-line
basis over their estimated useful lives or related service contract. We review
the carrying value of our intangible assets that have a definite-life for
possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that
their carrying value may


not be
recoverable. If the carrying amount of the intangible assets that have a
definite-life exceed their fair value, an impairment loss is recognized.

Income taxes

We account for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109,
“Accounting for Income Taxes” (“SFAS 109”). Under SFAS 109, deferred
tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the differences between the
financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of existing assets and
liabilities and are measured at the prevailing enacted tax rates that will be
in effect when these differences are settled or realized. SFAS 109 also
requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation allowance if it is
more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will
not be realized.

The realizability of the deferred tax assets is
evaluated quarterly by assessing the valuation allowance and by adjusting the
amount of the allowance, if necessary. The factors used to assess the
likelihood of realization are the forecast of future taxable income and
available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the net
deferred tax assets. We have used tax-planning strategies to realize or renew
net deferred tax assets in order to avoid the potential loss of future tax
benefits.

In addition, we operate
within multiple taxing jurisdictions and are subject to audit in each
jurisdiction. These audits can involve complex issues that may require an
extended period of time to resolve. In our opinion, adequate provisions for
income taxes have been made for all periods.

Litigation, claims
and assessments

We utilize estimates for
litigation, claims and assessments. These estimates are based on our knowledge
and experience regarding current and past events, as well as assumptions about
future events. If our assessment of such a matter should change, we
may have to change the estimate, which may have an adverse effect on
our results of operations. Actual results could differ from these estimates.

Results of
Operations

The following are
the most important factors and trends that contribute to our operating
performance:

·

Most
of our properties operate in mature competitive markets. As a result, we expect
a majority of our future growth to come from prudent acquisitions of gaming
properties, jurisdictional expansions (such as Pennsylvania and Maine) and
property expansion in under-penetrated markets.

·

The
continued pressure on governments to balance their budgets could intensify the
efforts of state and local governments to raise revenues through increases in
gaming taxes.

·

A
number of states are currently considering or implementing legislation to legalize
or expand gaming. Such legislation presents both potential opportunities to
establish new properties (for instance, in Pennsylvania and Ohio) and potential
competitive threats to business at our existing properties (such as Maryland,
Ohio, and Kentucky). The timing and occurrence of these events remain
uncertain. Legalized gaming from casinos located on Native American lands can
also have a significant competitive effect.

·

The
continued demand for, and our emphasis on, slot wagering entertainment at our
properties.

·

The
ongoing successful expansion and revenue gains at our Charles Town
Entertainment Complex, Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg, Hollywood Casino at Penn
National Race Course, Hollywood Slots at Bangor and Argosy Casino Riverside
facilities.

·

Financing
in a favorable interest rate environment and under an improved credit profile
that facilitates our growth.


·

The
impact of Hurricane Katrina on our facilities, our future insurance rates and
the Mississippi Gulf Coast market.

·

The
successful execution of the development and construction activities currently
underway at a number of our facilities, as well as the risks associated with
the costs, regulatory approval, and the timing for these activities.

The
results of continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2006,
2005, and 2004 are summarized below:




Year Ended December 31,

(in thousands)

Revenues:

Gaming(1)

$

2,057,617

$

1,211,360

$

957,478

Management service fee

18,146

18,596

16,277

Food, beverage and other

275,700

213,089

197,150

Gross revenues

2,351,463

1,443,045

1,170,905

Less promotional
  allowances

(106,916

)

(73,940

)

(65,615

)

Net revenues

2,244,547

1,369,105

1,105,290

Operating expenses:

Gaming

1,063,063

646,305

510,159

Food, beverage and other

243,707

165,468

135,832

General and administrative

329,716

191,933

179,734

Hurricane

(128,253

)

21,145

—

Goodwill impairment

34,522

—

—

Settlement costs

—

28,175

—

Depreciation and amortization

123,951

72,531

65,785

Total operating
  expenses

1,666,706

1,125,557

891,510

Income from continuing
  operations

$

577,841

$

243,548

$

213,780

(1)

Reflects
reclassification for cash redemption coupons to contra-revenue from operating
expense described in Note 3: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Revenue
Recognition and Promotional Allowances in the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


The
results of continuing operations by property for the years ended December 31,
2006, 2005, and 2004 are summarized below:

Net Revenues(1)

Income (loss) from Continuing

Operations







Year Ended December 31,

(in thousands)

Charles Town
  Entertainment Complex

$

485,197

$

440,641

$

399,992

$

122,938

$

109,495

$

96,031

Argosy Casino
  Lawrenceburg(2)

474,046

107,259

—

139,267

31,792

—

Hollywood Casino
  Aurora

245,475

227,339

219,562

70,140

65,972

59,372

Empress Casino
  Hotel(2)

238,843

58,228

—

47,822

14,019

—

Argosy Casino
  Riverside(2)

153,441

34,844

—

37,744

7,680

—

Hollywood Casino
  Baton Rouge

144,001

129,675

102,909

52,097

16,645

25,543

Argosy Casino
  Alton(2)

115,194

26,046

—

21,373

3,615

—

Hollywood Casino
  Tunica

106,352

106,496

107,336

19,393

19,187

18,525

Hollywood Casino
  Bay St. Louis

32,184

69,595

103,991

35,810

(5,855

)

9,996

Argosy Casino
  Sioux City(2)

53,909

13,218

—

13,363

2,929

—

Boomtown Biloxi

51,421

45,714

69,934

72,812


8,739

Hollywood Slots
  at Bangor

40,871

5,957


7,332

(1,845

)

(351

)

Bullwhackers

26,812

29,435

28,959


2,028

3,206

Casino Rama
  management service contract

18,146

18,595

16,277

16,765

17,234

15,485

Pennsylvania
  Racing Operations

50,303

53,777

55,352


(2,956

)

3,552

Raceway Park(2)

8,352

2,286

—

(651

)


—

Earnings from
  Pennwood Racing, Inc.

—

—

—

—

—

—

Corporate
  overhead

—

—

—

(79,940

)

(36,862

)

(26,318

)

Total

$

2,244,547

$

1,369,105

$

1,105,290

$

577,841

$

243,548

$

213,780

(1)

Reflects
reclassification for cash redemption coupons to contra-revenue from operating
expense described in Note 3: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Revenue
Recognition and Promotional Allowances in the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In
addition, net revenues are net of promotional allowances.

(2)

Reflects
results since the October 1, 2005 acquisition effective date.


Revenues

Revenues for the year
ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 are as follows (in thousands):

Percentage

Year ended December 31,



Variance

Variance

Gaming(1)

$

2,057,617

$

1,211,360

$

846,257

69.9

%

Management service
  fee

18,146

18,596

(450

)

(2.4

)%

Food, beverage
  and other

275,700

213,089

62,611

29.4

%

Gross revenue

2,351,463

1,443,045

908,418

63.0

%

Less promotional
  allowances

(106,916

)

(73,940

)

(32,976

)

44.6

%

Net revenues

$

2,244,547

$

1,369,105

$

875,442

63.9

%

Percentage

Year ended December 31,



Variance

Variance

Gaming(1)

$

1,211,360

$

957,478

$

253,882

26.5

%

Management service fee

18,596

16,277

2,319

14.2

%

Food, beverage and other

213,089

197,150

15,939

8.1

%

Gross revenue

1,443,045

1,170,905

272,140

23.2

%

Less promotional
  allowances

(73,940

)

(65,615

)

(8,325

)

12.7

%

Net revenues

$

1,369,105

$

1,105,290

$

263,815

23.9

%

(1)

Reflects
reclassification for cash redemption coupons to contra-revenue from operating
expense described in Note 3: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Revenue
Recognition and Promotional Allowances in the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Gaming revenue

Gaming revenue increased
by $846.3 million, or 69.9%, to $2,057.6 million in 2006, and increased by
$253.9 million, or 26.5%, to $1,211.4 million in 2005, due to the Argosy
acquisition, growth at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex, Hollywood Casino
Aurora and Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge (formerly known as Casino Rouge), and
the introduction of the Hollywood Slots at Bangor temporary facility. The
increase in gaming revenue in 2006 was offset by a decrease at Hollywood Casino
Bay St. Louis, while the increase in gaming revenue in 2005 was offset by
decreases at both Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi.

The addition of the Argosy
properties increased gaming revenues by $761.6 million and $228.8 million in
2006 and 2005, respectively.

Gaming revenue at our
Charles Town Entertainment Complex increased by $45.4 million and $39.9 million
in 2006 and 2005, respectively, as a result of an increase in patronage due to
increased market awareness and expansion of the property. The total average
gaming machines on the floor equaled 4,136, 4,119, and 3,659 for the years
ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Gaming revenue at
Hollywood Casino Aurora increased by $18.5 million in 2006, as a result of the
continued refinement of the marketing programs implemented in 2005, as well as
increases to the incentives offered to existing customers.

Gaming revenue at
Hollywood Casino Aurora increased by $8.7 million in 2005 as a result of
marketing efforts to increase the number of visitations by customers and
changes to the slot floor. During the third quarter of 2005, Illinois rolled
back its gaming tax to pre-June 2003 levels and reduced the admissions tax
from $4.00 to $3.00. As a result, Hollywood Casino Aurora initiated a number of
marketing programs that focused on bringing back customers affected by the
operational and marketing changes made in response to the gaming and admissions
tax increases in 2003. These programs included the elimination of admissions
charges, significant advertising of the free admission policy and the mailing
of cash and food incentives to individuals who had not visited Hollywood Casino
Aurora since 2003.


Gaming revenue at Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge
increased by $14.0 million in 2006, as a result of the population growth in the
Baton Rouge area, the economic impact of the regional recovery efforts and the
reduced competition from casinos on the Mississippi Gulf Coast, all of which
were related to the impact of Hurricane Katrina on the region, particularly
within the first nine months of 2006. During the three months ended December 31,
2006, gaming revenue declined at Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge, as the population,
economic and competitive impacts resulting from Hurricane Katrina began to
dissipate.

Gaming revenue at Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge
increased by $26.3 million in 2005, as a result of growth in patron visits and
win per patron visit as the population of Baton Rouge grew with residents
evacuating New Orleans and southeast Louisiana area after Hurricane Katrina.

Gaming revenue at the Hollywood Slots at Bangor
temporary facility, which opened to customers in November 2005, increased
by $33.3 million and $4.2 million during the years ended December 31, 2006
and 2005, respectively.

The revenue gains observed
during 2006 were partially offset by a $29.1 million decline at Hollywood
Casino Bay St. Louis, while the revenue gains identified during 2005 were
partially offset by decreases of $31.6 million and $21.6 million at Hollywood
Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi, respectively. Both Hollywood Casino
Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi were closed effective August 28, 2005,
due to extensive Hurricane Katrina damage. Boomtown Biloxi reopened on June 29,
2006 and Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis reopened on August 31, 2006.

Management service
fee

Management service fees from Casino Rama decreased by
$0.5 million, or 2.4%, to $18.1 million in 2006, as a result of the Ontario
smoking ban that was effective May 31, 2006.

Management service fees
from Casino Rama increased by $2.3 million, or 14.2%, to $18.6 million in 2005,
due to an emphasis on marketing programs that focused on trip generation,
recent visitors, the hotel and convention center and the concert program. These
programs increased slot play in the casino during 2005.

Food, beverage and
other revenue

Food, beverage and other
revenue increased by $62.6 million, or 29.4%, to $275.7 million in 2006, and
increased by $15.9 million, or 8.1%, to $213.1 million in 2005. The addition of
the Argosy properties increased food, beverage and other revenue by $78.9
million and $28.4 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase observed
in 2006 was partially offset by decreases of $13.8 million and $2.1 million at
Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi, which were closed effective
August 28, 2005, due to extensive Hurricane Katrina damage. In addition,
the increase identified during 2006 was partially offset by a decrease of $3.9
million at Penn National Race Course, which was modified from a permanent
facility to a temporary facility in 2006 as construction began on Hollywood
Casino at Penn National. The increase observed in 2005 was partially offset by
decreases of $7.0 million and $4.3 million at Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis
and Boomtown Biloxi, which were closed effective August 28, 2005, due to
extensive Hurricane Katrina damage. Boomtown Biloxi reopened on June 29,
2006 and Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis reopened on August 31, 2006.

Promotional
allowances

Promotional allowances
increased by $33.0 million, or 44.6%, to $106.9 million in 2006, and increased
by $8.3 million, or 12.7%, to $73.9 million in 2005. The addition of the Argosy
properties increased promotional allowances by $38.5 million and $15.4 million
in 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase observed in 2006 was partially
offset by a decrease of $5.5 million at Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis, while
the increase identified in 2005 was partially offset by decreases of $4.1
million and $1.8 million at Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi,
respectively, which were closed effective


August 28,
2005, due to extensive Hurricane Katrina damage. Boomtown Biloxi reopened on June 29,
2006 and Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis reopened on August 31, 2006. In
addition, the increase observed in 2005 was also partially offset by a decrease
of $2.0 million at Hollywood Casino Aurora, as a result of admissions charges
no longer being waived for customers.

Operating Expenses

Operating
expenses for the year ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 are as
follows (in thousands):

Percentage

Year ended December 31,



Variance

Variance

Gaming(1)

$

1,063,063

$

646,305

$

416,758

64.5

%

Food, beverage
  and other

243,707

165,468

78,239

47.3

%

General and
  administrative

329,716

191,933

137,783

71.8

%

Hurricane

(128,253

)

21,145

(149,398

)

(706.5

)%

Goodwill
  impairment

34,522

—

34,522

100.0

%

Settlement costs

—

28,175

(28,175

)

(100.0

)%

Depreciation and
  amortization

123,951

72,531

51,420

70.9

%

Total operating
  expenses

$

1,666,706

$

1,125,557

$

541,149

48.1

%

Percentag

Year ended December 31,



Variance

Variance

Gaming(1)

$

646,305

$

510,159

$

136,146

26.7

%

Food, beverage
  and other

165,468

135,832

29,636

21.8

%

General and
  administrative

191,933

179,734

12,199

6.8

%

Hurricane

21,145

—

21,145

100.0

%

Settlement costs

28,175

—

28,175

100.0

%

Depreciation and
  amortization

72,531

65,785

6,746

10.3

%

Total operating expenses

$

1,125,557

$

891,510

$

234,047

26.3

%

(1)

Reflects
reclassification for cash redemption coupons to contra-revenue from operating
expense described in Note 3: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Revenue
Recognition and Promotional Allowances in the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Gaming expenses

Gaming expenses increased by $416.8 million, or 64.5%,
to $1,063.1 million in 2006, and increased by $136.1 million, or 26.7%, to
$646.3 million in 2005, due to the Argosy acquisition, increases at the Charles
Town Entertainment Complex and Hollywood Casino Aurora, and the introduction of
the Hollywood Slots at Bangor temporary facility. The increase in gaming
expenses in 2006 was offset by a decrease at Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis,
while the increase in gaming expenses in 2005 was offset by decreases at both
Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi.

The addition of the Argosy properties increased gaming
expenses by $385.8 million and $117.3 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Gaming expenses at our

Charles
Town Entertainment Complex increased by $26.6 million and $24.3 in 2006 and
2005, respectively, due to increases in gaming taxes of $25.2 million and $24.7
million, respectively, which were a result of the increase in gaming revenues.

Gaming expenses at Hollywood Casino Aurora increased
by $10.3 million in 2006 due to increases in gaming taxes, which were a result
of the increase in gaming revenues and the 3% Illinois tax surcharge. Gaming
expenses at Hollywood Casino Aurora increased by $.7 million in 2005 as a
result of higher


gaming taxes, which were
partially offset by labor reductions that resulted from the implementation of “ticket-in,
ticket-out” (“TITO”) slot machine technology.

Gaming expenses at the Hollywood Slots at Bangor
temporary facility, which opened to customers in November 2005, increased
by $19.3 million and $2.5 million during the years ended December 31, 2006
and 2005, respectively.

The expense increases
observed during 2006 were partially offset by a decrease at Hollywood Casino
Bay St. Louis of $27.9 million, while the expenses increases identified during
2005 were partially offset by decreases of $13.2 million and $5.5 million at
Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi, respectively. Both
Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi were closed effective August 28,
2005, due to extensive Hurricane Katrina damage. Boomtown Biloxi reopened on June 29,
2006 and Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis reopened on August 31, 2006.

Food, beverage and
other expenses

Food, beverage and other
expenses increased by $78.2 million, or 47.3%, to $243.7 million in 2006, and
increased by $29.6 million, or 21.8%, to $165.5 million in 2005. The addition
of the Argosy properties increased food, beverage and other expenses by $92.0
million and $31.0 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase observed
in 2006 was offset by decreases at Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown
Biloxi, where food, beverage and other expenses declined by $9.2 million and
$2.2 million, respectively. The increase identified in 2005 was offset by
decreases at Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi, where food,
beverage and other expenses decreased by $0.9 and $2.0 million, as a result of
Hurricane Katrina. Both Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi were
closed effective August 28, 2005, due to extensive Hurricane Katrina
damage. Boomtown Biloxi reopened on June 29, 2006 and Hollywood Casino Bay
St. Louis reopened on August 31, 2006.

General and
administrative expenses

General and administrative expenses increased by
$137.8 million, or 71.8%, to $329.7 million in 2006, and increased by $12.2
million, or 6.8%, to $191.9 million in 2005. General and administrative
expenses at the properties includes facility maintenance, utilities, property
and liability insurance, housekeeping, and all administrative departments such
as accounting, purchasing, human resources, legal and internal audit.

The addition of the Argosy properties increased
general and administrative expenses by $86.0 million and $24.1 million in 2006
and 2005, respectively.

General and administrative expenses at Hollywood
Casino Bay St. Louis increased by $7.9 million in 2006, as the property
reopened on August 31, 2006. General and administrative expenses at
Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis decreased by $13.9 million in 2005, as a result
of Hurricane Katrina, which closed the property effective August 28, 2005.

General and administrative expenses at Boomtown Biloxi
decreased by $11.8 million in 2005, as a result of Hurricane Katrina, which
closed the property effective August 28, 2005.

General and

administrative
expenses at

Hollywood Slots at Bangor, increased by $7.6 million and
$1.4 million during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005,
respectively as the property opened to customers in November 2005.

Corporate overhead expenses increased by $34.7 million
due to costs incurred during 2006 for acquisition opportunities, increases in
legal fees and lobbying costs, additional payroll expense for staffing, and our
January 1, 2006 adoption of SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based
Payment” (“SFAS 123(R)”), which requires us to expense the cost of
employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based
on the grant-date fair value of the award. This expense must be recognized
ratably over the requisite service period following the date of grant.
Compensation costs related to stock-based compensation for the year ended December 31,
2006 totaled $20.6 million pre-tax.


Corporate overhead
expenses increased by $7.3 million in 2005 as we incurred additional audit fees
and additional internal audit department costs this period relative to
compliance with the rules promulgated in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002, particularly Section 404 (dealing with internal controls over
financial reporting), an increase in legal fees associated with the Hollywood
Casino Shreveport (“HCS”) bankruptcy filing and the Hollywood Casino Baton
Rouge land lease litigation, additional payroll expense for staffing at the
corporate office and higher payroll taxes as a result of the exercise of stock
options.

Hurricane

During the year ended December 31, 2006, our
financial results benefited from a settlement agreement with our property and
business interruption insurance providers for a total of $225 million for
Hurricane Katrina-related losses at our Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and
Boomtown Biloxi properties, as well as minor proceeds related to our National
Flood Insurance coverage and auto insurance claims. Reflecting the settlement
agreement, we recorded a pre-tax gain of $128.3 million ($81.8 million, net of
taxes).

We recognized a pre-tax
charge of $21.1 million ($13.7 million after-tax) associated with the expenses
incurred from Hurricane Katrina for the year ended December 31, 2005. The
costs included property insurance and business interruption policy deductible
expense (approximately $10.2 million), compensation being paid to employees
through November 30, 2005 that exceeded the ordinary payroll limits under
the business interruption policy (approximately $6.1 million), the purchase of
replacement flood insurance for coverage during the remaining insurance policy
term (approximately $3.6 million), contributions to the Penn National Gaming
Foundation’s Hurricane Katrina Relief Project (approximately $1.0 million) and
costs for insurance claim consultants (approximately $.2 million).

Goodwill impairment

As a result of the
increased asset values resulting from the reconstruction at Hollywood Casino
Bay St. Louis, we determined that all of the goodwill associated with the
original purchase of the property was impaired. Accordingly, we recorded a
pre-tax charge of $34.5 million ($22.0 million, net of taxes) during the year
ended December 31, 2006.

Settlement costs

Hollywood Casino Baton
Rouge recorded one-time settlement costs of $28.2 million ($16.8 million
after-tax) during the year ended December 31, 2005. The charge was part of
the $30.5 million Settlement and Property Purchase Agreement, which terminated
litigation between the parties, terminated the lease and mutually released all
claims of the parties. The property acquired consists of land on the
Mississippi River on which Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge conducts a significant
portion of its dockside operations.

Depreciation and
amortization expenses

Depreciation and
amortization expense increased by $51.4 million, or 70.9%, to $124.0 million in
2006, and increased by $6.7 million, or 10.3%, to $72.5 million in 2005. The
addition of the Argosy properties increased depreciation and amortization
expense by $45.4 million and $12.3 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. The
increase identified in 2005 was offset by a decrease of $5.5 million that was
primarily a result of depreciation being suspended at the Mississippi
properties for property and equipment as a result of Hurricane Katrina. In
addition, accelerated depreciation was taken in 2004 for property and equipment
that had been replaced or was no longer in service at the Mississippi
properties.


Other income
(expense)

Other
income (expense) for the year ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 are
as follows: (in thousands):

Percentage

Year ended December 31,



Variance

Variance

Interest expense

$

(196,328

)

$

(89,344

)

$

(106,984

)

119.7

%

Interest income

3,525

4,111

(586

)

(14.3

)%

(Loss) earnings
  from joint venture

(788

)

1,455

(2,243

)

(154.2

)%

Other

(4,296

)


(4,335

)

(11,115.4

)%

Loss on early
  extinguishment of debt

(10,022

)

(18,039

)

8,017

(44.4

)%

Total other
  income (expenses)

$

(207,909

)

$

(101,778

)

$

(106,131

)

104.3

%

Percentage

Year ended December 31,



Variance

Variance

Interest expense

$

(89,344

)

$

(75,720

)

$

(13,624

)

18.0

%

Interest income

4,111

2,093

2,018

96.4

%

Earnings from
  joint venture

1,455

1,634

(179

)

(11.0

)%

Other


(392

)


109.9

%

Loss on early
  extinguishment of debt

(18,039

)

(3,767

)

(14,272

)

378.9

%

Total other income
  (expenses)

$

(101,778

)

$

(76,152

)

$

(25,626

)

33.7

%

Interest expense

Interest expense increased
by $107.0 million, or 119.7%, to $196.3 million in 2006, and increased by $13.6
million, or 18.0%, to $89.3 million in 2005, as a result of our entry into a
new senior secured credit facility in late 2005. On October 3, 2005, we
entered into a $2.725 billion new senior secured credit facility. The senior
secured credit facility is comprised of a $750.0 million revolving credit
facility, a $325.0 million Term Loan A facility and up to $1.65 billion Term
Loan B facility. The proceeds of the senior secured credit facility were used
to, among other things, fund the consummation of our acquisition of Argosy,
repay our and Argosy’s existing credit facilities, fund Argosy’s repurchase of
all of its 9% senior subordinated notes and 7% senior subordinated notes
tendered in the previously-announced tender offers and pay certain fees and
expenses in connection the aforementioned transactions.

Interest income

Interest income increased
by $2.0 million, or 96.4%, to $4.1 million in 2005. The increase was due to
investing the $280 million received from the MTGA for the sale of The Downs
Racing, Inc. and its subsidiaries in January 2005 and from available
excess cash flow.

Loss on early
extinguishment of debt

We recorded a $10.0
million loss on early extinguishment of debt during the year ended December 31,
2006, as a result of the redemption of $175 million in aggregate principal
amount of our outstanding



¤


% senior subordinated notes due March 15,
2010. As a result of the redemption, we recorded a loss on early extinguishment
of debt of $10.0 million for the call premium and the write-off of the
associated deferred financing fees. We recorded a $18.0 million loss on early
extinguishment of debt during the year ended December 31, 2005 as

a
result of the following: $14.0 million loss for the redemption of our $200
million 11


¤


%  senior
subordinated notes and a $5.7 million loss for the write-off of deferred
finance charges relating to the termination of our previous senior secured
credit facility, offset by a $1.7 million pre-tax gain for the termination of
swap contracts related to the repaid loans.


Taxes

The increase in our
effective tax rate to 42.4% for the year ended December 31, 2006, as
compared to 38.5% for the year ended December 31, 2005, reflects the
impact of operating results in jurisdictions with higher state income tax, an
adjustment for items identified in preparation of our tax returns, and the non-deductibility
of permanent differences. These items were partially offset by the state income
tax impact of our insurance gain, which occurred in a jurisdiction with a lower
state income tax rate.

Discontinued operations

Discontinued operations reflect the results of HCS,
The Downs Racing, Inc, and the sale of Argosy Casino Baton Rouge. We had a net loss,
net of tax benefit, from discontinued operations of $4.1 million and $15.9
million in 2005 and 2004, respectively.

On August 27, 2004, HCS entered into an agreement
of sale with Eldorado Resorts LLC (“Eldorado”). On September 10, 2004, a
group of creditors led by Black Diamond Capital Management, LLC filed an
involuntary Chapter 11 case against HCS. On July 6, 2005, the Bankruptcy
Court entered an order confirming the Chapter 11 plan that provided for the
acquisition of HCS by affiliates of Eldorado and, on July 22, 2005, the
acquisition was completed. As a result of the sale, we recorded a non-cash pre-tax
gain of approximately $58.3 million, representing the aggregate amount of
previously recorded losses. The after-tax effect of the gain is approximately
$37.9 million. We recorded net losses of $5.5 and $18.3 million for HCS for the
years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

On October 15, 2004, we announced the sale of The
Downs Racing, Inc. and its subsidiaries to the MTGA. In January 2005,
we received $280 million from the MTGA, and transferred the operations of
The Downs Racing, Inc. and its subsidiaries to the MTGA. The sale was not
considered final for accounting purposes until the third quarter of 2006, as
the MTGA had certain post-closing termination rights that remained outstanding.
On August 7, 2006, we entered into
the Amendment and Release with the MTGA pertaining to the October 14, 2004
Purchase Agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”), and agreed to pay the MTGA an
aggregate of $30 million over five years, beginning on the first anniversary of
the commencement of slot operations at Mohegan Sun at Pocono Downs, in exchange
for the MTGA’s agreement to release various claims it raised against us under
the Purchase Agreement and the MTGA’s surrender of all post-closing termination
rights it might have had under the Purchase Agreement. As a result of the
Amendment and Release, we recorded, in accordance with GAAP, a net book gain on
the $250 million sale ($280 million initial price, less $30 million payable
pursuant to the Amendment and Release) of The Downs Racing, Inc. and its
subsidiaries to the MTGA of $114.0 million (net of $84.9 million of income
taxes) during the year ended December 31, 2006. In addition, we recorded the present value of
the $30 million liability within debt, as the amount due to the MTGA is payable
over five years, with the first payment date to occur in late 2007.
We recorded a net loss of $38,000 and net income of $2.4 million for The Downs
Racing, Inc. and its subsidiaries for the years ended December 31,
2005 and 2004, respectively.

On October 25, 2005,
pursuant to the previously-announced Securities Purchase Agreement among
Argosy, Wimar Tahoe Corporation and CP Baton Rouge Casino, L.L.C., an affiliate
of Columbia Sussex Corporation, we completed the sale of Argosy Casino Baton
Rouge to Columbia Sussex Corporation for approximately $148.6 million. We owned
Argosy Casino Baton Rouge for twenty-four days prior to the sale, and recorded
net income of $1.4 million for Argosy Casino Baton Rouge for the year ended December 31,
2005.

Liquidity and
Capital Resources

Historically, our primary sources of liquidity and
capital resources have been cash flow from operations, borrowings from banks
and proceeds from the issuance of debt and equity securities.


Net cash provided by
operating activities was $281.8 million, $150.5 million, and $197.2 million for
the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Net cash
provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2006
included net income of $327.1 million, non-cash reconciling items, such as
depreciation, amortization and the tax benefit from the exercise of stock
options, of $0.9 million, offset by net changes in current asset and liability
accounts of $46.2 million.

Net cash used in investing
activities totaled $302.3 million, $1,978.8 million and $67.1 million for the
years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Net cash used
in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2006 included
expenditures for property and equipment totaling $408.9 million, offset by
insurance proceeds from Hurricane Katrina of $104.1 million and proceeds from
the sale of property and equipment totaling $2.4 million.

Net cash provided by financing
activities totaled $56.4 million and $1,873.2 million for the years ended December 31,
2006 and 2005, respectively. Net cash used in financing activities totaled
$124.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Net cash provided by
financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2006 included
proceeds from the sale of stock options totaling $12.2 million, proceeds from
the issuance of long-term debt equaling $195.7 million, the majority of which
was our credit facility, and principal payments on the long-term debt totaling
$177.1 million. The principal payment on long-term debt included the call for
redemption of all $175 million in aggregate principal amount of our outstanding


¤


% senior
subordinated notes due March 15, 2010. Net cash provided by financing
activities for the year ended December 31, 2006 also included $32.5
million in proceeds from insurance financing, offset by $19.3 million in
payments on insurance financing, as well as the tax benefit from stock options
exercised which equaled $12.4 million.

Capital Expenditures

Capital expenditures are
accounted for as either capital project or capital maintenance (replacement)
expenditures. Capital project expenditures are for fixed asset additions that
expand an existing facility. Capital maintenance (replacement) expenditures are
expenditures to replace existing fixed assets with a useful life greater than
one year that are obsolete, worn out or no longer cost effective to repair.

The
following table summarizes our capital project expenditures, other than capital
maintenance expenditures and expenditures related to the repair of Boomtown
Biloxi and Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis, by property for the year ended December 31,
2006:

Actual

Property

(in millions)

Charles Town Entertainment
  Complex

$

48.6

Hollywood Casino at Penn
  National

28.6

Hollywood Slots at
  Bangor

11.0

Argosy Casino Riverside

37.3

Argosy Casino
  Lawrenceburg

37.0

Boomtown Biloxi

15.3

Other

2.8

Totals

$

180.6

At the Charles Town
Entertainment Complex, we completed construction of a 378-seat buffet and
a new parking garage, which doubled our structured parking to 5,048 spaces.

In late December 2006, the PGCB granted us a
Category 1 slot machine license for the placement of slot machines at our
planned Hollywood Casino racing and gaming facility at Penn National Race
Course. In August 2006, we commenced construction of the integrated racing
and gaming facility at Penn National Race Course. In preparation for the
construction, we closed and razed the aged grandstand and clubhouse at Penn
National Race Course, and opened a new 24,000 square foot temporary facility
offering pari-mutuel wagering, food and beverage services, more than 250
television monitors, administrative offices and facilities for jockeys.


In late December 2006, we completed the purchase
of the former Holiday Inn in Bangor, Maine, where we will be building the
permanent Hollywood Slots at Bangor facility.

At Argosy Casino Riverside, we are continuing to make
progress on the 258-room hotel that is expected to open
April 2007.

We continue to move forward with the construction of a
planned casino development at Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg.

In 2006, we spent approximately $164.2 million for
Hurricane Katrina-related capital project expenditures related to Boomtown
Biloxi and Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis.

In 2006, we spent approximately $64.1 million for
capital maintenance expenditures at our properties. The majority of the capital
maintenance expenditures were for slot machines and related slot machine
equipment, including TITO equipment. With the exception of Bullwhackers, all of
our gaming facilities are 100% TITO.

Cash generated from operations and cash available
under the revolver portion of our senior secured credit facility funded our
capital expenditure and capital maintenance expenditures in 2006.

The
following table summarizes our expected capital project expenditures, other
than capital maintenance expenditures and expenditures related to the repair of
Boomtown Biloxi and Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis, by property for the year
ending December 31, 2007 as well as the projects in their entirety:

December 31, 2007

Project Total

Property

(in millions)

Charles Town
  Entertainment Complex

$

38.0

$

56.0

Hollywood Casino
  at Penn National

222.0

310.0

Hollywood Slots
  at Bangor

62.0

131.0

Argosy Casino
  Riverside

7.0

66.0

Argosy Casino
  Lawrenceburg

51.0

310.0

Other

16.0

26.5

Totals

$

396.0

$

899.5

·

We
continue to build and develop the Charles Town Entertainment Complex, with
plans for the current expansion of the property including a 153-room
on-site hotel and a 65,000 square foot expansion of the gaming floor. The
expansion of the gaming floor will enable us to initially add 800 gaming
machines, with capacity for an additional 1,000 gaming machines thereafter. The
complex has been approved to operate a maximum of 6,500 gaming machines. The
expanded gaming floor is expected to be completed in two phases, with the first
phase being completed in May 2007.

·

The
Hollywood Casino at Penn National project includes a license fee of
$50.0 million, the construction and fitting of a 365,000 square foot
integrated racing and gaming facility, 2,000 slot machines (with the ability to
add 1,000 additional machines), a 2,500 space parking garage and several
restaurants. We plan on spending a total of $310.0 million in 2006, 2007
and 2008. The expected opening date is the first quarter of 2008.

·

Due
to the results currently generated by our temporary Hollywood Slots at Bangor
facility and a substantial number of patrons driving significant distances to
Hollywood Slots at Bangor, we are adding a hotel to the plans for the permanent
Hollywood Slots at Bangor facility, which will feature a two-story,
semi-circular, glass tower casino area, a four-story parking garage,
restaurants, retail space and a new simulcast facility for off-track wagering. Construction
of the facility, which will open with 1,000 slot machines and have capacity for
1,500 gaming machines, is planned to


commence in the first half
of 2007, following the demolition of the existing hotel and adjacent buildings.

·

The
expansion at Argosy Casino Riverside will add a 258-room hotel that is
expected to open April 2007. This hotel will increase the total
banquet/conference facilities to 19,000 square feet, and parking to 3,000
spaces. We spent $46.0 million to date, and the total project budget is $66.0 million.

·

The expansion at Argosy
Casino Lawrenceburg includes a 1,500 space parking garage, which is expected to
open in the second quarter of 2008, a two-level 270,000 square foot riverboat,
and numerous infrastructure upgrades to allow more convenient access to the
property, which are expected to open in the second quarter of 2009. The new
riverboat will allow up to 4,000 positions on one level and another 400
positions will be added to the second level, along with restaurants and other
amenities on the gaming riverboat. We plan to spend an aggregate of
$310.0 million on the project.

Debt

We

made
significant progress in improving our capital structure over the past few
years, in anticipation of several new growth opportunities that we expect to
take advantage of over the next few years. In January 2005, we
received $280 million from the MTGA, and transferred the operations of The
Downs Racing, Inc. and its subsidiaries to the MTGA. The sale was not
considered final for accounting purposes until the third quarter of 2006, as
the MTGA had certain post-closing termination rights that remained outstanding.
In March 2005, we completed a private offering of $250 million of 6


¤


%
senior subordinated notes. The proceeds from these activities were applied to
the redemption of $200 million of our 11


¤


% Series B
senior subordinated notes and were applied to previously-announced development
projects. In October 2005, we entered into a $2.725 billion new senior
secured credit facility. The proceeds of the senior secured credit facility
were used to, among other things, fund the consummation of our acquisition of
Argosy, repay our and Argosy’s existing credit facilities, fund Argosy’s
repurchase of all of its 9% senior subordinated notes and 7% senior
subordinated notes tendered in the previously-announced tender offers and
consent solicitations and pay certain fees and expenses in connection with the
aforementioned transactions. Consistent with our management of our capital
structure, in February 2006 we called for the redemption of the $175
million of our outstanding



¤


%

senior subordinated notes. We funded the note redemption from available cash
and borrowings under our revolving credit facility, which we expect to result
in lower levels of debt service going forward.

Senior Secured
Credit Facility

On October 3, 2005, we entered into a $2.725
billion senior secured credit facility to fund our acquisition of Argosy,
including payment for all of Argosy’s outstanding shares, the retirement of
certain long-term debt of Argosy and its subsidiaries, the payment of related
transaction costs, and to provide additional working capital. Concurrent with
this financing, our previous senior credit facility was terminated, which
resulted in an early extinguishment of debt charge of $4.0 million. The $2.725
billion senior secured credit facility consists of three credit facilities
comprised of a $750 million revolving credit facility (of which $389.5 million
was drawn at December 31, 2006), a $325 million Term Loan A Facility and a
$1.65 billion Term Loan B Facility. The senior secured credit facility also
allows us to raise an additional $300 million in senior secured credit for
project development and property expansion.

During the year ended December 31, 2006, the
senior secured credit facility increased by $195.0 million as a result of
numerous corporate transactions, including partial funding of the redemption of
our $175 million



¤


% senior subordinated notes.

The senior secured credit
facility is secured by substantially all of our assets.


Redemption of 8


¤


%
Senior Subordinated Notes

In February 2006, we
called for the redemption of our $175 million 8


¤


% senior
subordinated notes. The redemption price was $1,044.38 per $1,000 principal
amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and was made on March 15, 2006.
We recorded a $10.0 million loss on early extinguishment of debt during the
year ended December 31, 2006 for the call premium and the write-off of the
associated deferred financing fees. We funded the redemption of the notes from
available cash and borrowings under our revolving credit facility.



¤


%
Senior Subordinated Notes

On December 4, 2003, we completed an offering of
$200 million of 6


¤


%
senior subordinated notes that mature on December 1, 2011. Interest on the
notes is payable on June 1 and December 1 of each year, beginning June 1,
2004.

We may redeem all or part of the notes on or after December 1,
2007 at certain specified redemption prices.

The 6


¤


% notes are
general unsecured obligations and are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis
by certain of our current and future wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries.
The 6


¤


%
notes rank equally with our future senior subordinated debt and junior to our
senior debt, including debt under our senior secured credit facility. In
addition, the 6


¤


%
notes will be effectively junior to any indebtedness of Penn’s non-U.S.
Unrestricted Subsidiaries.

The 6


¤


%
notes and guarantees were originally issued in a private placement pursuant to
an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933
(the “Securities Act”). On August 27, 2004, we completed an offer to
exchange the notes and guarantees for notes and guarantees registered under the
Securities Act having substantially identical terms.



¤


%
Senior Subordinated Notes

On March 9, 2005, we
completed a private offering of $250 million of 6


¤


% senior
subordinated notes that mature on March 1, 2015. Interest on the notes is
payable on March 1 and September 1 of each year, beginning September 1,
2005. The 6


¤


%
notes are general unsecured obligations and are not guaranteed by our
subsidiaries. The 6


¤


%
notes were issued in a private placement pursuant to an exemption from the
registration requirements of the Securities Act.

Other Long-Term
Obligations

On October 15, 2004,
we announced the sale of The Downs Racing, Inc. and its subsidiaries to
the MTGA. Under the terms of the agreement, MTGA acquired The Downs Racing, Inc.
and its subsidiaries, including Pocono Downs (a standardbred horse racing
facility located on 400 acres in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania) and five
Pennsylvania off-track wagering facilities located in Carbondale, East
Stroudsburg, Erie, Hazelton, and the Lehigh Valley (Allentown). The sale
agreement also provided the MTGA with certain post-closing termination rights
in the event of certain materially adverse legislative or regulatory events. In
January 2005, we received $280 million from the MTGA, and transferred
the operations of The Downs Racing, Inc. and its subsidiaries to the MTGA.
The sale was not considered final for accounting purposes until the third
quarter of 2006, as the MTGA had certain post-closing termination rights that
remained outstanding. On August 7, 2006, we entered into Amendment and
Release with the MTGA pertaining to the October 14, 2004 Purchase
Agreement, and agreed to pay the MTGA an aggregate of $30 million over
five years, beginning on the first anniversary of the commencement of slot
operations at Mohegan Sun at Pocono Downs, in exchange for the MTGA’s agreement
to release various claims it raised against us under the Purchase Agreement and
the MTGA’s surrender of all post-closing termination rights it might have had
under the Purchase Agreement. We recorded the present value of this liability
within


debt, as
the amount due to the MTGA is payable over five years, with the first payment
date estimated to occur in late 2007.

Covenants

Our senior secured credit facility, $200 million 6


¤


%
and $250 million 6¾% senior subordinated notes require us, among other
obligations, to maintain specified financial ratios and to satisfy certain
financial tests, including fixed charge coverage, senior leverage and total
leverage ratios. In addition, our senior secured credit facility, $200 million 6


¤


%
and $250 million 6


¤


%
senior subordinated notes restrict, among other things, our ability to incur
additional indebtedness, incur guarantee obligations, amend debt instruments,
pay dividends, create liens on assets, make investments, make acquisitions,
engage in mergers or consolidations, make capital expenditures, or engage in
certain transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates and otherwise restricts
corporate activities.

During the year ended December 31, 2006, we made
certain amendments to our senior secured credit facility, including the
modification of the applicable covenants to enable us to repurchase up to $200
million of our equity or debt securities, the modification of our capital
expenditure covenant to increase certain permitted expenditures consistent with
our development and expansion projects, and the modification of our collateral
documents in accordance with requirements of the Pennsylvania gaming
authorities.

At December 31, 2006,
we were in compliance with all required financial covenants.

Sale of Argosy
Casino Baton Rouge

On October 25, 2005
we completed the sale of Argosy Casino Baton Rouge to an affiliate of Columbia
Sussex Corporation for approximately $148.6 million in cash. We used the net
after-tax proceeds from the sale to reduce debt.

Outlook

Based on our current level
of operations, and anticipated revenue growth, we believe that cash generated
from operations and amounts available under our senior secured credit facility
will be adequate to meet our anticipated debt service requirements, capital
expenditures and working capital needs for the foreseeable future. We cannot
assure you, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from
operations, that our anticipated revenue growth will be realized, or that
future borrowings will be available under our senior secured credit facility or
otherwise will be available to enable us to service our indebtedness, including
the senior secured credit facility and the notes, to retire or redeem the notes
when required or to make anticipated capital expenditures. In addition, we
expect a majority of our future growth to come from acquisitions of gaming
properties at reasonable valuations, jurisdictional expansions and property
expansion in under-penetrated markets. If we consummate significant
acquisitions in the future or undertake any significant property expansions,
our cash requirements may increase significantly and we may need to make
additional borrowings or complete equity or debt financings to meet these
requirements. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or
before maturity. Our future operating performance and our ability to service or
refinance our debt will be subject to future economic conditions and to
financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.


Commitments and
Contingencies

Contractual Cash
Obligations

At December 31,
2006, there was $389.5 million indebtedness outstanding under the revolving
credit portion of our credit facility and approximately $277.0 million
available for borrowing. The following table presents our contractual cash
obligations at December 31, 2006:

Payments Due By Period

Total


2008 – 2009

2010 – 2011

2012 and After

(in thousands)

Senior secured credit facility

Principal

$

2,343,875

$

32,750

$

183,312

$

964,563

$

1,163,250

Interest

735,442

158,852

293,592

242,245

40,753



¤


% senior
  subordinated notes

Principal

200,000

—

—

200,000

—

Interest

68,750

13,750

27,500

27,500

—



¤


% senior
  subordinated notes

Principal

250,000

—

—

—

250,000

Interest

143,438

16,875

33,750

33,750

59,063

Other long-term
  obligations

25,041

5,231

11,120

8,690

—

Purchase obligations

47,911

38,153

6,070

2,722


Capital expenditure
  commitments

162,121

162,121

—

—

—

Capital leases

10,532

2,077

4,300

2,158

1,997

Operating leases

267,432

11,916

20,748

16,124

218,644

Other liabilities
  reflected in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets

10,895

10,608


—

—

Total

$

4,265,437

$

452,333

$

580,679

$

1,497,752

$

1,734,673

Other Commercial
Commitments

The
following table presents our material commercial commitments as of December 31,
2006 for the following future periods:

Total

Amounts

Committed


2008 – 2009

2010 – 2011

2012 and After

(in thousands)

Letters of Credit(1)

$

83,489

$

83,489

$

—

$

—

$

—

Guarantees of New Jersey
  Joint Venture Obligations(2)

6,517


5,750

—

—

Total

$

90,006

$

84,256

$

5,750

$

—

$

—

(1)

The
available balance under the revolving portion of the $750.0 million senior
secured credit facility is diminished by outstanding letters of credit.

(2)

In
connection with our 50% ownership interest in Pennwood Racing, Inc. (“Pennwood”),
our joint venture in New Jersey, we have entered into a debt service
maintenance agreement with Pennwood’s lender to guarantee up to 50% of Pennwood’s
$13.0 million term loan. Our obligation at December 31, 2006 under this
guarantee was approximately $6.5 million.

Interest Rate Swap Agreements

See Item 7A, “Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” below.

New Accounting Pronouncement

In July 2006, the
FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in
Income Taxes” (“FIN 48”), which is an interpretation of SFAS No. 109.


FIN 48 creates a single
model to address uncertainty in tax positions, and clarifies the accounting for
uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise’s financial statements
in accordance with SFAS 109 by prescribing the minimum recognition threshold a
tax position is required to meet before being recognized in an enterprise’s
financial statements. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition,
measurement, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim
periods, disclosure and transition.

FIN 48 is effective for
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. We adopted FIN 48 as of January 1,
2007, as required.

The cumulative effect of
adopting FIN 48 will be recorded in retained earnings and other accounts, as
applicable. We expect that the impact of adopting FIN 48 will be a charge to
retained earnings of approximately $12.0 million.

ITEM
7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The table
below provides information at December 31, 2006, about our financial
instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, including debt
obligations and interest rate swaps. For debt obligations, the table presents
notional amounts maturing and weighted-average interest rates at year-end. For
interest rate swaps, the table presents notional amounts and weighted-average
interest rates outstanding at each year-end. Notional amounts are used to
calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contract and the
weighted-average variable rates are based on implied forward rates in the yield
curve as of December 31, 2006.






Thereafter

Total

Fair Value

12/31/06

(in thousands)

Long-term debt:

Fixed rate

$

5,231

$

5,609

$

5,511

$

5,407

$

203,283

$

250,000

$

475,041

$

471,541

Average interest
  rate

7.00

%

7.00

%

7.00

%

7.00

%

6.89

%

6.75

%

Variable rate

$

32,750

$

85,563

$

97,750

$

491,312

$

473,250

$

1,163,250

$

2,343,875

$

2,343,875

Average interest
  rate(1)

6.97

%

6.52

%

6.48

%

6.56

%

6.78

%

6.92

%

Leases

$

2,077

$

2,287

$

2,012

$

1,043

$

1,116

$

1,997

$

10,532

$

10,532

Average interest
  rate

6.73

%

6.73

%

6.70

%

6.70

%

6.71

%

7.72

%

Interest
  rate derivatives:

Interest rate
  swaps

Variable to
  fixed(2)

$

1,260,000

$

811,000

$

574,000

$

300,000

$

—

$

—

N/A

$

4,035

Average pay rate

4.84

%

4.93

%

5.02

%

5.26

%

N/A

Average receive
  rate(3)

5.34

%

4.97

%

4.94

%

5.05

%

N/A

(1)

Estimated rate, reflective of forward
LIBOR plus the spread over LIBOR applicable to variable-rate borrowing.

(2)

Notional amounts outstanding at each
year-end.

(3)

Estimated rate, reflective of forward
LIBOR.

In accordance with the terms of our $2.725 billion
senior secured credit facility, we were required to enter into interest rate
swap agreements in amount equal to 50% of the outstanding term loan balances within
100 days of the closing date of the senior secured credit facility. On October 27,
2005, we entered into four interest rate swap contracts with terms from three
to five years, notional amounts of $224 million, $274 million, $225 million,
and $237 million, for a total of $960 million, and fixed interest rates ranging
from 4.678% to 4.753%. The annual weighted-average interest rate of the four
contracts is 4.71%. On May 8, 2006, we entered into three interest rate
swap contracts with a term of five years and notional amounts of $100 million
each, for a total of $300 million and fixed interest rates ranging from 5.263%
to 5.266%. The annual weighted-average interest rate of the three contracts is
5.26%. Under all of these contracts, we pay a fixed interest rate against a
variable interest rate based on the 90-day LIBOR rate. The 90-day
LIBOR rate relating to these contracts as of December 31, 2006 was 5.38%
for both the $960 million swaps and the $300 million swaps.


ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Report of Independent
Registered Public Accounting F

irm

Board of Directors

Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance
sheet of Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31,
2006, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in
shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for the year then ended. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility
is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to
above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial
position of Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries at December 31,
2006, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for
the year then ended, in conformity with U. S. generally accepted accounting
principles.

As discussed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial
statements, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based
Payment”, in 2006.

We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Penn National
Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission and our report dated February 23, 2007, expressed an
unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young
  LLP

Philadelphia,
  Pennsylvania

February 23,


Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Board of Directors

Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance
sheet of Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31,
2005, and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders’ equity
and cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended December 31,
2005. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
consolidated financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
consolidated financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our
opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Penn National
Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries at December 31, 2005, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the two years in the
period ended December 31, 2005 in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America.

/s/ BDO Seidman, LLP

BDO Seidman, LLP

Philadelphia,
  Pennsylvania

March 7,


Penn
National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Balance Sheets

(in thousands, except share and per share data)

December 31,



Assets

Current assets

Cash and cash
  equivalents

$

168,515

$

132,620

Receivables, net
  of allowance for doubtful accounts of $3,698 and $2,994

at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively

53,829

47,632

Insurance
  receivable

100,000

51,160

Prepaid expenses
  and other current assets

57,432

26,780

Deferred income
  taxes

22,187

48,150

Total current
  assets

401,963

306,342

Property
  and equipment, net

1,365,871

1,059,892

Other assets

Investment in and
  advances to unconsolidated affiliate

16,138

17,184

Goodwill

1,869,444

1,848,661

Other intangible
  assets

726,126

743,521

Deferred financing
  costs, net of accumulated amortization of $16,438 and $7,349 at December 31,
  2006 and 2005, respectively

57,386

70,960

Other assets

77,154

92,861

Restricted assets
  held for sale

—

50,983

Total other assets

2,746,248

2,824,170

Total assets

$

4,514,082

$

4,190,404

Current liabilities

Current maturities
  of long-term debt

$

40,058

$

18,567

Accounts payable

37,928

25,549

Accrued expenses

130,877

116,552

Accrued interest

31,329

33,303

Accrued salaries
  and wages

60,164

54,579

Gaming,
  pari-mutuel, property, and other taxes

48,181

47,724

Income taxes
  payable

21,020

18,284

Insurance
  financing

19,336

6,115

Other current
  liabilities

26,778

20,636

Total current
  liabilities

415,671

341,309

Long-term liabilities

Long-term debt,
  net of current maturities

2,789,390

2,767,662

Deferred income
  taxes

387,615

259,708

Other noncurrent
  liabilities



Liabilities held
  for sale

—

274,523

Total long-term
  liabilities

3,177,248

3,302,552

Shareholders’ equity

Preferred stock
  ($.01 par value, 1,000,000 shares authorized, none issued

and outstanding at December 31, 2006 and 2005)

—

—

Common stock ($.01
  par value, 200,000,000 shares authorized, 86,814,999 and 85,064,886 shares
  issued at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively)



Treasury stock
  (1,698,800 shares issued at December 31, 2006 and 2005)

(2,379

)

(2,379

)

Additional paid-in
  capital

251,943

206,763

Retained earnings

667,557

340,469

Accumulated other
  comprehensive income

3,174


Total
  shareholders’ equity

921,163

546,543

Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity

$

4,514,082

$

4,190,404

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statements of Income

(in thousands, except per share data)

Year ended December 31,




Revenues

Gaming

$

2,057,617

$

1,211,360

$

957,478

Management service fee

18,146

18,596

16,277

Food, beverage and other

275,700

213,089

197,150

Gross revenues

2,351,463

1,443,045

1,170,905

Less promotional
  allowances

(106,916

)

(73,940

)

(65,615

)

Net revenues

2,244,547

1,369,105

1,105,290

Operating expenses

Gaming

1,063,063

646,305

510,159

Food, beverage and other

243,707

165,468

135,832

General and
  administrative

329,716

191,933

179,734

Hurricane

(128,253

)

21,145

—

Goodwill impairment

34,522

—

—

Settlement costs

—

28,175

—

Depreciation and
  amortization

123,951

72,531

65,785

Total operating expenses

1,666,706

1,125,557

891,510

Income from continuing
  operations

577,841

243,548

213,780

Other income (expenses)

Interest expense

(196,328

)

(89,344

)

(75,720

)

Interest income

3,525

4,111

2,093

(Loss) earnings from
  joint venture

(788

)

1,455

1,634

Other

(4,296

)


(392

)

Loss on early
  extinguishment of debt

(10,022

)

(18,039

)

(3,767

)

Total other expenses

(207,909

)

(101,778

)

(76,152

)

Income
  from continuing operations before income taxes

369,932

141,770

137,628

Taxes on income

156,852

54,593

50,288

Net income from
  continuing operations

213,080

87,177

87,340

Loss from discontinued
  operations, net of tax

—

(4,135

)

(15,856

)

Gain on sale of
  discontinued operations, net of tax

114,008

37,888

—

Net
  income

$

327,088

$

120,930

$

71,484

Earnings (loss) per share-Basic

Income from continuing
  operations

$

2.53

$

1.05

$

1.09

Discontinued operations,
  net of tax

1.35

0.41

(0.20

)

Basic
  earnings per share

$

3.88

$

1.46

$

0.89

Earnings (loss) per share-Diluted

Income from continuing
  operations

$

2.46

$

1.02

$

1.05

Discontinued operations,
  net of tax

1.32

0.39

(0.19

)

Diluted earnings per share

$

3.78

$

1.41

$

0.86

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity

(in thousands, except share data)

Common Stock

Treasury

Additional

Paid-In

Retained

Accumulated

Other

Comprehensive

Total

Shareholders’

Comprehensive

Shares

Amount

Stock

Capital

Earnings

Income (Loss)

Equity

Income

Balance, December 31, 2003

81,242,700

$


$

(2,379

)

$

162,039

$

148,055

$

1,351

$

309,878

Exercise of stock options, including tax benefit of

$8,344

1,889,240


—

16,140

—

—

16,159

$

—

Restricted stock

—

—

—


—

—


—

Change in fair value of interest rate swap contracts,
  net of income taxes of $16

—

—

—

—

—




Amortization of unrealized loss on interest rate swap
  contracts, net of income taxes of $44

—

—

—

—

—



—

Foreign currency translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

—




Net income

—

—

—

—

71,484

—

71,484

71,484

Balance, December 31, 2004

83,131,940


(2,379

)

178,459

219,539

1,642

398,092

71,693

Exercise of stock options, including tax benefit of
  $16,969

1,932,946


—

27,826

—

—

27,845

—

Restricted stock

—

—

—


—

—


—

Change in fair value of interest rate swap contracts,
  net of income taxes of $477

—

—

—

—

—

(852

)

(852

)

(852

)

Amortization of unrealized loss on interest rate swap
  contracts, net of income taxes of $29

—

—

—

—

—

(54

)

(54

)

—

Foreign currency translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

—




Net income

—

—

—

—

120,930

—

120,930

120,930

Balance, December 31, 2005

85,064,886


(2,379

)

206,763

340,469


546,543

120,182

Stock option activity, including tax benefit of
  $12,435

1,310,113


—

43,397

—

—

43,411

—

Restricted stock

440,000


—

1,783

—

—

1,787

—

Change in fair value of interest rate swap contracts,
  net of income taxes of $1,461

—

—

—

—

—

2,380

2,380

2,380

Foreign currency translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

(46

)

(46

)

(46

)

Net income

—

—

—

—

327,088

—

327,088

327,088

Balance,
  December 31, 2006

86,814,999

$


$

(2,379

)

$

251,943

$

667,557

$

3,174

$

921,163

$

329,422

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

(in thousands)

Year ended December 31,




Operating activities

Net income

$

327,088

$

120,930

$

71,484

Adjustments to reconcile
  net income to net cash provided by operating activities:

Depreciation and
  amortization

123,951

72,531

65,785

Amortization of
  deferred financing costs charged to interest expense

11,361

5,269

5,163

Amortization of
  the unrealized (gain) loss on interest rate swap contracts charged to interest
  expense, net of income tax benefit

—

(54

)


Loss on sale of
  fixed assets

1,383

6,449

1,824

Loss (earnings)
  from joint venture


(1,455

)

(1,634

)

Loss relating to
  early extinguishment of debt

2,255

8,611

3,767

Deferred income
  taxes

14,394

(28,673

)

18,184

Tax benefit from
  stock options exercised

—

16,969

8,344

Stock-based
  compensation

20,562



Gain on sale of
  discontinued operations, net of tax

(114,008

)

—

—

Gain on hurricane,
  net of tax

(81,799

)

—

—

Goodwill
  impairment, net of tax

22,018

—

—

(Increase) decrease, net
  of businesses acquired

Accounts
  receivable

(6,197

)

4,300

(15,073

)

Insurance receivable

(23,048

)

1,431

—

Prepaid expenses
  and other current assets

(26,933

)

(5,956

)

5,578

Other assets

13,536

(32,291

)

(32,204

)

Increase (decrease), net
  of businesses acquired

Accounts payable

12,379

11,193

2,844

Accrued expenses

4,155

24,968

10,782

Accrued interest

(1,974

)

19,317

1,418

Accrued salaries
  and wages

5,585

(3,419

)


Gaming,
  pari-mutuel, property and other taxes

(127

)

13,210

3,001

Income taxes
  payable

(28,748

)

(33,900

)

13,068

Other current
  liabilities

5,176

(6,283

)

16,740

Operating cash
  flows from discontinued operations


(43,150

)

17,566

Net cash provided
  by operating activities

281,809

150,475

197,164

Investing activities

Expenditures for
  property and equipment

(408,883

)

(121,135

)

(68,957

)

Proceeds from
  hurricane

104,136

—

—

Proceeds from sale
  of property and equipment

2,406


1,395

(Payments to)
  distributions from joint venture

—

(20

)

3,112

Proceeds from sale
  of business

—

423,139

—

Acquisition of
  businesses, net of cash acquired

—

(2,251,376

)

(954

)

Increase in cash
  in escrow

—

(30,000

)

—

Investing cash
  flows from discontinued operations

—

(128

)

(1,710

)

Net cash used in
  investing activities

(302,341

)

(1,978,800

)

(67,114

)

Financing activities

Proceeds from
  exercise of options

12,201

10,876

7,816

Proceeds from
  issuance of long-term debt

195,678

2,398,961


Principal payments
  on long-term debt

(177,066

)

(471,839

)

(131,370

)

Proceeds from
  insurance financing

32,522

—

—

Payments on
  insurance financing

(19,301

)

—

—

Increase in
  deferred financing cost

(42

)

(64,777

)

(779

)

Tax benefit from
  stock options exercised

12,435

—

—

Net cash provided
  by (used in) financing activities

56,427

1,873,221

(124,177

)

Effect of exchange
  rate fluctuations on cash

—



Net
  increase in cash and cash equivalents

35,895

45,000

6,053

Cash and cash
  equivalents at beginning of year

132,620

87,620

81,567

Cash and cash
  equivalents at end of year

$

168,515

$

132,620

$

87,620

Supplemental disclosure

Interest expense
  paid

$

198,605

$

65,322

$

70,816

Income taxes paid

$

127,787

$

92,971

$

13,388

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

1.

Business
and Basis of Presentation

Penn National Gaming, Inc. (“Penn”) and
subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company”) is a diversified, multi-jurisdictional
owner and operator of gaming and pari-mutuel properties. Penn is the successor
to several businesses that have operated as Penn National Race Course since
1972. Penn was incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1982 as PNRC Corp. and adopted
its current name in 1994, when the Company became a public company. In 1997,
the Company began its transition from a pari-mutuel company to a diversified
gaming company with the acquisition of the Charles Town property and the
introduction of video lottery terminals in West Virginia. From 2000 to 2003,
the Company acquired seven other gaming properties through its Mississippi
(Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis, formerly known as Casino Magic—Bay St. Louis,
and Boomtown Biloxi), CRC Holdings, Inc. (Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge,
formerly known as Casino Rouge, and Casino Rama management service contract),
Bullwhackers properties and Hollywood Casino Corporation (Aurora and Tunica)
acquisitions. On October 3, 2005, the Company acquired Argosy Gaming
Company (“Argosy”), which included seven properties, of which one has been
divested.

The Company now owns or operates, through its
subsidiaries, seventeen facilities in thirteen jurisdictions, including
Colorado, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Louisiana, Maine, Mississippi, Missouri, New Jersey,
Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Ontario. In addition, on November 7,
2006, the Company agreed to acquire Zia Park Racetrack and its Black Gold
Casino (“Zia Park”), which is located in New Mexico. The transaction is
expected to close mid-2007, subject to the satisfaction of customary
closing conditions, including regulatory approval.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) requires management to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses for
the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

For purposes of
comparability, certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to
the current year presentation.

2.

Principles
of Consolidation

The consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of Penn and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
Investment in and advances to an unconsolidated affiliate that is 50% owned is
accounted for under the equity method. All significant intercompany accounts
and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

3.

Summary
of Significant Accounting Policies

Cash and Cash
Equivalents

The Company considers all
cash balances and highly-liquid investments with original maturities of three
months or less to be cash and cash equivalents.

Concentration of
Credit Risk

Financial instruments that subject the Company to
credit risk consist of cash equivalents and accounts receivable.

The Company’s policy is to limit the amount of credit
exposure to any one financial institution, and place investments with financial
institutions evaluated as being creditworthy, or in short-term money


market and tax-free bond
funds which are exposed to minimal interest rate and credit risk. The Company
has bank deposits and overnight repurchase agreements that exceed
federally-insured limits.

Concentration of credit risk, with respect to casino
receivables, is limited through the Company’s credit evaluation process. The
Company issues markers to approved casino customers only following credit
checks and investigations of creditworthiness.

The Company’s receivables of $53.8 million and $47.6
million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, primarily consist of
$22.2 million and $16.2 million, respectively, due from the West Virginia
Lottery for gaming revenue settlements and capital reinvestment projects at the
Charles Town Entertainment Complex, and $11.2 million and $13.6 million,
respectively, for reimbursement of expenses paid on behalf of Casino Rama.

Accounts are written off
when management determines that an account is uncollectible. Recoveries of
accounts previously written off are recorded when received. An allowance for
doubtful accounts is determined to reduce the Company’s receivables to their
carrying value, which approximates fair value. The allowance is estimated based
on historical collection experience, specific review of individual customer
accounts, and current economic and business conditions. Historically, the
Company has not incurred any significant credit-related losses.

Fair Value of
Financial Instruments

The following methods and assumptions are used to
estimate the fair value of each class of financial instruments for which it is
practicable to estimate:

Cash and Cash Equivalents: The fair value of the
Company’s cash and cash equivalents approximates the carrying value of the
Company’s cash and cash equivalents, due to the short maturity of the cash
equivalents.

Long-term Debt: The fair
value of the Company’s senior secured credit facility approximates its carrying
value, as it is variable-rate debt. The fair value of the Company’s fixed-rate
bonds and other long-term obligations as of December 31, 2006 was $471.5
million, which was estimated based on quoted market prices for the same or
similar issues or on the current rates offered to the Company for debt of the
same remaining maturities. The carrying value of the Company’s fixed-rate bonds
and other long-term obligations as of December 31, 2006 was $475.0 million.
The fair value of the Company’s capital leases and other debt approximates
their carrying value.

Property and
Equipment

Property and equipment are stated at cost, less
accumulated depreciation. Maintenance and repairs that neither add materially
to the value of the asset nor appreciably prolong its useful life are charged
to expense as incurred. Gains or losses on the disposal of property and equipment
are included in the determination of income.

Depreciation
of property and equipment and amortization of leasehold improvements is
recorded using the straight-line method over the following estimated useful
lives:

Land improvements

5 to
  15 years

Building and
  improvements

  to 40 years

Furniture,
  fixtures, and equipment

3 to
  7 years

Transportation
  equipment

  years

Leasehold improvements

10 to 20 years

The estimated useful lives are determined based on the
nature of the assets as well as the Company’s current operating strategy.


The Company reviews the
carrying values of its property and equipment for possible impairment whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset
may not be recoverable based on undiscounted estimated future cash flows
expected to result from its use and eventual disposition. The factors
considered by the Company in performing this assessment include current
operating results, trends and prospects, as well as the effect of obsolescence,
demand, competition and other economic factors. In estimating expected future
cash flows for determining whether an asset is impaired, assets are grouped at
the individual property level. In assessing the recoverability of the carrying
value of property and equipment, the Company must make assumptions regarding
future cash flows and other factors. If these estimates or the related
assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record an
impairment loss for these assets. Such an impairment loss would be recognized
as a non-cash component of operating income. The Company recognized an
impairment charge of $4.3 million associated with the Penn National Race Course
building demolition during the year ended December 31, 2005.

Goodwill

Goodwill is recorded as
part of the Company’s acquisitions of businesses where the purchase price
exceeds the fair market value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible
assets acquired. The Company accounts for goodwill in accordance with Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets” (“SFAS 142”), issued by the Financial Accounting Standards
Board (“FASB”). SFAS 142 establishes standards for the accounting of intangible
assets that are acquired individually or with a group of other assets and the
accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets after they have been
initially recognized in the financial statements. In accordance with SFAS 142,
amortization of goodwill is not permitted. Goodwill is tested at least annually
for impairment by comparing the fair value of the recorded assets to their
carrying amount. If the carrying amount of the goodwill exceeds its fair value,
an impairment loss is recognized. The annual evaluation of goodwill requires
the use of estimates about future operating results of each reporting unit to
determine their estimated fair value. Changes in forecasted operations can
materially affect these estimates. Once an impairment of goodwill has been
recorded, it cannot be reversed. During the year ended December 31, 2006,
as a result of the increased asset values resulting from the reconstruction at
Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis, the Company determined that all of the goodwill
associated with the original purchase of the property was impaired. Accordingly,
the Company recorded a pre-tax charge of $34.5 million ($22.0 million, net of
taxes) during the year ended December 31, 2006.

Other Intangible
Assets

The Company accounts for
its other intangible assets in accordance with SFAS 142. In accordance with
SFAS 142, the Company considers its gaming license and trademark intangible
assets as indefinite-life intangible assets that do not require amortization. Rather,
these intangible assets are tested at least annually for impairment by
comparing the fair value of the recorded assets to their carrying amount. If
the carrying amounts of the gaming license and trademark intangible assets
exceed their fair value, an impairment loss is recognized. The annual
evaluation of indefinite-life intangible assets requires the use of estimates
about future operating results of each reporting unit to determine their
estimated fair value. Changes in forecasted operations can materially affect
these estimates. Once an impairment of an indefinite-life intangible asset has
been recorded, it cannot be reversed. Intangible assets that have a
definite-life are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated
useful lives or related service contract. The Company reviews the carrying
value of its intangible assets that have a definite-life for possible
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their
carrying value may not be recoverable. If the carrying amount of the intangible
assets that have a definite-life exceed their fair value, an impairment loss is
recognized.


Deferred Financing
Costs

Deferred financing costs
that are incurred by the Company in connection with the issuance of debt are
deferred and amortized to interest expense over the life of the underlying
indebtedness, adjusted to reflect any early repayments.

Comprehensive
Income

The Company accounts for
comprehensive income in accordance with SFAS No. 130, “Reporting
Comprehensive Income” (“SFAS 130”), which established standards for the
reporting and presentation of comprehensive income in the consolidated
financial statements. The Company presents comprehensive income in its
consolidated statements of changes in shareholders’ equity.

Income Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance
with SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes” (“SFAS 109”). Under SFAS
109, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the
differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases
of existing assets and liabilities and are measured at the prevailing enacted
tax rates that will be in effect when these differences are settled or
realized. SFAS 109 also requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a
valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of
the deferred tax asset will not be realized.

The realizability of the
deferred tax assets is evaluated quarterly by assessing the valuation allowance
and by adjusting the amount of the allowance, if necessary. The factors used to
assess the likelihood of realization are the forecast of future taxable income
and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the
net deferred tax assets. The Company has used tax-planning strategies to
realize or renew net deferred tax assets in order to avoid the potential loss
of future tax benefits.

Accounting for
Derivatives and Hedging Activities

The Company does not hold or issue derivative
financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. SFAS No. 133, “Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” (“SFAS 133”), as amended,
established accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments and
hedging activities.

The Company uses fixed and variable-rate debt to
finance its operations. Both funding sources have associated risks and
opportunities, and the Company’s risk management policy permits the use of
derivatives to manage these exposures. Acceptable derivatives for this purpose
include interest rate swaps, futures, options, caps, and similar instruments.
The Company’s use of derivatives is strictly restricted to hedging (i.e., risk
management) applications.

Currently, the Company has a number of interest rate
swaps in place, where the swaps serve to mitigate the income volatility
associated with a portion of our variable-rate funding. Swap coverage extends
out through 2010. In effect, these swaps synthetically convert the portion of
variable-rate debt being hedged to the equivalent of fixed-rate funding. Under
the terms of the swaps, the Company receives cash flows from the swap
counterparties to offset the variable interest payments on the hedged
financings, in exchange for paying cash flows based on the swaps’ fixed rates.
The Company accounts for these swaps as cash flow hedges, which requires
determining a division of hedge results deemed effective and deemed ineffective.
However, all of the Company’s hedges were designed in such a way so as to
perfectly offset specifically-defined interest payments, such that no
ineffectiveness has occurred—nor is any ineffectiveness going to occur, as long
as the forecasted cash flows of the designated hedged items and the associated
swaps remain unchanged.

Under cash flow hedge
accounting, effective derivative results are initially recorded in other
comprehensive income and later reclassified to earnings, coinciding with the
income recognition relating to the variable interest payments being hedged. In
the coming twelve months, the Company anticipates that


approximately
$5.0 million will be reclassified from other comprehensive income to earnings,
as part of interest expense. As this amount represents effective hedge results,
a comparable offsetting amount of incrementally higher/lower interest expense
will be realized in connection with the variable funding being hedged.

Credit risk relating to
derivative counterparties is mitigated by using multiple, highly rated
counterparties, and the credit quality of each is monitored on an ongoing
basis.

Under cash flow hedge
accounting, derivatives are included in the consolidated balance sheets as
assets or liabilities. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly
effective and that is designated and qualifies as a cash flow hedge, to the
extent that the hedge is effective, are recorded in other comprehensive income,
until earnings are affected by the variability of cash flows of the hedged
transaction (e.g., until periodic settlements of a variable-rate asset or
liability are recorded in earnings). Any hedge ineffectiveness (which
represents the amount by which the changes in the fair value of the derivative
exceed the variability in the cash flows of the forecasted transaction) is
recorded in current period earnings.

The Company formally
documents all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as
well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various
hedge transactions. The Company also formally assesses (both at the hedge’s
inception and on an ongoing basis) whether the derivatives that are used in
hedging transactions have been highly effective in offsetting changes in the
cash flows of hedged items and whether those derivatives may be expected to
remain highly effective in the future periods. When it is determined that a
derivative is not (or has ceased to be) highly effective as a hedge, the
Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively, as discussed below.

The Company discontinues
hedge accounting prospectively when (1) it determines that the derivative
is no longer effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows of a hedged item
(including hedged items such as firm commitments or forecasted transactions,
such as future variable rate interest payments); (2) the derivative
expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised; (3) it is no longer probable
that the forecasted transaction will occur; or (4) management determines
that designating the derivative as a hedging instrument is no longer
appropriate.

When the Company
discontinues hedge accounting because it is no longer probable that the
forecasted transaction will occur in the originally expected period, the gain
or loss on the derivative remains in accumulated other comprehensive income and
is reclassified into earnings when the forecasted transaction affects earnings.
However, if it is probable that a forecasted transaction will not occur by the
end of the originally specified time period or within an additional two-month
period of time thereafter, the gains and losses that were accumulated in other
comprehensive income will be recognized immediately in earnings. In all
situations in which hedge accounting is discontinued and the derivative remains
outstanding, the Company will carry the derivative at its fair value on the
balance sheet, recognizing changes in the fair value in current-period
earnings. For purposes of the consolidated statements of cash flows, cash flows
from derivative instruments designated and qualifying as hedges are classified
with the cash flows from the hedged item.

Revenue Recognition and Promotional Allowances

Gaming revenue is the
aggregate net difference between gaming wins and losses, with liabilities
recognized for funds deposited by customers before gaming play occurs and for
chips in the customers’ possession.

Revenue from the
management service contract for Casino Rama is based upon contracted terms, and
is recognized when services are performed.

Food, beverage and other
revenue, including racing revenue, is recognized as services are performed. Racing
revenue includes the Company’s share of pari-mutuel wagering on live races
after payment of amounts returned as winning wagers, and the Company’s share of
wagering from import and export simulcasting, as well as its share of wagering
from its off-track wagering facilities (“OTWs”).


Revenues are recognized net of certain sales
incentives in accordance with the Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) consensus
on Issue 01-9, “Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a
Customer (Including a Reseller of the Vendor’s products)” (“EITF 01-9”).
The consensus in EITF 01-9 requires that sales incentives and points
earned in point-loyalty programs be recorded as a reduction of revenue. The
Company recognizes incentives related to gaming play and points earned in
point-loyalty programs as a direct reduction of gaming revenue.

During the second quarter of 2006, as a result of the
Company’s review of trends in interpreting accounting pronouncements and gaming
industry practices for accounting for customer cash incentives, the Company
reclassified cash redemption coupons to contra-revenue from operating expense. The
reclassification reduced both gaming revenue and gaming expenses by $43.4
million and $34.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. The reclassification had no effect on operating income, net
income or earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2005 and
2004.

The
retail value of accommodations, food and beverage, and other services furnished
to guests without charge is included in gross revenues and then deducted as
promotional allowances. The estimated cost of providing such promotional
allowances is primarily included in gaming expenses. The amounts included in
promotional allowances for the year ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004
are as follows:

Year ended December 31,




(in thousands)

Rooms

$

11,970

$

7,901

$

7,812

Food and beverage

85,884

54,479

46,617

Other

9,062

11,560

11,186

Total promotional
  allowances

$

106,916

$

73,940

$

65,615

The
estimated cost of providing such complimentary services for the year ended December 31,
2006, 2005 and 2004 are as follows:

Year ended December 31,




(in thousands)

Rooms

$

5,156

$

4,917

$

5,136

Food and beverage

60,762

37,561

31,906

Other

5,644

5,479

3,147

Total cost of
  complimentary services

$

71,562

$

47,957

$

40,189

Earnings Per Share

Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is computed by
dividing net income applicable to common stock by the weighted-average common
shares outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS reflects the additional dilution
for all potentially-dilutive securities such as stock options.

The
following table reconciles the weighted-average common shares outstanding used
in the calculation of basic earnings per share to the weighted-average common
shares outstanding used in the calculation of diluted earnings per share. Options
to purchase 1,966,880, 125,000 and 220,000 shares of common stock were
outstanding during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively, but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per
share because they are antidilutive.

Year ended December 31,




(in thousands)

Determination of shares:

Weighted-average
  common shares outstanding

84,229

82,893

80,510

Assumed
  conversion of dilutive stock options

2,405

2,964

2,998

Diluted weighted-average
  common shares outstanding

86,634

85,857

83,508


Stock-Based
Compensation

On January 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123
(revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment” (“SFAS 123(R)”), which requires the
Company to expense the cost of employee services received in exchange for an
award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the award.
This expense must be recognized ratably over the requisite service period
following the date of grant.

The Company elected the modified prospective
application method for adoption, which results in the recognition of
compensation expense using the provisions of SFAS 123(R) for all
share-based awards granted or modified after December 31, 2005, and the
recognition of compensation expense using the original provisions of SFAS No. 123,
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation” (“SFAS 123”), as amended by SFAS No. 148,
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation—Transition and Disclosure” (“SFAS 148”),
with the exception of the method of recognizing forfeitures, for all unvested
awards outstanding at the date of adoption. Under this transition method, the
results of operations of prior periods have not been restated. Accordingly, the
Company will continue to provide pro forma financial information for prior
periods to illustrate the effect on net income and earnings per share of
applying the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123, as amended by SFAS
148.

Prior to January 1, 2006, the Company accounted
for stock-based compensation using the intrinsic-value method in accordance
with Accounting Principles Board (“APB”) Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for
Stock Issued to Employees” (“APB 25”), as interpreted by Financial Accounting
Standards Board (“FASB”) Interpretation No. 44, “Accounting for Certain
Transactions Involving Stock Compensation.” Under the intrinsic-value method,
because the exercise price of the Company’s employee stock options was equal to
the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant, no compensation
expense was recognized. However, there were situations that could have
occurred, such as the accelerated vesting of options or the issuance of
restricted stock, that required a current charge to income.

The
most significant difference between the fair value approaches prescribed by
SFAS 123 and SFAS 123(R) and the intrinsic-value method prescribed by
APB 25 related to the recognition of compensation expense for stock option
awards based on their grant-date fair value. Under SFAS 123, the Company
estimated the fair value of stock option grants using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model. The following table reflects the pro forma impact on net
income and earnings per share for the twelve months ended December 31,
2005 and 2004 of accounting for the Company’s stock-based compensation using
the fair value provisions of SFAS 123, as amended by SFAS 148. The effects of
applying SFAS 123 and SFAS 148 in the pro forma disclosure below are
not indicative of future amounts. Additional awards in future years are
anticipated.

Year ended December 31,



(in thousands)

Net income, as
  reported

$

120,930

$

71,484

Add: Stock-based
  employee compensation expense included in reported net income, net of
  related tax effects



Deduct: Total
  stock-based employee compensation expense determined under fair value method
  for all awards, net of related tax effects

(9,589

)

(4,894

)

Pro
  forma

net income

$

111,635

$

66,767

Earnings per share:

Basic—as reported

$

1.46

$

0.89

Basic—

pro forma

1.35

0.83

Diluted—as reported

1.41

0.86

Diluted—

pro forma

1.30

0.80


Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), the Company
included all tax benefits associated with stock-based compensation as operating
cash flows in the consolidated statements of cash flows. SFAS 123(R) requires
any reduction in taxes payable resulting from tax deductions that exceed the
recognized compensation expense (“excess tax benefits”) to be classified as
financing cash flows. The Company included $12.4 million of excess tax benefits
in the Company’s cash flows from financing activities for the twelve months
ended December 31, 2006 that would have been classified as operating cash
flows had the Company not adopted SFAS 123(R).

The
fair value for stock options was estimated at the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which requires management to make certain
assumptions. The risk-free interest rate was based on the U.S. Treasury spot
rate with a remaining term equal to the expected life assumed at the date of
grant. Expected volatility was estimated based on the historical volatility of
the Company’s stock price over a period of 4.26 years, in order to match the
expected life of the options at the grant date. There is no expected dividend
yield since the Company has not paid any cash dividends on its common stock
since its initial public offering in May 1994, and since the Company
intends to retain all of its earnings to finance the development of its
business for the foreseeable future. The weighted-average expected life was
based on the contractual term of the stock option and expected employee
exercise dates, which was based on the historical exercise behavior of the
Company’s employees. Forfeitures are estimated at the date of grant based on
historical experience. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), the Company
recorded forfeitures as they occurred for purposes of estimating pro forma
compensation expense under SFAS 123. The following are the weighted-average
assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model at December 31,
2006, 2005 and 2004:

Year ended December 31,




Risk-free
  interest rate

5.11

%

3.40

%

3.40

%

Expected
  volatility

43.29

%

40.0

%

51.0

%

Dividend yield

—

—

—

Weighted-average
  expected life (years)

4.26

5.45

5.00

Forfeiture rate

4.00

%

—

—

Segment Information

In accordance with SFAS No. 131, “Disclosures
about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information” (“SFAS 131”), the
Company views each property as an operating segment. Historically, the Company
aggregated its gaming properties that were economically similar, offered
similar types of products and services, catered to the same types of customers
and were similarly regulated into a reportable segment called gaming, and
aggregated its racing properties that were economically similar, offered
similar products and services, catered to the similar types of customers and
were similarly regulated into a reportable segment called racing.

Beginning in the first
quarter of 2006, the Company modified its segment reporting from two reportable
segments to one reportable segment, as the Company believes that its gaming and
racing properties can now be aggregated together in accordance with SFAS 131,
due to ongoing changes at its racing properties, including the upcoming
introduction of slot machines at Penn National Race Course.

Statements of Cash
Flows

The Company has presented
the consolidated statements of cash flows using the indirect method, which
involves the reconciliation of net income to net cash flow from operating
activities.

Acquisitions

The Company accounts for
its acquisitions in accordance with SFAS No. 141, “Business Combinations”
(“SFAS 141”). The results of operations of acquisitions are included in the
consolidated financial statements from their respective dates of acquisition.


Certain Risks and
Uncertainties

The Company’s operations are dependent on its
continued licensing by state gaming commissions. The loss of a license, in any
jurisdiction in which the Company operates, could have a material adverse
effect on future results of operations.

The Company is dependent on each gaming property’s
local market for a significant number of its patrons and revenues. If economic
conditions in these areas deteriorate or additional gaming licenses are awarded
in these markets, the Company’s results of operations could be adversely
affected.

The Company is also
dependent upon a stable gaming and admission tax structure in the locations
that it operates in. Any change in the tax structure could have a material
adverse affect on future results of operations.

4.

New
Accounting Pronouncement

In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation
No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes” (“FIN 48”), which is
an interpretation of SFAS No. 109.

FIN 48 creates a single model to address uncertainty
in tax positions, and clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes
recognized in an enterprise’s financial statements in accordance with SFAS 109
by prescribing the minimum recognition threshold a tax position is required to
meet before being recognized in an enterprise’s financial statements. FIN 48
also provides guidance on derecognition, measurement, classification, interest
and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition.

FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2006. The Company adopted FIN 48 as of January 1, 2007, as required.

The cumulative effect of
adopting FIN 48 will be recorded in retained earnings and other accounts, as
applicable. The Company expects that the impact of adopting FIN 48 will be a
charge to retained earnings of approximately $12.0 million.

5.

Acquisitions

Zia Park

On November 7, 2006,
Zia Park, LLC (the “Buyer”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, entered
into an Asset Purchase Agreement (the “Asset Purchase Agreement”) with Zia
Partners, LLC (“Zia”) and (solely with respect to specified sections thereof
which relate to the Company’s guarantee described below) the Company, whereby
the Buyer will acquire from Zia the Black Gold casino and Zia Park Racetrack,
located on approximately 320 acres in Hobbs, New Mexico, and all related assets
of Zia for a purchase price of $200 million in cash, subject to a working
capital adjustment and certain other adjustments, and will assume specific
liabilities of Zia. Upon the execution of the Asset Purchase Agreement, the
Buyer made a deposit of $10 million toward the purchase price. The Company has
guaranteed the payment and performance of the Buyer’s obligations under the
Asset Purchase Agreement. The transaction, which is expected to be accretive to
the Company’s results of operations while further diversifying the Company’s
regional asset base, is expected to close mid-2007, subject to the satisfaction
of customary closing conditions, including regulatory approval. The Company
intends to fund this purchase with additional borrowings under its existing
$750.0 million revolving credit facility.


Argosy

On October 3, 2005, the Company acquired 100% of
the stock of Argosy. The acquisition reflects the continuing efforts of the
Company to diversify by reducing its dependency on individual properties and
legislative jurisdictions. The transaction was accounted for as a purchase
transaction, in accordance with SFAS 141. As a result, the net assets of Argosy
were recorded at their fair value, with the excess of the purchase price over
the fair value of the net assets acquired allocated to goodwill. The total
purchase price for the acquisition was approximately $2,320.2 million,
including transaction fees of $44.5 million. The price of $47.00 per share
represented an approximate 16% premium over the closing price of Argosy on
November 2, 2004, and an approximate 30% premium over the average closing
price of Argosy over the ninety days preceding November 2, 2004. The
purchase price of the acquisition was funded by the proceeds of the Company’s
$2.725 billion senior secured credit facility.

The Company acquired six Argosy casino entertainment
facilities and one racetrack, although the Company agreed to enter into sale
agreements for three of those properties to expedite the receipt of the
regulatory approvals required to complete the merger. The Company completed the
sale of Argosy Casino Baton Rouge to an affiliate of Columbia Sussex for
approximately $148.6 million, and had until December 31, 2006 to enter
into definitive sale agreements for the Argosy Casino Alton and the Empress
Casino Hotel.

However, on March 6,
2006, the Illinois Gaming Board agreed to allow the Company to retain the
Argosy Casino Alton. In addition, the Illinois Gaming Board granted the Company
an extension to the time limit by which the Company is required to reach a
definitive sale agreement for the Empress Casino Hotel until June 30,
2008.

In order to assist the Company in assigning values of
assets acquired and liabilities assumed in this transaction, the Company
obtained a third-party valuation of significant identifiable intangible assets
acquired, as well as other assets acquired. In addition, the Company recorded a
current tax liability for identified tax contingencies and an estimate for the
deferred tax liability arising from the acquisition due to the difference
between the fair value and the tax basis of the net assets acquired.

The current and deferred tax liabilities, which
increased the amount of goodwill recorded in the acquisition, are subject to
change upon recognition and/or settlement of tax contingencies. These changes, if
any, will also affect goodwill, and will not have a material impact on the
Company’s consolidated statements of income.

As part of the Argosy acquisition, the Company
recorded $2.0 billion in goodwill and other intangible assets. The other
intangible assets primarily consisted of a gaming license intangible asset, a
trademark intangible asset, a computer software intangible asset, and a
customer relationship intangible asset. In accordance with SFAS 142, the
Company considers its gaming license and trademark intangible assets as
indefinite-life intangible assets that do not require amortization. The
computer software and customer relationship intangible assets are amortized
using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, which are
three and five years, respectively. As the acquisition of Argosy was treated as
a stock purchase, the estimated goodwill balance and the other intangible
assets described above are not expected to be amortized for tax purposes.

The

pro forma

consolidated results of operations, as if the
acquisition of Argosy had occurred on January 1, 2004, are as follows:



(in thousands, except

per share data)

Pro
  Forma

Net revenues

$

2,109,609

$

2,061,697

Income from
  continuing operations

391,940

406,400

Net income from
  continuing operations

111,388

128,639

Basic earnings
  per share

1.34

1.60

Diluted earnings per
  share

1.30

1.54


Included in the Company’s
results for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 were net revenues
of $238.8 million and $58.2 million, respectively, income from continuing
operations of $47.8 million and $14.0 million, respectively, and net income of
$8.4 million and $3.2 million, respectively, for the Empress Casino Hotel.

6.

Hurricane
Katrina

As a result of Hurricane Katrina’s direct hit on the
Mississippi Gulf Coast on August 29, 2005, two of the Company’s casinos,
Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi, were significantly damaged,
many employees were displaced and operations ceased at the two properties. Boomtown
Biloxi reopened on June 29, 2006 and Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis
reopened on August 31, 2006.

The Company had significant levels of insurance in
place at the time of Hurricane Katrina to cover the losses resulting from the
hurricane, including an “all risk” insurance policy covering “named windstorm”
damage, flood damage, debris removal, preservation of property expense,
demolition and increased cost of construction expense, and losses resulting
from business interruption and extra expenses, all as defined in the policies.
The comprehensive business interruption and property damage insurance policies
had an overall limit of $400 million, and was subject to property damage
deductibles for Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi of
approximately $6.0 million and $3.5 million, respectively. The
business interruption insurance component of this policy was subject to a
five-day deductible.

During the year ended December 31, 2006, the
Company’s financial results benefited from a settlement agreement with its
property and business interruption insurance providers for a total of $225 million
for Hurricane Katrina-related losses at its Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and
Boomtown Biloxi properties, as well as minor proceeds related to its National
Flood Insurance coverage and auto insurance claims. Reflecting the settlement
agreement, the Company recorded a pre-tax gain of $128.3 million ($81.8
million, net of taxes).

The Company recognized a pre-tax charge of $21.1
million ($13.7 million after-tax) associated with the expenses incurred from
Hurricane Katrina for the year ended December 31, 2005. The costs included
property insurance and business interruption policy deductible expense
(approximately $10.2 million), compensation being paid to employees through November 30,
2005 that exceeded the ordinary payroll limits under the business interruption
policy (approximately $6.1 million), the purchase of replacement flood
insurance for coverage during the remaining insurance policy term
(approximately $3.6 million), contributions to the Penn National Gaming
Foundation’s Hurricane Katrina Relief Project (approximately $1.0 million) and
costs for insurance claim consultants (approximately $.2 million).

During the years ended December 31, 2006 and
2005, the Company received $104.1 million and $27.3 million, respectively,
from its insurance carriers relating to Hurricane Katrina.

The $100.0 million insurance receivable recorded at December 31,
2006 represents the portion of the $225.0 million settlement that was not
received by the Company until January 2007.

The $51.2 million insurance receivable recorded
at December 31, 2005 was limited to the net historical book value of
assets believed to be damaged, destroyed or abandoned, fixed business expenses
and out-of-pocket costs for certain additional expenses incurred during the
period as a direct result of the hurricane.

On August 8, 2006,
the Company renewed its property insurance coverage in the amount of $200 million.
The $200 million coverage is “all risk”, including “named windstorm”, flood and
earthquake. Also, the Company purchased an additional $250 million of “all risk”
coverage that is subject to certain exclusions including, among others,
exclusion for “named windstorms”, floods and earthquakes. There is a $25
million deductible for “named windstorm” events, and lesser deductibles as they
apply to other perils.


7.

Property
and Equipment

Property
and equipment, net, consists of the following:

December 31,



(in thousands)

Land and
  improvements

$

190,002

$

155,735

Building and
  improvements

868,577

699,584

Furniture,
  fixtures, and equipment

420,809

314,741

Transportation
  equipment

2,392

1,401

Leasehold
  improvements

15,005

13,175

Construction in
  progress

187,531

82,971

Total property and equipment

1,684,316

1,267,607

Less accumulated
  depreciation and amortization

(318,445

)

(207,715

)

Property and equipment,
  net

$

1,365,871

$

1,059,892

Depreciation and
amortization expense, for property and equipment, totaled $117.3 million, $69.0
million, and $63.3 million in 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. Interest
capitalized in connection with major construction projects was $8.0 million,
$1.5 million, and $0.4 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

8.

Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets

The
Company’s goodwill and intangible assets had a gross carrying value of $2.6
billion at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and accumulated
amortization of $19.4 million and $12.8 million at December 31, 2006 and
2005, respectively. The table below presents the gross carrying value,
accumulated amortization, and net book value of each major class of goodwill
and intangible asset at December 31, 2006 and 2005:

December 31,



Gross

Carrying

Value

Accumulated

Amortization

Net Book

Value

Gross

Carrying

Value

Accumulated

Amortization

Net Book

Value

(in thousands)

Goodwill

$

1,869,444

$

—

$

1,869,444

$

1,848,661

$

—

$

1,848,661

Gaming license
  and trademarks

700,434

—

700,434

711,174

—

711,174

Other intangible
  assets

45,126

19,434

25,692

45,126

12,779

32,347

Total

$

2,615,004

$

19,434

$

2,595,570

$

2,604,961

$

12,779

$

2,592,182

During the year ended December 31, 2006, goodwill
increased by $20.8 million, primarily due to the finalization of certain fixed
asset and deferred tax valuations associated with the Argosy and Bangor
Historic Track, Inc. acquisitions. This increase was partially offset by a
$34.5 million impairment charge at Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis, as well as a
decrease in the value assigned to the Argosy gaming license intangible asset.

The $34.5 million impairment charge at Hollywood
Casino Bay St. Louis was recorded as the Company determined that all of the
goodwill associated with the original purchase of the property was impaired
subsequent to the increase in asset values following the reconstruction at
Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis.

The Company’s intangible asset amortization expense
was $6.7 million, $3.5 million, and $2.5 million for the years ended December 31,
2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.


The
following table presents expected intangible asset amortization expense based
on existing intangible assets at December 31, 2006 (in thousands):

Year ending December 31,


$

6,655


6,488


5,988


5,119


1,442

Thereafter

—

Total

$

25,692

9.

Long-term
Debt

Long-term
debt, net of current maturities, is as follows:

December 31,



(in thousands)

Senior secured
  credit facility

$

2,343,875

$

2,148,875

$175 million 8


¤


% senior subordinated notes

—

175,000

$200 million 6


¤


% senior subordinated notes

200,000

200,000

$250 million 6


¤


%
  senior subordinated notes

250,000

250,000

$200 million 9%
  senior subordinated notes

—


$350 million 7%
  senior subordinated notes

—


Other long-term
  obligations

25,041

—

Capital leases

10,532

12,191

2,829,448

2,786,229

Less current
  maturities of long-term debt

(40,058

)

(18,567

)

$

2,789,390

$

2,767,662

The
following is a schedule of future minimum repayments of long-term debt as of
December 31, 2006 (in thousands):


$

40,058


93,459


105,273


497,762


677,649

Thereafter

1,415,247

Total minimum payments

$

2,829,448

At December 31, 2006,
the Company was contingently obligated under letters of credit issued pursuant
to the $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility with face amounts
aggregating $83.5 million.

Senior Secured
Credit Facility

On October 3, 2005, the Company entered into a
$2.725 billion senior secured credit facility to fund the Company’s acquisition
of Argosy, including payment for all of Argosy’s outstanding shares, the
retirement of certain long-term debt of Argosy and its subsidiaries, the
payment of related transaction costs, and to provide additional working capital.
Concurrent with this financing, the Company’s previous senior credit facility
was terminated, which resulted in an early extinguishment of debt charge of
$4.0 million. The $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility consists
of three credit facilities comprised of a $750 million revolving credit
facility (of which $389.5 million was drawn at December 31, 2006), a


$325 million Term
Loan A Facility and a $1.65 billion Term Loan B Facility. The $2.725 billion
senior secured credit facility also allows the Company to raise an additional
$300 million in senior secured credit for project development and property
expansion.

During the year ended December 31, 2006, the
senior secured credit facility increased by $195.0 million as a result of
numerous corporate transactions, including partial funding of the redemption of
the Company’s $175 million



¤


%

senior
subordinated notes.

The senior secured credit
facility is secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company.

Interest Rate Swap
Contracts

The Company has a policy designed to manage interest
rate risk associated with its current and anticipated future borrowings. This
policy enables the Company to use any combination of interest rate swaps,
futures, options, caps and similar instruments. To the extent the Company
employs such financial instruments pursuant to this policy, they are generally
accounted for as hedging instruments. In order to qualify for hedge accounting,
the underlying hedged item must expose the Company to risks associated with
market fluctuations and the financial instrument used must be designated as a
hedge and must reduce the Company’s exposure to market fluctuations throughout
the hedge period. If these criteria are not met, a change in the market value
of the financial instrument is recognized as a gain or loss in the period of
change. Net settlements pursuant to the financial instrument are included as
interest expense in the period.

In accordance with the
terms of its $2.725 billion senior secured credit facility, the Company was
required to enter into interest rate swap agreements in amount equal to 50% of
the outstanding term loan balances within 100 days of the closing date of the
senior secured credit facility. On October 27, 2005, the Company entered
into four interest rate swap contracts with terms from three to five years,
notional amounts of $224 million, $274 million, $225 million, and $237 million,
for a total of $960 million, and fixed interest rates ranging from 4.678% to
4.753%. The annual weighted-average interest rate of the four contracts is
4.71%. On May 8, 2006, the Company entered into three interest rate swap
contracts with a term of five years and notional amounts of $100 million each,
for a total of $300 million and fixed interest rates ranging from 5.263% to
5.266%. The annual weighted-average interest rate of the three contracts is
5.26%. Under all of these contracts, the Company pays a fixed interest rate
against a variable interest rate based on the 90-day LIBOR rate. The 90-day
LIBOR rate relating to these contracts as of December 31, 2006 was 5.38%
for both the $960 million swaps and the $300 million swaps.

Redemption of 8


¤


%
Senior Subordinated Notes

In February 2006, the
Company called for the redemption of its $175 million



¤


%

senior
subordinated notes.

The redemption price was $1,044.38 per $1,000
principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and was made on March 15,
2006. The Company recorded a $10.0 million loss on early extinguishment of debt
during the year ended December 31, 2006 for the call premium and the
write-off of the associated deferred financing fees

.

The Company funded the redemption of the notes from available
cash and borrowings under its revolving credit facility.



¤


%
Senior Subordinated Notes

On December 4, 2003,
the Company completed an offering of $200 million of 6


¤


%
senior subordinated notes that mature on December 1, 2011. Interest on the
notes is payable on June 1 and December 1 of each year, beginning June 1,
2004.

The Company may redeem all
or part of the notes on or after December 1, 2007 at certain specified
redemption prices.

The 6


¤


%
notes are general unsecured obligations and are guaranteed on a senior
subordinated basis by certain of the Company’s current and future wholly-owned
domestic subsidiaries. The 6


¤


%
notes rank equally with the Company’s future senior subordinated debt and
junior to its senior debt, including debt


under
the Company’s senior secured credit facility. In addition, the 6


¤


%
notes will be effectively junior to any indebtedness of Penn’s non-U.S.
Unrestricted Subsidiaries.

The 6


¤


%
notes and guarantees were originally issued in a private placement pursuant to
an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933
(the “Securities Act”). On August 27, 2004, the Company completed an offer
to exchange the notes and guarantees for notes and guarantees registered under
the Securities Act having substantially identical terms.

6¾% Senior Subordinated Notes

On March 9, 2005, the
Company completed an offering of $250 million of 6


¤


% senior
subordinated notes that mature on March 1, 2015. Interest on the notes is
payable on March 1 and September 1 of each year, beginning September 1,
2005. The 6


¤


%
notes are general unsecured obligations and are not guaranteed by the Company’s
subsidiaries. The 6


¤


%
notes were issued in a private placement pursuant to an exemption from the
registration requirements of the Securities Act.

Other Long-Term Obligations

On October 15, 2004,
the Company announced the sale of The Downs Racing, Inc. and its
subsidiaries to the Mohegan Tribal Gaming Authority (the “MTGA”). Under the
terms of the agreement, the MTGA acquired The Downs Racing, Inc. and its
subsidiaries, including Pocono Downs (a standardbred horse racing facility
located on 400 acres in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania) and five Pennsylvania
off-track wagering facilities located in Carbondale, East Stroudsburg, Erie,
Hazelton and the Lehigh Valley (Allentown). The sale agreement also provided
the MTGA with certain post-closing termination rights in the event of certain
materially adverse legislative or regulatory events. In January 2005, the
Company received $280 million from the MTGA, and transferred the
operations of The Downs Racing, Inc. and its subsidiaries to the MTGA. The
sale was not considered final for accounting purposes until the third quarter
of 2006, as the MTGA had certain post-closing termination rights that remained
outstanding. On August 7, 2006, the Company entered into the Second
Amendment to the Purchase Agreement and Release of Claims (“Amendment and
Release”) with the MTGA pertaining to the October 14, 2004 Purchase
Agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”), and agreed to pay the MTGA an aggregate
of $30 million over five years, beginning on the first anniversary of the
commencement of slot operations at Mohegan Sun at Pocono Downs, in exchange for
the MTGA’s agreement to release various claims it raised against the Company
under the Purchase Agreement and the MTGA’s surrender of all post-closing
termination rights it might have had under the Purchase Agreement. The Company
recorded the present value of the $30 million liability within debt, as the
amount due to the MTGA is payable over five years, with the first payment date
estimated to occur in late 2007.

Covenants

The Company’s $2.725
billion senior secured credit facility, $200 million 6


¤


%
and $250 million 6


¤


%
senior subordinated notes require it, among other obligations, to maintain
specified financial ratios and to satisfy certain financial tests, including
fixed charge coverage, senior leverage and total leverage ratios. In addition,
the Company’s senior secured credit facility, $200 million 6


¤


% and $250
million 6


¤


%
senior subordinated notes restrict, among other things, the Company’s ability
to incur additional indebtedness, incur guarantee obligations, amend debt
instruments, pay dividends, create liens on assets, make investments, make
acquisitions, engage in mergers or consolidations, make capital expenditures,
or engage in certain transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates and
otherwise restricts corporate activities.

During the year ended December 31,
2006, the Company made certain amendments to its senior secured credit
facility, including the modification of the applicable covenants to enable the
Company to repurchase up to $200 million of its equity or debt securities, the
modification of the Company’s capital expenditure covenant to increase certain
permitted expenditures consistent with the Company’s development and expansion
projects, and the modification of the Company’s collateral documents in
accordance with requirements of the Pennsylvania gaming authorities.


At December 31, 2006,
the Company was in compliance with all required financial covenants.

Sale of Argosy
Casino Baton Rouge

On October 25, 2005,
the Company completed the sale of Argosy Casino Baton Rouge to an affiliate of
Columbia Sussex Corporation for approximately $148.6 million. The Company used
the net after-tax proceeds from the sale to reduce debt.

10.

Commitments
and Contingencies

Litigation

The Company is subject to various legal and
administrative proceedings relating to personal injuries, employment matters,
commercial transactions and other matters arising in the normal course of
business. The Company does not believe that the final outcome of these matters
will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial
position or results of operations. In addition, the Company maintains what it
believes is adequate insurance coverage to further mitigate the risks of such
proceedings. However, such proceedings can be costly, time consuming and
unpredictable and, therefore, no assurance can be given that the final outcome
of such proceedings may not materially impact the Company’s consolidated
financial condition or results of operations. Further, no assurance can be
given that the amount or scope of existing insurance coverage will be
sufficient to cover losses arising from such matters.

The following proceedings could result in costs,
settlements, damages, or rulings that materially impact the Company’s
consolidated financial condition or operating results. In each instance, the
Company believes that it has meritorious defenses, claims and/or
counter-claims, and intends to vigorously defend itself or pursue its claim.

In October 2002, in response to the Company’s
plans to relocate the river barge underlying the Boomtown Biloxi casino to an
adjacent property, the lessor of the property on which the Boomtown Biloxi
casino conducts a portion of its dockside operations filed a lawsuit against
the Company in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Mississippi
seeking a declaratory judgment that (i) the Company must use the leased
premises for a gaming use or, in the alternative, (ii) after the move, the
Company will remain obligated to make the revenue-based rent payments to
plaintiff set forth in the lease. The plaintiff filed this suit immediately
after the Mississippi Gaming Commission approved the Company’s request to
relocate the barge. Since such approval, the Mississippi Department of Marine
Resources and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers have also approved the Company’s
plan to relocate the barge. In March 2004, the trial court ruled in favor
of the Company on all counts. The plaintiff appealed the decision to the Fifth
Circuit, which upheld the tenant’s right to relocate but remanded the case to
the trial court because there was insufficient evidence in the record to
determine whether the casino barge would be relocated to a place which would
trigger the increased rent obligation under the lease. The trial is scheduled
for May 14, 2007. The Company has filed a motion for summary judgment. The
parties have also engaged in active settlement negotiations, but have not yet
reached a final settlement of this matter.

In November 2005, Capital Seven, LLC and Shawn A.
Scott (“Capital Seven”), the sellers of Bangor Historic Track (“BHT”), filed a
demand for arbitration with the American Arbitration Association seeking
$30 million plus interest and other damages. Capital Seven alleges a
breach of contract by the Company based on the Company’s payment of a
$51 million purchase price for the purchase of BHT instead of an alleged
$81 million purchase price the sellers claim is due under the purchase
agreement. The parties had agreed that the purchase price of BHT would be
determined, in part, by the applicable gaming taxes imposed by Maine on the
Company’s operations, and currently are disputing the effective tax rate. The
dispute is currently in its initial stages. Pursuant to the dispute resolution
procedures, the Company deposited $30 million in escrow, pending a resolution. This amount is included within the other
assets line item on the Company’s consolidated balance sheets at December 31,
2006 and 2005. The parties recently completed their selection of
arbitrators.


In conjunction with the Company’s merger with Argosy,
and subsequent disposition of the Argosy Casino Baton Rouge property, the
Company became responsible for litigation initiated over eight years ago
related to the Baton Rouge property formerly owned by Argosy. On November 26,
1997, Capitol House filed an amended petition in the Nineteenth Judicial
District Court for East Baton Rouge Parish, State of Louisiana, amending its
previously filed but unserved suit against Richard Perryman, the person
selected by the Louisiana Gaming Division to evaluate and rank the applicants
seeking a gaming license for East Baton Rouge Parish, and adding state law
claims against Jazz Enterprises, Inc., the former Jazz Enterprises, Inc.
Shareholders, Argosy, Argosy of Louisiana, Inc. and Catfish Queen
Partnership in Commendam, d/b/a the Belle of Baton Rouge Casino. This suit
alleges that these parties violated the Louisiana Unfair Trade Practices Act in
connection with obtaining the gaming license that was issued to Jazz Enterprises, Inc./Catfish
Queen Partnership in Commendam. The plaintiff, an applicant for a gaming
license whose application was denied by the Louisiana Gaming Division, seeks to
prove that the gaming license was invalidly issued and seeks to recover lost
gaming revenues that the plaintiff contends it could have earned if the gaming
license had been properly issued to the plaintiff.  On October 2, 2006, the Company prevailed
on a partial summary judgment motion which limited plaintiff’s damages to its
out-of-pocket costs in seeking its gaming license, thereby eliminating any
recovery for potential lost gaming profits. On February 6, 2007, the jury
returned a verdict of $3.8 million (exclusive of statutory interest) against
Jazz Enterprises, Inc. and Argosy. Pursuant to the verdict, the Company
established an appropriate reserve at December 31, 2006. The Company is in
the process of preparing post-trial motions seeking to overturn the verdict.
The Company has the right to seek indemnification from two of the former Jazz Enterprises, Inc.
shareholders for any liability suffered as a result of such cause of action,
however, there can be no assurance that the former Jazz Enterprises, Inc.
shareholders will have assets sufficient to satisfy any claim in excess of
Argosy’s recoupment rights.

In May 2006, the
Illinois Legislature passed into law House Bill 1918, effective May 26,
2006, which singled out four of the nine Illinois casinos, including the
Company’s Empress Casino Hotel and Hollywood Casino Aurora, for a 3% tax surcharge
to subsidize local horse racing interests. The Company began paying this tax
surcharge during the three months ended June 30, 2006, and the Company
will continue to pay this tax surcharge in upcoming periods. On May 30,
2006, Empress Casino Hotel and Hollywood Casino Aurora joined with the two
other riverboats affected by the law, Harrah’s Joliet and the Grand Victoria
Casino in Elgin, and filed suit in the Circuit Court of the Twelfth Judicial
District in Will County, Illinois (the “Court”), asking the Court to declare
the law unconstitutional. The State agreed to the entry of an order that
establishes a protest fund for all of the tax surcharge payments and enjoins
the Treasurer from making any payments out of that fund pending the final
outcome of the litigation. Should the casinos prevail with their challenge, the
incremental taxes paid under protest would be refunded. The Company anticipates
a long process before a resolution to this matter can be reached.

Operating Lease
Commitments

The Company is liable under numerous operating leases
for airplanes, automobiles, land for the property on which some of its casinos
operate, other equipment and buildings, which expire at various dates through
2093. Total rental expense under these agreements was $28.1 million, $5.2
million, and $4.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2006,
2005, and 2004, respectively.

The leases for land consist of annual base lease rent
payments, plus a percentage rent based on a percent of adjusted gaming wins, as
described in the respective leases.

The Company has an operating lease with the City of
Bangor for a permanent facility which the Company expects to open in the second
quarter of 2008, at a budgeted cost of $131.0 million, which reflects higher
construction costs and the addition of a hotel. The expected opening date is
fifteen months from receipt of building permits. This permanent facility is
subject to a percentage rent equaling 3% of gross slot revenue. The lease is
for an initial term of fifteen years, with three ten-year renewal options. The
initial term begins with the opening of the permanent facility. An agreement
with the City of Bangor calls for a two-year rent moratorium for 2006 and 2007.


The
future minimum lease commitments relating to the base lease rent portion of
noncancelable operating leases at December 31, 2006 are as follows (in
thousands):

Year ending December 31,


$

11,916


10,944


9,804


8,376


7,748

Thereafter

218,644

Total

$

267,432

Capital Expenditure
Commitments

At December 31, 2006,
the Company is contractually committed to spend approximately $162.1 million
in capital expenditures for projects in progress.

Employee Benefit
Plans

The Company has two profit-sharing plans under the
provisions of Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended, which covers all eligible employees. The plans enable participating
employees to defer a portion of their salary in a retirement fund to be
administered by the Company. For the Penn National Gaming, Inc. 401(k) Plan,
the Company makes a discretionary match contribution of 50% of employees’
elective salary deferrals, up to a maximum of 6% of eligible employee
compensation. For the Argosy Employees Savings Plan, the Company makes a
discretionary match contribution of 50% of employees’ elective salary
deferrals, up to the lesser of 3% of eligible employee compensation, or $2,000
per year.  Effective July 6, 2006,
the Argosy Employee Savings Plan was merged into the Penn National Gaming, Inc.
401(k) Plan.

The Company also has a defined contribution plan, the
Charles Town Races Future Service Retirement Plan, covering substantially all
of its union employees at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex. The Company
makes annual contributions to this plan for the eligible union employees and to
the Penn National Gaming, Inc. 401(k) Plan for the eligible non-union
employees for an amount equal to the amount accrued for retirement expense,
which is calculated as 0.25% of the daily mutual handle and 1.0% up to a base
of the net video lottery revenues and, after the base is met, it reverts to
0.5%. Total contributions to the plans for the years ended December 31,
2006, 2005 and 2004 were $2.9 million, $2.7 million and $3.8 million,
respectively.

The Company maintains a
non-qualified deferred compensation plan that covers most management and other
highly-compensated employees. This plan was effective March 1, 2001. The
plan allows the participants to defer, on a pre-tax basis, a portion of their
base annual salary and bonus, and earn tax-deferred earnings on these
deferrals. The plan also provides for matching Company contributions that vest
over a five-year period. The Company has established a Trust, and transfers to
the Trust, on a periodic basis, an amount necessary to provide, on a present
value basis, for its respective future liabilities with respect to participant
deferral and Company contribution amounts. The Company’s contributions in 2006,
2005 and 2004 were $1.5 million, $1.1 million and $0.8 million, respectively.

Agreements with
Horsemen and Pari-Mutuel Clerks

The Company is required to have agreements with the
horsemen at each of its racetracks to conduct its live racing and simulcasting
activities. In addition, in order to operate gaming machines in West Virginia,
the Company must maintain agreements with each of the Charles Town horsemen,
pari-mutuel clerks and breeders.


At the Charles Town Entertainment Complex, the Company
has an agreement with the Charles Town horsemen that expires on December 31,
2007 and an agreement with the breeders that expires on June 30, 2007. The
pari-mutuel clerks at Charles Town are represented under a collective
bargaining agreement with the West Virginia Division of Mutuel Clerks that
expires on December 31, 2010.

Throughout the Argosy properties, the Seafarers
Entertainment and Allied Trade Union represents approximately two thousand
employees. Additionally, at the Alton property, the Seafarer International
Union of North America, Atlantic, Gulf, Lakes and Inland Waters District/NMU,
AFL-CIO represents eight of the Company’s employees, the International
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers represents nine of the Company’s employees
and the Security Police and Fire Professionals of America represents fifty-nine
of the Company’s employees. At the Company’s Indiana and Iowa properties, the
American Maritime Officers Union represents eighteen of the Company’s employees.
The Company has collective bargaining agreements with these unions that expire
at various times between July 2007 and June 2011. At the Empress
Casino Hotel, the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees (“UNITE/HERE”)
Union, Local 1 represents approximately three-hundred employees. The
UNITE/HERE Joliet labor agreement expires on March 31, 2010. At Raceway
Park, the pari-mutuel tellers are represented by the Service Employees
International Union (“SEIU”) Local 47, which has subcontracted with UNITE/HERE
Local 10 to handle the business affairs of the pari-mutuel tellers, and the
current contract expires on May 31, 2007.

The Company’s agreement with the Pennsylvania
thoroughbred horsemen at Penn National Race Course expires on September 30,
2011. The Company has an agreement with Local 137 at Penn National Race Course
with respect to pari-mutuel clerks and admissions and Telebet personnel that
expires on December 31, 2007. The Company also has an agreement in place
with the Sports Arena Employees Local 137 (AFL-CIO) with respect to
pari-mutuel clerks and admission personnel at the OTWs. That agreement, which
the Company is currently documenting, expires on September 30, 2009.

The Company expects to enter into a new, long-term,
agreement with the Maine Harness Horsemen Association prior to the start of the
2007 racing season. Pennwood Racing, Inc. also has an agreement in effect
with the horsemen at Freehold Raceway, which expires in May 2009.

If the Company fails to
maintain agreements with the horsemen at a track, it will not be permitted to
conduct live racing and export and import simulcasting at that track and where
applicable, the OTWs. In West Virginia, the Company will not be permitted to
operate its gaming machines if it fails to maintain agreements with the Charles
Town horsemen, pari-mutuel clerks and breeders. In addition, the simulcasting
agreements are subject to the horsemen’s approval. If the Company fails to
maintain necessary agreements, this failure could have a material adverse
effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Except
for the closure of the facilities at Penn National Race Course and its OTWs
from February 16, 1999 to March 24, 1999 due to a horsemen’s strike,
and a few days at other times and locations, the Company has been able to
maintain the necessary agreements. There can be no assurance that the Company
will be able to maintain the required agreements.

New Jersey Joint
Venture

On January 28, 1999, the Company, along with its
joint venture partner, Greenwood Limited Jersey, Inc. (“Greenwood”),
purchased certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Freehold Racing
Association, Garden State Racetrack and related entities, in a transaction
accounted for as a purchase transaction.

The Company made an $11.3 million loan to the joint
venture and an equity investment of $.3 million. The loan is evidenced by a
subordinated secured note, which has been included in investment in and
advances to an unconsolidated affiliate in the consolidated financial
statements. The note bears interest at prime plus 2.25% or a minimum of 10% (at
December 31, 2006, the interest rate was 10.50%). The Company has recorded
interest income in the consolidated statements of income of $1.2 million, $1.1 million
and $1.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.


The joint venture, through Freehold Racing
Association, was part of a multi-employer pension plan. For collectively
bargained, multi-employer pension plans, contributions were made in
accordance with negotiated labor contracts and generally were based on days
worked. With the passage of the Multi-Employer Pension Plan Amendments
Act of 1980, the joint venture may, under certain circumstances, become subject
to liabilities in excess of contributions made under collective bargaining
agreements. Generally, these liabilities are contingent upon the termination,
withdrawal, or partial withdrawal from the plans. In June 2006, Freehold
Racing Association withdrew from the multi-employer pension plan, and thereby
became subject to payment of a withdrawal liability to the multi-employer
pension plan. At December 31, 2006, the most recent date for which
information is available, the joint venture withdrawal liability was
approximately $3.0 million for Freehold Racing Association, which is payable
through November 2028.

The Company and Greenwood
entered into a Debt Service Maintenance Agreement with a bank in which each
joint venture partner has guaranteed up to 50% of a $23.0 million term loan to
the joint venture. The guarantee remains in effect for the life of the loan and
is due to expire on September 30, 2009. At December 31, 2006, the
outstanding balance on the loan to the joint venture amounted to $13.0 million,
of which the Company’s obligation under its guarantee of the term loan was
limited to approximately $6.5 million. The Company’s investment in the joint
venture is accounted for under the equity method. The original investment was
recorded at cost and has been adjusted by the Company’s share of income of the
joint venture and distributions received. The Company’s 50% share of the income
of the joint venture is included in other income (expenses) in the consolidated
statements of income.

11.

Income
Taxes

Deferred
tax assets and liabilities are comprised of the following:

Year ended December 31,



(in thousands)

Deferred tax assets:

Stock-based compensation expense

$

5,583

$

—

Accrued expenses

20,414

127,300

State net operating losses

28,872

9,119

Gross deferred tax assets

54,869

136,419

Less valuation allowance

(28,510

)

(9,119

)

Net deferred tax assets

26,359

127,300

Deferred tax
  liabilities:

Property, plant and equipment

(139,418

)

(75,584

)

Intangibles

(252,369

)

(263,274

)

Net deferred tax liabilities

(391,787

)

(338,858

)

Net:

$

(365,428

)

$

(211,558

)

Reflected on
  consolidated balance sheets:

Current deferred tax assets, net

$

22,187

$

48,150

Noncurrent deferred tax liabilities, net

(387,615

)

(259,708

)

Net deferred
  taxes

$

(365,428

)

$

(211,558

)

For income tax reporting, the Company has state net
operating loss carryforwards aggregating approximately $511.0 million available
to reduce future state income taxes primarily for the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania and the State of Mississippi as of December 31, 2006. Due to
state tax statutes on annual net operating loss utilization limits, the
availability of gaming tax credits, and income and loss projections in the
applicable jurisdictions, a valuation allowance has been recorded to reflect
the net operating losses which are not presently expected to be realized. If
not used, substantially all the carryforwards will expire at various dates from
December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2026.


The $28.5 million valuation allowance represents the
income tax effect of state net operating loss carryforwards of the Company,
which are not presently expected to be utilized. In the event that the
valuation allowance is ultimately unnecessary, $4.7 million would be treated as
an increase to equity, $1.5 million would be treated as a reduction to
goodwill, and the remainder would be treated as a reduction of tax expense.

The
provision for income taxes charged to operations was as follows:

Year ended December 31,




(in thousands)

Current tax expense

Federal

$

108,958

$

73,463

$

32,025

State

33,067

12,184


Foreign


—

—

Total current

142,458

85,647

32,870

Deferred tax expense
  (benefit)

Federal

16,260

(24,566

)

17,423

State

(1,866

)

(6,488

)

(5

)

Total deferred

14,394

(31,054

)

17,418

Total provision

$

156,852

$

54,593

$

50,288

The
following table reconciles the statutory federal income tax rate to the actual
effective income tax rate for 2006, 2005 and 2004:

Year ended December 31,




Percent of pretax income

Federal tax rate

35.0

%

35.0

%

35.0

%

State and local income
  taxes

5.5

%

2.6

%

0.4

%

Permanent differences

1.8

%

0.7

%

1.0

%

Other miscellaneous
  items

0.1

%

0.2

%

0.1

%

42.4

%

38.5

%

36.5

%

12.

Shareholders’
Equity

Stock Split

On February 3, 2005,
the Company announced that its Board of Directors approved a 2-for-1
split of the Company’s common stock. The stock split was in the form of a stock
dividend of one additional share of the Company’s common stock for each share
held. The additional shares were distributed on March 7, 2005 to
shareholders of record on February 14, 2005. As a result of the stock
dividend, the number of outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock
increased to approximately 82.8 million. All references in the consolidated
financial statements to number of shares and net income per share amounts of
the Company’s common stock have been retroactively restated to reflect the
increased number of common stock shares outstanding.


Shareholder Rights
Plan

On May 20, 1998, the Board of Directors of the
Company authorized and declared a dividend distribution of one preferred stock
purchase right (the “Right” or “Rights”) for each outstanding share of the
Company’s common stock, par value $.01 per share, payable to shareholders of
record at the close of business on March 19, 1999. In addition, a Right is
issued for each share of common stock issued after March 19, 1999 and
prior to the Rights’ expiration. Each Right entitles the registered holder to
purchase from the Company one one-hundredth of a share (a “Preferred Stock
Fraction”) of the Company’s Series A Preferred Stock (or another series of
preferred stock with substantially similar terms) , or a combination of
securities and assets of equivalent value, at a purchase price of $10.00 per
Preferred Stock Fraction, subject to adjustment. The description and terms of
the Rights are set forth in a Rights Agreement (the “Rights Agreement”) dated
March 2, 1999 between the Company and Continental Stock Transfer and Trust
Company as Rights Agent.

The Rights are attached to
the shares of the Company’s common stock until they become exercisable.
Generally, the Rights will be exercisable beginning on a specified date after a
person or group acquires 15% or more of the Company’s common stock (the “Stock
Acquisition Date”), commences a tender or exchange offer that will result in
such person or group acquiring 20% or more of the outstanding common stock or a
determination that a beneficial owner’s ownership of a substantial amount of
the Company’s common stock (at least 10%) is intended to pressure the Company
to take action not in the long-term best interests of the Company or may have a
material adverse impact (“Adverse Person”) on the business or prospects of the
Company. The Company will is entitled to redeem the Rights at a price of $.01
per Right (payable in cash or stock) at any time until 10 days following a
Stock Acquisition Date or the date on which a person is determined to be an
Adverse Person. Upon the occurrence of certain events described in the Rights
Agreement, each holder of Rights (other than Rights owned by a shareholder who
has acquired 15% or more of the Company’s outstanding common stock or who is
determined to be an Adverse Person, which Rights become void) will have the
right to receive, upon exercise, Preferred Stock Fractions (or, in certain
circumstances, Company common stock , the acquiring company’s common stock,
cash, property or other securities of the Company) having a market value of
twice the exercise price of each Right. Following any such event, the Company
may permit holders to surrender their Rights in exchange for Preferred Stock
Fractions (or other property or securities, as the case may be) equal to half
the value otherwise purchasable or exchange each Right for one Preferred Share
Fraction. A potential dilutive effect may exist upon the exercise of the
Rights. Until a Right is exercised, the holder will have no rights as a
stockholder of the Company, including, without limitations, the right to vote
as a stockholder or to receive dividends. The Rights are not exercisable until
the distribution date, and will expire at the close of business on March 18,
2009, unless earlier redeemed or exchanged by the Company.

13.

Stock-Based
Compensation

In April 1994, the Company’s Board of Directors
and shareholders adopted and approved the 1994 Stock Option Plan (the “1994
Plan”). The 1994 Plan permitted the grant of options to purchase up to
12,000,000 shares of Common Stock, subject to antidilution adjustments, at a
price per share no less than 100% of the fair market value of the Common Stock
on the date an option is granted with respect to incentive stock options only.
The price would be no less than 110% of fair market value in the case of an
incentive stock option granted to any individual who owns more than 10% of the
total combined voting power of all classes of outstanding stock. The 1994 Plan
provided for the granting of both incentive stock options intended to qualify under
Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and
nonqualified stock options, which do not so qualify. The 1994 Plan terminated
in April 2004, but options granted prior to the 1994 Plan’s termination
remain outstanding.

On April 16, 2003, the Company’s Board of
Directors adopted and approved the 2003 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan
(the “2003 Plan”). On May 22, 2003, the Company’s shareholders approved
the 2003 Plan. The 2003 Plan was effective June 1, 2003 and permits the
grant of options to purchase Common Stock and other market-based and
performance-based awards. Up to 12,000,000 shares of


Common Stock are available
for awards under the 2003 Plan. The 2003 Plan provides for the granting of both
incentive stock options intended to qualify under Section 422 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and nonqualified stock options,
which do not so qualify. The exercise price per share may be no less than (i) 100%
of the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date an option is granted
for incentive stock options and (ii) 85% of the fair market value of the
Common Stock on the date an option is granted for nonqualified stock options.
Unless this plan is extended, no awards shall be granted or exchanges effected
under this plan after May 31, 2013. At December 31, 2006, there were
4,182,600 options available for future grants under the 2003 Plan.

Stock options that expire between February 8,
2007 and January 12, 2016 have been granted to officers, directors and
employees to purchase Common Stock at prices ranging from $2.03 to $41.37 per share.
All options were granted at the fair market value of the Common Stock on the
date the options were granted.

The
following table contains information on stock options issued under the plans
for the three-year period ended December 31, 2006:

Number of

Option Shares

Weighted-Average

Exercise Price

Weighted-Average

Remaining

Contractual

Term (in years)

Aggregate

Intrinsic Value

(in thousands)

Outstanding at
  December 31, 2003

6,858,500

$

6.13

Granted

2,006,000

13.44

Exercised

(1,889,240

)

4.14

Canceled

(34,000

)

7.91

Outstanding at December 31, 2004

6,941,260

$

8.78

5.45

$

149,229

Granted

2,813,000

29.51

Exercised

(1,932,946

)

5.63

Canceled

(87,500

)

9.84

Outstanding at December 31, 2005

7,733,814

$

17.09

5.34

$

122,844

Granted

1,784,400

33.34

Exercised

(1,310,113

)

9.31

Canceled

(97,500

)

22.16

Outstanding at
  December 31, 2006

8,110,601

$

21.87

4.97

$

160,225

Included
in the above are common stock options that were issued in 2003 to the Company’s
Chairman outside of the 1994 Plan and the 2003 Plan. These options were issued
at $7.95 per share, and are exercisable through February 6, 2013. At December 31,
2006 and December 31, 2005, the number of these common stock options that
were outstanding was 23,750 and 95,000, respectively. In addition, the Company
issued 160,000 restricted stock awards in 2004, which fully vest in May 2009,
and issued 280,000 restricted stock awards in 2006, which fully vest by 2011.
The restricted stock grants in 2004 and 2006 were made pursuant to the 2003
Plan. The weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted during the
twelve months ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $14.58, $12.17
and $6.61, respectively.

Exercisable at December 31,

Number of

Option Shares

Weighted-Average

Exercise

Price


2,848,451

$

14.11


2,036,064

8.44


1,946,010

5.74


The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options
exercised during the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004
was $37.4 million, $53.1 million and $24.9 million, respectively.

At December 31, 2006, there were 2,848,451 shares
that were exercisable, with a weighted-average exercise price of $14.11, a
weighted-average remaining contractual term of 3.7 years, and an aggregate
intrinsic value of $78.4 million.

The
following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at December 31,
2006:

Exercise Price Range

Total

$2.03 to

$14.56 to

$30.18 to

$2.03 to

$12.15

$29.22

$41.37

$41.37

Outstanding
  options

Number
  outstanding

3,322,476

2,826,225

1,961,900

8,110,601

Weighted-average
  remaining contractual life (years)

3.54

5.56

6.55

4.97

Weighted-average
  exercise price

$

9.84

$

28.04

$

33.34

$

21.87

Exercisable options

Number outstanding

2,096,976

705,225

46,250

2,848,451

Weighted-average
  exercise price

$

9.21

$

27.40

$

33.43

$

14.11

Compensation costs related to stock-based compensation
for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 totaled $20.6 million
pre-tax ($14.9 million after-tax), or $.17 per diluted share, and are included
in the consolidated statements of income under general and administrative
expenses.

At December 31, 2006,
the total compensation cost related to nonvested awards not yet recognized
equaled $45.2 million, including $38.0 million for stock options and $7.2
million for restricted stock. This cost is expected to be recognized over the
remaining vesting periods, which will not exceed five years.

14.

Segment
Information

In accordance with SFAS No. 131, the Company
views each property as an operating segment. Historically, the Company
aggregated its gaming properties that were economically similar, offered
similar types of products and services, catered to the same types of customers
and were similarly regulated into a reportable segment called gaming, and
aggregated its racing properties that were economically similar, offered
similar products and services, catered to the similar types of customers and
were similarly regulated into a reportable segment called racing.

Beginning in the first
quarter of 2006, the Company modified its segment reporting from two reportable
segments to one reportable segment, as the Company believes that its gaming and
racing properties can now be aggregated together in accordance with SFAS 131,
due to ongoing changes at its racing properties, including the upcoming
introduction of slot machines at Penn National Race Course.


15.

Summarized
Quarterly Data (Unaudited)

Following
is a summary of the quarterly results of operations for the years ended December 31,
2006 and 2005:

Fiscal Quarter

First

Second

Third

Fourth

(in thousands, except per share data)


Net revenues

$

547,802

$

537,773

$

586,111

$

572,861

Income from continuing operations

128,901

121,837

$

128,055

199,048

Net income

41,983

42,695

155,060

87,350

Basic earnings per share

0.50

0.51

1.84

1.03

Diluted earnings per share

0.49

0.49

1.79

1.00


Net revenues(1)

$

281,430

$

296,204

$

286,937

$

504,534

Income from continuing operations

56,299

33,643

$

42,294

111,312

Net income

15,802

12,119

55,401

37,608

Basic earnings per share

0.19

0.15

0.67

0.45

Diluted earnings
  per share

0.19

0.14

0.64

0.44

(1)

Reflects
reclassification for cash redemption coupons to contra-revenue from operating
expense described in Note 3: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Revenue
Recognition and Promotional Allowances in the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In
addition, net revenues are net of promotional allowances.

16.

Related
Party Transactions

Life Insurance
Policies

The Company has paid
premiums on life insurance policies (the “Policies”) on behalf of certain
irrevocable trusts (the “Trusts”) created by the Company’s Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer (“CEO”). The policies cover the Chairman and CEO’s life and
that of his spouse. The Trusts are the owners and beneficiaries of the policies
and are obligated to reimburse the Company for all premiums paid when the
insurance matures or upon death. To secure the Company’s interest in each of
the Policies, the Trusts have executed a collateral assignment of each of the
Policies to the Company. At December 31, 2006, the Company has recorded a
receivable in other assets from such Trusts in the amount of $2.3 million.
The Company paid premiums for these policies totaling $124,406, $238,000 and
$241,000 in 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.

Executive Office
Lease

The Company currently
leases 32,196 square feet of office and warehouse space for buildings in
Wyomissing, Pennsylvania for its executive offices from affiliates of its
Chairman and CEO. Rent expense for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005
and 2004 amounted to $0.6 million, $0.5 million, and $0.4 million,
respectively. The leases for the office space expire in June 2008, March 2012
and May 2012, and the lease for the warehouse space expired in August 2006.
The future minimum lease commitments relating to these leases at December 31,
2006 equaled $3.7 million. The Company also paid $1.3 million and $0.4 million
in construction costs to these same affiliates for the years ended December 31,
2006 and 2005, respectively.


17.

Subsidiary
Guarantors

Under the terms of the $2.725 billion senior
secured credit facility, all of the Company’s subsidiaries are guarantors under
the agreement, with the exception of several minor subsidiaries with total
assets of $18.7 million (approximately .4% of total assets at December 31,
2006). Each of the subsidiary guarantors are 100% owned by Penn. In addition,
the guarantees provided by the Company’s subsidiaries under the terms of the
$2.725 billion senior secured credit facility are full and unconditional, joint
and several, and Penn has no significant independent assets and no independent
operations at, and for the twelve months ended, December 31, 2006. There
are no significant restrictions within the $2.725 billion senior secured
credit facility on the Company’s ability to obtain funds from its subsidiaries
by dividend or loan. However, in certain jurisdictions, the gaming authorities
may impose restrictions pursuant to the authority granted to them with
regard to the Company’s ability to obtain funds from its subsidiaries.

With regard to the $2.725 billion senior secured
credit facility, the Company has not presented condensed consolidating balance
sheets, condensed consolidating statements of income and condensed
consolidating statements of cash flows at, and for the years ended, December 31,
2006, 2005, and 2004, as Penn had no significant independent assets and no
independent operations at, and for the year ended, December 31, 2006, the
guarantees are full and unconditional and joint and several, and any
subsidiaries of the parent company other than the subsidiary guarantors are
considered minor.

Under the terms of the $200 million 6


¤


%
senior subordinated notes, most of the Company’s subsidiaries are guarantors.
Each of the subsidiary guarantors are 100% owned by Penn. In addition, the
guarantees provided by the Company’s subsidiaries under the terms of the
$200 million 6


¤


%
senior subordinated notes are full and unconditional, joint and several, and
Penn had no significant independent assets and no independent operations at,
and for the year ended December 31, 2006. There are no significant
restrictions within the $200 million 6


¤


% senior
subordinated notes on the Company’s ability to obtain funds from its
subsidiaries by dividend or loan. However, in certain jurisdictions, the gaming
authorities may impose restrictions pursuant to the authority granted to
them with regard to the Company’s ability to obtain funds from its
subsidiaries.

Summarized financial information, excluding the
segregation of discontinued operations, at, and for the years ended,
December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004 for Penn, the subsidiary guarantors of
the 6


¤


%
senior subordinated notes and subsidiary non-guarantors is presented below. For
purposes of comparability, certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to
conform to the current year presentation.


Penn

Subsidiary

Guarantors

Subsidiary

Non-Guarantors

Eliminations

Consolidated

(in thousands)

As of December 31, 2006

Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet

Current assets

$

43,405

$

347,973

$

15,801

$

(5,216

)

$

401,963

Net property and
  equipment, at cost

1,942

1,363,929

—

—

1,365,871

Other assets

3,662,364

2,572,449

(5,194

)

(3,483,371

)

2,746,248

Total

$

3,707,711

$

4,284,351

$

10,607

$

(3,488,587

)

$

4,514,082

Current
  liabilities

$

23,537

$

386,119

$

6,810

$

(795

)

$

415,671

Long-term
  liabilities

2,763,011

3,427,676

—

(3,013,439

)

3,177,248

Shareholders’
  equity

921,163

470,556

3,797

(474,353

)

921,163

Total

$

3,707,711

$

4,284,351

$

10,607

$

(3,488,587

)

$

4,514,082

Year Ended December 31, 2006

Condensed Consolidating Statement of Income

Total revenues

$

—

$

2,226,606

$

18,146

$

(205

)

$

2,244,547

Total operating
  expenses

73,320

1,575,953

17,638

(205

)

1,666,706

(Loss) income from
  operations

(73,320

)

650,653


—

577,841

Other (expense)
  income

(44,851

)

35,931

(45

)

—

(8,965

)

(Loss) income
  before income taxes

(118,171

)

686,584


—

568,876

Taxes on income

(66,994

)

308,349


—

241,788

Net (loss) income

$

(51,177

)

$

378,235

$


$

—

$

327,088

Year Ended December 31, 2006

Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows

Net cash (used in)
  provided by operating activities

$

(52,679

)

$

334,846

$

(358

)

$

—

$

281,809

Net cash used in
  investing activities

(2,407

)

(299,934

)

—

—

(302,341

)

Net cash provided
  by (used in) financing activities

57,814

(1,387

)

—

—

56,427

Net increase
  (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

2,728

33,525

(358

)

—

35,895

Cash and cash
  equivalents at beginning of year

(1,841

)

133,863


—

132,620

Cash and cash
  equivalents at end of year

$


$

167,388

$


$

—

$

168,515

As of December 31, 2005

Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet

Current assets

$

3,125

$

273,840

$

17,622

$

11,788

$

306,375

Net property and
  equipment, at cost

14,739

1,079,537

—

—

1,094,276

Other assets

3,171,884

3,145,822

(4,575

)

(3,523,378

)

2,789,753

Total

$

3,189,748

$

4,499,199

$

13,047

$

(3,511,590

)

$

4,190,404

Current
  liabilities

$

61,537

$

270,307

$

9,376

$


$

341,309

Long-term
  liabilities

2,757,359

3,831,787

—

(3,286,594

)

3,302,552

Shareholders’
  equity

370,852

397,105

3,671

(225,085

)

546,543

Total

$

3,189,748

$

4,499,199

$

13,047

$

(3,511,590

)

$

4,190,404

Year Ended December 31, 2005

Condensed Consolidating Statement of Income

Total revenues

$

—

$

1,362,680

$

86,123

$

(436

)

$

1,448,367

Total operating
  expenses

30,796

1,086,515

82,750

(436

)

1,199,625

(Loss) income from
  operations

(30,796

)

276,165

3,373

—

248,742

Other (expense)
  income

(13,908

)

(91,676

)

50,892

—

(54,692

)

(Loss) income
  before income taxes

(44,704

)

184,489

54,265

—

194,050

Taxes on income

15,151

57,682


—

73,120

Net (loss) income

$

(59,855

)

$

126,807

$

53,978

$

—

$

120,930

Year Ended December 31, 2005

Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows

Net cash provided
  by (used in) operating activities

$

457,707

$

(279,648

)

$

(27,584

)

$

—

$

150,475

Net cash (used in)
  provided by investing activities

(2,337,553

)

358,753

—

—

(1,978,800

)

Net cash provided
  by (used in) financing activities

1,874,974

(1,753

)

—

—

1,873,221

Effect of exchange
  rate fluctuations on cash

—


(111

)

—


Net (decrease)
  increase in cash and cash equivalents

(4,872

)

77,567

(27,695

)

—

45,000

Cash and cash
  equivalents at beginning of year

3,031

56,296

28,293

—

87,620

Cash and cash
  equivalents at end of year

$

(1,841

)

$

133,863

$


$

—

$

132,620


Penn

Subsidiary

Guarantors

Subsidiary

Non-Guarantors

Eliminations

Consolidated

(in thousands)

As of December 31, 2004

Condensed Consolidating Balance
  Sheet

Current assets

$

16,291

$

139,790

$

46,840

$

5,046

$

207,967

Net property and equipment, at cost

11,849

619,920

102,564

—

734,333

Other assets

1,180,719

640,177

(6,213

)

(1,124,282

)

690,401

Total

$

1,208,859

$

1,399,887

$

143,191

$

(1,119,236

)

$

1,632,701

Current liabilities

$

74,313

$

72,238

$

191,067

$

(4,280

)

$

333,338

Long-term liabilities

853,855

1,128,933


(1,082,026

)

901,271

Shareholders’ equity

280,691

198,716

(48,385

)

(32,930

)

398,092

Total

$

1,208,859

$

1,399,887

$

143,191

$

(1,119,236

)

$

1,632,701

Year
  Ended December 31, 2004

Condensed Consolidating
  Statement of Income

Total revenues

$

—

$

1,128,439

$

150,427

$

(1,543

)

$

1,277,323

Total operating expenses

23,865

887,593

151,078

(1,543

)

1,060,993

(Loss) income from operations

(23,865

)

240,846

(651

)

—

216,330

Other income (expense)

37,698

(113,635

)

(27,073

)

(8

)

(103,018

)

Income (loss) before income taxes

13,833

127,211

(27,724

)

(8

)

113,312

Taxes on income

(4,094

)

45,765


—

41,828

Net income (loss)

$

17,927

$

81,446

$

(27,881

)

$

(8

)

$

71,484

Year
  Ended December 31, 2004

Condensed Consolidating
  Statement of Cash Flows

Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities

$

127,599

$

70,746

$

(1,181

)

$

—

$

197,164

Net cash used in investing activities

(13,397

)

(52,235

)

(1,482

)

—

(67,114

)

Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities

(122,383

)

(5,883

)

4,089

—

(124,177

)

Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash

—


(72

)

—


Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents

(8,181

)

12,880

1,354

—

6,053

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

11,212

43,417

26,938

—

81,567

Cash and cash
  equivalents at end of year

$

3,031

$

56,297

$

28,292

$

—

$

87,620

18.

Discontinued
Operations—Disposition of Hollywood Casino Shreveport

On August 27, 2004,
the Company’s unrestricted subsidiary, Hollywood Casino Shreveport (“HCS”), in
cooperation with an Ad Hoc Committee representing a majority of its
noteholders, entered into an agreement with Eldorado Resorts LLC (“Eldorado”)
providing for the acquisition of HCS by certain affiliates of Eldorado. On
September 10, 2004, a group of HCS’s creditors, led by Black Diamond
Capital Management, LLC, filed with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Western District
of Louisiana (“U.S. Bankruptcy Court”), located in Shreveport, Louisiana, an
involuntary petition against HCS for relief under Chapter 11 of the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code. On October 30, 2004, HCS agreed to the entry of an order
for relief in the Chapter 11 case that had been filed against it, and HCS
I, Inc., HCS II, Inc., HWCC-Louisiana, Inc. and Shreveport
Capital Corporation commenced voluntary cases under Chapter 11 of the
Bankruptcy Code. HCS’s debt was non-recourse to the Company and its other
subsidiaries.

On July 6, 2005, the
U.S. Bankruptcy Court entered an order confirming a Chapter 11 plan that
provided for the acquisition of HCS by certain affiliates of Eldorado and, on
July 22, 2005, the acquisition was completed. As a result, the Company
recorded a non-cash pre-tax gain of approximately $58.3 million, representing
the aggregate amount of previously-recorded losses. The after-tax effect of the
gain was approximately $37.9 million.


The Company has
historically reflected the results of this transaction by classifying the
assets, liabilities and results of operations of HCS as assets and liabilities
held for sale and discontinued operations in accordance with the provisions of
SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets” (“SFAS 144”). The Company held no HCS assets or liabilities at December 31,
2006 and 2005. Summarized financial information at December 31, 2006, 2005
and 2004 for HCS is as follows:

HWCC-Louisiana, Inc.
and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statements Of Operations

(in thousands)

Year ended December 31,




Net revenues

$

—

$

67,527

$

134,150

Income (loss) from
  continuing operations

—

2,884

(1,239

)

Net loss

—

(5,474

)

(18,261

)

19.

Discontinued
Operations—Sale of The Downs Racing, Inc. and Subsidiaries

On October 15, 2004,
the Company announced the sale of The Downs Racing, Inc. and its
subsidiaries to the MTGA. Under the terms of the agreement, MTGA acquired The
Downs Racing, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including Pocono Downs (a
standardbred horse racing facility located on 400 acres in Wilkes-Barre,
Pennsylvania) and five Pennsylvania off-track wagering facilities located in
Carbondale, East Stroudsburg, Erie, Hazelton and the Lehigh Valley (Allentown).
The sale agreement also provided the MTGA with certain post-closing termination
rights in the event of certain materially adverse legislative or regulatory
events.

In January 2005, the
Company received $280 million from the MTGA, and transferred the
operations of The Downs Racing, Inc. and its subsidiaries to the MTGA.
Reflecting taxes, post closing adjustments, fees and other expenses, the
Company realized net proceeds of approximately $175 million, which, in
accordance with the Company’s credit agreement, were used to retire debt or to
reinvest in capital expenditures. The Company recorded the net proceeds, after
paying down approximately $60 million of the senior credit facility, as
restricted cash. The Company applied the remaining balance of the restricted
cash, of approximately $97.0 million, to senior debt reduction in April 2005.

The sale was not considered final for accounting
purposes until the third quarter of 2006, as the MTGA had certain post-closing
termination rights that remained outstanding. On August 7, 2006, the Company entered into the Amendment and
Release with the MTGA pertaining to the October 14, 2004 Purchase
Agreement, and agreed to pay the MTGA an aggregate of $30 million over five years,
beginning on the first anniversary of the commencement of slot operations at
Mohegan Sun at Pocono Downs, in exchange for the MTGA’s agreement to release
various claims it raised against the Company under the Purchase Agreement and
the MTGA’s surrender of all post-closing termination rights it might have had
under the Purchase Agreement. As a result of the Amendment and Release, the
Company recorded, in accordance with GAAP, a net book gain on the $250 million
sale ($280 million initial price, less $30 million payable pursuant to the
Amendment and Release) of The Downs Racing, Inc. and its subsidiaries to
the MTGA of $114.0 million (net of $84.9 million of income taxes) during the
year ended December 31, 2006. In addition, the Company recorded the $24.6
million present value of the $30 million liability within debt, as the amount
due to the MTGA is payable over five years, with the first payment date
to occur in late 2007.

At December 31, 2005, the Company reflected the
results of this transaction by classifying the assets, liabilities and results
of operations of The Downs Racing, Inc. and its subsidiaries as restricted
assets and liabilities held for sale and discontinued operations in accordance
with the provisions of SFAS 144.


Summarized
financial information at December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 for The Downs
Racing, Inc. and its subsidiaries is as follows:

The
Downs Racing, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Balance Sheets

(in thousands)

December 31,



Assets

Current assets

$

—

$


Property and equipment,
  net

—

34,385

Other assets

—

16,565

Total restricted assets
  for sale

$

—

$

50,983

Liabilities

Current liabilities

$

—

$

—

Other noncurrent
  liabilities

—

—

Total restricted liabilities for sale

$

—

$

—

The
Downs Racing, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statements Of Operations

(in thousands)

Year ended December 31,




Net revenues

$

—

$

1,813

$

37,881

(Loss) income
  from continuing operations

—

(86

)

3,789

Net (loss) income

—

(38

)

2,405

20.

Discontinued
Operations—Sale of Argosy Casino Baton Rouge

On October 25, 2005,
pursuant to the previously-announced Securities Purchase Agreement among
Argosy, Wimar Tahoe Corporation and CP Baton Rouge Casino, L.L.C., an affiliate
of Columbia Sussex Corporation, the Company completed its sale of Argosy Casino
Baton Rouge to Columbia Sussex Corporation for approximately $148.6 million. The
Company owned Argosy Casino Baton Rouge for twenty-four days prior to the sale.
The Company did not record a gain or loss on sale of the property, as the sale
price on date of disposition equaled the estimated fair value of the assets and
liabilities acquired, but assigned a purchase price equal to $148.6 million.

Net revenues, income from continuing
operations and net income for Argosy Casino Baton Rouge for the year ended December 31,
2005 equaled $9.9 million, $2.5 million and $1.4 million, respectively.


ITEM
9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
DISCLOSURE

On June 12, 2006, the
Audit Committee of our Board of Directors (the “Audit Committee”) dismissed BDO
Seidman, LLP (“BDO”) as our independent registered public accounting firm, and
engaged Ernst & Young LLP (“EY”) as our new independent registered public
accounting firm.  The decision to engage
EY was made by the Audit Committee in light of the relative strength of EY’s
experience with gaming companies.

The report of BDO on our
consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005
and 2004 did not contain an adverse opinion or a disclaimer of opinion, nor was
such report qualified or modified as to uncertainty, audit scope or accounting
principles.  BDO’s report, dated March 7,
2006, on our consolidated financial statements expressed an unqualified
opinion.  The report of BDO on
management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2005 contained no adverse opinion or disclaimer of
opinion.

During our fiscal years ended December 31, 2005 and
2004, and through June 12, 2006, we did not have any disagreements with BDO on
any matter of accounting principles or practices, financial statement
disclosure, or auditing scope or procedure, which disagreements, if not
resolved to the satisfaction of BDO, would have caused it to make reference to
the subject matter of the disagreements in connection with its report.

During our fiscal years ended December 31, 2005 and
2004 and through June 12, 2006, there were no “reportable events”, as defined
in Item 304(a)(1)(v) of Regulation S-K adopted by the Securities and Exchange
Commission.

As required by Item 4.01 of the current report on Form
8-K, we included the above disclosure in a Form 8-K we filed on June 16,
2006.  We provided BDO with a copy of the
disclosure in advance of filing the Form 8-K and requested that BDO furnish us
with a letter addressed to the Securities and Exchange Commission stating
whether it agrees with the statements made by us and, if not, stating the
respects in which it did not agree.  A
copy of the letter, dated June 14, 2006, furnished by BDO in response to that
request is included as Exhibit 16.1 to this 10-K.

During our fiscal years
ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 and through June 12, 2006, neither we nor
anyone acting on our behalf consulted with EY regarding any of the matters
specified in Item 304(a)(2) of Regulation S-K.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS
AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation of
Disclosure Controls and Procedures

We have established disclosure controls and procedures
to ensure that the information required to be disclosed by us in the reports
that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
summarized, evaluated and reported, as applicable, within the time periods
specified in the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange
Commission.

In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls
and procedures, management recognized that any controls and procedures, no
matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of
achieving the desired control objectives, and management necessarily was
required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of
possible controls and procedures.

Based upon the evaluation
of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures by the Company’s
management, under the supervision and with the participation of our principal
executive officer and principal financial officer, as of December 31,
2006, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer have
concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) are
effective to ensure that the information required to be disclosed by us in the
reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
summarized,


evaluated
and reported, as applicable, within the time periods specified in the
rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Management’s Annual
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Our management is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f).
There are inherent limitations in the effectiveness of any internal controls
over financial reporting, including the possibility of human error and the
circumvention or overriding of controls. Accordingly, even effective internal
controls over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with
respect to financial statement preparation. Our internal control system was
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Under the supervision
and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive
officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the
framework in

Internal Control—Integrated
Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission. Based on our evaluation under the framework in

Internal Control—Integrated Framework,

our
management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was
effective as of December 31, 2006 to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. Our management’s assessment of the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2006 has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP,
independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which
is included below.

Changes in Internal
Controls Over Financial Reporting

There were no significant
changes in the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting that
occurred during the last fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are
reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal controls over
financial reporting.


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT
REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Board of Directors

Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries

We have audited management’s assessment, included in
Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, that
Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries maintained effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on
criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO
criteria). Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries’ management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s
assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal
control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating
management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating
effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting
is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the
company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control
over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to
the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.

In our opinion, management’s assessment that Penn
National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries maintained effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, is fairly
stated, in all material respects, based on the COSO criteria. Also, in our
opinion, Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries maintained, in all
material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2006, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States), the 2006 consolidated financial statements of Penn National
Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries and our report dated February 23, 2007
expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young
  LLP

Philadelphia,
  Pennsylvania

February 23, 2007


ITEM 9B. OTHER
INFORMATION

None

PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS
AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information required
by this item concerning directors is hereby incorporated by reference to the
Company’s definitive proxy statement for its 2007 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders (the “2007 Proxy Statement”), to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission within 120 days after December 31, 2006 pursuant
to Regulation 14A under the Securities Act. Information required by this
item concerning executive officers is included in Part I of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION

The information called for
in this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the 2007 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL
OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDERS MATTERS

The information called for
in this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the 2007 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN
RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information called for
in this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the 2007 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL
ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

The information required by this item is incorporated
herein by reference to the 2007 Proxy Statement.


PART IV

ITEM
15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

(a) 1 and 2.

Financial Statements and Financial Statement
  Schedules. The following is a list of the Consolidated Financial Statements
  of the Company and its subsidiaries and supplementary data filed as part of
  Item 8 hereof:

Reports of Independent
  Registered Public Accounting Firms

Consolidated Balance
  Sheets as of December 31, 2006 and 2005

Consolidated Statements
  of Income for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

Consolidated Statements
  of Shareholders’ Equity for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and

Consolidated Statements
  of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

All other schedules are
  omitted because they are not applicable, or not required, or because the
  required information is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or
  notes thereto.

3.   Exhibits,
  Including Those Incorporated by Reference.

The exhibits to this
  Report are listed on the accompanying index to exhibits and are incorporated
  herein by reference or are filed as part of this annual report on
  Form 10-K.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

PENN NATIONAL GAMING, INC.

By:

/s/
  PETER M. CARLINO

Peter M. Carlino

Chairman of the Board and

Chief Executive Officer

Dated:  March 1,

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in
the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signature

Title

Date

/s/ PETER M. CARLINO

Chairman of the Board, Chief

March 1, 2007

Peter
  M. Carlino

Executive Officer
  and Director

(Principal Executive Officer)

/s/ WILLIAM J. CLIFFORD

Senior Vice
  President Finance and Chief

William
  J. Clifford

Financial Officer
  (Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer)

March 1,

/s/ HAROLD CRAMER

Harold
  Cramer

Director

March 1,

/s/ DAVID A. HANDLER

David
  A. Handler

Director

March 1,

/s/ JOHN M. JACQUEMIN

John
  M. Jacquemin

Director

March 1,

/s/ ROBERT P. LEVY

Robert
  P. Levy

Director

March 1,

/s/ BARBARA Z. SHATTUCK

Barbara Z.
  Shattuck

Director

March 1,


EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit

Description
   of Exhibit

2.1

Agreement and Plan of
  Merger, dated as of August 7, 2002, by and among Hollywood Casino
  Corporation, Penn National Gaming, Inc. and P Acquisition Corp.
  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Company’s current
  report on Form 8-K, dated August 7, 2002).

2.2

Purchase
  Agreement by and among PNGI Pocono Corp., PNGI, LLC, and the Mohegan Tribal
  Gaming Authority, dated October 14, 2004. (Incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 2.1 to the Company’s current report on Form 8-K,
  filed October 20, 2004).

2.2(a)

Amendment
  No. 1 to Purchase Agreement, dated as of January 7, 2005, by and
  among PNGI Pocono Corp., PNGI, LLC, and The Mohegan Tribal Gaming Authority.
  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Company’s quarterly
  report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006).

2.2(b)

Second Amendment
  to Purchase Agreement and Release of Claims, dated as of August 7, 2006,
  between PNGI Pocono Inc. and The Mohegan Tribal Gaming Authority, and joined
  in by Penn National Gaming, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 2.2 to the Company’s quarterly report on Form 10-Q
  for the quarter ended June 30, 2006).

2.3

Agreement and
  Plan of Merger, dated as of November 3, 2004, among Penn National
  Gaming, Inc., Argosy Gaming Company and Thoroughbred Acquisition Corp.
  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Company’s current
  report on Form 8-K, filed November 5, 2004).

2.4

Agreement to
  Execute Securities Purchase Agreement, dated June 20, 2005, among Penn
  National Gaming, Inc., CP Baton Rouge Casino, L.L.C. and Columbia Sussex
  Corporation. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s
  current report on Form 8-K, filed June 22, 2005).

2.4(a)

Letter agreement,
  dated October 3, 2005, among Penn National Gaming, Inc., CP Baton
  Rouge Casino, L.L.C., Columbia Sussex Corporation and Wimar Tahoe Corporation
  amending Agreement to Execute Securities Purchase Agreement. (Incorporated by
  reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s current report on Form 8-K,
  filed October 4, 2005).

2.5

Securities
  Purchase Agreement, dated October 3, 2005, among Argosy Gaming Company,
  Wimar Tahoe Corporation and CP Baton Rouge Casino, L.L.C. (Incorporated by
  reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s current report on Form 8-K,
  filed October 4, 2005).

2.6

Asset Purchase
  Agreement, dated as of November 7, 2006, by and among Zia Partners, LLC,
  Zia Park, LLC and (solely with respect to Section 2.6 and Articles VI
  and XII thereof) Penn National Gaming, Inc. (Incorporated by reference
  to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s current report on Form 8-K,
  filed November 9, 2006).

3.1

Amended and
  Restated Articles of Incorporation of Penn National Gaming, Inc., filed
  with the Pennsylvania Department of State on October 15, 1996.
  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s registration
  statement on Form S-3, File #333-63780, dated
  June 25, 2001).

3.2

Articles of
  Amendment to the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Penn
  National Gaming, Inc., filed with the Pennsylvania Department of State
  on November 13, 1996. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to
  the Company’s registration statement on Form S-3, File #333-63780,
  dated June 25, 2001).

3.3

Statement with
  respect to shares of Series A Preferred Stock of Penn National
  Gaming, Inc., filed with the Pennsylvania Department of State on
  March 16, 1999. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to the
  Company’s registration statement on Form S-3, File #333-63780,
  dated June 25, 2001).

3.4

Articles of Amendment to
  the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Penn National
  Gaming, Inc., filed with the Pennsylvania Department of State on
  July 23, 2001. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.4 to the
  Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
  December 31, 2001).

3.5

Second Amended
  and Restated Bylaws of Penn National Gaming, Inc. (Incorporated by
  reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s quarterly report on
  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004).

4.1

Specimen copy of
  Common Stock Certificate (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.6 to
  the Company’s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
  June 30, 2003).

4.2

Rights Agreement
  dated as of March 2, 1999, between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and
  Continental Stock Transfer and Trust Company. (Incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 1 to the Company’s current report on Form 8-K, dated
  March 17, 1999).

4.3

Indenture dated
  as of February 28, 2002 by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc., certain
  guarantors and State Street Bank and Trust Company relating to the 8


¤


%
  Senior Subordinated Notes due 2010. (Incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s post-effective amendment to its
  registration statement on Form S-3, File #333-63780,
  dated February 26, 2002).

4.4

Form of Penn
  National Gaming, Inc. 8


¤


%
  Senior Subordinated Note due 2010. (Included as Exhibit A to
  Exhibit 4.3).

4.5

Form of
  Supplemental Indenture to be Delivered by Subsequent Guarantors by and among
  Penn National Gaming, Inc., certain guarantors and State Street Bank and
  Trust Company relating to the 8


¤


%
  Senior Subordinated Notes due 2010. (Included as Exhibit F to
  Exhibit 4.3).

4.6

Supplemental
  Indenture dated as of December 20, 2002 by and among Penn National
  Gaming, Inc., certain guarantors and State Street Bank and Trust Company
  relating to the 8


¤


%
  Senior Subordinated Notes due 2010. (Incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 4.10 to the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for
  the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002).

4.7

Indenture dated
  as of December 4, 2003 by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc.,
  certain guarantors and U.S. Bank National Association relating to the 6


¤


%
  Senior Subordinated Notes due 2011 (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.12
  to the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
  ended December 31, 2003).

4.8

Form of Penn
  National Gaming, Inc. 6


¤


%
  Senior Subordinated Note due 2011. (Included as Exhibit A to
  Exhibit 4.7).

4.9

Form of
  Supplemental Indenture to be Delivered by Subsequent Guarantors by and among
  Penn National Gaming, Inc., certain guarantors and U.S. Bank National
  Association relating to the 6


¤


%
  Senior Subordinated Notes due 2011. (Included as Exhibit F to
  Exhibit 4.7).

4.10

Indenture dated
  as of March 9, 2005 by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc. and
  Wells Fargo Bank, National Association relating to the 6


¤


%
  Senior Subordinated Notes due 2015. (Incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s current report on Form 8-K,
  filed March 15, 2005).

4.10(a)

First
  Supplemental Indenture dated as of July 5, 2005 between Penn National
  Gaming, Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association relating to the


¤


%
  Senior Subordinated Notes due 2015. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit
  10.37 to the Company’s registration statement on Form S-4, filed
  July 7, 2005 (File #333-125274)).

4.11

Form of Penn
  National Gaming, Inc. 6


¤


%
  Senior Subordinated Note due 2015. (Included as Exhibit A to
  Exhibit 4.10).

9.1

Form of Trust
  Agreement of Peter D. Carlino, Peter M. Carlino, Richard J. Carlino, David E.
  Carlino, Susan F. Harrington, Anne de Lourdes Irwin, Robert M. Carlino,
  Stephen P. Carlino and Rosina E. Carlino Gilbert. (Incorporated by reference
  to the Company’s registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758,
  dated May 26, 1994).

10.1#

Penn National
  Gaming, Inc. 1994 Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by reference to the
  Company’s registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758,
  dated May 26, 1994).

10.2#

Penn National
  Gaming, Inc. 2003 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan. (Incorporated
  by reference to Appendix A of the Company’s Proxy Statement dated
  April 22, 2003 filed pursuant to Section 14(a) of the
  Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended).

10.2(a)#

Form of Non-Qualified
  Stock Option Certificate for the Penn National Gaming, Inc. 2003 Long
  Term Incentive Compensation Plan. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit
  10.2(a) to the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the
  fiscal year ended December 31, 2005).

10.2(b)#

Form of
  Incentive Stock Option Certificate for the Penn National Gaming, Inc.
  2003 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan. (Incorporated by reference to
  exhibit 10.2(b) to the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K
  for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005).

10.2(c)#

Form of
  Restricted Stock Award for the Penn National Gaming, Inc. 2003 Long Term
  Incentive Compensation Plan. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit
  10.2(c) to the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the
  fiscal year ended December 31, 2005).

10.3#

Employment
  Agreement dated May 26, 2004 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and
  Peter M. Carlino. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1
  to the Company’s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
  ended June 30, 2004).

10.4#

Employment
  Agreement dated June 10, 2005 between Penn National Gaming, Inc.
  and William Clifford. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 the
  Company’s current report on Form 8-K, filed on June 16,
  2005).

10.5#

Employment
  Agreement dated June 10, 2005 between Penn National Gaming, Inc.
  and Jordan B. Savitch. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2
  to the Company’s current report on Form 8-K, filed on
  June 16, 2005).

10.6#

Employment
  Agreement dated July 31, 2006 between Penn National Gaming, Inc.
  and Leonard DeAngelo. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
  Company’s current report on Form 8-K, filed on August 2,
  2006).

10.7#

Separation
  Agreement and General Release dated October 3, 2006, between Kevin
  DeSanctis and Penn National Gaming, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s current report on Form 8-K,
  dated October 6, 2006).

10.8

Consulting
  Agreement dated August 29, 1994, between Penn National Gaming, Inc.
  and Peter D. Carlino. (Incorporated by reference to the Company’s
  annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
  December 31, 1994).

10.9

Amended and
  Restated Lease dated April 5, 2005 between Wyomissing Professional
  Center III, LP and Penn National Gaming, Inc. for portion of the
  Wyomissing Corporate Office. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1
  to the Company’s current report on Form 8-K, filed on
  April 8, 2005).

10.10

Lease dated
  January 25, 2002 between Wyomissing Professional Center II, LP and Penn
  National Gaming, Inc. for portion of the Wyomissing Corporate Office.
  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to the Company’s annual
  report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
  2004).

10.10(a)

Commencement
  Agreement, dated May 21, 2002, in connection with Lease dated
  January 25, 2002 Wyomissing Professional Center II, LP and Penn National
  Gaming, Inc. for portion of the Wyomissing Corporate Office.
  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12(a) to the Company’s
  annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
  December 31, 2004).

10.10(b)

First Lease Amendment,
  dated December 4, 2002, to Lease dated January 25, 2002 Wyomissing
  Professional Center II, LP and Penn National Gaming, Inc. for portion of
  the Wyomissing Corporate Office. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12(b) to
  the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
  December 31, 2004).

10.11

Lease dated
  April 5, 2005 between Wyomissing Professional Center, Inc. and Penn
  National Gaming, Inc. for portion of the Wyomissing Corporate Office.
  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s current
  report on Form 8-K filed on April 8, 2005).

10.12

Letter Agreement
  for the Construction of Certain Improvements, dated April 5, 2005, in
  connection with the Wyomissing Corporate Office. (Incorporated by reference
  to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s current report on Form 8-K,
  filed on April 8, 2005).

10.13

Lease dated
  August 22, 2003 between The Corporate Campus at Spring Ridge 1250, L.P.
  and Penn National Gaming, Inc. for portion of the Wyomissing Corporate
  Office. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to the Company’s
  annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
  December 31, 2004).

10.14

Agreement dated
  April 7, 2006 by and between PNGI Charles Town Gaming Limited Liability
  Company and the West Virginia Union of Mutuel Clerks, Local 553, Service
  Employees International Union, AFL-CIO

.
  (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s current report on
  Form 8-K, filed on April 24, 2006).

10.15

Agreement dated
  December 21, 2004 between PNGI Charles Town Gaming, LLC and Charles Town
  H.B.P.A., Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to the
  Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
  December 31, 2004).

10.16

Credit Agreement,
  dated October 3, 2005 by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc., the
  subsidiary guarantors party thereto, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Goldman
  Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and Lehman Brothers Inc., as Joint Lead Arrangers
  and Joint Bookrunners, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and Lehman
  Commercial Paper Inc., as Co-Syndication Agents, Deutsche Bank Trust
  Company Americas, as Swingline Lender, Administrative Agent and as Collateral
  Agent, and Calyon New York Branch, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and
  Bank of Scotland, as Co-Documentation Agents, and the lenders party
  thereto. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s
  current report on Form 8-K, filed October 4, 2005).

10.16(a)

Amendment, dated
  September 18, 2006, to the Credit Agreement by and among Penn National
  Gaming, Inc., the subsidiary guarantors party thereto, Deutsche Bank
  Securities Inc., Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and Lehman Brothers Inc.,
  as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners
  L.P. and Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., as Co-Syndication Agents, Deutsche
  Bank Trust Company Americas, as Swingline Lender, Administrative Agent and as
  Collateral Agent, and Calyon New York Branch, Wells Fargo Bank, National
  Association and Bank of Scotland, as Co-Documentation Agents, and the lenders
  party thereto. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
  Company’s current report on Form 8-K, filed on September 21,
  2006).

10.17

Ground Lease
  dated as of October 11, 1993 between R.M. Leatherman and Hugh M.
  Mageveney, III, as Landlord, and SRCT, as Tenant. (Incorporated by
  reference to Exhibit 10.4 of HWCC-Tunica, Inc.’s registration
  statement on Form S-1, File #33-82182, dated
  August 1, 1994).

10.18

Letter Agreement
  dated as of October 11, 1993 between R.M. Leatherman and Hugh M.
  Mageveney, III, as Landlord, and SRCT, as Tenant (relating to Ground
  Lease). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of HWCC-Tunica, Inc.’s
  registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-82182,
  dated August 1, 1994).

10.19

Assignment of Lease
  and Assumption Agreement dated as of May 31, 1994 between SRCT and STP
  (relating to Ground Lease). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7
  of HWCC-Tunica, Inc.’s registration statement on Form S-1,
  File #33-82182, dated August 1, 1994).

10.20#

Penn National
  Gaming, Inc. Nonqualified Stock Option granted to Peter M. Carlino,
  dated February 6, 2003. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.26
  to the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
  ended December 31, 2003).

10.21

Ground Lease,
  dated October 19, 1993, between Raphael Skrmetta as Landlord and
  Mississippi — I Gaming, L.P. as Tenant. (Incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10.33 of Pinnacle Entertainment, Inc.’s quarterly report on
  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997, File #000-10619).

10.21(a)

First Amendment
  to Ground Lease dated October 19, 1993, between Raphael Skrmetta and
  Mississippi — I Gaming, L.P. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.34
  of Pinnacle Entertainment, Inc.’s quarterly report on Form 10-Q
  for the quarter ended June 30, 1997, File #000-10619).

10.21(b)

Second Amendment
  to Ground Lease dated October 19, 1993, between Raphael Skrmetta and
  Mississippi — I Gaming, L.P. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.35
  of Pinnacle Entertainment, Inc.’s quarterly report on Form 10-Q
  for the quarter ended June 30, 1997, File #000-10619).

10.22

Penn-Argosy
  Merger Approval Agreement between the Illinois Gaming Board and Penn National
  Gaming, Inc., effective September 29, 2005. (Incorporated by
  reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s quarterly report on
  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005).

10.22(a)

First Amendment
  to the September 29, 2005 Penn-Argosy Merger Approval Agreement, dated
  April 25, 2006, between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and the Illinois
  Gaming Board. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
  Company’s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
  March 31, 2006).

10.23

Riverboat Gaming
  Development Agreement between the City of Lawrenceburg, Indiana and Indiana
  Gaming Company, L.P. dated as of April 13, 1994, as amended by Amendment
  Number One to Riverboat Development Agreement between the City of
  Lawrenceburg, Indiana and Indiana Gaming Company L.P., dated as of
  December 28, 1995 (Incorporated by reference to Argosy Gaming Company’s
  annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
  December 31, 1995 (File #00-21122)).

10.23(a)

Second Amendment
  to Riverboat Gaming Development Agreement Between City of Lawrenceburg,
  Indiana, and the Indiana Gaming Company, L.P. dated August 20, 1996.
  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.23(a) to the Company’s
  annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
  December 31, 2005).

10.23(b)

Third Amendment
  to Riverboat Gaming Development Agreement Between City of Lawrenceburg,
  Indiana, and the Indiana Gaming Company, L.P. dated June 24, 2004.
  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of Argosy Gaming Company’s
  quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
  September 30, 2004 (File No. 1-11853)).

10.24*

Claim Settlement Agreement
  among Penn National Gaming, Inc. and the insurance providers severally
  underwriting share of the Company’s all-risk property insurance program,
  completed January 22, 2007.

10.25#

Non-Employee
  Director Compensation Policy. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1
  to the Company’s current report on Form 8-K filed on June 6,
  2005).

10.26#*

Compensatory
  Arrangements with Certain Executive Officers.

10.27#*

Penn National
  Gaming, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended.

14.1

Penn National Gaming, Inc.
  Code of Business Conduct. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 14.1 to
  the Company’s current report on Form 8-K, filed on April 24,
  2006).

16.1

Letter, dated
  June 14, 2006, from BDO Seidman, LLP to the Securities and Exchange
  Commission. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 16.1 of the Company’s
  current report on Form 8-K, filed June 16, 2006).

21.1*

Subsidiaries of the
  Registrant.

23.1*

Consent of
  Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.

23.2*

Consent of BDO Seidman,
  LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.

31.1*

CEO Certification
  pursuant to rule 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) of the
  Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

31.2*

CFO Certification
  pursuant to rule 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) of the
  Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

32.1*

CEO Certification
  pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, As Adopted Pursuant to
  Section 906 of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.2*

CFO Certification
  pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, As Adopted Pursuant to
  Section 906 of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

99.1*

Description of
  Governmental Regulation.

#

Compensation
plans and arrangements for executives and others.

*

Filed
herewith.