10-K


a2207437z10-k.htm

10-K

Use these links to rapidly review the document



UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

ý

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period
from                                 to

Commission File Number 0-24206

Penn National Gaming, Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Pennsylvania

(State or other jurisdiction of

Incorporation or Organization)

23-2234473

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

825 Berkshire Blvd., Suite 200

Wyomissing, Pennsylvania

(Address of principal executive offices)


(Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (610) 373-2400

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each

exchange on which registered

None

None

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Common Stock, par value $.01 per share

Series B Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share

(Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act. Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act. Yes

o

No

ý

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days. Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and
post such files). Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment
to this Form 10-K.

ý

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting
company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer", "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act:

Large accelerated filer

ý

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

(Do not check if a smaller

reporting company)

Smaller reporting company

o

Indicate by a check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act). Yes

o

No

ý

As of June 30, 2011 (the last business day of the registrant's most recently completed second fiscal quarter), the aggregate market value of the voting
Common Stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $2.7 billion. Such aggregate market value was computed by reference to the closing price of the Common Stock
as reported on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on June 30, 2011. For purposes of making this calculation only, the registrant has defined affiliates as including all directors, executive
officers and beneficial owners of more than ten percent of the Common Stock of the Company.

The
number of shares of the registrant's Common Stock outstanding as of February 15, 2012 was 76,291,210.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant's definitive proxy statement for its 2012 annual meeting of shareholders are incorporated by reference into Part III.



Page

PART I

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS


ITEM 1A.

RISK FACTORS


ITEM 1B.

UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS


ITEM 2.

PROPERTIES


ITEM 3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS


ITEM 4.

MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES


PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES


ITEM 6.

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA


ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


ITEM 7A.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK


ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA


ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE


ITEM 9A.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES


ITEM 9B.

OTHER INFORMATION


PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE


ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION


ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDERS MATTERS


ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE


ITEM 14.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES


PART IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES


i


IMPORTANT FACTORS REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This document includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended,
and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements are included throughout the document, including the section entitled "Risk Factors," and relate to our
business strategy, our prospects and our financial position. These statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "may,"
"will," "should" or "anticipates" or the negative or other variation of these or similar words, or by discussions of future events, strategies or risks and uncertainties. Specifically, forward-looking
statements may include, among others, statements concerning:

•

our expectations of future results of operations or financial condition;

•

our expectations for our properties;

•

the timing, cost and expected impact of planned capital expenditures on our results of operations;

•

the impact of our geographic diversification;

•

our expectations with regard to further acquisitions and development opportunities, as well as the integration of any
companies we have acquired or may acquire;

•

the outcome and financial impact of the litigation in which we are or will be periodically involved;

•

the actions of regulatory, legislative, executive or judicial decisions at the federal, state or local level with regard
to our business and the impact of any such actions;

•

our ability to maintain regulatory approvals for our existing businesses and to receive regulatory approvals for our new
businesses; and

•

our expectations for the continued availability and cost of capital.

Although
we believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, they are inherently subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about our
subsidiaries and us, and accordingly, our forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors
described below and in the information incorporated by reference herein. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include, without
limitation, risks related to the following:

•

the passage of state, federal or local legislation (including referenda) that would expand, restrict, further tax, prevent
or negatively impact operations in or adjacent to the jurisdictions in which we do or seek to do business (such as a smoking ban at any of our facilities);

•

the effects of local and national economic, credit, capital market, housing, and energy conditions on the economy in
general and on the gaming and lodging industries in particular;

•

the activities of our competitors and the emergence of new competitors (traditional and internet based);

•

increases in the effective rate of taxation at any of our properties or at the corporate level;

•

our ability to identify attractive acquisition and development opportunities and to agree to terms with partners for such
transactions;

•

the costs and risks involved in the pursuit of such opportunities and our ability to complete the acquisition or
development of, and achieve the expected returns from, such opportunities;

•

our ability to secure state and local permits and approvals necessary for construction;

ii


•

construction factors, including delays, unexpected remediation costs, local opposition and increased cost of labor and
materials;

•

our ability to receive, or delays in obtaining, the regulatory approvals required to own, develop and/or operate our
facilities, or other delays or impediments to completing our planned acquisitions or projects, including favorable resolution of any related litigation;

•

our dependence on key personnel;

•

our expectations for the continued availability and cost of capital;

•

the impact of weather;

•

the maintenance of agreements with our horsemen, pari-mutuel clerks and other organized labor groups;

•

the outcome of pending legal proceedings;

•

changes in accounting standards;

•

the impact of terrorism and other international hostilities; and

•

other factors as discussed in our filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.

All
subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements
included in this document. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as
required by law. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed in this document may not occur.

iii


PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Overview

We are a leading, diversified, multi-jurisdictional owner and manager of gaming and pari-mutuel properties. The Company was
incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1982 as PNRC Corp. and adopted its current name in 1994, when the Company became a public company. In 1997, we began our transition from a pari-mutuel
company to a diversified gaming company with the acquisition of the Charles Town property and the introduction of video lottery terminals in West Virginia. Since 1997, we have continued to expand our
gaming operations through strategic acquisitions (including the acquisitions of Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi, CRC Holdings, Inc., the Bullwhackers properties,
Hollywood Casino Corporation, Argosy Gaming Company, Zia Park Casino, Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club and The M Resorts LLC (the "M Resort") in June 2011), greenfield projects (such as at Hollywood
Casino at Penn National Race Course, Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway and Hollywood Casino Perryville), and property expansions (such as Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races and Hollywood Casino
Lawrenceburg). Most recently, we, along with our joint venture partner, opened Hollywood Casino at Kansas Speedway on February 3, 2012, and we anticipate opening our facilities in Columbus and
Toledo, Ohio in 2012.

As
of December 31, 2011, we owned, managed, or had ownership interests in twenty-five facilities in the following eighteen jurisdictions: Colorado, Florida, Illinois,
Indiana, Iowa, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, West Virginia, and Ontario.

We
believe that our portfolio of assets provides us with a diversified cash flow from operations. We continue to expand our gaming operations through the implementation and execution of
a disciplined capital expenditure program at our existing properties, the pursuit of strategic acquisitions and the development of new gaming properties, particularly in attractive regional markets.
Current capital projects are ongoing at several of our new and existing properties, including our facilities under construction in Ohio.

In
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the terms "we," "us," "our," the "Company" and "Penn National" refer to Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries, unless
the context indicates otherwise.



Properties

The following table summarizes, by our reportable segments, certain features of our owned properties and our managed property that are
currently in operations as of December 31, 2011:

Location

Type of Facility

Approx.

Gaming

Square

Footage

Gaming

Machines

Table

Games(1)

Hotel

Rooms

Midwest

Owned Properties:

Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg

Lawrenceburg, IN

Dockside gaming

150,000

3,219



Hollywood Casino Aurora

Aurora, IL

Dockside gaming

53,000

1,172


—

Hollywood Casino Joliet

Joliet, IL

Dockside gaming

50,000

1,177



Argosy Casino Alton

Alton, IL

Dockside gaming

23,000

1,052


—

Managed Property:

Casino Rama

Orillia, Ontario

Land-based gaming

93,000

2,498



Subtotal

369,000

9,118



East/West

Owned Properties:

Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races

Charles Town, WV

Land-based gaming/

Thoroughbred racing

209,508

4,180



Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course

Grantville, PA

Land-based gaming/

Thoroughbred racing

99,194

2,451


—

M Resort

Henderson, NV

Land-based gaming

92,000

1,561



Hollywood Casino Perryville

Perryville, MD

Land-based gaming

34,329

1,500

—

—

Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway

Bangor, ME

Land-based gaming/Harness racing

31,750

1,000

—


Zia Park Casino

Hobbs, NM

Land-based gaming/

Thoroughbred racing

18,460


—

—

Subtotal

485,241

11,442



Southern Plains

Owned Properties:

Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis

Bay St. Louis, MS

Land-based gaming

57,000

1,167



Argosy Casino Riverside

Riverside, MO

Dockside gaming

56,400

1,724



Hollywood Casino Tunica(2)

Tunica, MS

Dockside gaming

44,000

1,076



Boomtown Biloxi

Biloxi, MS

Dockside gaming

51,665

1,093


—

Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge

Baton Rouge, LA

Dockside gaming

28,000

1,120


—

Argosy Casino Sioux City

Sioux City, IA

Dockside gaming

20,500



—

Subtotal

257,565

6,899


1,043

Other

Owned Properties:

Bullwhackers

Black Hawk, CO

Land-based gaming

10,425


—

—

Raceway Park

Toledo, OH

Standardbred racing

—

—

—

—

Beulah Park

Grove City, OH

Thoroughbred racing

—

—

—

—

Rosecroft

Oxon Hill, MD

Standardbred racing

—

—

—

—

Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club

Longwood, FL

Greyhound racing

—

—

—

—

Freehold Raceway(3)

Freehold, NJ

Standardbred racing

—

—

—

—

Sam Houston Race Park(4)

Houston, TX

Thoroughbred racing

—

—

—

—

Valley Race Park(4)

Harlingen, TX

Greyhound racing

—

—

—

—

Subtotal

10,425


—

—

Total

1,122,231

27,749


2,422

(1)

Excludes
poker tables.

(2)

Due
to flooding in 2011 at Hollywood Casino Tunica, the gaming square footage has been temporarily reduced by 10,000 square feet compared to the prior year.

(3)

Pursuant
to a joint venture with Greenwood Limited Jersey, Inc., a subsidiary of Greenwood Racing, Inc.

(4)

Pursuant
to a joint venture with MAXXAM, Inc. ("MAXXAM").



Midwest Owned Properties

Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg

Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg is located on the Ohio River in Lawrenceburg, Indiana, approximately 15 miles west of Cincinnati. In late
June 2009, we opened a new casino riverboat at Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg, replacing the vessel at Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg. The Hollywood-themed casino riverboat has 150,000 square feet of
gaming space on two levels with 3,219 slot machines, 87 table games and 41 poker tables, a restaurant, a buffet, a bar, a nightclub, a casual dining room, two cafes and meeting space. Hollywood Casino
Lawrenceburg also includes a 295-room hotel.

The
City of Lawrenceburg is currently designing a hotel to be built by the City of Lawrenceburg near our Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg property. By contractual agreement reached with the
City of Lawrenceburg, the project will ultimately be owned and operated by a subsidiary of the Company upon
completion of construction. Currently slated to include 180 rooms and approximately 18,000 square feet of multipurpose space, the City of Lawrenceburg anticipates an opening date in the third quarter
of 2013.

Hollywood Casino Aurora

Hollywood Casino Aurora, part of the Chicagoland market, is located in Aurora, Illinois, the second largest city in Illinois,
approximately 35 miles west of Chicago. This single-level dockside casino provides 53,000 square feet of gaming space with 1,172 slot machines, 21 gaming tables and 7 poker tables. The facility
features an upscale lounge, a steakhouse with a private dining room, a VIP lounge for premium players, a casino bar with video poker, a buffet, and a deli. Hollywood Casino Aurora also has a surface
parking lot, two parking garages with approximately 1,500 parking spaces, and a gift shop.

Hollywood Casino Joliet

Hollywood Casino Joliet, part of the Chicagoland market, is located on the Des Plaines River in Joliet, Illinois, approximately 40
miles southwest of Chicago. This barge-based casino provides 50,000 square feet of gaming space on two levels with 1,177 slot machines, 23 table games and 3 poker tables. The land-based
pavilion includes a steakhouse, a buffet, a deli, and a sports bar and entertainment lounge.

The
complex also includes a 100-room hotel, a 1,100 space parking garage, surface parking areas with approximately 1,500 spaces and an 80-space recreational
vehicle park.

Argosy Casino Alton

Argosy Casino Alton is located on the Mississippi River in Alton, Illinois, approximately 20 miles northeast of downtown
St. Louis. Argosy Casino Alton is a three-deck gaming facility featuring 23,000 square feet of gaming space with 1,052 slot machines and 15 table games. Argosy Casino Alton includes
an entertainment pavilion and features a 124-seat buffet, a restaurant, a deli and a 400-seat main showroom. The facility also includes surface parking areas with 1,341 spaces.

Midwest Managed Property

Casino Rama

Through CHC Casinos Canada Limited ("CHC Casinos"), our indirectly wholly-owned subsidiary, we manage Casino Rama, a full service
gaming and entertainment facility, on behalf of the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation ("OLGC"), an agency of the Province of Ontario. Casino Rama is located on the lands of the Rama First Nation,
approximately 90 miles north of Toronto. The property has approximately 93,000 square feet of gaming space with 2,498 gaming machines, 108 table games and 15 poker tables. In addition, the property
includes a 5,000-seat entertainment facility, a 289-room hotel and 3,170 surface parking spaces.



The
Development and Operating Agreement (the "Agreement"), which we refer to as the management service contract for Casino Rama, sets out the duties, rights and obligations of CHC
Casinos and our indirectly wholly-owned subsidiary, CRC Holdings, Inc. The compensation under the Agreement is a base fee equal to 2.0% of gross revenues of the casino and an incentive fee
equal to 5.0% of the casino's net operating profit.

The
Agreement terminated on August 1, 2011. In July 2011, we entered into a new interim agreement with the OLGC for the operation of the Casino Rama facility through
March 31, 2012, which was subsequently extended in January 2012 for an additional six months through September 30, 2012. The OLGC is currently in the process of evaluating bids on a new
five year term for the management of the Casino Rama facility, which includes a cap on management fees of $5 million per year. While we intend to participate in the bid process, there can be no
assurance that the OLGC will select us to manage the property beyond September 30, 2012.

East/West Owned Properties

Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races

Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races is located within approximately a one-hour drive of the Baltimore, Maryland and
Washington, D.C. markets. Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races features 209,508 square feet of gaming space with 4,180 gaming machines and a 153-room hotel, as well as various dining
options. In July 2010, we added table games and poker tables following voter approval of table games in the December 5, 2009 special election. As of December 31, 2011, the property had
107 table games and 30 poker tables. The complex also features live thoroughbred racing at a


/


-mile all-weather lighted thoroughbred racetrack with a
3,000-seat grandstand, parking for 6,048 vehicles and simulcast wagering and dining. In addition, a high-end steakhouse was completed in the fourth quarter of 2010 and a sports
bar and entertainment lounge was opened in July 2011.

Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course

Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course is located in Grantville, Pennsylvania, which is 15 miles northeast of Harrisburg.
Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course, which opened on February 12, 2008, is a 365,000 square foot facility with 2,451 slot machines. In July 2010, we added table games and poker tables
following legislation passed in January 2010 permitting the operation of table games by existing licensees. As of December 31, 2011, the property had 53 table games and 16 poker tables. The
facility also includes an entertainment bar and lounge, a sports bar, a buffet, a high-end steakhouse and various casual dining options, as well as a simulcast facility and viewing area
for live racing. The facility has ample parking, including a five-story self-parking garage, with capacity for approximately 2,200 cars and approximately 1,500 surface parking
spaces for self and valet parking. The property includes a one-mile all-weather lighted thoroughbred racetrack and a


/


-mile turf track. The
property also includes approximately 400 acres that are available for future expansion or development.

M Resort

On June 1, 2011, following the purchase of all of the outstanding debt of the M Resort and the receipt of requisite regulatory
approvals, the Company acquired the business in exchange for the debt. Opened in March 2009, the M Resort, located approximately ten miles from the Las Vegas strip in Henderson, Nevada, is situated on
over 90 acres on the southeast corner of Las Vegas Boulevard and St. Rose Parkway. The resort features over 92,000 square feet of gaming space with 1,561 slot machines, 52 table games, and 10
poker tables. M Resort also offers 390 guest rooms and suites, six restaurants and six destination bars, more than 60,000 square feet of meeting and conference space, a 4,700 space parking facility, a
spa and fitness center and a 100,000 square foot events piazza. In January 2012, the M Resort expanded its convention space by about 25,000 square feet which will be used for both conventions and
meetings, as well as concerts and other larger scale events.



Hollywood Casino Perryville

Hollywood Casino Perryville was opened to the public on September 27, 2010 and is located directly off Interstate 95 in Cecil
County, Maryland just 35 miles northeast of Baltimore and 70 miles from Washington, D.C. Hollywood Casino Perryville is a Hollywood-themed facility which offers 34,329 square feet of gaming space with
1,500 slot machines. The facility also offers various food and beverage options, including a buffet and a grill, a gift shop and 1,600 parking spaces with valet and self-parking.

Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway

Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway, which is located in Bangor, Maine, includes 31,750 square feet of gaming space with 1,000 slot
machines. On November 8, 2011, voters in Penobscot County approved the addition of table games. The addition of 10 table games and 4 poker tables is anticipated to be in place by
March 31, 2012. Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway's amenities include a 152-room hotel, with 5,119 square feet of meeting and pre-function space, two eateries, a buffet
and a snack bar, a small entertainment stage,
and a four-story parking garage with 1,500 spaces. Bangor Raceway, which is adjacent to the property, is located at historic Bass Park and includes a one-half mile standardbred
racetrack and grandstand to seat 3,500 patrons.

Zia Park Casino

Zia Park Casino is located in Hobbs, New Mexico and includes a casino as well as an adjoining racetrack. Zia Park Casino includes
18,460 square feet of gaming space with 750 slot machines and operates two restaurants. Year-round banquet services are available at the property and in the Turf Club, which also offers
food and beverage services during the live racing season. The property has a one-mile quarter/thoroughbred racetrack, with live racing from September to December, and a
year-round simulcast parlor.

Southern Plains Owned Properties

Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis

Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis is located in Bay St. Louis, Mississippi. The casino features 57,000 square feet of gaming
space with 1,167 slot machines, 22 table games, and 6 poker tables. The waterfront Hollywood Hotel features 291 rooms and a 10,000 square foot ballroom, including nine separate meeting rooms offering
more than 14,000 square feet of meeting space. Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis offers live concerts and various entertainment on weekends in the ballroom. The property also features The Bridges
golf course, an 18-hole championship golf course. Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis has various dining facilities including a steakhouse, a buffet, a casual dining room and a clubhouse
lounge as well as an entertainment bar. Other amenities include a recreational vehicle park with 100 spaces and a gift shop.

Argosy Casino Riverside

Argosy Casino Riverside is located on the Missouri River approximately five miles from downtown Kansas City in Riverside, Missouri. The
casino primarily attracts customers who reside in the northern and western regions of the Kansas City metropolitan area. The casino features 56,400 square feet of gaming space with 1,724 slot machines
and 33 table games.

This
Mediterranean-themed casino and hotel features a nine-story, 258-room hotel and spa, an entertainment facility featuring various food and beverage areas,
including a buffet, a steakhouse, a deli, a coffee bar, a VIP lounge and a sports/entertainment lounge and 19,000 square feet of banquet/conference facilities. Argosy Casino Riverside also has parking
for approximately 3,000 vehicles, including a 1,250 space parking garage.



Hollywood Casino Tunica

Hollywood Casino Tunica is located in Tunica, Mississippi. Tunica County is the closest resort gaming jurisdiction to, and is easily
accessible from, the Memphis, Tennessee metropolitan area. The Tunica market has become a regional destination resort, attracting customers from surrounding markets such as Nashville, Tennessee,
Atlanta, Georgia, St. Louis, Missouri, Little Rock, Arkansas, and Tulsa, Oklahoma. This single-level casino features 54,000 square feet of gaming space with 1,076 slot machines, 25 table games
and 6 poker tables. On May 1, 2011, Hollywood Casino Tunica was forced to close as a result of flooding by the Mississippi River. The property reopened on May 25, 2011. Due to the
flooding, 10,000 square feet of gaming space remains closed. A section of this area is expected to reopen in the first quarter of 2012 as a high limit area, with the remainder reopening by the end of
2012.

Hollywood
Casino Tunica's 494-room hotel and 123-space recreational vehicle park provide overnight accommodations for its patrons. Entertainment amenities include
a steakhouse, a buffet, a grill, an entertainment lounge, a premium players' club, a themed bar facility, an indoor pool and showroom as well as banquet and meeting facilities. In addition, Hollywood
Casino Tunica offers surface parking with 1,635 spaces.

Boomtown Biloxi

Boomtown Biloxi is located in Biloxi, Mississippi. Boomtown Biloxi offers 51,665 square feet of gaming space with 1,093 slot machines,
18 table games and 5 poker tables. It features a buffet, a steakhouse and a 24-hour grill and bakery. Boomtown Biloxi also has 1,450 surface parking spaces.

Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge

Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge is a dockside riverboat gaming facility operating in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge
features a riverboat casino reminiscent of a nineteenth century Mississippi River paddlewheel steamboat. The riverboat features approximately 28,000 square feet of gaming space with 1,120 gaming
machines and 23 table games.

The
facility also includes a two-story, 58,000 square foot dockside building featuring a variety of amenities, including a steakhouse, a 268-seat buffet, a deli,
a premium players' lounge, a nightclub, a lobby bar, a public atrium, two meeting rooms, 1,490 parking spaces, and a gift shop.

In
December 2007, we agreed to acquire 3.8 acres of adjacent land and to pay for half of the construction costs for a railroad underpass with the seller of the land. Construction on the
underpass started in June 2009 and was completed in March 2011. The underpass provides unimpeded access to the casino property and to property owned by the seller for future development.

Argosy Casino Sioux City

Argosy Casino Sioux City is located on the Missouri River in downtown Sioux City, Iowa. The riverboat features 20,500 square feet of
gaming space with 719 slot machines, 16 table games and 4 poker tables. The casino is complemented by adjacent barge facilities featuring dining facilities, meeting space, and 524 parking spaces.

Each
gaming license in Iowa is issued jointly to a gaming operator and a local charitable sponsor. The agreement between our gaming operator subsidiary in Iowa, Belle of Sioux
City, L.P. (the "Belle") and its charitable sponsor, Missouri River Historical Development, Inc. ("MRHD"), may expire as early as July 2012. The Belle is in the process of negotiating
with MRHD to transition its current barge-based facility to a new land-based facility and to enter into a new long-term agreement with MRHD. If a new agreement cannot be
reached, MRHD has indicated that it may issue a request for proposals for alternative operators for a new land-based facility and has preemptively filed a lawsuit seeking to establish its
right to do so. If MRHD were to issue such a request, the Belle may contest MRHD's right to do so, may participate in the process and/or may seek an alternative charitable



sponsor.
Accordingly, at this time, there can be no assurance that the Belle will be able to reach an agreement with MRHD or, absent such agreement, that it will be able to partner with an alternative
charitable sponsor. In the event that both MRHD and the Belle find alternative partners, it is unclear whether the Iowa Gaming and Racing Commission would issue a gaming license to one or both such
groups. Further, the Belle's ability to continue its operations may also be impacted by its ability to renew or extend its existing docking lease, which expires in January 2013, or to locate a
suitable site to construct a land-based facility.

Other Owned Properties

Bullwhackers

The Bullwhackers casino, which is located in Black Hawk, Colorado, includes 10,425 square feet of gaming space with 290 slot machines.
The property also includes a 344-car surface parking area. We also own and operate a gas station/convenience store located approximately 7 miles east of the Bullwhackers casino on Highway
119.

Raceway Park

Raceway Park is a 58,250 square foot facility with a


/


-mile standardbred race track located in Toledo,
Ohio. The facility also features simulcast wagering and has theatre-style seating capacity for 1,977 and surface parking for 3,000 vehicles.

Beulah Park

Acquired on July 1, 2010, Beulah Park in Grove City, Ohio is located on approximately 210 acres just outside of Columbus, Ohio.
Beulah Park is a thoroughbred racing facility that features live thoroughbred racing from October to May as well as simulcast wagering from a number of nationwide tracks. Beulah Park includes a
grandstand, outdoor paddock, a clubhouse facility and numerous food and dining options.

Rosecroft

On February 28, 2011, we completed our acquisition of Rosecroft Raceway in Oxon Hill, Maryland following the completion of a
bankruptcy auction and approval of the purchase by a United States ("U.S.") Bankruptcy Court judge. Rosecroft Raceway, located approximately 13 miles south of Washington, D.C., is situated on
approximately 125 acres just outside the Washington I-495 Beltway in Prince George's county. The Rosecroft facility features a


/


-mile standardbred race track
with a seven race paddock, a 53,000 square foot grandstand building, and a 96,000 square foot three story clubhouse building with dining facilities. In August 2011, Rosecroft Raceway
re-opened for simulcasting and live standardbred racing resumed in late October 2011.

Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club

Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club is a


/


-mile greyhound facility located in Longwood, Florida. The facility has
capacity for 6,500 patrons, with seating for 4,000 and surface parking for 2,500 vehicles. The facility conducts year-round greyhound racing and greyhound, thoroughbred, and harness racing
simulcasts.

Freehold Raceway

Through our joint venture in Pennwood Racing, Inc. ("Pennwood"), we own 50% of Freehold Raceway, located in Freehold, New
Jersey. The property features a half-mile standardbred race track and a 150,000 square foot grandstand.



Sam Houston Race Park and Valley Race Park

On April 8, 2011, following final approval by the Texas Racing Commission, we completed our investment in a joint venture with
MAXXAM that owns and operates the Sam Houston Race Park in Houston, Texas and the Valley Race Park in Harlingen, Texas, and holds a license for a planned racetrack in Laredo, Texas. Sam Houston Race
Park, opened in April 1994, is located 15 miles northwest from downtown Houston along Beltway 8. Sam Houston Race Park hosts thoroughbred and quarter horse racing and offers daily simulcast
operations, as well as hosts various special events, private parties and meetings, concerts and national touring festivals throughout the year. Valley Race Park, which was opened in 1990, is a 91,000
square foot dog racing and simulcasting facility located in Harlingen, Texas.

Off-track Wagering Facilities

Our off-track wagering facilities ("OTWs") and racetracks provide areas for viewing import simulcast races of thoroughbred
and standardbred horse racing, televised sporting events, placing pari-mutuel wagers and dining. We operate four OTWs in Pennsylvania, and through our joint venture in Pennwood, we own 50%
of a leased OTW in Toms River, New Jersey.

Trademarks

We own a number of trademarks registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office ("U.S. PTO"), including but not limited to,
"Telebet," "The World Series of Handicapping," and "Players' Choice." We also have a number of trademark applications pending with the U.S. PTO.

BTN, Inc.,
our wholly-owned subsidiary, entered into a License Agreement with Boomtown, Inc., dated August 8, 2000 pursuant to which it uses "Boomtown" and other
trademarks.

As
a result of our acquisitions of Hollywood Casino Corporation and Argosy, we own the service marks "Hollywood Casino" and "Argosy" which are registered with the U.S. PTO. We believe
that our rights to the "Hollywood Casino" and "Argosy" service marks are well established and have competitive value to the Hollywood Casino and Argosy properties. We also acquired other trademarks
used by the Hollywood Casino and Argosy facilities and their related services. These marks are either registered or are the subject of pending applications with the U.S. PTO.

Competition

The gaming industry is characterized by a high degree of competition among a large number of participants, including riverboat casinos,
dockside casinos, land-based casinos, video lottery and poker machines not located in casinos, Native American gaming, emerging varieties of Internet gaming and other forms of gaming in
the U.S. In a broader sense, our gaming operations face competition from all manner of leisure and entertainment activities, including: shopping; high school, collegiate and professional athletic
events; television and movies; concerts and travel. Legalized gaming is currently permitted in various forms throughout the U.S., in several Canadian provinces and on various lands taken into trust
for the benefit of certain Native Americans in the U.S. and Canada. Other jurisdictions, including states adjacent to states in which we currently have facilities (such as in Ohio and Maryland), have
legalized, and are likely to implement gaming in the near future. In addition, established gaming jurisdictions could award additional gaming licenses or permit the expansion or relocation of existing
gaming operations. New, relocated or expanded operations by other persons will increase competition for our gaming operations and could have a material adverse impact on us. Finally, the imposition of
smoking bans and/or higher gaming tax rates have a significant impact on our properties' ability to compete with facilities in nearby jurisdictions.



Our racing operations face significant competition for wagering dollars from other racetracks and OTWs, some of which also offer other forms of gaming, as well as
other gaming venues such as casinos. Additionally, for a number of years, there has been a general decline in the number of people attending and wagering on live horse races at North American
racetracks due to a number of factors, including increased competition from other wagering and entertainment alternatives and unwillingness of customers to travel a significant distance to racetracks.
Our account wagering operations compete with other providers of such services throughout the country. We also may face competition in the future from new OTWs, new racetracks or new providers of
account wagering. From time to time, states consider legislation to permit other forms of gaming. If additional gaming opportunities become available near our racing operations, such gaming
opportunities could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Midwest.

In Ohio, voters passed a referendum in 2009 to allow four land-based casinos in four cities, one of which will be in downtown
Cincinnati, which is the primary feeder market for our Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg property. The proposed $400 million casino in nearby Cincinnati, Ohio will be operated by Caesars
Entertainment as part of a joint venture with Rock Gaming LLC and is anticipated to open in 2013. This new facility will have an adverse impact on Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg. However, the
impact from this casino on our Midwest segment will be mitigated by the opening of our Ohio casinos, Hollywood Casino Toledo and Hollywood Casino Columbus, both of which are expected to open in 2012.
On January 25, 2012, MTR Gaming Group, Inc. ("MTR") announced it had received its license to install and operate up to 2,500 video lottery terminals at its
Scioto Downs racetrack in Columbus, Ohio. The facility will offer a 300 seat buffet, a casual dining restaurant and a bar/lounge. MTR anticipates opening the new facility in the second quarter of
2012. In Illinois, a new approximately $445 million casino opened on July 18, 2011 in Des Plaines, Illinois. As a result, Hollywood Casino Aurora and Hollywood Casino Joliet face
additional competition as the facilities are located in the suburban area northwest of Chicago, however the 3% surcharge that Hollywood Casino Aurora and Hollywood Casino Joliet paid to subsidize
local racing horse interests is no longer incurred as the new facility is now open. In addition, in July 2009, the Governor of Illinois signed a bill providing for the legalization of up to five video
lottery terminals to be installed in licensed bars, restaurants and truck stops, among other venues that permit on-site alcohol consumption. In July 2011, the Illinois Supreme Court, in a
unanimous ruling, cleared the way for the 2009 Illinois Video Gaming Act to go forward. The Illinois Gaming Board is currently in the process of finalizing the regulatory framework and awarding
licenses, however numerous cities and counties have opted out of participation. Additionally in Illinois, the legislature in May 2011 passed a gaming expansion bill to allow five new casinos in the
state while bringing slot machines to the Illinois racetracks. However, this legislation was not sent formally to the Governor of Illinois for approval. Currently, legislators are working on new
expansion gambling proposals. Finally, casino gaming is not currently permitted in Kentucky, although legislation has been introduced to allow gaming at racetracks and casinos subject to a referendum
which will take place in 2012. The commencement of gaming in Kentucky and the expansion of gaming in Illinois would negatively impact certain of our existing Midwest properties.

East/West.

In November 2008, the citizens of Maryland approved a referendum to allow up to 15,000 slot machines at five locations
throughout the
state. These locations included a facility in each of Cecil, Allegany, Anne Arundel, Baltimore City and Worchester Counties. Applications for each of the gaming zones were submitted in February 2009.
Hollywood Casino Perryville in Cecil County, which is our facility, opened to the public on September 27, 2010 and was the only Maryland facility operational in 2010. In January 2011, the
Worchester County location opened at Ocean Downs Racetrack. In November 2010, zoning was approved by voters for a proposed casino complex offering 4,750 slot machines at the Arundel Mills mall in Anne
Arundel, Maryland. The developer of the project is targeting an opening in the summer of 2012 of approximately 2,500 to 3,000 slot machines, with the full facility expected to be open by the end of
2012. Particularly as the Anne Arundel facility opens, Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races and Hollywood Casino Perryville will face increased



competition
and their results will be negatively impacted. Additionally, the opening of a casino in Baltimore City, which now has a viable applicant, would negatively impact our operations at Charles
Town and Perryville. In Pennsylvania, in April 2011, the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board awarded a category 3 license to permit the operation of slot machines at an existing resort to
Woodlands Fayette, LLC, operators of the Nemacolin Woodlands Resort in Wharton Township, Fayette County. However, Mason-Dixon Resort LP, which applied for a category 3 license in
Gettysburg, filed an appeal with the state Supreme Court seeking to reverse the Board's decision. This appeal is still pending. If the appeal is successful and a category 3 license was awarded
to Mason-Dixon Resort LP, our operations at Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course could be negatively impacted. In addition, in 2009,
a category 3 license application was granted for a site in Valley Forge, Pennsylvania. The casino is currently under construction and could open as early as spring of 2012. We expect the
opening of this casino to have a minor adverse effect on the financial results of Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course. Our East/West segment also contains our M Resort property which caters
to the Las Vegas locals market. The strength of the Las Vegas locals market is partially linked to the health of the Las Vegas strip. Continued weakness in this market may continue to negatively
impact the Las Vegas locals market, including our M Resort property.

Southern Plains.

In Kansas, the legislature approved the expansion of casino gaming in its state, and in February 2010, Kansas
Entertainment, LLC ("Kansas Entertainment"), a joint venture of affiliates of International Speedway Corporation ("International Speedway") and us, received the final approval under the Kansas
Expanded Lottery Act, along with its gaming license from the Kansas Racing and Gaming Commission, to proceed with the development of an approximately $411 million Hollywood-themed destination
facility overlooking Turn 2 at Kansas Speedway, which is located approximately 17 miles from Argosy Casino Riverside. Kansas Entertainment began construction of the facility in the second quarter of
2010 and the facility opened on February 3, 2012. The opening of this casino will have an adverse effect on the financial results of Argosy Casino Riverside. In Louisiana, construction on an
approximately $357 million riverboat casino and hotel has begun with a planned opening in the summer of 2012. The opening of this riverboat casino will have an adverse effect on the financial
results of Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge. In the Mississippi Gulf Coast market, there are various proposals for casinos in development, as well as expansions at existing properties, that may take place
in the next few years. Construction on an approximately $60 million casino project in Biloxi has begun with a planned opening in the spring of 2012. The opening of this casino will have an
adverse effect on the financial results of Boomtown Biloxi.

U.S. and Foreign Revenues

Our net revenues in the U.S. for 2011, 2010, and 2009 were approximately $2,727.1 million, $2,443.9 million, and
$2,354.5 million, respectively. Our revenues from operations in Canada for 2011, 2010, and 2009 were approximately $15.2 million, $15.2 million, and $14.8 million,
respectively.

Segments

In 2011, we realigned our reporting structure in connection with the hiring of a senior vice president of regional operations. We now
have three senior vice presidents of regional operations who oversee various properties based primarily on their geographic locations and whom report directly to our President and Chief Operating
Officer. This event impacted how our Chief
Executive Officer, who is the Company's Chief Operating Decision Maker ("CODM") as that term is defined in Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 280, "Segment Reporting" ("ASC 280"), measures and
assesses our business performance and has caused us to conclude that we now have reportable segments. Therefore, we have aggregated our properties into three reportable segments: (i) Midwest,
(ii) East/West, and (iii) Southern Plains, consistent with how our CODM reviews and assesses our financial performance.



The
Midwest reportable segment consists of the following properties: Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg, Hollywood Casino Aurora, Hollywood Casino Joliet, and Argosy Casino Alton. It also
includes our Casino Rama management service contract as well as the two Ohio properties that are currently under construction, Hollywood Casino Toledo and Hollywood Casino Columbus, which are
scheduled to open by the end of May 2012 and November 1, 2012, respectively.

The
East/West reportable segment consists of the following properties: Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races, Hollywood Casino Perryville, Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway, Hollywood
Casino at Penn National Race Course, Zia Park Casino, and M Resort.

The
Southern Plains reportable segment consists of the following properties: Argosy Casino Riverside, Argosy Casino Sioux City, Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge, Hollywood Casino Tunica,
Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis, and Boomtown Biloxi. It also includes our 50% investment in Kansas Entertainment, which owns the Hollywood Casino at Kansas Speedway which opened in February
2012.

The
Other category consists of our standalone racing operations, namely Beulah Park, Raceway Park, Rosecroft Raceway, Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club, and our joint venture interests in Sam
Houston Race Park and Valley Race Park, Freehold Raceway, and Maryland Jockey Club (which was sold in July 2011). If we are successful in obtaining gaming operations at these locations, they would be
assigned to one of our regional executives and reported in their respective reportable segment. The Other category also includes our corporate overhead operations which does not meet the definition of
an operating segment under ASC 280 and our Bullwhackers property.

Management

Name

Age

Position

Peter M. Carlino


Chief Executive Officer

Timothy J. Wilmott


President and Chief Operating Officer

William J. Clifford


Senior Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer

Thomas P. Burke


Senior Vice President-Regional Operations

John V. Finamore


Senior Vice President-Regional Operations

Robert S. Ippolito


Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer

Jordan B. Savitch


Senior Vice President and General Counsel

Jay A. Snowden


Senior Vice President-Regional Operations

Steven T. Snyder


Senior Vice President-Corporate Development

Peter M. Carlino.

Mr. Carlino has served as our Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer since April 1994.
Since 1976,
Mr. Carlino has been President of Carlino Capital Management Corp. (formerly known as Carlino Financial Corporation), a holding company that owns and operates various Carlino family businesses,
in which capacity he has been continuously active in strategic planning and monitoring the operations.

Timothy J. Wilmott.

Mr. Wilmott joined us in February 2008 as President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Wilmott most recently
served
as Chief Operating Officer of Harrah's Entertainment, a position he held for approximately four years. In this position, he oversaw the operations of all of Harrah's revenue-generating businesses,
including 48 casinos, 38,000 hotel rooms and 300 restaurants. All Harrah's Division Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents of Brand Operations, Marketing and Information Technology personnel reported to
Mr. Wilmott in his capacity as Chief Operating Officer. Prior to his appointment to the position of Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Wilmott served from 1997 to 2002 as Division President of
Harrah's Eastern Division with responsibility for the operations of eight Harrah's properties.



William J. Clifford.

Mr. Clifford joined us in August 2001 and was appointed to his current position as Senior Vice
President-Finance and
Chief Financial Officer in October 2001. From March 1997 to July 2001, Mr. Clifford served as the Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of Finance with Sun International
Resorts, Inc., Paradise Island, Bahamas. From November 1993 to February 1997, Mr. Clifford was Financial, Hotel and Operations Controller for Treasure Island Hotel and Casino in Las
Vegas. From May 1989 to November 1993, Mr. Clifford was Controller for Golden Nugget Hotel and Casino, Las Vegas. Prior to May 1989, Mr. Clifford held the positions of Controller for the
Dunes Hotel and Casino, Las Vegas, Property Operations Analyst with Aladdin Hotel and Casino, Las Vegas, Casino Administrator with Las Vegas Hilton, Las Vegas, Senior Internal Auditor with Del Webb,
Las Vegas, and Agent, Audit Division, of the Nevada Gaming Control Board, Las Vegas and Reno.

Thomas P. Burke.

Mr. Burke joined us in November 2002 and was appointed to his current position of
Senior Vice President-Regional Operations effective October 2008. In this position, Mr. Burke is responsible for overseeing all facets of our facilities located in our Southern Plains segment.
Previously, Mr. Burke served as Vice President and General Manager of our Argosy Casino Riverside from June 2006 until October 2008 and as President and General Manager of our Bullwhackers
properties from November 2002 until June 2006. Prior to joining us, Mr. Burke held senior management positions at Ameristar Casinos, Station Casinos, Trump Taj Mahal Casino Resort and Trump
Castle Hotel/Casino, American Gaming and Entertainment and the Majestic Star Casino.

John V. Finamore.

Mr. Finamore joined us in November 2002 as Senior Vice President-Regional Operations. In this position,
Mr. Finamore
is responsible for overseeing all facets of our facilities located in our Midwest segment. Prior to joining us, Mr. Finamore served as President of Missouri Operations for Ameristar
Casinos, Inc. from December of 2000 until February of 2002 and President of Midwest Operations for Station Casinos, Inc. from July 1998 until November 2000. Mr. Finamore has over
28 years of gaming industry and hotel management experience.

Robert S. Ippolito.

In July 2001, we appointed Mr. Ippolito to the position of Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer.
Mr. Ippolito has served as our Secretary and Treasurer since April 1994 and as our Chief Financial Officer from April 1994 until July 2001. Mr. Ippolito brings more
than 24 years of gaming and racing experience to the management team both as a manager at a major accounting firm and as an officer of companies in the racing business.

Jordan B. Savitch.

Mr. Savitch joined us in September 2002 as Senior Vice President and General Counsel. From June 1999 to April
2002,
Mr. Savitch served as a director and senior executive at iMedium, Inc., a venture-backed software company offering innovative software solutions for increasing sales effectiveness. From
1995 to 1999, Mr. Savitch served as senior corporate counsel at Safeguard Scientifics, Inc., a NYSE-listed company specializing in identifying, developing and operating
emerging technology companies. Mr. Savitch also spent four years in private practice as an associate at Willkie Farr & Gallagher, LLP in New York, New York.

Jay A. Snowden.

Mr. Snowden joined us in October 2011 as Senior Vice President-Regional Operations. In this position,
Mr. Snowden is responsible for overseeing all facets of our facilities located in our East/West segment. Prior to joining us, Mr. Snowden was the Senior Vice President and GM of Caesar's
and Harrah's in Atlantic City, and prior to that, he held various senior leadership positions in St. Louis, San Diego and Las Vegas.

Steven T. Snyder.

Mr. Snyder joined us in May 1998, and from 1998 through 2001 served as Vice President of Corporate Development.
In June
2003, he accepted the position of Senior Vice President of Corporate Development and is responsible for identifying and conducting internal and industry analysis of potential acquisitions,
partnerships and other opportunities. Prior to joining us, Mr. Snyder was a partner with Hamilton Partners, Ltd., as well as Managing Director of Municipal and Corporate Investment
Banking for Meridian Capital Markets. Mr. Snyder began his career in finance at Butcher & Singer, where he served as First Vice President of Public Finance.



Governmental Regulations

The gaming and racing industries are highly regulated and we must maintain our licenses and pay gaming taxes to continue our
operations. Each of our facilities is subject to extensive regulation under the laws, rules and regulations of the jurisdiction where it is located. These laws, rules and regulations generally concern
the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners, managers, and persons with financial interests in the gaming operations. Violations of laws or regulations in one jurisdiction
could result in disciplinary action in other jurisdictions. A more detailed description of the regulations to which we are subject is contained in Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Our
businesses are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations in addition to gaming regulations. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to,
restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. Such laws and
regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. Material changes, new laws or regulations, or material differences in
interpretations by courts or governmental authorities could adversely affect our operating results.

Employees and Labor Relations

As of December 31, 2011, we had 16,740 full- and part-time employees.

We
are required to have agreements with the horsemen at each of our racetracks to conduct its live racing and simulcasting activities, with the exception of our tracks in Ohio and New
Mexico. In addition, in order to operate gaming machines and table games in West Virginia, we must maintain agreements with each of the Charles Town Horsemen, pari-mutuel clerks and
breeders.

At
Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races, we have an agreement with the Charles Town Horsemen expiring on December 31, 2012, and an agreement with the breeders that expires on
June 30, 2012. The pari-mutuel clerks at Charles Town are represented under a collective bargaining agreement with the West Virginia Union of Mutuel Clerks, which expired on
December 31, 2010 and has been informally extended on a month-to-month basis while negotiations are in process.

Our
agreement with the Pennsylvania Thoroughbred Horsemen at Penn National Race Course expired on September 30, 2011 has been extended through February 29, 2012 pending
continuing negotiations. We have a collective bargaining agreement with Local 137 of the Sports Arena Employees at Penn National Race Course with respect to pari-mutuel clerks, admissions
and Telebet personnel which expired on December 31, 2011 and will likely be extended pending negotiations. We also have an agreement in place with Local 137 of the Sports Arena Employees with
respect to pari-mutuel clerks and admission personnel at our OTWs, which expires on August 31, 2013.

Our
agreement with the Maine Harness Horsemen Association at Bangor Raceway expired on December 31, 2011. We anticipate having a new agreement in place prior to the commencement
of live racing which will occur in May 2012.

Our
agreement with the Ohio Harness Horsemen Association at Raceway Park expires on November 30, 2012. In connection with the acquisition of Beulah Park, we have assumed the
agreement with the Ohio Horsemen's Protective and Benevolent Association, which expires on November 30, 2012. Rosecroft Raceway entered into agreements with the Cloverleaf Standardbred Owners
Association and Maryland Standardbred Breeder's Association as of July 5, 2011. Both of these agreements expire on December 31, 2022.

Across
certain of our properties, the Seafarers Entertainment and Allied Trade Union represents approximately 1,860 of our employees under agreements that expire at various times between
June



and November 2020. At Hollywood Casino Joliet, the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Union ("UNITE/HERE") Local 1 represents approximately 280 employees under a collective bargaining
agreement which expires on March 31, 2015. In addition, at some of our properties, the Seafarer International Union of North America, Atlantic, Gulf, Lakes and Inland Waters District/NMU,
AFL-CIO, the Security Police and Fire Professionals of America, the International Brotherhood of Electronic Workers, the UNITE/HERE Local 10, the Local No. 27 United Food and
Commercial Workers, and the United Industrial, Service, Transportation, Professional and Government Workers of North America represent certain of our employees under collective bargaining agreements
that expire at various times between May 2012 and February 2020. None of these particular unions represent more than 50 of our employees.

Available Information

For more information about us, visit our website at www.pngaming.com. The contents of our website are not part of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. Our electronic filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (including all annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports), including the exhibits, are available free of charge through our website as soon
as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.

ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS

Risks Related to Our Business

A substantial portion of our revenues is derived from our Charles Town, West Virginia and Lawrenceburg, Indiana facilities, which will face increased competitive pressures
in the near term.

For the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 37.4% of our net revenues were collectively derived from our Charles Town
and Lawrenceburg operations. Our ability to meet our operating and debt service requirements is substantially dependent upon the continued success of these facilities. The operations at these
facilities and any of our other facilities could be adversely affected by numerous factors, including:

•

risks related to local and regional economic and competitive conditions, such as a decline in the number of visitors to a
facility, a downturn in the overall economy in the market, a decrease in consumer spending on gaming activities in the market or an increase in competition within and outside the state in which each
property is located (for example, the potential effect on Charles Town due to the development of a casino complex at the Arundel Mills mall in Anne Arundel, Maryland, the potential opening of a casino
in Baltimore, Maryland, as well as ongoing and potentially new competition in Pennsylvania and Maryland, and the potential impact on Lawrenceburg of a proposed $400 million casino in nearby
Cincinnati, Ohio that will be operated by Caesars Entertainment as part of a joint venture with Rock Gaming LLC with an announced opening in 2013);

•

changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations (including changes in laws and regulations affecting gaming
operations and taxes) applicable to a facility;

•

impeded access to a facility due to weather, road construction or closures of primary access routes; and

•

the occurrence of floods and other natural disasters.

If
any of these events occur, our operating revenues and cash flow could decline significantly.



We may face disruption in integrating and managing facilities we may develop or acquire in the future.

We expect to continue pursuing expansion opportunities, and we regularly evaluate opportunities for acquisition and development of new
properties, which evaluations may include discussions and the review of confidential information after the execution of nondisclosure agreements with potential acquisition candidates, some of which
may be potentially significant in relation to our size.

We
could face significant challenges in managing and integrating our expanded or combined operations and any other properties we may develop or acquire, particularly in new competitive
markets. The integration of properties we may develop or acquire will require the dedication of management resources that may temporarily divert attention from our day-to-day
business. The process of integrating properties that we may acquire also could interrupt the activities of those businesses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations. In addition, the development of new properties may involve construction, local opposition, regulatory, legal and competitive risks as well as the risks attendant
to partnership deals on these development opportunities. In particular, in projects where we team up with a joint venture partner, if we cannot reach agreement with such partners, or our relationships
otherwise deteriorate, we could face significant increased costs and delays. Local opposition can delay or increase the anticipated cost of a project. Finally, given the competitive nature of these
types of limited license opportunities, litigation is possible.

Management
of new properties, especially in new geographic areas, may require that we increase our management resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage the combined
operations effectively or realize any of the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. We also cannot assure you that if acquisitions are completed, that the acquired businesses will generate returns
consistent with our expectations.

Our
ability to achieve our objectives in connection with any acquisition we may consummate may be highly dependent on, among other things, our ability to retain the senior level property
management teams of such acquisition candidates. If, for any reason, we are unable to retain these management
teams following such acquisitions or if we fail to attract new capable executives, our operations after consummation of such acquisitions could be materially adversely affected.

The
occurrence of some or all of the above described events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We may face risks related to our ability to receive regulatory approvals required to complete, or other delays or impediments to completing certain of our acquisitions.

Our growth is fueled, in part, by the acquisition of existing gaming, racing, and development properties. In addition to standard
closing conditions, our acquisitions are often conditioned on the receipt of regulatory approvals and other hurdles that create uncertainty and could increase costs, which could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We face risks related to the development and expansion of our properties.

We expect to use a portion of our cash on hand, cash flow from operations and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility
for significant capital expenditures at certain of our properties. Any proposed enhancement may require us to significantly increase the size of our existing work force at those properties. We cannot
be certain that management will be able to hire and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees to operate and manage these facilities at their optimal levels. The failure to employ the
necessary work force could adversely affect our operations and ultimately



harm
profitability. In addition, these enhancements could involve construction risks including cost over-runs and delays, market deterioration and timely receipt of required licenses,
permits or authorizations. Our failure to complete any new development or expansion project as planned, on schedule, within budget or in a manner that generates anticipated profits, could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We face a number of challenges prior to opening new or upgraded gaming facilities.

No assurance can be given that, when we endeavor to open new or upgraded gaming facilities, the expected timetables for opening such
facilities will be met in light of the uncertainties inherent in the development of the regulatory framework, construction, the licensing process, legislative action and litigation.

We face significant competition from other gaming operations.

The gaming industry is characterized by a high degree of competition among a large number of participants, including riverboat casinos,
dockside casinos, land-based casinos, video lottery and poker machines not located in casinos, Native American gaming, and other forms of gaming in the U.S. Furthermore, competition from
internet lotteries and other internet wagering gaming services, which allow their customers to wager on a wide variety of sporting events and play Las Vegas-style casino games from home, could divert
customers from our properties and thus adversely affect our business. Such internet wagering services are often illegal under federal law but operate from overseas locations, and are nevertheless
sometimes accessible to domestic gamblers. Currently, there are proposals that would legalize internet poker and other varieties of internet gaming in a number of states and at the federal level.

In
a broader sense, our gaming operations face competition from all manner of leisure and entertainment activities, including: shopping; high school, collegiate and professional athletic
events; television and movies; concerts and travel. Legalized gaming is currently permitted in various forms throughout the U.S., in several Canadian provinces and on various lands taken into trust
for the benefit of certain Native Americans in the U.S. and Canada. Other jurisdictions, including states adjacent to states in which we currently have facilities (such as in Ohio and Maryland), have
legalized, and are likely to fully implement, gaming in the near future. In addition, established gaming jurisdictions could award additional gaming licenses or permit the expansion or relocation of
existing gaming operations. New, relocated or expanded operations by other persons could increase competition for our gaming operations and could have a material adverse impact on us.

Gaming
competition is intense in most of the markets where we operate. There could be further competition in our markets as a result of the upgrading or expansion of facilities by
existing market participants, the entrance of new gaming participants into a market or legislative changes. As competing properties and new markets are opened our operating results may be negatively
impacted. For example, a proposed $400 million casino scheduled to open in 2013 in Cincinnati, Ohio will compete in the same market as our Lawrenceburg property, increased competition to our
Charles Town property is anticipated from the opening of a significant casino complex at the Arundel Mills mall in Anne Arundel, Maryland , the potential opening of a casino in Baltimore, Maryland, as
well as ongoing and potentially new competition in Pennsylvania and Maryland, an approximately $357 million riverboat casino and hotel in Baton Rouge, Louisiana is scheduled to open in the
summer of 2012 that may have
a potential impact on our Baton Rouge property, and an approximately $445 million casino that opened in July 2011 in Des Plaines, Illinois has negatively impacted our Hollywood Casino Aurora
and Hollywood Casino Joliet properties. In addition, some of our direct competitors in certain markets may have superior facilities and/or operating conditions.



We
expect each existing or future market in which we participate to be highly competitive. The competitive position of each of our casino properties is discussed in detail in the
subsection entitled "Competition" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We may face reductions in discretionary consumer spending as a result of an economic downturn.

Our net revenues are highly dependent upon the volume and spending levels of customers at our properties and as such our business has
been adversely impacted by economic downturns. Decreases in discretionary consumer spending brought about by weakened general economic conditions such as, but not limited to, high unemployment levels,
low levels of consumer confidence, weakness in the housing market and increased stock market volatility may negatively impact our revenues and operating cash flow.

We are or may become involved in legal proceedings that, if adversely adjudicated or settled, could impact our financial condition.

From time to time, we are defendants in various lawsuits relating to matters incidental to our business. The nature of our business
subjects us to the risk of lawsuits filed by customers, past and present employees, competitors, business partners and others in the ordinary course of business. As with all litigation, no assurance
can be provided as to the outcome of these matters and, in general, litigation can be expensive and time consuming. We may not be successful in these lawsuits, which could result in settlements or
damages that could significantly impact our business, financial condition and results of operations (see, for example, the lawsuits described in Item 3 below).

We face extensive regulation from gaming and other regulatory authorities.

Licensing requirements.

As owners and managers of gaming and pari-mutuel wagering facilities, we are subject to extensive state, local
and, in Canada, provincial regulation. State, local and provincial authorities require us and our subsidiaries to demonstrate suitability to obtain and retain various licenses and require that we have
registrations, permits and approvals to conduct gaming operations. These regulatory authorities have broad discretion, and may, for any reason set forth in the applicable legislation, rules and
regulations, limit, condition, suspend, fail to renew or revoke a license or registration to conduct gaming operations or prevent us from owning the securities of any of our gaming subsidiaries or
prevent another person from owning an equity interest in us. Like all gaming operators in the jurisdictions in which we operate, we must periodically apply to renew our gaming licenses or
registrations and have the suitability of certain of our directors, officers and employees approved. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such renewals or approvals. Regulatory
authorities have input into our operations, for instance, hours of operation, location or relocation of a facility, and numbers and types of machines. Regulators may also levy substantial fines
against or seize our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries or the people involved in violating gaming laws or regulations. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations.

We
have demonstrated suitability to obtain and have obtained all governmental licenses, registrations, permits and approvals necessary for us to operate our existing gaming and
pari-mutuel facilities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them or demonstrate suitability to obtain any new licenses, registrations, permits or approvals. In addition,
the loss of a license in one jurisdiction could trigger the loss of a license or affect our eligibility for a license in another jurisdiction. As we expand our gaming operations in our existing
jurisdictions or to new areas, we may have to meet additional suitability requirements and obtain additional licenses, registrations, permits and approvals from gaming authorities in these
jurisdictions. The approval process can be time-consuming and costly and we cannot be sure that we will be successful.



Gaming
authorities in the U.S. generally can require that any beneficial owner of our securities file an application for a finding of suitability. If a gaming authority requires a record
or beneficial owner of our securities to file a suitability application, the owner must generally apply for a finding of suitability within 30 days or at an earlier time prescribed by
the gaming authority. The gaming authority has the
power to investigate such an owner's suitability and the owner must pay all costs of the investigation. If the owner is found unsuitable, then the owner may be required by law to dispose of our
securities.

Potential changes in legislation and regulation of our operations.

Regulations governing the conduct of gaming activities and the
obligations of
gaming companies in any jurisdiction in which we have or in the future may have gaming operations are subject to change and could impose additional operating, financial or other burdens on the way we
conduct our business.

Moreover,
legislation to prohibit, limit, or add burdens to our business may be introduced in the future in states where gaming has been legalized. In addition, from time to time,
legislators and special interest groups have proposed legislation that would expand, restrict or prevent gaming operations or which may otherwise adversely impact our operations in the jurisdictions
in which we operate. Any expansion of gaming or restriction on or prohibition of our gaming operations or enactment of other adverse regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our
operating results. For example, in October 2005, the Illinois House of Representatives voted to approve proposed legislation that would eliminate riverboat gambling. If the Illinois Senate had passed
that bill, our business would have been materially impacted. In addition, legislation banning smoking appears to be gaining momentum in a number of jurisdictions where we operate or seek to do
business (including passage in Illinois, Colorado and Pennsylvania in 2008). If these bans continue to be enacted, our business could be adversely affected.

Taxation and fees.

We believe that the prospect of significant revenue is one of the primary reasons that jurisdictions permit
legalized gaming. As a
result, gaming companies are typically subject to significant revenue based taxes and fees in addition to normal federal, state, local and provincial income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject
to increase at any time. We pay substantial taxes and fees with respect to our operations. From time to time, federal, state, local and provincial legislators and officials have proposed changes in
tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. In addition, worsening economic conditions could intensify the efforts of state and local governments to raise revenues
through increases in gaming taxes. It is not possible to determine with certainty the likelihood of changes in tax laws or in the administration of such laws. Such changes, if adopted, could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The large number of state and local governments with significant current or projected budget deficits makes it
more likely that those governments that currently permit gaming will seek to fund such deficits with new or increased gaming taxes, and worsening economic conditions could intensify those efforts. Any
material increase, or the adoption of additional taxes or fees, could have a material adverse effect on our future financial results.

Compliance with other laws.

We are also subject to a variety of other rules and regulations, including zoning, environmental,
construction and
land-use laws and regulations governing the
serving of alcoholic beverages. If we are not in compliance with these laws, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We depend on our key personnel.

We are highly dependent on the services of Peter M. Carlino, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Timothy J. Wilmott, our
President and Chief Operating Officer, William J. Clifford, our Senior Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer, and other members of our senior management team. Our ability to retain key
personnel is affected by the competitiveness of our compensation packages and the other terms and conditions of employment, our continued ability to compete



effectively
against other gaming companies and our growth prospects. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations.

Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and compliance risks.

Changing laws and regulations relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
regulations, generally accepted accounting principles, and NASDAQ Global Select Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies. These changing laws and regulations are subject to varying
interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, recent issuance and/or lack of guidance. As a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by
regulatory and governing bodies. In addition, further regulation of financial institutions and public companies is possible. This could result in continuing uncertainty and higher costs regarding
compliance matters. Due to our commitment to maintain high standards of compliance with laws and public disclosure, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in
and are likely to continue to result in increased general and administrative expense. In addition, we are subject to different parties' interpretation of our compliance with these new and changing
laws and regulations. A failure to comply with any of these laws or regulations could have a materially adverse effect on us. For instance, if our gaming authorities, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, our independent auditors or our shareholders and potential shareholders conclude that our compliance with the regulations is unsatisfactory, this may result in a negative public perception
of us, subject us to increased regulatory scrutiny, monetary penalties or otherwise adversely affect us.

Inclement weather and other casualty events could seriously disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

The operations of our facilities are subject to disruptions or reduced patronage as a result of severe weather conditions, natural
disasters and other casualty events. Because many of our gaming operations are located on or adjacent to bodies of water, these facilities are subject to risks in addition to those associated with
land-based casinos, including loss of service due to casualty, forces of nature, mechanical failure, extended or extraordinary maintenance, flood, hurricane or other severe weather
conditions. For example, in late August 2005, we closed Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis in Bay St. Louis, Mississippi, Boomtown Biloxi in Biloxi, Mississippi and Hollywood Casino Baton
Rouge in Baton Rouge, Louisiana in anticipation of Hurricane Katrina. Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge subsequently reopened on August 30, 2005. However, due to the extensive damage sustained,
operations at Boomtown Biloxi and Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis did not resume until June 29, 2006 and August 31, 2006, respectively. Many of our casinos operate in areas which
are subject to periodic flooding that has caused us to experience decreased attendance and increased operating expenses. Any flood or other severe weather condition could lead to the loss of use of a
casino facility for an extended period. For instance, Hollywood Casino Tunica was closed from May 1, 2011 to May 25, 2011 due to flooding. In terms of casualty events, on
March 20, 2009, our Hollywood Casino Joliet was closed following a fire that started in the land-based pavilion at the facility. On June 25, 2009, the casino barge reopened
with temporary land-based facilities, and we began construction of a new land-based pavilion, which opened in late December 2010.



The extent to which we can recover under our insurance policies for damages sustained at our properties in the event of future hurricanes and casualty events could adversely
affect our business.

We maintain significant property insurance, including business interruption coverage, for these and other properties. However, there
can be no assurances that we will be fully or promptly compensated for losses at any of our facilities in the event of future hurricanes or casualty events.

Our operations in certain jurisdictions depend on management agreements and/or leases with third parties and local governments.

Our operations in several jurisdictions depend on land leases and/or management and development agreements with third parties and local
governments. If we are unable to renew these leases and agreements on satisfactory terms as they expire, our business may be disrupted and, in the event of disruptions in multiple jurisdictions, could
have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, in Iowa, each gaming license is issued jointly to a gaming operator and a local charitable sponsor.
Our gaming operator subsidiary in Iowa, Belle of Sioux City, L.P. (the "Belle"), is party to an agreement with its local sponsor, Missouri River Historical Development, Inc. ("MRHD")
that may expire as soon as July 2012. The Belle is currently negotiating with MRHD to enter into a new long-term agreement in connection with which it has offered to construct a new
land-based facility to replace its current barge-based facility. If the Belle does not reach a new agreement with MRHD, it will need to partner with another sponsor. At this time, no
assurance can be given that the Belle will be able to reach a new agreement with MRHD or, if such agreement is not reached, that it will be able to partner with another sponsor. In addition, the Belle
also has a docking lease with the City of Sioux City, scheduled to expire in January 2013, which permits it to dock its gaming vessel at its current location. Its failure to renew this lease on
acceptable terms could disrupt its operations and adversely affect our operating results. Similarly, in the Province of Ontario, through CHC Casinos, our indirectly wholly-owned subsidiary, we manage
Casino Rama, a full service gaming and entertainment facility, on behalf of the OLGC, an agency of the Province of Ontario. On October 5, 2010, the OLGC issued a request for proposals inviting
gaming operators to bid on a new five year term for the management of the Casino Rama facility subject to a cap on management fees of $5 million per year. Our current management agreement for
Casino Rama, which initially expired in July 2011, has been twice extended to provide additional time for the bid process. Our current extension expires on September 30, 2012. No assurance can
be given that we will be given additional extensions or that we may ultimately be selected as the new operator.

We are subject to environmental laws and potential exposure to environmental liabilities.

We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern our operations, including emissions
and discharges into the environment, and the handling and disposal of hazardous and nonhazardous substances and wastes. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in costs for
corrective action, penalties or the imposition of other liabilities or restrictions. From time to time, we have incurred and are incurring costs and obligations for correcting environmental
noncompliance matters. To date, none of these matters have had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations; however, there can be no assurance that such
matters will not have such an effect in the future. In addition, as we acquire properties, we may not know the full level of exposure that we may have undertaken despite appropriate due diligence.

We
also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of
these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of remediating contaminated soil or groundwater on or from its property, without regard to
whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused, the contamination, as well as incur liability to third parties impacted by such contamination. The presence of contamination, or failure to remediate
it properly, may adversely



affect
our ability to use, sell or rent property. The Bullwhackers property is located within the geographic footprint of the Clear Creek/Central City Superfund Site, a large area of historic mining
activity which is the subject of state and federal clean-up actions. Although we have not been named a potentially responsible party for this Superfund Site, it is possible that as a
result of our ownership and operation of this property (on which mining may have occurred in the past), we may incur costs related to this matter in the future. Furthermore, we are aware that there is
or may have been soil or groundwater contamination at certain of our properties (such as Colorado and Ohio) resulting from current or former operations. These matters are in various stages of
investigation, and we are not able at this time to estimate the costs that will be required to resolve them. Additionally, certain of the gaming chips used at many gaming properties, including some of
ours, have been found to contain some level of lead. Analysis by third parties has indicated the normal handling of the chips does not create a health hazard. We are in the process of evaluating our
disposal alternatives. To date, none of these matters or other matters arising under environmental laws has had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of
operations; however, there can be no assurance that such matters will not have such an effect in the future.

The concentration and evolution of the slot machine manufacturing industry could impose additional costs on us.

A majority of our revenues are attributable to slot machines operated by us at our gaming facilities. It is important, for competitive
reasons, that we offer the most popular and up to date slot machine games with the latest technology to our customers.

A
substantial majority of the slot machines sold in the U.S. in recent years were manufactured by a few select companies. In recent years, the prices of new slot machines have escalated
faster than the rate of inflation. Furthermore, in recent years, slot machine manufacturers have frequently refused to sell slot machines featuring the most popular games, instead requiring
participation lease arrangements in order to acquire the machines. Participation slot machine leasing arrangements typically require the payment of a fixed daily rental. Such agreements may also
include a percentage payment of coin-in or net win. Generally, a participation lease is substantially more expensive over the long term than the cost to purchase a new machine.

For
competitive reasons, we may be forced to purchase new slot machines or enter into participation lease arrangements that are more expensive than our current costs associated with the
continued operation of our existing slot machines. If the newer slot machines do not result in sufficient incremental revenues to offset the increased investment and participation lease costs, it
could hurt our profitability.

We depend on agreements with our horsemen and pari-mutuel clerks.

The Federal Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978, as amended, the West Virginia Racing Act and the Pennsylvania Racing Act require that,
in order to simulcast races, we have written agreements with the horse owners and trainers at our West Virginia and Pennsylvania race tracks. In addition, in order to operate gaming machines and table
games in West Virginia, we are required to enter into written agreements regarding the proceeds of the gaming machines with a representative of a majority of the horse owners and trainers, a
representative of a majority of the pari-mutuel clerks and a representative of a majority of the horse breeders.

Effective
October 1, 2004, we signed an agreement with the Pennsylvania Thoroughbred Horsemen at Penn National Race Course that expired on September 30, 2011, but has been
extended through February 29, 2012 pending continuing negotiations. We have a collective bargaining agreement with Local 137 of the Sports Arena Employees at Penn National Race Course with
respect to pari-mutuel clerks, admissions and Telebet personnel which expired on December 31, 2011 and will likely be extended pending negotiations. We also have an agreement in
place with Local 137 of the Sports Arena Employees with respect to pari-mutuel clerks and admission personnel at our OTWs, which expires on



August 31,
2013. At Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races, we have an agreement with the Charles Town Horsemen expiring on December 31, 2012, and an agreement with the breeders that
expires on June 30, 2012. The pari-mutuel clerks at Charles Town are represented under a collective bargaining agreement with the West Virginia Union of Mutuel Clerks, which expired
on December 31, 2010 and has been informally extended on a month-to-month basis while negotiations are in process. Our agreement with the Maine Harness Horsemen
Association at Bangor Raceway expired on December 31, 2011. We anticipate having a new agreement in place prior to the commencement of live racing which will occur in May 2012. Our agreement
with the Ohio Harness Horsemen Association at Raceway Park expires on November 30, 2012. In connection with the acquisition of Beulah Park, we have assumed the agreement with the Ohio
Horsemen's Protective and Benevolent Association which expires on November 30, 2012. Rosecroft Raceway entered into
agreements with the Cloverleaf Standardbred Owners Association and Maryland Standardbred Breeder's Association as of July 5, 2011. Both of these agreements expire on December 31, 2022.

If
we fail to maintain operative agreements with the horsemen at a track, we will not be permitted to conduct live racing and export and import simulcasting at that track and OTWs and,
in West Virginia, we will not be permitted to operate our gaming machines and table games unless the state intervenes or changes the statute. In addition, our simulcasting agreements are subject to
the horsemen's approval. If we fail to renew or modify existing agreements on satisfactory terms, this failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations.

Work stoppages, organizing drives and other labor problems could negatively impact our future profits.

Some of our employees are currently represented by labor unions. A lengthy strike or other work stoppages at any of our casino
properties or construction projects could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Given the large number of employees, labor unions are making a concerted effort to recruit
more employees in the gaming industry. In addition, organized labor may benefit from new legislation or legal interpretations by the current presidential administration. Particularly, in light of
current support for changes to federal and state labor laws, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not experience additional and more successful union organization activity in the future.

Risks Related to Our Capital Structure

Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our debt.

Although we have lower debt leverage ratios than our domestic gaming competitors, we continue to have a significant amount of
indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to our financial health. For example, it could:

•

increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;

•

require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service, thereby reducing the
availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;

•

limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;

•

limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to
borrow additional funds; and

•

result in an event of default if we fail to satisfy our obligations under our debt or fail to comply with the financial
and other restrictive covenants contained in our debt instruments, which event of default could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable and could permit certain of our lenders
to foreclose on our assets securing such debt.



Any of the above listed factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may incur
substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including to fund acquisitions. The terms of our existing indebtedness do not, and any future debt may not, fully prohibit us from doing so. If new
debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify.

Volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets and adverse changes in the global economy may negatively impact our revenues and our ability to access favorable
financing terms.

While we intend to finance expansion and renovation projects with existing cash, cash flow from operations and borrowing under our
senior secured credit facility, we may require additional financing to support our continued growth. However, depending on then current economic conditions, our access to capital may not be available
on terms acceptable to us or at all. Further, if adverse regional and national economic conditions persist or worsen, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations attributable to
decreases in consumer spending levels and could fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing indebtedness. Finally, our borrowing costs
under our senior secured credit facility are tied to LIBOR. We currently have no hedges in place to mitigate the impact of higher LIBOR rates and as such significant increases in LIBOR could have a
negative impact on our results of operations.

The availability and cost of financing could have an adverse effect on business.

We intend to finance some of our current and future expansion and renovation projects primarily with cash flow from operations,
borrowings under our current senior secured credit facility and equity or debt financings. Depending on the state of the credit markets, if we are unable to finance our current or future expansion
projects, we could have to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying planned expansion, development and renovation projects as well as capital expenditures, selling assets,
restructuring debt, obtaining additional equity financing or joint venture partners, or modifying our senior secured credit facility. Depending on credit market conditions, these sources of funds may
not be sufficient to finance our expansion, and other financing may not be available on acceptable terms, in a timely manner or at all. In addition, our existing indebtedness contains certain
restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness. If we are unable to secure additional financing, we could be forced to limit or suspend expansion, acquisitions, development and
renovation projects, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We
have a revolving credit facility with a borrowing capacity of $700.0 million that expires in July 2016 via a bank group that is comprised of various large financial
institutions with the top four institutions providing over 53% of the facility. If a large percentage of our lenders were to file for bankruptcy or otherwise default on their obligations to us, we
could experience decreased levels of liquidity which could have a detrimental impact on our operations, including being able to fund our current project pipeline. There is no certainty that our
lenders will continue to remain solvent or fund their respective obligations under our senior secured credit facility.

Our indebtedness imposes restrictive covenants on us.

Our senior secured credit facility requires us, among other obligations, to maintain specified financial ratios and to satisfy certain
financial tests, including fixed charge coverage, interest coverage, senior leverage and total leverage ratios. In addition, our senior secured credit facility and $325 million


/


% senior subordinated notes restrict, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, incur guarantee obligations, amend debt instruments, pay dividends, create
liens on assets, make investments, engage in mergers or consolidations, and otherwise restrict corporate activities. A failure to comply with these restrictions could lead to an event of default
thereunder which could result in an acceleration of such indebtedness.



To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash, which depends on many factors beyond our control.

Based on our current level of operations, we believe our cash flow from operations, available cash and available borrowings under our
senior secured credit facility will be adequate to meet our future liquidity needs for the next year. We cannot assure you, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from
operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior secured credit facility in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs, including with respect to our
indebtedness. In addition, if we consummate significant acquisitions and/or other expansion opportunities in the future, our cash requirements may increase significantly. As we are required to satisfy
amortization requirements under our senior secured credit facility or as other debt matures, we may also need to raise funds to refinance all or a portion of our debt. We cannot assure you that we
will be able to refinance any of our debt, including our senior secured credit facility, on attractive terms, commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our future operating performance and our ability
to service or refinance the notes, extend or refinance our debt, including our senior secured credit facility, will be subject to future economic conditions and to financial, business and other
factors, many of which are beyond our control.

The price of our Common Stock may fluctuate significantly.

Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as variations in operating results, actions by
various regulatory agencies and legislatures, litigation, operating competition, market perceptions, progress with respect to potential acquisitions, changes in financial estimates and recommendations
by securities analysts, the actions of rating agencies, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, and news reports relating to trends in
our markets or general economic conditions.

ITEM 1B.    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES

The following describes our principal real estate properties by segment:

Midwest

Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg.

We own the Hollywood casino riverboat. We own and lease 52 acres in Lawrenceburg, Indiana, a portion of
which serves
as the dockside embarkation for the gaming vessel, and includes an entertainment pavilion, a 295-room hotel, two parking garages and an adjacent surface lot. In addition, we own a
52-acre parcel on Route 50 which we use for remote parking.

The
City of Lawrenceburg is currently designing a hotel to be built by the City of Lawrenceburg near our Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg property. By contractual agreement reached with the
City of Lawrenceburg, the project will ultimately be owned and operated by a subsidiary of the Company upon completion of construction. Currently slated to include 180 rooms and approximately 18,000
square feet of multipurpose space, the City of Lawrenceburg anticipates an opening date in the third quarter of 2013.

Hollywood Casino Aurora.

We own a dockside barge structure and land-based pavilion in Aurora, Illinois. We own the land, which is
approximately 17,000 square feet, on which the pavilion is located and a pedestrian walkway bridge. The property also includes a parking lot under an operating lease agreement and two parking garages
under capital lease agreements.



Hollywood Casino Joliet.

We own approximately 276 acres in Joliet, Illinois, which includes a barge-based casino, a 100-room hotel, and
a
1,100 space parking garage.

Argosy Casino Alton.

The Alton Belle II is a riverboat casino, which we own. We lease a 2.5-acre parcel in Alton, Illinois, a portion
of
which serves as the dockside boarding for the Alton Belle II. The dockside facility includes an entertainment pavilion and office space. In addition, we lease a warehouse facility and own an office
building.

Casino Rama.

We do not own any of the land located at or near the casino or Casino Rama's facilities and equipment. The Ontario Lottery
and Gaming
Corporation has a long-term ground lease with an affiliate of the Rama First Nation, for the land on which Casino Rama is situated. Under the Agreement, CHC Casinos Canada Limited and CRC
Holdings, Inc. have been granted full access to Casino Rama during the term of the Agreement to perform the management services under the Agreement. The Casino Rama facilities are located on
approximately 57 acres.

Hollywood Casino Columbus.

We currently own approximately 123 acres of land in Columbus, Ohio, where we have begun construction of
Hollywood Casino
Columbus.

Hollywood Casino Toledo.

We own a 44-acre site in Toledo, Ohio, where we have begun construction of Hollywood Casino Toledo.

East/West

Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races.

We own 315 acres on various parcels in Charles Town and Ranson, West Virginia of which 155 acres
comprise
Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races. The facility includes a 153-room hotel and a


/


-mile all-weather lighted thoroughbred racetrack, a training
track, two parking garages, an employee parking lot, an enclosed grandstand/clubhouse and housing facilities for over 1,300 horses.

Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course.

We own approximately 625 acres in Grantville, Pennsylvania, where Penn National Race
Course is located
on 225 acres. Currently, the property includes a 365,000 square foot facility, complimented by a one-mile all-weather lighted thoroughbred racetrack and a


/


-mile turf track, and a parking garage. The property also includes approximately 400 acres surrounding the Penn National Race Course that are available for future
expansion or development.

M Resort.

We own the M Resort, which is situated on over 90 acres on the southeast corner of Las Vegas Boulevard and St. Rose
Parkway, in
Henderson, Nevada. The M Resort property includes a 390-room hotel, 4,700 space parking, and other land-based facilities.

Hollywood Casino Perryville.

We own approximately 36 acres of land in Perryville, Maryland, where we opened Hollywood Casino Perryville
to the public
on September 27, 2010.

Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway.

We lease the land on which the Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway facility is located in Bangor,
Maine, which
consists of just over 9 acres, and includes a 152-room hotel and four-story parking. In addition, we lease approximately 26 acres located at historic Bass Park, which is
adjacent to the facility, which includes a one-half mile track and a grandstand with over 12,000 square feet and seating for 3,500 patrons.

Zia Park Casino.

Our casino adjoins the racetrack and is located on an approximately 320-acre site that we own in Hobbs, New Mexico. The
property includes a one-mile quarter/thoroughbred racetrack.



Southern Plains

Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis.

We own approximately 614 acres in the city of Bay St. Louis, Mississippi, including a
17-acre marina. The property includes a land-based casino, an 18-hole golf course, a 291-room hotel, and other land-based facilities, all of
which we own.

Argosy Casino Riverside.

We own approximately 41 acres in Riverside, Missouri, which includes a barge-based casino, a 258-room luxury
hotel, an entertainment/banquet facility and a parking garage.

Hollywood Casino Tunica.

We lease approximately 70 acres of land in Tunica, Mississippi. The property includes a single-level casino, a
494-room hotel, and other land-based facilities, which we own.

Boomtown Biloxi.

We lease approximately 13 acres, most of which is utilized for the gaming location, under a lease that expires in
2093. We also
lease approximately 5 acres of submerged tidelands at the
casino site from the State of Mississippi. We own the barge on which the casino is located and all of the land-based facilities.

Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge.

Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge is a four-story riverboat casino, which we own. We own a 17.4-acre
site on the east bank of the Mississippi River in the East Baton Rouge Downtown Development District. The property site serves as the dockside embarkation for Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge and features
a two-story building. We also own 5.5 acres of land that are used primarily for offices, warehousing, and parking. In December 2007, we agreed to acquire 3.8 acres of adjacent land and to
pay for half of the construction costs for a railroad underpass with the seller of the land. Construction on the underpass started in June 2009 and was completed in March 2011. The underpass provides
unimpeded access to the casino property and to property owned by the seller for future development.

Argosy Casino Sioux City.

We have a lease in Sioux City, Iowa, for the landing rights, which includes the dockside embarkation for the
Argosy IV, a
riverboat casino. We own the Argosy IV as well as adjacent barge facilities.

Other

Bullwhackers.

Our Bullwhackers casino is located on a 3.5-acre site, which we own. On August 30, 2006, we purchased a gas
station/convenience store located approximately 7 miles east of the Bullwhackers casino on Highway 119 on a 7.6-acre site.

Raceway Park.

We own approximately 92 acres in Toledo, Ohio, where Raceway Park is located. The property includes a


/


-mile standardbred race track, including a clubhouse and a grandstand.

Beulah Park.

We own approximately 210 acres in Grove City, Ohio, just outside of Columbus, Ohio. The property includes a thoroughbred
racing
facility, a grandstand, outdoor paddock and a clubhouse building.

Rosecroft.

Rosecroft Raceway is situated on approximately 125 acres, which we own. The Rosecroft facility features a


/


-mile standardbred race track with a seven race paddock, a 53,000 square foot grandstand building, and a 96,000 square foot three story clubhouse building with dining
facilities.

Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club.

We own approximately 26 acres in Longwood, Florida where Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club is located. The
property includes a


/


-mile racing surface, a clubhouse dining facility and a main grandstand building. Kennel facilities for up to 1,300 greyhounds are located at a leased location
approximately


/


mile from the racetrack enclosure.

Freehold Raceway.

Through our joint venture in Pennwood, we own a 51-acre site in Freehold, New Jersey, where Freehold Raceway is
located. The property features a half-mile standardbred race



track
and a grandstand. In addition, through our joint venture in Pennwood, we own a 10-acre site in Cherry Hill, New Jersey, which is currently undeveloped.

Sam Houston Race Park and Valley Race Park.

Through our joint venture with MAXXAM, we own 323 acres at Sam Houston Race Park and 80
acres at Valley
Race Park. Sam Houston Race Park includes a one-mile dirt track and a


/


-mile turf track as well as a 226,000 square foot grandstand and pavilion centre. Valley
Race Park includes a 91,000 square foot dog racing and simulcasting facility.

Off-track Wagering Facilities.

The following is a list of our four OTWs, which are leased, and their locations:

Location

Approx. Size

(Square Ft.)

Owned/Leased

Date Opened

Reading, PA

22,500

Leased

May 1992

Chambersburg, PA

12,500

Leased

April 1994

York, PA

25,000

Leased

March 1995

Lancaster, PA

24,000

Leased

July 1996

In
addition, through our joint venture in Pennwood, we own 50% of a leased OTW in Toms River, New Jersey, that has 28,160 square feet.

Corporate.

We lease 45,917 square feet of executive office and warehouse space for buildings in Wyomissing, Pennsylvania from
affiliates of Peter M.
Carlino, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. We believe the lease terms for the executive office and warehouse to be no less favorable than such lease terms that could have been obtained from
unaffiliated third parties.

ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

We are subject to various legal and administrative proceedings relating to personal injuries, employment matters, commercial
transactions and other matters arising in the normal course of business. We do not believe that the final outcome of these matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
position or results of operations. In addition, we maintain what we believe is adequate insurance coverage to further mitigate the risks of such proceedings. However, such proceedings can be costly,
time consuming and unpredictable and, therefore, no assurance can be given that the final outcome of such proceedings may not materially impact our consolidated financial condition or results of
operations. Further, no assurance can be given that the amount or scope of existing insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover losses arising from such matters.

The
following proceedings could result in costs, settlements, damages, or rulings that materially impact our consolidated financial condition or operating results. In each instance, we
believe that we have meritorious defenses, claims and/or counter-claims, and intends to vigorously defend ourselves or pursue our claim.

The
Illinois Legislature passed into law House Bill 1918, effective May 26, 2006, which singled out four of the nine Illinois casinos, including the Company's Hollywood Casino
Joliet and Hollywood Casino Aurora, for a 3% surcharge to subsidize local horse racing interests. On May 30, 2006, Hollywood Casino Joliet and Hollywood Casino Aurora joined with the two other
riverboats affected by the law, Harrah's Joliet and the Grand Victoria Casino in Elgin (collectively, the "Four Casinos"), and filed suit in the Circuit Court of the Twelfth Judicial District in Will
County, Illinois (the "Court"), asking the Court to declare the law unconstitutional. Hollywood Casino Joliet and Hollywood Casino Aurora began paying the 3% surcharge into a protest fund which
accrued interest during the pendency of the lawsuit. In two orders dated March 29, 2007 and April 20, 2007, the Court declared the law unconstitutional under the Uniformity Clause of the
Illinois Constitution and enjoined the collection of this surcharge. The State of Illinois requested, and was granted, a stay of this ruling. As a result,



Hollywood
Casino Joliet and Hollywood Casino Aurora continued paying the 3% surcharge into the protest fund until May 25, 2008, when the 3% surcharge expired. The State of Illinois appealed the
ruling to the Illinois Supreme Court. On June 5, 2008, the Illinois Supreme Court reversed the trial court's ruling and issued a decision upholding the constitutionality of the 3% surcharge. On
January 21, 2009, the Four Casinos filed a petition for certiorari, requesting the U.S. Supreme Court to hear the case. Seven amicus curiae briefs supporting the plaintiffs' request were also
filed. On June 8, 2009, the U.S. Supreme Court decided not to hear the case. On June 10, 2009, the Four Casinos filed a petition with the Court to open the judgment based on new evidence
that came to light during the investigation of former Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich that the 2006 law was procured by corruption. On August 17, 2009, the Court dismissed the Four Casinos'
petition to reopen the case, and the Four Casinos decided not to pursue an appeal of the dismissal.

On
December 15, 2008, former Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich signed Public Act No. 95-1008 requiring the Four Casinos to continue paying the 3% surcharge to
subsidize Illinois horse racing interests. On January 8, 2009, the Four Casinos filed suit in the Court, asking it to declare the law unconstitutional. The 3% surcharge being paid pursuant to
Public Act No. 95-1008 was paid into a protest fund where it accrued interest. The defendants filed a motion to dismiss, which was granted on August 17, 2009. The Four
Casinos appealed the dismissal and filed motions to keep the payments in the protest fund while the appeal is being litigated. The motion to keep the monies in the protest fund was denied and the
funds were released to the racetracks. On January 27, 2011, the Illinois appellate court affirmed the trial court's dismissal of this case. Hollywood Casino Joliet and Hollywood Casino Aurora
asked the Illinois Supreme Court to hear an appeal of this dismissal and this request was denied. The monies paid into the protest fund have been transferred by the State of Illinois to the
racetracks. The payment of the 3% surcharge under the 2008 statute ended on July 14, 2011 with the opening of the new casino in Des Plaines, Illinois.

On
June 12, 2009, the Four Casinos filed a lawsuit in Illinois Federal Court naming former Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich, his campaign fund, racetrack owner John Johnston, and
his two racetracks as defendants alleging a civil conspiracy in violation of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, 18 U.S.C. §1962(c),(d) ("RICO"), based on an illegal
scheme to secure the enactment of the 3% surcharge legislation in exchange for the payment of money by Johnston and entities controlled by him. The Four Casinos sought to impose a constructive trust
over all funds paid under the surcharge, and therefore all of the Illinois racetracks were named as parties to the lawsuit. The defendants in the RICO case filed motions to dismiss. On
December 7, 2009, the district court denied the motions to dismiss the RICO count, but it granted the motion to dismiss the constructive trust count, stating that it did not have jurisdiction
in this case to impose the constructive trust. The Four Casinos appealed this dismissal to the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals, which affirmed the dismissal in an en banc opinion. The Illinois
racetracks are now free to use the monies that they received from the 3% surcharge. Since the passing of House Bill 1918 into law, Hollywood Casino Joliet and Hollywood Casino Aurora have recognized
approximately $55.2 million in expense as a result of the 3% surcharge, including $5.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2011. The 3% surcharge is included in gaming
expense within the consolidated statements of operations.

On
July 16, 2008, the Company was served with a purported class action lawsuit brought by plaintiffs seeking to represent a class of shareholders who purchased shares of the
Company's Common Stock between March 20, 2008 and July 2, 2008. The lawsuit alleges that the Company's disclosure practices relative to the proposed transaction with Fortress Investment
Group LLC and Centerbridge Partners, L.P. and the eventual termination of that transaction were misleading and deficient in violation of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The
complaint, which seeks class certification and unspecified damages, was filed in federal court in Maryland. The complaint was amended, among other things, to add three new named plaintiffs and to name
Peter M. Carlino, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and William J. Clifford, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, as



additional
defendants. The Company filed a motion to dismiss the complaint in November 2008, and the court granted the motion and dismissed the complaint with prejudice. The plaintiffs filed a motion
for reconsideration, which was denied on October 21, 2009. The plaintiffs subsequently appealed the dismissal to the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals and an oral argument was heard on
October 26, 2010. On March 14, 2011, the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the decision of the lower court. The plaintiffs have requested the U.S. Supreme Court to consider an
appeal of the decision. In October 2011, the U.S. Supreme Court denied the application for an appeal.

On
September 11, 2008, the Board of County Commissioners of Cherokee County, Kansas (the "County") filed suit against Kansas Penn Gaming, LLC ("KPG," a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Penn created to pursue a development project in Cherokee County, Kansas) and the Company in the District Court of Shawnee County, Kansas. The petition alleges that KPG breached its
pre-development agreement with the County when KPG withdrew its application to manage a lottery gaming facility in Cherokee County and currently seeks in excess of $50 million in
damages. In connection with their petition, the County obtained an ex-parte order attaching the $25 million privilege fee paid to the Kansas Lottery Commission in conjunction with
the gaming application for the Cherokee County zone. The defendants have filed motions to dissolve and reduce the attachment. Those motions were denied. Following discovery, both parties have filed
dispositive motions.

On
September 23, 2008, KPG filed an action against HV Properties of Kansas, LLC ("HV") in the U.S. District Court for the District of Kansas seeking a declaratory judgment
from the U.S. District Court finding that KPG has no further obligations to HV under a Real Estate Sale Contract (the "Contract") that KPG and HV entered into on September 6, 2007, and that KPG
properly terminated this Contract under the terms of the Repurchase Agreement entered into between the parties effective September 28, 2007. HV filed a counterclaim claiming KPG breached the
Contract, and seeks $37.5 million in damages. On October 7, 2008, HV filed suit against the Company claiming the Company is liable to HV for KPG's alleged breach based on a Guaranty
Agreement signed by the Company. Both cases were consolidated. Following extensive discovery and briefings, on July 23, 2010, the court granted KPG's motion for summary judgment and dismissed
HV's claim. KPG filed a motion requesting reimbursement of the attorneys' fees and costs incurred in litigating this case pursuant to the terms of
the Contract and was awarded approximately $0.9 million. HV has appealed both rulings of the district court. In December 2011, the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the district courts'
rulings.

On
March 11, 2011, CD Gaming Ventures, LLC ("CD Gaming"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and developer of the Columbus casino, filed suit in U.S. District Court
against the City of Columbus (the "City"), Columbus officials, Franklin County and County officials. The lawsuit alleged that the City, Franklin County and various city and county officials violated
the Company's rights under the U.S. and Ohio Constitutions, principally by removing preexisting sewer and water service in an effort to force annexation of the constitutionally-authorized casino site
into the City. CD Gaming asked the court for an injunction preventing the City and the county from denying water and sewer service to the casino site and also sought monetary damages. On
May 24, 2011, the City and CD Gaming announced they had reached a contingent agreement, subject to final documentation, that would result in the annexation of the casino site into the City in
exchange for water and sewer service and other considerations. The agreement was conditioned, among other things, on the sale of real estate previously purchased by the Company in downtown Columbus
for $11 million and an acceptable settlement agreement with certain affiliates of the Columbus Dispatch. A sale agreement for the real estate in downtown Columbus closed on August 23,
2011 and a release and settlement agreement has been finalized with certain affiliates of the Columbus Dispatch.

ITEM 4.    MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

None.



PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

Range of Market Price

Our Common Stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol "PENN." The following table sets forth for the periods
indicated the high and low sales prices per share of our Common Stock as reported on the NASDAQ Global Select Market.

High

Low


First Quarter

$

38.17

$

33.42

Second Quarter

40.75

36.36

Third Quarter

44.29

33.05

Fourth Quarter

41.49

31.68


First Quarter

$

30.22

$

22.45

Second Quarter

31.95

23.05

Third Quarter

30.86

22.35

Fourth Quarter

37.32

29.44

The
closing sale price per share of our Common Stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on February 15, 2012, was $41.85. As of February 15, 2012, there were approximately
583 holders of record of our Common Stock.

Dividend Policy

Since our initial public offering of Common Stock in May 1994, we have not paid any cash dividends on our Common Stock. We intend to
retain all of our earnings to finance the development of our business, and thus, do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our Common Stock for the foreseeable future. Payment of any cash dividends
in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon, among other things, our future earnings, operations and capital requirements, our general financial condition
and general business conditions. In addition, our senior secured credit facility and $325 million 8


/


% senior subordinated notes restrict, among other things, our ability to pay
dividends. In addition, future financing arrangements may prohibit the payment of dividends under certain conditions.

Stock Repurchase

On June 9, 2011, the Board of Directors authorized the extension of the repurchase program previously authorized by the Board of
Directors on June 9, 2010 which provided for the purchase of up to $300 million of our Common Stock. The current authorization extends the repurchase program until the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders in 2012, unless otherwise extended or shortened by the Board of Directors. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we repurchased 2,981,406 shares of our Common Stock in open
market transactions for approximately $105.2 million at an average price of $35.29 per share. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we repurchased 1,526,400 shares of our Common Stock
in open market transactions for approximately $35.9 million at an average price of $23.49 per share. We did not repurchase any shares of our Common Stock in 2009.



The
table below summarizes the Company's repurchases of Common Stock during the quarter ended December 31, 2011:

Total Number of

Shares Purchased

Average

Price Paid

per Share

Total Number of

Shares Purchased

as Part of Publicly

Announced

Program(1)

Maximum Dollar

Value of Shares

that May Yet Be

Purchased Under

the Program

October 1, 2011 - October 31, 2011

—

$

—

—

$

238,329,608

November 1, 2011 - November 30, 2011

1,190,935

34.69

1,190,935

197,013,437

December 1, 2011 - December 31, 2011

1,034,954

35.61

1,034,954

160,159,344



ITEM 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The following selected consolidated financial and operating data for the five-year period ended December 31, 2011 is
derived from our consolidated financial statements that have been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm. The selected consolidated financial and
operating data should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and
the other financial information included herein.

Year Ended December 31,


2010(1)

2009(2)

2008(3)


(in thousands, except per share data)

Income statement data:(4)

Net revenues

$

2,742,257

$

2,459,111

$

2,369,275

$

2,423,053

$

2,436,793

Total operating expenses

2,242,676

2,305,885

2,563,873

2,509,494

1,938,984

Income (loss) from operations

499,581

153,226

(194,598

)

(86,441

)

497,809

Total other (expenses) income

(110,349

)

(148,708

)

(133,283

)

38,856

(205,569

)

Income (loss) from operations before income taxes

389,232

4,518

(327,881

)

(47,585

)

292,240

Taxes on income

146,881

66,178

(60,468

)

105,738

132,187

Net income (loss) including noncontrolling interests

242,351

(61,660

)

(267,413

)

(153,323

)

160,053

Less: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests

—

(2,193

)

(2,465

)

—

—

Net income (loss) attributable to the shareholders of Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries

$

242,351

$

(59,467

)

$

(264,948

)

$

(153,323

)

$

160,053

Per share data:

Basic earnings (loss) per common share

$

2.52

$

(0.76

)

$

(3.39

)

$

(1.81

)

$

1.87

Diluted earnings (loss) per common share

$

2.26

$

(0.76

)

$

(3.39

)

$

(1.81

)

$

1.81

Weighted shares outstanding—Basic(5)

77,991

78,079

78,122

84,536

85,578

Weighted shares outstanding—Diluted(5)

107,051

78,079

78,122

84,536

88,384

Other data:

Net cash provided by operating activities

$

567,365

$

493,178

$

338,246

$

420,463

$

431,219

Net cash used in investing activities

(338,802

)

(736,758

)

(262,659

)

(391,498

)

(611,617

)

Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities

(236,508

)

(223,153

)

(108,747

)

542,941

186,255

Depreciation and amortization

211,476

212,387

194,436

173,545

147,915

Interest expense

99,564

130,215

134,984

169,827

198,059

Capital expenditures

293,081

362,955

289,551

344,894

361,155

Balance sheet data:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

238,440

$

246,385

$

713,118

$

746,278

$

174,372

Total assets

4,606,346

4,462,879

4,712,616

5,189,676

4,967,032

Total debt

2,043,165

2,171,123

2,334,777

2,430,180

2,974,922

Shareholders' equity

1,971,631

1,777,766

1,852,076

2,057,273

1,120,962

(1)

As
a result of decreased earning projections resulting from an anticipated increase in competition from the scheduled opening of a $445 million
casino in the second half of 2011 in Des Plaines, Illinois, as well as continued challenging market conditions in the Chicagoland regional market, we recorded a pre-tax goodwill impairment
charge of $188.8 million ($173.0 million, net of taxes) related to our Aurora and Joliet properties during the year ended December 31, 2010. As a result of the May 2010 statewide
election, whereby the voters determined that our casino in Columbus will be located at the site of the former Delphi Automotive plant along Columbus's West Side, we reclassified the land that



we
had previously purchased in the Arena District site that had been originally approved for our casino as held for sale and recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $31.3 million
($20.1 million, net of taxes). Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2010, we wrote-off the trademark intangible asset associated with the Argosy acquisition for
$4.4 million ($2.8 million, net of taxes) due to management's strategy to transition Argosy properties to the Hollywood Casino brand. We also recorded a pre-tax charge of
$0.2 million during the year-ended December 31, 2010 related to the replaced Lawrenceburg vessel. See Note 3 below.

(2)

As
a result of the anticipated impact of gaming expansion in Ohio, we recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $520.5 million
($368.8 million, net of taxes) during the year ended December 31, 2009, as we determined that a portion of the value of our goodwill and indefinite-life intangible assets
associated with the original purchase of Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg was impaired. In addition, in conjunction with the opening of the new casino riverboat at Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg, we
recorded a pre-tax impairment charge for the replaced Lawrenceburg vessel of $11.9 million ($7.1 million, net of taxes) during the year ended December 31, 2009.

(3)

As
a result of a decline in our share price, an overall reduction in industry valuations, and property operating performance in the then-current
economic environment, we recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $481.3 million ($392.6 million, net of taxes) during the year ended December 31, 2008, as we
determined that a portion of the value of our goodwill, indefinite-life intangible assets and long-lived assets was impaired. The December 31, 2008 impairment charge by
property was as follows: Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg, $214.1 million pre-tax ($189.3 million, net of taxes); Hollywood Casino Aurora, $43.7 million
pre-tax and net of taxes; Hollywood Casino Joliet, $94.4 million pre-tax ($60.4 million, net of taxes); Argosy Casino Alton, $14.1 million
pre-tax and net of taxes; Bullwhackers, $14.2 million pre-tax ($9.1 million, net of taxes); Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway, $82.7 million
pre-tax ($64.0 million, net of taxes); and Corporate overhead, $18.1 million pre-tax ($12.0 million, net of taxes).

(4)

For
purposes of comparability, certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.

(5)

Since
we reported a loss from operations for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we were required to use basic weighted-average common
shares outstanding, rather than diluted weighted-average common shares outstanding, when calculating diluted loss per share for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Our Operations

We are a leading, diversified, multi-jurisdictional owner and manager of gaming and pari-mutuel properties. As of
December 31, 2011, we owned, managed, or had ownership interests in twenty-five facilities in the following eighteen jurisdictions: Colorado, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa,
Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, West Virginia, and Ontario. We believe that our portfolio of assets provides us with
diversified cash flow from operations.

We
have made significant acquisitions in the past, and expect to continue to pursue additional acquisition and development opportunities in the future. In 1997, we began our transition
from a pari-mutuel company to a diversified gaming company with the acquisition of the Charles Town property and the introduction of video lottery terminals in West Virginia. Since 1997,
we have continued to expand our gaming operations through strategic acquisitions (including the acquisitions of Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi, CRC Holdings, Inc.,
the Bullwhackers properties, Hollywood Casino Corporation, Argosy Gaming Company, Zia Park Casino, Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club and the M Resort in June 2011), greenfield projects (such as at
Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course, Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway and Hollywood Casino Perryville), and property expansions (such as Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races and Hollywood
Casino Lawrenceburg). Most recently, we, along with our joint venture partner, opened Hollywood Casino at Kansas Speedway on February 3, 2012, and we anticipate opening our facilities in
Columbus and Toledo, Ohio in 2012.

The
vast majority of our revenue is gaming revenue, derived primarily from gaming on slot machines and, to a lesser extent, table games, which is highly dependent upon the volume and
spending levels of customers at our properties. Other revenues are derived from our management service fee from Casino Rama, our hotel, dining, retail, admissions, program sales, concessions and
certain other ancillary activities, and our racing operations. Our racing revenue includes our share of pari-mutuel wagering on live races after payment of amounts returned as winning
wagers, our share of wagering from import and export simulcasting, and our share of wagering from our OTWs.

Key
performance indicators related to gaming revenue are slot handle and table game drop (volume indicators) and "win" or "hold" percentage. Our typical property slot win percentage is
in the range of 6% to 10% of slot handle, and our typical table game win percentage is in the range of 12% to 25% of table game drop.

Our
properties generate significant operating cash flow, since most of our revenue is cash-based from slot machines and pari-mutuel wagering. Our business is
capital intensive, and we rely on cash flow from our properties to generate operating cash to repay debt, fund capital maintenance expenditures, fund new capital projects at existing properties and
provide excess cash for future development and acquisitions.

We
continue to expand our gaming operations through the implementation and execution of a disciplined capital expenditure program at our existing properties, the pursuit of strategic
acquisitions and the development of new gaming properties, particularly in attractive regional markets. Current capital projects are ongoing at several of our new and existing properties, including
our facilities under construction in Ohio. Additional information regarding our capital projects is discussed in detail in the section entitled "Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital
Expenditures" below.



Segment Information

During 2011, we realigned our reporting structure in connection with the hiring of a senior vice president of regional operations. We
now have three senior vice presidents of regional operations who oversee various properties based primarily on their geographic locations and whom report directly to our President and Chief Operating
Officer. This event impacted how our Chief Executive Officer, who is the Company's CODM as that term is defined in ASC 280, measures and assesses our business performance and has caused us to conclude
that we now have reportable segments. Therefore, we have aggregated our properties into three reportable segments: (i) Midwest, (ii) East/West, and (iii) Southern Plains,
consistent with how our CODM reviews and assesses our financial performance.

The
Midwest reportable segment consists of the following properties: Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg, Hollywood Casino Aurora, Hollywood Casino Joliet, and Argosy Casino Alton. It also
includes our Casino Rama management service contract as well as the two Ohio properties that are currently under construction, Hollywood Casino Toledo and Hollywood Casino Columbus, which are
scheduled to open by the end of May 2012 and November 1, 2012, respectively.

The
East/West reportable segment consists of the following properties: Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races, Hollywood Casino Perryville, Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway, Hollywood
Casino at Penn National Race Course, Zia Park Casino, and M Resort.

The
Southern Plains reportable segment consists of the following properties: Argosy Casino Riverside, Argosy Casino Sioux City, Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge, Hollywood Casino Tunica,
Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis, and Boomtown Biloxi. It also includes our 50% investment in Kansas Entertainment, which owns the Hollywood Casino at Kansas Speedway which opened in February
2012.

The
Other category consists of our standalone racing operations, namely Beulah Park, Raceway Park, Rosecroft Raceway, Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club, and our joint venture interests in Sam
Houston Race Park and Valley Race Park, Freehold Raceway, and Maryland Jockey Club (which was sold in July 2011). If we are successful in obtaining gaming operations at these locations, they would be
assigned to one of our regional executives and reported in their respective reportable segment. The Other category also includes our corporate overhead operations which does not meet the definition of
an operating segment under ASC 280 and our Bullwhackers property.

Executive Summary

Economic conditions continue to impact the overall domestic gaming industry as well as operating results. We believe that the current
economic conditions, including, but not limited to, high unemployment levels, low levels of consumer confidence, weakness in the housing and consumer credit markets and increased stock market
volatility, have resulted in reduced levels of discretionary consumer spending compared to historical levels. In order to mitigate the impact of these conditions, we have increasingly focused on cost
management, such as monitoring staff levels and establishing effective marketing programs, to continue to generate strong cash flow.

Even
though the current economic environment has been challenging, we believe our strengths include our relatively low leverage ratios compared to the regional casino companies that we
directly compete with and the ability of our operations to generate positive cash flow. These two factors have allowed us to develop what we believe to be attractive future growth opportunities in new
regional gaming markets. We have also made investments in joint ventures and certain racetrack operations that we believe may allow us to capitalize on additional gaming opportunities in certain
states if legislation or referenda are passed that permit and/or expand gaming in these jurisdictions.



Financial Highlights:

The major factors affecting our results for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the year ended December 31,
2010, were:

•

Net revenues and income from operations increased by $293.5 million and $82.2 million, respectively, for the
year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the corresponding period in the prior year, for our East/West segment, primarily due to the acquisition of the M Resort on June 1,
2011, the opening of Hollywood Casino Perryville on September 27, 2010, and the introduction of table games in July 2010 at Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races and at Hollywood Casino at
Penn National Race Course.

•

Income from operations at our Midwest segment was impacted by a pre-tax insurance gain of $18.5 million
at Hollywood Casino Joliet during the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to a pre-tax insurance gain of $7.5 million during the corresponding period in the prior year,
and included goodwill and other impairment losses of $220.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2010.

•

Excluding the recently opened Hollywood Casino Perryville and the recently acquired M Resort, management's
continued focus on cost management contributed to improved operating margins at 14 of our 15 gaming facilities.

•

Our Other category included a gain of $20.2 million on the sale of our interest in the Maryland Jockey Club in July
2011 for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to a loss from our interest in the Maryland Jockey Club for the year ended December 31, 2010, which included our share of a goodwill
impairment write-down recorded by the Maryland Jockey Club during the fourth quarter of 2010 for $14.4 million. Our Other category for the year ended December 31, 2011 also
included a loss on the early extinguishment of debt for $17.8 million related to debt issuance costs write-offs and the call premium on the $250 million senior subordinated
notes, as well as a $5.9 million charge for our share of a goodwill impairment write-down at our New Jersey joint venture.

•

Net income attributable to the shareholders of Penn National Gaming, Inc. and its subsidiaries increased by
$301.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010, primarily due to the variances explained above and a decrease in interest
expense as well as an increase in income taxes.

Recent Developments:

The following are recent developments that have had or are likely to have an impact on
us:

•

In July 2011, we entered into a new $2.15 billion senior secured credit facility which is comprised of a
$700 million revolving credit facility that will mature in July 2016, a $700 million variable rate Term Loan A due in July 2016 and a $750 million variable rate Term Loan B due in
July 2018. We utilized the proceeds of the two term loan borrowings and cash on hand to retire our previous senior secured credit facility obligation of $1,518.1 million (which had significant
principal repayments due at the end of 2011 and 2012) and pay transaction costs and accrued interest and fees on the retired debt. As a result of this refinancing, we incurred a $10.2 million
loss on the early extinguishment of debt during the year ended December 31, 2011. Additionally, in July 2011, we announced our intention to redeem all of our $250 million senior
subordinated notes. The redemption price was $1,022.50 per $1,000 principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, which was paid in August 2011. We funded the redemption of our $250 million
senior subordinated notes from our new revolving credit facility and available cash. We recorded a $7.6 million loss on early extinguishment of debt during the year ended



December 31,
2011 related to debt issuance costs write-offs and the call premium on the $250 million senior subordinated notes.

•

Following the purchase of all of the outstanding debt of the M Resort for $230.5 million and the receipt of
requisite regulatory approvals, we acquired the business in exchange for the debt on June 1, 2011. We purchased all of the outstanding bank and subordinated debt of the M Resort in
October 2010 at which time we also secured the right to acquire the business of the M Resort in exchange for the property's outstanding debt obligations.

•

The Hollywood Casino Columbus project, a $400 million Hollywood-themed casino in Columbus, Ohio, inclusive of
$50 million in licensing fees, is under construction, with a planned casino opening of up to 3,000 slot machines, 70 table games and 30 poker tables, structured and surface parking, as well as
food and beverage outlets and an entertainment lounge. We expect that Hollywood Casino Columbus will open on November 1, 2012. Construction is also underway for Hollywood Casino Toledo, a
$320 million Hollywood-themed casino in Toledo, Ohio, inclusive of $50 million in licensing fees, with a planned casino opening of 2,000 slot machines, 60 table games and 20 poker
tables, structured and surface parking, as well as food and beverage outlets and an entertainment lounge. Hollywood Casino Toledo is anticipated to open by the end of May 2012.

•

In June 2011, we reached an agreement in principle with the State of Ohio that will provide greater clarity regarding our
total state tax burden and future competition, and establishes the framework, including licensing fees, tax structure and minimal capital expenditures, for the placement of video lottery terminals at
the state's seven racetracks. The State of Ohio has approved the placement of video lottery terminals at the state's seven racetracks and while we await the regulatory structure to be put in place, we
are actively seeking the potential relocation of our existing racetracks at Raceway Park and Beulah Park to Youngstown and Dayton, respectively. On October 21, 2011, The Ohio Roundtable filed a
complaint in the Court of Common Pleas in Franklin County, Ohio against a number of defendants, including the Governor, the Ohio Lottery Commission and the Ohio Casino Control Commission. The
complaint alleges a variety of substantive and procedural defects relative to the approval and implementation of video lottery terminals as well as several counts dealing with the taxation of
standalone casinos.

•

On July 18, 2011, the tenth licensed casino in Illinois opened in the city of Des Plaines. This facility is a new
source of competition for Hollywood Casino Aurora and Hollywood Casino Joliet and has had a negative impact on these properties' financial results. However, the 3% surcharge Hollywood Casino Aurora
and Hollywood Casino Joliet paid to subsidize local horse racing interests is no longer required with the opening of the Des Plaines facility.

•

In February 2010, Kansas Entertainment received the final approval under the Kansas Expanded Lottery Act, along with its
gaming license from the Kansas Racing and Gaming Commission, to proceed with the development of an approximately $411 million Hollywood-themed destination facility overlooking Turn 2 at Kansas
Speedway. Kansas Entertainment began construction of the facility in the second quarter of 2010 and the facility opened on February 3, 2012. The approximately $411 million facility,
inclusive of licensing fees, features a 95,000 square foot casino with approximately 2,000 slot machines, 52 table games and 12 poker tables, a 1,253 space parking structure, as well as a variety of
dining and entertainment amenities. We, along with our partner in Kansas Entertainment, International Speedway, shared equally in the cost of developing and constructing the facility. We estimate that
our share of the project will be approximately $155 million.



•

Each gaming license in Iowa is issued jointly to a gaming operator and a local charitable sponsor. The agreement between
our gaming operator subsidiary in Iowa, Belle of Sioux City, L.P. (the "Belle") and its charitable sponsor, Missouri River Historical Development, Inc. ("MRHD"), may expire as early as
July 2012. The Belle is in the process of negotiating with MRHD to transition its current barge-based facility to a new land-based facility and to enter into a new long-term
agreement with MRHD. If a new agreement cannot be reached, MRHD has indicated that it may issue a request for proposals for alternative operators for a new land-based facility and has
preemptively filed a lawsuit seeking to establish its right to do so. If MRHD were to issue such a request, the Belle may contest MRHD's right to do so, may participate in the process and/or may seek
an alternative charitable sponsor. Accordingly, at this time, there can be no assurance that the Belle will be able to reach an agreement with MRHD or, absent such agreement, that it will be able to
partner with an alternative charitable sponsor. In the event that both MRHD and the Belle find alternative partners, it is unclear whether the Iowa Gaming and Racing Commission would issue a gaming
license to one or both such groups. Further, the Belle's ability to continue its operations may also be impacted by its ability to renew or extend its existing docking lease, which expires in January
2013, or to locate a suitable site to construct a land-based facility.

•

We closed the transaction to enter into a joint venture that owns and operates the Sam Houston Race Park in Houston, Texas
and the Valley Race Park in Harlingen, Texas, and holds a license for a planned racetrack in Laredo, Texas on April 8, 2011, following final approval by the Texas Racing Commission and the
satisfaction of certain closing conditions. We intend to work collaboratively with MAXXAM, our joint venture partner, to strengthen and enhance the existing racetrack operations as well as pursue
other opportunities, including the potential for gaming operations at the pari-mutuel facilities, to maximize the overall value of the business.

•

Hollywood Casino Joliet, which was undergoing a $55 million renovation, was closed following a fire that started in
the land-based pavilion at the facility on March 20, 2009. All customers and employees were successfully evacuated, and the fire was contained on the land-side of the
property before it could spread to the adjacent casino barge. On June 25, 2009, the casino barge was reopened with temporary land-based facilities, and we began construction of a
new land-based pavilion. In December 2010, the first phase of the new permanent land-based pavilion was opened to the public and in January 2011 the final phase, including a
sports bar, was completed. At the time of the fire, we carried a builders' risk insurance policy for the on-going renovations with a policy limit of $57 million, inclusive of
$14 million for delay in completion and $43 million for property damage. The builders' risk insurance policy included a $50,000 property damage deductible and a 30-day delay
in completion deductible for the peril of fire. In addition, we carried comprehensive business interruption and property damage insurance for the operational components of Hollywood Casino Joliet with
an overall limit of $228 million. The operational insurance policy included a $2.5 million property damage deductible and a 48-hour business interruption deductible for the
peril of fire. We received $81.2 million in insurance proceeds related to the fire at Hollywood Casino Joliet, with $18.6 million received during the year ended December 31, 2011.
As the insurance recovery amount exceeded the net book value of assets believed to be damaged, destroyed or abandoned and other costs incurred as a result of the fire at Hollywood Casino Joliet in
2010, we recorded a pre-tax gain of $18.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2011. During the second quarter of 2011, the insurance claim for the fire at Hollywood
Casino Joliet was settled and no further proceeds will be received.

•

On May 1, 2011, Hollywood Casino Tunica was forced to close as a result of flooding by the Mississippi River. Due
to the flooding, access to the property was temporarily cut-off and the property sustained minor damage. The property reopened on May 25, 2011. At the time of the flood, we carried
property insurance coverage with a flood limit of $300 million for both



property
damage and business interruption applicable to this event. This coverage included a $5 million property damage and two day business interruption deductible for the peril of flood.
During the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded a $5.2 million pre-tax loss for the insurance deductibles for property damage and business interruption. The
$1.1 million insurance receivable within the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2011 was limited to the net book value of assets believed to be damaged and other costs incurred
as a result of the flood at Hollywood Casino Tunica that are expected to be recovered via an insurance claim that we expect to finalize in 2012. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we
received $7.0 million in insurance proceeds related to the flood at Hollywood Casino Tunica.

•

In July 2011, we entered into a new interim agreement with the OLGC for the operation of the Casino Rama facility through
March 31, 2012, which was subsequently extended in January 2012 for an additional six months through September 30, 2012. The OLGC is currently in the process of evaluating bids on a new
five year operating contract for the facility (with bids required to include operating fees that do not exceed $5 million per year).

Critical Accounting Estimates

We make certain judgments and use certain estimates and assumptions when applying accounting principles in the preparation of our
consolidated financial statements. The nature of the estimates and assumptions are material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain factors or the
susceptibility of such factors to change. We have identified the accounting for long-lived assets, goodwill and other intangible assets, income taxes and litigation, claims and assessments
as critical accounting estimates, as they are the most important to our financial statement presentation and require difficult, subjective and complex judgments.

We
believe the current assumptions and other considerations used to estimate amounts reflected in our consolidated financial statements are appropriate. However, if actual experience
differs from the assumptions and other considerations used in estimating amounts reflected in our consolidated financial statements, the resulting changes could have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated results of operations and, in certain situations, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.

The
development and selection of the critical accounting estimates, and the related disclosures, have been reviewed with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors.

Long-lived assets

At December 31, 2011, we had a net property and equipment balance of $2,277.2 million within our consolidated balance
sheet, representing 49.4% of total assets. We depreciate property and equipment on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives are determined based
on the nature of the assets as well as our current operating strategy. We review the carrying value of our property and equipment for possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable based on undiscounted estimated future cash flows expected to result from its use and eventual disposition. The factors considered
by us in performing this assessment include current operating results, trends and prospects, as well as the effect of obsolescence, demand, competition and other economic factors. In estimating
expected future cash flows for determining whether an asset is impaired, assets are grouped at the individual property level. In assessing the recoverability of the carrying value of property and
equipment, we must make assumptions regarding future cash flows and other factors. If these estimates or the related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record an impairment loss
for these assets. Such an impairment loss would be recognized as a non-cash component of operating income.



Goodwill and other intangible assets

At December 31, 2011, we had $1,180.4 million in goodwill and $421.6 million in other intangible assets within our
consolidated balance sheet, representing 25.6% and 9.2% of total assets, respectively, resulting from our acquisition of other businesses and payment for gaming licenses and racing permits. Two issues
arise with respect to these assets that require significant management estimates and judgment: (i) the valuation in connection with the initial purchase price allocation; and (ii) the
ongoing evaluation for impairment.

In
connection with our acquisitions, valuations are completed to determine the allocation of the purchase prices. The factors considered in the valuations include data gathered as a
result of our due
diligence in connection with the acquisitions, projections for future operations, and data obtained from third- party valuation specialists as deemed appropriate. Goodwill is tested annually, or more
frequently if indicators of impairment exist, for impairment by comparing the fair value of the reporting units to their carrying amount. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair
value in step 1 of the impairment test, then step 2 of the impairment test is performed to determine the implied value of goodwill for that reporting unit. If the implied value of goodwill is less
than the goodwill allocated for that reporting unit, an impairment loss is recognized.

In
accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") ASC 350, "Intangibles-Goodwill and Other," the Company considers its gaming licenses, racing permits and the majority of
its trademark intangible assets as indefinite-life intangible assets that do not require amortization based on our future expectations to operate our gaming facilities indefinitely as well
as our historical experience in renewing these intangible assets at minimal cost with various state gaming and racing commissions. Rather, these intangible assets are tested annually, or more
frequently if indicators of impairment exist, for impairment by comparing the fair value of the recorded assets to their carrying amount. If the carrying amounts of the indefinite-life
intangible assets exceed their fair value, an impairment loss is recognized.

The
evaluation of goodwill and indefinite-life intangible assets requires the use of estimates about future operating results of each reporting unit to determine their
estimated fair value. We use a market approach model, which includes the use of forecasted adjusted EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, charges for stock compensation, depreciation and
amortization, gain or loss on disposal of assets, and certain other income and expenses, and inclusive of loss from unconsolidated affiliates) and adjusted EBITDA multiples, as we believe that
adjusted EBITDA is a widely-used measure of performance in the gaming industry and as we use adjusted EBITDA as the primary measurement of the operating performance of our properties
(including the evaluation of operating personnel). In addition, we believe that an adjusted EBITDA multiple is the principal basis for the valuation of gaming companies. Changes in the estimated
adjusted EBITDA multiples or forecasted operations can materially affect these estimates.

Forecasted
adjusted EBITDA levels (based on our annual operating plan as determined in the fourth quarter) can be significantly impacted by the local economy in which our reporting units
operate. For example, increases in unemployment rates can result in decreased customer visitations and/or lower customer spend per visit. In addition, the impact of new legislation which approves
gaming in nearby jurisdictions or further expands gaming in jurisdictions where our reporting units currently operate can result in opportunities for us to expand its operations. However, it also has
the impact of increasing competition for our established properties which generally will have a negative effect on those locations' profitability once competitors become established as a certain level
of cannibalization occurs absent an overall increase in customer visitations. Lastly, increases in gaming taxes approved by state regulatory bodies can negatively impact forecasted adjusted EBITDA.

The
adjusted EBITDA multiple utilized by us in our goodwill impairment valuation methodology is determined based on our current enterprise value, increased for a control premium. The
control



premium
assumption is based on acquisitions of precedent transactions of comparable businesses. In evaluating the estimates derived by the market based approach, management assesses the relevance and
reliability of the multiples by considering factors unique to its reporting units, including recent operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, and other
market data. These considerations can lead the Company to modify its individual reporting units adjusted EBITDA multiple. EBITDA multiples can be significantly impacted by various factors, such as a
company's present and future cost of capital, the future growth opportunities for the industry as well as for the company itself, general market sentiment, investors' perceptions of senior
management's effectiveness at deploying capital and managing overall operations, as well as pending or recently completed merger transactions.

Assumptions
and estimates about future adjusted EBITDA levels and multiples by individual reporting units are complex and subjective. They are sensitive to changes in underlying
assumptions and can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors, such as industry and economic trends, and internal factors, such as changes in our business strategy, which may
reallocate capital and resources to different or new opportunities which management believes will enhance our overall value but may be to the detriment of an individual reporting unit.

As
of the Company's most recent impairment analysis test performed on October 1, 2011, we applied an estimated adjusted EBITDA multiple ranging between 5.4 and 8.9 to the
individual reporting unit's forecasted adjusted EBITDA.

For
2011, one reporting unit had a fair value in excess of its carrying value by 2%. All of our other reporting units with significant amounts of goodwill and other
indefinite-life intangible assets had fair values that were significantly in excess of their carrying value. However, we do not believe that the margin by which our reporting units' fair
value exceeds their carrying value is the only predictor of the likelihood of future impairment charges or the potential magnitude of such charges. This is because the revenue and earning streams in
our industry can vary significantly based on various circumstances, which in many cases are outside of the Company's control, and as such are extremely difficult to predict and quantify. We have
disclosed several of these circumstances in the "Risk Factors" section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For instance, changes in legislation that approves gaming in nearby
jurisdictions (which was the primarily reason for our impairment charges recorded in 2010 and 2009), further expands gaming in jurisdictions where we currently operate, new state legislation that
requires the implementation of smoking bans at our casinos or any other events outside of our control that make the customer experience less desirable can result in sudden, dramatic and in some cases
permanent declines in customer visitations. As such, we believe at this time all of our reporting units are at risk of goodwill impairment charges in future periods regardless of the margin by which
the current fair value of our reporting unit exceeds its carrying value and that such margin cannot and should not be relied upon to predict which properties are most at risk for future impairment
charges.

During
the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded a pre-tax goodwill impairment charge of $144.6 million and $44.2 million for Hollywood Casino Aurora
and Hollywood Casino Joliet, respectively, due to decreased earning projections at our properties in the Chicagoland regional market resulting from an anticipated increase in competition from the
scheduled opening of a $445 million casino in the second half of 2011 in Des Plaines, Illinois, as well as continued challenging market conditions in the Chicagoland regional market. During the
year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded pre-tax impairment charges of $520.5 million at Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg due to the anticipated impact of gaming expansion in
Ohio.

Once
an impairment of goodwill or other indefinite-life intangible assets has been recorded, it cannot be reversed. Because our goodwill and indefinite-life
intangible assets are not amortized, there may be volatility in reported income because impairment losses, if any, are likely to occur irregularly and in varying amounts. Intangible assets that have a
definite-life are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or related service contract. We review the carrying value of our



intangible
assets that have a definite-life for possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. If the carrying
amount of the intangible assets that have a definite-life exceed their fair value, an impairment loss is recognized.

The
Company's remaining goodwill and other intangible assets by reporting unit at December 31, 2011 is shown below (in thousands):

Reporting Unit

Remaining Goodwill and

other intangible assets

at December 31, 2011

Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg

$

362,491

Hollywood Casino Joliet

210,158

Hollywood Casino Aurora

207,207

Argosy Casino Riverside

159,296

Zia Park Casino

145,777

Argosy Casino Alton

135,511

Argosy Casino Sioux City

92,795

Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge

75,521

Others

213,196

Total

$

1,601,952

Income taxes

At December 31, 2011, we had a net deferred tax liability balance of $135.3 million within our consolidated balance
sheet. We account for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740, "Income Taxes" ("ASC 740"). Under ASC 740, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the differences between the
financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of existing assets and liabilities and are measured at the prevailing enacted tax rates that will be in effect when these differences are settled
or realized. ASC 740 also requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.

The
realizability of the deferred tax assets is evaluated quarterly by assessing the valuation allowance and by adjusting the amount of the allowance, if necessary. The factors used to
assess the likelihood of realization are the forecast of future taxable income and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the net deferred tax assets. We have used
tax-planning strategies to realize or renew net deferred tax assets in order to avoid the potential loss of future tax benefits.

ASC
740 also creates a single model to address uncertainty in tax positions, and clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise's financial
statements by prescribing the minimum recognition threshold a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in an enterprise's financial statements. It also provides guidance on
derecognition, measurement, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. At December 31, 2011, we had a liability for unrecognized tax
benefits of $33.9 million, which is included in noncurrent tax liabilities within our consolidated balance sheet. We operate within multiple taxing jurisdictions and are subject to audit in
each jurisdiction. These audits can involve complex issues that may require an extended period of time to resolve. In our opinion, adequate provisions for income taxes have been made for all periods.

Litigation, claims and assessments

We utilize estimates for litigation, claims and assessments. These estimates are based on our knowledge and experience regarding
current and past events, as well as assumptions about future events. If our assessment of such a matter should change, we may have to change the estimate, which may have an adverse effect on our
results of operations. Actual results could differ from these estimates.



Results of Operations

The following are the most important factors and trends that contribute to our operating
performance:

•

The fact that most of our properties operate in mature competitive markets. As a result, we expect a majority of our
future growth to come from prudent acquisitions of gaming properties, jurisdictional expansions (such as the September 2010 opening of Hollywood Casino Perryville in Maryland, the February 2012
opening of a casino through a joint venture in Kansas, and the anticipated 2012 openings in Ohio), expansions of gaming in existing jurisdictions (such as the introduction of table games in July 2010
at Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races and Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course) and expansions/improvements of existing properties.

•

The actions of government bodies can affect our operations in a variety of ways. For instance, the continued pressure on
governments to balance their budgets could intensify the efforts of state and local governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes. In addition, government bodies may restrict,
prevent or negatively impact operations in the jurisdictions in which we do business (such as the implementation of smoking bans).

•

The fact that a number of states are currently considering or implementing legislation to legalize or expand gaming. Such
legislation presents both potential opportunities to establish new properties (for instance, in Kansas where we opened a casino through a joint venture in February 2012, in Ohio where we have plans to
open two casinos, one in Toledo by the end of May 2012 and the other in Columbus on November 1, 2012, and in Maryland where we opened Hollywood Casino Perryville on September 27, 2010,
the first casino in the state) and increased competitive threats to business at our existing properties (such as the introduction of commercial casinos in Kansas, Maryland, Ohio, and potentially
Kentucky, an additional casino in Illinois which opened on July 18, 2011, gaming expansion in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and the introduction of tavern licenses in several states).

•

The continued demand for, and our emphasis on, slot wagering entertainment at our properties.

•

The successful execution of the development and construction activities currently underway at a number of our facilities,
as well as the risks associated with the costs, regulatory approval and the timing for these activities.

•

The risks related to economic conditions and the effect of such conditions on consumer spending for leisure and gaming
activities, which may negatively impact our operating results and our ability to access financing.



The
results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 are summarized below:

Year Ended December 31,




(in thousands)

Revenues:

Gaming

$

2,468,630

$

2,242,515

$

2,158,028

Food, beverage and other

400,258

334,808

339,235

Management service fee

15,185

15,190

14,787

Revenues

2,884,073

2,592,513

2,512,050

Less promotional allowances

(141,816

)

(133,402

)

(142,775

)

Net revenues

2,742,257

2,459,111

2,369,275

Operating expenses:

Gaming

1,298,938

1,198,097

1,161,510

Food, beverage and other

321,801

266,800

266,351

General and administrative

423,718

411,415

403,136

Depreciation and amortization

211,476

212,387

194,436

Impairment losses

—

224,709

532,377

Insurance recoveries, net of deductible charges

(13,257

)

(7,523

)

6,063

Total operating expenses

2,242,676

2,305,885

2,563,873

Income (loss) from operations

$

499,581

$

153,226

$

(194,598

)

Certain
information regarding our results of operations by segment for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 is summarized below:

Net Revenues

Income (loss) from Operations

Year Ended December 31,







(in thousands)

East/West

$

1,290,732

$

997,262

$

896,941

$

263,423

$

181,175

$

137,418

Midwest

826,436

825,847

806,866

211,356

(39,514

)

(346,260

)

Southern Plains

590,709

602,257

632,543

137,580

125,318

136,164

Other

34,380

33,745

32,925

(112,778

)

(113,753

)

(121,920

)

Total

$

2,742,257

$

2,459,111

$

2,369,275

$

499,581

$

153,226

$

(194,598

)

Revenues

Revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 are as follows (in thousands):

Year ended December 31,



Variance

Percentage

Variance

Gaming

$

2,468,630

$

2,242,515

$

226,115

10.1

%

Food, beverage and other

400,258

334,808

65,450

19.5

%

Management service fee

15,185

15,190

(5

)

(0.0

)%

Revenues

2,884,073

2,592,513

291,560

11.2

%

Less promotional allowances

(141,816

)

(133,402

)

(8,414

)

(6.3

)%

Net revenues

$

2,742,257

$

2,459,111

$

283,146

11.5

%



Year ended December 31,



Variance

Percentage

Variance

Gaming

$

2,242,515

$

2,158,028

$

84,487

3.9

%

Food, beverage and other

334,808

339,235

(4,427

)

(1.3

)%

Management service fee

15,190

14,787


2.7

%

Revenues

2,592,513

2,512,050

80,463

3.2

%

Less promotional allowances

(133,402

)

(142,775

)

9,373

6.6

%

Net revenues

$

2,459,111

$

2,369,275

$

89,836

3.8

%

In
our business, revenue is driven by discretionary consumer spending, which has been impacted by weakened general economic conditions such as, but not limited to, high unemployment
levels, low levels of consumer confidence, weakness in the housing market and increased stock market volatility.

We
have no certain mechanism for determining why consumers choose to spend more or less money at our properties from period to period and as such cannot quantify a dollar amount for each
factor that impacts our customers' spending behaviors. However, based on our experience, we can generally offer some insight into the factors that we believe were likely to account for such changes.
In instances where we believe one factor may have had a significantly greater impact than the other factors, we have noted that as well. However, in all instances, such insights are based only on our
reasonable judgment and professional experience, and no assurance can be given as to the accuracy of our judgments.

Gaming revenue

2011 Compared with 2010

Gaming revenue increased by $226.1 million, or 10.1%, to $2,468.6 million in 2011, primarily due to the variances
explained below.

Gaming
revenue for our East/West segment increased by $247.0 million in 2011, primarily due to the opening of Hollywood Casino Perryville on September 27, 2010 and the
acquisition of the M Resort on June 1, 2011. In addition, gaming revenue also increased for our East/West segment due to the introduction of table games in July 2010 at Hollywood Casino at
Charles Town and Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course partially offset by a reduction in slot machine revenue due to lower levels of electronic table game revenues and general economic
conditions.

Gaming
revenue for our Southern Plains segment decreased by $10.7 million in 2011, primarily due to closure of Hollywood Casino Tunica from May 1, 2011 to May 25,
2011 due to flooding.

Gaming
revenue for Other decreased by $6.4 million in 2011, primarily due to decreased gaming revenue at Bullwhackers due to the continued impact of recent competition.

Gaming
revenue for our Midwest segment decreased by $3.8 million in 2011, primarily due to lower gaming revenue at Hollywood Casino Aurora primarily due to increased competition
with the opening of the tenth licensed casino in Illinois on July 18, 2011.

2010 Compared with 2009

Gaming revenue increased by $84.5 million, or 3.9%, to $2,242.5 million in 2010, primarily due to the variances explained
below.

Gaming
revenue for our East/West segment increased by $100.8 million in 2010, primarily due to increased gaming revenue at Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races primarily due to
the introduction of table games in July 2010 partially offset by lower attendance and spending levels in the first half of 2010 compared to the corresponding period in the prior year due to
then-current economic



conditions
and inclement weather in early 2010, increased gaming revenue at Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course primarily due to introduction of table games in July 2010 and the continued
growth from a new gaming market, and the opening of Hollywood Casino Perryville on September 27, 2010.

Gaming
revenue for our Midwest segment increased by $15.3 million in 2010, primarily due to increased gaming revenue at Hollywood Casino Joliet as this property was closed from
March 20, 2009 until June 25, 2009 due to a fire. Our Midwest segment also experienced increased gaming revenue at Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg primarily due to the continued impact of
the opening of its new casino riverboat in late June 2009, which enabled this property to gain an increased share of its local gaming market. These were partially offset by decreased gaming revenue at
Hollywood Casino Aurora
primarily due to then-current economic conditions. In addition, the decline at Hollywood Casino Aurora was also impacted by increased patronage in the second quarter of 2009 as a result of
the fire at Hollywood Casino Joliet.

Gaming
revenue for our Southern Plains segment decreased by $29.4 million in 2010, primarily due to then-current economic conditions at the majority of our properties
within this segment.

Food, beverage and other revenue

2011 Compared with 2010

Food, beverage and other revenue increased by $65.5 million, or 19.5%, to $400.3 million in 2011, primarily due to the
variances explained below.

Food,
beverage and other revenue for our East/West segment increased by $66.2 million in 2011, primarily due to the acquisition of the M Resort on June 1, 2011, and
increased food, beverage and other revenue at Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races primarily due to additional attendance levels as a result of the introduction of table games in July 2010.

Food,
beverage and other revenue for Other increased by $6.2 million in 2011, primarily due to the acquisition of Beulah Park in July 2010.

Food,
beverage and other revenue for our Southern Plains segment decreased by $10.7 million in 2011, primarily due to closure of Hollywood Casino Tunica from May 1, 2011 to
May 25, 2011 due to flooding and, to a lesser extent, management's efforts to decrease promotional spending levels to improve margins and profitability.

2010 Compared with 2009

Food, beverage and other revenue decreased by $4.4 million, or 1.3%, to $334.8 million in 2010, primarily due to the
variances explained below.

Food,
beverage and other revenue for our Southern Plains segment decreased by $9.4 million in 2010, primarily due to decreased food, beverage and other revenue at Hollywood Casino
Tunica primarily due to then-current economic conditions and to a lesser extent a decrease in promotional offers.

Food,
beverage and other revenue for Other increased by $2.9 million in 2010, primarily due to the acquisition of Beulah Park in July 2010.

Promotional allowances

2011 Compared with 2010

Promotional allowances increased by $8.4 million, or 6.3%, to $141.8 million in 2011, primarily due to the variances
explained below.



Promotional
allowances for our East/West segment increased by $19.8 million in 2011, primarily due to the acquisition of the M Resort on June 1, 2011, and an increase in
promotional allowances at Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races primarily due to the introduction of table games in July 2010.

Promotional
allowances for our Southern Plains segment decreased by $9.8 million in 2011, primarily due to closure of Hollywood Casino Tunica from May 1, 2011 to
May 25, 2011 due to flooding and, to a lesser extent, efforts by management to rationalize our promotional spending levels to improve operating margins.

2010 Compared with 2009

Promotional allowances decreased by $9.4 million, or 6.6%, to $133.4 million in 2010, primarily due to efforts by
management to rationalize our promotional spending levels.

Operating Expenses

Operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 are as follows (in thousands):

Year ended December 31,



Variance

Percentage

Variance

Gaming

$

1,298,938

$

1,198,097

$

100,841

8.4

%

Food, beverage and other

321,801

266,800

55,001

20.6

%

General and administrative

423,718

411,415

12,303

3.0

%

Depreciation and amortization

211,476

212,387

(911

)

(0.4

)%

Impairment losses

—

224,709

(224,709

)

(100.0

)%

Insurance recoveries, net of deductible charges

(13,257

)

(7,523

)

(5,734

)

(76.2

)%

Total operating expenses

$

2,242,676

$

2,305,885

$

(63,209

)

(2.7

)%

Year ended December 31,



Variance

Percentage

Variance

Gaming

$

1,198,097

$

1,161,510

$

36,587

3.1

%

Food, beverage and other

266,800

266,351


0.2

%

General and administrative

411,415

403,136

8,279

2.1

%

Depreciation and amortization

212,387

194,436

17,951

9.2

%

Impairment losses

224,709

532,377

(307,668

)

(57.8

)%

Insurance recoveries, net of deductible charges

(7,523

)

6,063

(13,586

)

(224.1

)%

Total operating expenses

$

2,305,885

$

2,563,873

$

(257,988

)

(10.1

)%

Gaming expense

2011 Compared with 2010

Gaming expense increased by $100.8 million, or 8.4%, to $1,298.9 million in 2011, primarily due to the variances
explained below.

Gaming
expense for our East/West segment increased by $126.5 million in 2011, primarily due to the opening of Hollywood Casino Perryville on September 27, 2010, the
acquisition of the M Resort on June 1, 2011, and an increase in gaming expense at Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races which was primarily due to increased payroll expense and gaming taxes
resulting from higher table game revenue due to the introduction of table games in July 2010.



Gaming
expense for our Midwest segment decreased by $13.1 million in 2011, primarily due to a decline in gaming taxes at Hollywood Casino Aurora resulting from lower taxable
gaming revenue mentioned above and the expiration of the 3% surcharge in July 2011 for both our Hollywood Casino Aurora and Hollywood Casino Joliet properties. Gaming expense for our Midwest segment
also decreased due to lower marketing costs and payroll expense primarily due to increased cost management efforts.

Gaming
expense for our Southern Plains segment decreased by $7.9 million in 2011, primarily due to closure of Hollywood Casino Tunica from May 1, 2011 to May 25,
2011 due to flooding.

Gaming
expense for Other decreased by $4.7 million in 2011, primarily due to our fourth quarter 2010 restructuring efforts at Bullwhackers to reduce costs to improve the
property's profitability.

2010 Compared with 2009

Gaming expense increased by $36.6 million, or 3.1%, to $1,198.1 million in 2010, primarily due to the variances explained
below.

Gaming
expense for our East/West segment increased by $46.8 million in 2010, primarily due to the opening of Hollywood Casino Perryville on September 27, 2010, higher
gaming expense at Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races primarily due to an increase in gaming taxes and payroll and benefit costs from the introduction of table games in July 2010, which were
partially offset by a decrease in gaming taxes resulting from lower slot revenue. Our East/West segment also experienced higher gaming taxes and payroll and benefit costs at Hollywood Casino at Penn
National Race Course from the introduction of table games in July 2010, which was partially offset by a decrease in regulatory fees and marketing costs.

Gaming
expense for our Midwest segment increased by $6.3 million in 2010, primarily due to Hollywood Casino Joliet being closed from March 20, 2009 until June 25,
2009 due to a fire, and increased gaming expense at Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg primarily due to higher gaming taxes from increased gaming revenues as well as higher marketing expenses during the
first half of the year compared to the corresponding period in the prior year, which were partially offset by decreased payroll costs. The increases at these two properties were partially offset by
decreased gaming expense at Hollywood Casino Aurora primarily due to a reduction in gaming taxes resulting from lower gaming revenue as well as lower payroll and benefit costs, which were partially
offset by increased marketing expenses.

Gaming
expense for our Southern Plains segment decreased by $16.2 million in 2010, primarily due to a reduction in gaming taxes resulting from lower gaming revenue, as well as
decreased marketing
expenses, participation fees, and payroll and benefit costs at the majority of our properties within this segment.

Food, beverage and other expense

2011 Compared to 2010

Food, beverage and other expense increased by $55.0 million, or 20.6%, to $321.8 million in 2011, primarily due to the
acquisition of the M Resort on June 1, 2011.

2010 Compared to 2009

No significant variances were noted during this time period.



General and administrative expense

General and administrative expenses include expenses such as compliance, facility maintenance, utilities, property and liability
insurance, surveillance and security, and certain housekeeping services, as well as all expenses for administrative departments such as accounting, purchasing, human resources, legal and internal
audit. General and administrative expenses also include lobbying expenses.

2011 Compared with 2010

General and administrative expenses increased by $12.3 million, or 3.0%, to $423.7 million in 2011, primarily due to the
variances explained below.

General
and administrative expenses for our East/West segment increased by $26.9 million in 2011, primarily due to the acquisition of the M Resort on June 1, 2011,
increased general and administrative expenses at Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races primarily due to increased staffing needs to meet higher customer demand, and the opening of Hollywood Casino
Perryville on September 27, 2010.

General
and administrative expenses for our Southern Plains segment decreased by $11.8 million in 2011, primarily due to increased cost management efforts to mitigate lower levels
of gaming revenue.

General
and administrative expenses for our Midwest segment decreased by $8.5 million in 2011, primarily due to a decrease in general and administrative expenses at Hollywood
Casino Aurora primarily due to a police services contract termination charge of $6.6 million in the second quarter of 2010.

General
and administrative expenses for Other increased by $5.7 million in 2011, primarily due to increased corporate payroll and benefit costs to support the Company's growing
operations.

2010 Compared with 2009

General and administrative expense increased by $8.3 million, or 2.1%, to $411.4 million in 2010, primarily due to the
variances explained below.

General
and administrative expenses for our Midwest segment increased by $12.7 million in 2010, primarily due to the police services contract termination at Hollywood Casino
Aurora in the second quarter of 2010 for $6.6 million, and Hollywood Casino Joliet being closed from March 20, 2009 until June 25, 2009 due to a fire.

General
and administrative expenses for our East/West segment increased by $10.9 million in 2010, primarily due to higher general and administrative expense at Hollywood Casino at
Charles Town Races primarily due to higher bonus expense in 2010 due to improved financial performance at this property compared to the prior year as well as increased utilities and relocation expense
primarily due to the introduction of table games in July 2010, and the opening of Hollywood Casino Perryville on September 27, 2010.

General
and administrative expenses for Other decreased by $14.3 million in 2010, primarily due to decreased corporate overhead expense primarily due to decreased lobbying
expenses and decreased equity-based compensation, which were partially offset by higher payroll costs. Additionally, Other
included lease termination charges and severance costs of $3.0 million at Bullwhackers for the year ended December 31, 2010.

Depreciation and amortization expense

2011 Compared to 2010

Depreciation and amortization expense decreased by $0.9 million, or 0.4%, to $211.5 million in 2011, primarily due to the
variances explained below.



Depreciation
and amortization expense for our Southern Plains segment decreased by $6.0 million in 2011, primarily due to decreased depreciation and amortization expense at
Boomtown Biloxi and Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis primarily related to replacement assets that were purchased after Hurricane Katrina now being fully depreciated in the third quarter of 2011,
as well as decreased depreciation and amortization expense at Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge.

Depreciation
and amortization expense for our Midwest segment decreased by $1.6 million in 2011, primarily due to customer relationship intangible assets being fully amortized at
the end of the third quarter in 2010 at Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg.

Depreciation
and amortization expense for our East/West segment increased by $6.5 million in 2011, primarily due to the opening of Hollywood Casino Perryville on
September 27, 2010 and the acquisition of the M Resort on June 1, 2011.

2010 Compared to 2009

Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $18.0 million, or 9.2%, to $212.4 million in 2010, primarily due to
the opening of the new casino riverboat in late June 2009 at Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg, and an increase in expense at Hollywood Casino Joliet as the property was closed from March 20, 2009
until June 25, 2009 due to a fire.

Impairment losses


There were no impairment losses during the year ended December 31, 2011.


As a result of decreased earning projections resulting from an anticipated increase in competition from the scheduled opening of a
casino in the second half of 2011 in Des Plaines, Illinois, as well as continued challenging market conditions in the Chicagoland regional market, we recorded a pre-tax goodwill impairment
charge in our Midwest segment of $144.6 million ($144.6 million, net of taxes) at Hollywood Casino Aurora and $44.2 million ($28.4 million, net of taxes) at Hollywood
Casino Joliet during the year ended December 31, 2010. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2010, we wrote-off the trademark intangible asset associated with the
Argosy acquisition for $4.4 million ($2.8 million, net of taxes) due to management's strategy to transition Argosy properties to the Hollywood Casino brand.

We
also recorded a pre-tax impairment charge in our Midwest segment of $31.3 million ($20.1 million, net of taxes) associated with land that we had purchased in
the Arena District for our Columbus, Ohio casino. Due to a May 2010 statewide election, the voters determined that our casino
in Columbus will be located at the site of the former Delphi Automotive plant along Columbus's West Side and as such we reclassified our land in the Arena District as held for sale.


As a result of the anticipated impact of gaming expansion in Ohio, we recorded a pre-tax impairment charge in our Midwest
segment of $520.5 million ($368.8 million, net of taxes) during the year ended December 31, 2009, as we determined that a portion of the value of our goodwill and
indefinite-life intangible assets associated with the original purchase of Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg was impaired. In addition, in conjunction with the opening of the new casino
riverboat at Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg, we recorded a pre-tax impairment charge in our Midwest segment for the replaced Lawrenceburg vessel of $11.9 million
($7.1 million, net of taxes) during the year ended December 31, 2009.



Insurance recoveries, net of deductible charges

Insurance recoveries, net of deductible charges were $13.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2011 primarily
related to a pre-tax insurance gain of $18.5 million in our Midwest segment for the fire at Hollywood Casino Joliet for the year ended December 31, 2011, which was partially
offset by a pre-tax insurance loss in our Southern Plains segment of $5.2 million for the flood at Hollywood Casino Tunica for the year ended December 31, 2011.

In
2010, the insurance recovery amount exceeded the net book value of assets believed to be damaged, destroyed or abandoned and other costs incurred as a result of the fire at Hollywood
Casino Joliet, and as such, we recorded a pre-tax gain of $7.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2010.

During
the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded a $6.1 million pre-tax loss in our Midwest segment as a result of the Hollywood Casino Joliet fire for the
insurance deductibles for property damage, business interruption and employee lost wages, as well as a write-off
of construction fees related to the renovation that are not recoverable under our insurance policies and certain consulting fees.

Other income (expenses)

Other income (expenses) for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 are as follows (in thousands):

Year ended December 31,



Variance

Percentage

Variance

Interest expense

$

(99,564

)

$

(130,215

)

$

30,651

23.5

%

Interest income


1,579

(1,156

)

(73.2

)%

Gain (loss) from unconsolidated affiliates

7,364

(25,974

)

33,338

128.4

%

Loss on early extinguishment of debt

(17,838

)

(519

)

(17,319

)

(3337.0

)%

Other

(734

)

6,421

(7,155

)

(111.4

)%

Total other expenses

$

(110,349

)

$

(148,708

)

$

38,359

25.8

%

Year ended December 31,



Variance

Percentage

Variance

Interest expense

$

(130,215

)

$

(134,984

)

$

4,769

3.5

%

Interest income

1,579

6,522

(4,943

)

(75.8

)%

Loss from unconsolidated affiliates

(25,974

)

(1,121

)

(24,853

)

(2217.0

)%

Loss on early extinguishment of debt

(519

)

(4,793

)

4,274

89.2

%

Other

6,421

1,093

5,328

487.5

%

Total other expenses

$

(148,708

)

$

(133,283

)

$

(15,425

)

(11.6

)%

Interest expense

Interest expense decreased by $30.7 million, or 23.5%, to $99.6 million in 2011, primarily due to a $24.5 million
decline in swap interest expense due to the expiration of certain receive-variable pay-fixed interest rate hedges which increased interest expense in the prior year due to the effective
interest rate of the swaps being in excess of market rates due to the low interest rate environment. Additionally, in July 2011, we entered into a new senior secured credit facility and retired our
$250 million 6


/


% senior subordinated notes which lowered our overall funding costs compared to the prior year.

Interest
expense decreased by $4.8 million, or 3.5%, to $130.2 million in 2010, primarily due to lower outstanding balances and lower interest rates on our senior secured
credit facility, the



redemption
of our $200 million 6


/


% senior subordinated notes in late 2009, and decreased interest expense resulting from our interest rate swaps, all of which were partially
offset by the issuance of the $325 million 8


/


% senior subordinated notes in August 2009 and lower capitalized interest during the year ended December 31, 2010.

Interest income

Interest income decreased by $1.2 million, or 73.2%, to $0.4 million in 2011, primarily due to the issuer of our
remaining corporate debt security going into default and
ceasing to make interest payments in mid 2010. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further details.

Interest
income decreased by $4.9 million, or 75.8%, to $1.6 million in 2010, primarily due to lower interest on our corporate debt securities due to the sale of a security
in the second quarter of 2009 and the issuer of the remaining security ceasing to make interest payments in mid 2010, and lower interest earned on cash on hand during the year ended
December 31, 2010.

Gain (loss) from unconsolidated affiliates

We recorded a gain from unconsolidated affiliates of $7.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, primarily due to
a gain of $20.2 million on the sale of our interest in the Maryland Jockey Club in July 2011, which was partially offset by a charge of $5.9 million for our share of a goodwill
impairment write-down recorded at our New Jersey joint venture during the fourth quarter of 2011, and our share of Kansas Entertainment net losses for the year ended December 31,
2011 prior to the opening of the casino in February 2012.

Loss
from unconsolidated affiliates increased by $24.9 million, or 2217.0%, to $26.0 million in 2010, primarily due to our share of losses in the Maryland Jockey Club,
which included a $14.4 million charge for our share of a goodwill impairment write-down recorded by the Maryland Jockey Club during the fourth quarter of 2010 as a result of a
negative outcome related to a zoning referendum.

Loss on early extinguishment of debt

During the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded a $17.8 million loss on the early extinguishment of debt related to
debt issuance costs write-offs for the 2011 refinancing of our senior secured credit facility and the call premium on the $250 million 6


/


% senior subordinated
notes.

During
the year ended December 31, 2009, we wrote-off $4.8 million of debt issuance costs, as a result of the repayment of all outstanding borrowings under the
Term Loan A Facility of the previous senior secured credit facility and the redemption of our $200 million 6


/


% senior subordinated notes due 2011.

Other

Other decreased by $7.2 million, or 111.4%, to ($0.7) million in 2011, primarily due to the reversal of previously accrued
reserves associated with the Capitol House litigation that ended in the third quarter of 2010 for $9.6 million.

Other
increased by $5.3 million, or 487.5%, to $6.4 million in 2010, primarily due to the reversal of previously accrued reserves associated with the Capitol House
litigation for $9.6 million and foreign currency translation gains that were recorded during the year ended December 31, 2010, both of which were partially offset by a gain of
$6.6 million related to the partial sale of corporate debt securities in the second quarter of 2009.



Taxes

Our effective tax rate (income taxes as a percentage of income from operations before income taxes) decreased to 37.7% for the year
ended December 31, 2011, as compared to 1,464.8% for the year ended December 31, 2010. Our 2010 effective rate was impacted by the non-deductible portion of our goodwill
impairment charges recorded for the year ended December 31, 2010. Our 2011 rate was impacted by the reversal of previously recorded unrecognized tax benefit reserves for years that either the
statue of limitations has lapsed in 2011 or that have been favorably settled, coupled with favorable state income tax benefits received from the impact of certain subsidiary restructurings completed
in 2011.

Our
effective tax rate increased to 1,464.8% for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to a tax benefit of 18.4% for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily as
a result of the non-deductible portion of our goodwill impairment charges.

Our
effective income tax rate can vary from period to period depending on, among other factors, the geographic and business mix of our earnings and the level of our tax credits. Certain
of these and other
factors, including our history and projections of pre-tax earnings, are taken into account in assessing our ability to realize our net deferred tax assets.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Historically, our primary sources of liquidity and capital resources have been cash flow from operations, borrowings from banks and
proceeds from the issuance of debt and equity securities.

Net
cash provided by operating activities was $567.4 million, $493.2 million and $338.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities of $74.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the corresponding period in the prior year is
comprised primarily of an increase in cash receipts from customers of $281.3 million and a decrease in interest payments of $23.1 million, which were partially offset by an increase in
cash paid to suppliers and vendors of $189.9 million, in income tax payments of $18.6 million and cash paid to employees of $51.6 million. The increase in cash receipts collected
from our customers for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the prior year was primarily due to the previously discussed property openings, expansions and acquisitions in our East/West
segment. Additionally, the increase in higher cash payments for operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the prior year was primarily due to increased expenses from
the recent events at our East/West segment as well as less insurance proceeds received in 2011 for the fire at Hollywood Casino Joliet, which were partially offset by expense management initiatives at
the majority of our properties within our operating segments to help mitigate the impact of the difficult operating environment.

Net
cash used in investing activities totaled $338.8 million, $736.8 million and $262.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 included expenditures for property and equipment totaling $293.1 million and investment in joint
ventures, net of proceeds received from the sale of our interest in the Maryland Jockey Club, of $100.4 million, both of which were partially offset by a decrease in cash in escrow of
$29.0 million, proceeds from the sale of property and equipment totaling $13.0 million, cash acquired, net of acquisitions of businesses and gaming licenses, of $8.9 million, and
insurance proceeds related to damaged property and equipment for the Tunica flood of $3.8 million. The decrease in net cash used in investing activities of $398.0 million for the year
ended December 31, 2011 compared to the prior year was primarily due to decreased expenditures for property and equipment as a result of decreased expenditures for Hollywood Casino Perryville
which opened in September 2010, for Hollywood Casino Joliet as the permanent land-based pavilion opened in December 2010, and for Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg due to certain 2010
improvements, all of



which
were partially offset by increased expenditures at our two facilities under construction in Ohio. Also contributing to the variance was the purchase of outstanding loans of the M Resort
for $230.5 million in 2010, cash proceeds received for the sales of our interest in the Maryland Jockey Club and land in Columbus's Arena District in 2011, and the acquisition of Beulah Park in
2010.

Net
cash used in financing activities totaled $236.5 million, $223.2 million and $108.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 was impacted by the issuance of our new $2.15 billion senior secured credit facility and the
redemption of our $250 million 6


/


% senior subordinated notes. We utilized the proceeds of this issuance along with cash on hand to retire our previous senior secured credit
facility and $250 million 6


/


% senior subordinated notes. See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further details. The increase in net cash used in
financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the corresponding period in the prior year was also primarily due to increased repurchases of common stock for
$69.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the corresponding period in the prior year, offset by the repurchase of preferred stock and noncontrolling interest for
$11.2 million and $25.0 million, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2010.

Capital Expenditures

Capital expenditures are accounted for as either capital project or capital maintenance (replacement) expenditures. Capital project
expenditures are for fixed asset additions that expand an existing facility or create a new facility. Capital maintenance expenditures are expenditures to replace existing fixed assets with a useful
life greater than one year that are obsolete, worn out or no longer cost effective to repair.

The
following table summarizes our capital project expenditures by segment for the year ended December 31, 2011:

Actual(1)

(in millions)

Midwest (2)

$

187.4

East/West

22.2

Southern Plains

2.1

Other

4.4

Total

$

216.1

(1)

Excludes
licensing fees and is net of reimbursements.

(2)

Capital
expenditures for our Midwest segment include $131.0 million and $43.7 million for the construction of Hollywood Casino Toledo and
Hollywood Casino Columbus, respectively.

In
November 2009, the "Ohio Jobs and Growth Plan," a casino ballot proposal calling for an amendment to Ohio's Constitution to authorize casinos in the state's four largest cities,
Cincinnati, Cleveland, Columbus and Toledo, was approved. Construction is underway for Hollywood Casino
Toledo, a $320 million Hollywood-themed casino in Toledo, Ohio, inclusive of $50 million in licensing fees, with a planned casino opening of 2,000 slot machines, 60 table games and 20
poker tables, structured and surface parking, as well as food and beverage outlets and an entertainment lounge. The Hollywood Casino Columbus project, a $400 million Hollywood-themed casino in
Columbus, Ohio, inclusive of $50 million in licensing fees, is under construction, with a planned casino opening of up to 3,000 slot machines, 70 table games and 30 poker tables, structured and
surface parking, as well as food and beverage outlets and an entertainment lounge. We expect the opening of Hollywood Casino Toledo by the end of May 2012 and Hollywood Casino Columbus on
November 1, 2012.



During the year ended December 31, 2011, we spent approximately $77.0 million for capital maintenance expenditures, with $18.7 million at our
Midwest segment, $29.5 million at our East/West segment, $23.4 million at our Southern Plains segment, and $5.4 million for Other. The majority of the capital maintenance
expenditures were for slot machines and slot machine equipment.

Cash
generated from operations and cash available under the revolver portion of our senior secured credit facility have funded our capital project and capital maintenance expenditures in
2011.

The
following table summarizes our expected capital project expenditures for the year ending December 31, 2012, as well as the projects in their entirety (including licensing
fees), by segment:

Total for 2012

Project Total

(in millions)

Midwest(1)

$

449.8

$

722.9

East/West

1.5

2.7

Southern Plains

0.5

0.5

Other

0.6

1.8

Total

$

452.4

$

727.9

(1)

Expected
capital expenditures for our Midwest segment include $163.7 million and $284.9 million for the construction of Hollywood Casino
Toledo and Hollywood Casino Columbus, respectively.

The
table above excludes our share of the anticipated commitments related to our joint venture with International Speedway to develop a casino at Kansas Speedway since these amounts will
be recorded within investments in and advances to unconsolidated affiliates on our consolidated balance sheet.

Debt

Senior Secured Credit Facility

On July 14, 2011, we entered into a new $2.15 billion senior secured credit facility, which is comprised of a
$700 million revolving credit facility that will mature in July 2016, a $700 million variable rate Term Loan A due in July 2016 and a $750 million variable rate Term
Loan B due in July 2018. The interest rates payable on the facilities are based on the leverage ratios of the Company as defined in the debt agreements, however, based on current borrowing
levels, we will pay LIBOR plus 150 basis points on the revolver and Term Loan A and LIBOR plus 275 basis points on Term Loan B (subject to a 1% LIBOR floor). We utilized the
proceeds of the two term loan borrowings and cash on hand to retire our previous senior secured credit facility obligation of $1,518.1 million (which had significant principal repayments due at
the end of 2011 and 2012) and pay transaction costs and accrued interest and fees on the retired debt. As a result of this refinancing, we incurred debt extinguishment charges of $10.2 million
during the year ended December 31, 2011.

Our
senior secured credit facility had a gross outstanding balance of $1,715.8 million at December 31, 2011, consisting of $287.0 million drawn under the revolving
credit facility, a $682.5 million Term Loan A facility, and a $746.3 million Term Loan B facility. Additionally, at December 31, 2011, we were contingently obligated
under letters of credit issued pursuant to the $2.15 billion senior secured credit facility with face amounts aggregating $24.9 million, resulting in $388.1 million of available
borrowing capacity as of December 31, 2011 under the revolving credit facility.





/


% Senior Subordinated Notes

In July 2011, we announced our intention to redeem all of our $250 million 6


/


% senior subordinated notes. The
redemption price was $1,022.50 per $1,000 principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, which was paid in August 2011. We funded the redemption of our $250 million senior subordinated
notes from our new revolving credit facility and available cash. We recorded a $7.6 million loss on early extinguishment of debt during the year ended December 31, 2011 related to debt
issuance costs write-offs and the call premium on the $250 million senior subordinated notes.



/


% Senior Subordinated Notes

In August 2009, we completed an offering of $325 million 8


/


% senior subordinated notes that mature on
August 15, 2019. Interest on the $325 million 8


/


% senior subordinated notes is payable on February 15 and August 15 of each year. The $325 million


/


% senior subordinated notes are general unsecured obligations and are not guaranteed by our subsidiaries and were issued in a private placement pursuant to an exemption from the
registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. At any time prior to August 15, 2014, we may redeem all or part of the 8


/


% senior subordinated notes at par
plus the present value (discounted at the treasury rate plus 50 basis points) of scheduled interest payments through August 15, 2014, along with accrued and unpaid interest, if any, at the date
of redemption. On or after August 15, 2014, we may redeem all or part of the 8


/


% senior subordinated notes at a redemption price of 104.375% which gradually reduces to par by
2017.

Other Long-Term Obligations

In April 2010, we entered into a termination contract with the city of Aurora, Illinois, whereby we will pay $7 million in lieu
of perpetual annual payments (of approximately $1 million) to have off duty Aurora police officials provide security at Hollywood Casino Aurora each day. Payments of $1.5 million were
made on June 1, 2010 and September 1, 2010 and a payment of $2.0 million was made on June 1, 2011. A final payment of $2.0 million is due on June 1, 2012.
This liability was discounted using an estimate of our incremental borrowing rate over the term of the obligation. The accretion of this discount is recorded in interest expense in the consolidated
statements of operations.

Covenants

Our senior secured credit facility and $325 million 8


/


% senior subordinated notes require us, among other
obligations, to maintain specified financial ratios and to satisfy certain financial tests, including fixed charge coverage, interest coverage, senior leverage and total leverage ratios. In addition,
our senior secured credit facility and $325 million 8


/


% senior subordinated notes restrict, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, incur guarantee
obligations, amend debt instruments, pay dividends, create liens on assets, make investments, engage in mergers or consolidations, and otherwise restrict corporate activities.

At
December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with all required financial covenants.

Outlook

Based on our current level of operations and anticipated earnings growth, we believe that cash generated from operations and cash on
hand, together with amounts available under our senior secured credit facility, will be adequate to meet our anticipated debt service requirements, capital expenditures and working capital needs for
the foreseeable future. However, we cannot be certain that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that our anticipated earnings growth will be realized, or that future
borrowings will be available under our senior secured credit facility or otherwise will be available to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the senior secured credit facility and the
senior subordinated notes, to retire or redeem the senior subordinated notes when required or to make



anticipated
capital expenditures. In addition, we expect a majority of our future growth to come from acquisitions of gaming properties at reasonable valuations, greenfield projects, jurisdictional
expansions and property expansion in under-penetrated markets. If we consummate significant acquisitions in the future or undertake any significant property expansions, our cash requirements may
increase significantly and we may need to make additional borrowings or complete equity or debt financings to meet these requirements. Our future operating performance and our ability to service or
refinance our debt will be subject to future economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. See "Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our
Capital Structure" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of the risk related to our capital structure.

We
have historically maintained a capital structure comprising a mix of equity and debt financing. We vary our leverage to pursue opportunities in the marketplace and in an effort to
maximize our enterprise value for our shareholders. We expect to meet our debt obligations as they come due through internally generated funds from operations and/or refinancing them through the debt
or equity markets prior to their maturity.

Commitments and Contingencies

Contractual Cash Obligations

At December 31, 2011, there was approximately $388.1 million available for borrowing under our revolving credit facility.
The following table presents our contractual cash obligations at December 31, 2011:

Payments Due By Period

Total


2013-2014

2015-2016

2017 and After

(in thousands)

Senior secured credit facility

Principal

$

1,715,750

$

42,500

$

120,000

$

844,500

$

708,750

Interest

278,009

45,449

95,797

86,255

50,508



/


% senior subordinated notes

Principal

325,000

—

—

—

325,000

Interest

227,500

28,437

56,875

56,875

85,313

Purchase obligations

38,238

32,684

4,471



Capital expenditure commitments(1)

205,015

205,015

—

—

—

Anticipated additional advances to unconsolidated affiliates(2)

52,577

52,577

—

—

—

Capital leases

2,215




1,698

Operating leases

51,370

6,451

8,899

4,343

31,677

Other liabilities reflected in the Company's consolidated balance sheets(3)

15,951

15,951

—

—

—

Total

$

2,911,625

$

429,174

$

286,230

$

993,088

$

1,203,133

(1)

The
Company anticipates spending approximately $268.3 million (including licensing fees) for future construction projects over the next year that
have not been contractually committed to at year-end. These amounts are primarily related to the opening of Hollywood Casino Toledo and Hollywood Casino Columbus that are scheduled to open
in 2012.

(2)

In
February 2010, Kansas Entertainment received the final approval under the Kansas Expanded Lottery Act, along with its gaming license from the Kansas
Racing and Gaming Commission, to proceed with the development of a an approximately $411 million Hollywood-themed destination



facility
overlooking Turn 2 at Kansas Speedway. Kansas Entertainment began construction of the facility in the second half of 2010 and opened the facility on February 3, 2012. The approximately
$411 million facility, inclusive of licensing fees, features a 82,000 square foot casino with approximately 2,000 slot machines, 52 table games and 12 poker tables, a 1,253 space parking
structure, as well as a variety of dining and entertainment amenities. We and International Speedway shared equally in the cost of developing and constructing the facility. We estimate that our share
of the project will be approximately $155 million, of which approximately $102.4 million has been incurred to date.

(3)

Primarily
represents liabilities associated with reward programs that can be redeemed for cash, free play or services. Does not include any liability for
unrecognized tax benefits, as the Company cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authority.

The
table above does not include the redemption of the Company's Preferred Stock which is required to be redeemed on June 30, 2015 for either cash or common shares at the
Company's election. See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for further details.

Other Commercial Commitments

The following table presents our material commercial commitments as of December 31, 2011 for the following future periods:

Total Amounts Committed


2013-2014

2015-2016

2017 and After

(in thousands)

Letters of Credit(1)

$

24,893

$

24,893

$

—

$

—

$

—

Total

$

24,893

$

24,893

$

—

$

—

$

—

(1)

The
available balance under the revolving credit portion of our senior secured credit facility is reduced by outstanding letters of credit.

New Accounting Pronouncements

In December 2011, the FASB issued amendments to enhance disclosures about offsetting and related arrangements. This information will
enable the users of the financial statements to evaluate the effect or potential effect of netting arrangements on an entity's financial position, including the effect or potential effect of rights of
setoff associated with certain financial and derivative instruments. These amendments are effective for annual reporting periods, and interim periods within those years, beginning on or after
January 1, 2013. The disclosures required by these amendments should be provided retrospectively for all comparative periods presented. Management does not believe that these amendments will
have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.

In
September 2011, the FASB issued amendments to simplify how entities test goodwill for impairment. Under the updated guidance, an entity now has the option to first assess qualitative
factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the
two-step goodwill impairment test. If the assessment of qualitative factors leads to a determination that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less
than its carrying amount, then performing the two-step impairment test is unnecessary. However, if an entity concludes otherwise, then the entity is required to perform the first step of
the two-step impairment test by calculating the fair value of the reporting unit and comparing it against its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair
value, then the entity is required to perform the second step of the goodwill impairment



test
to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. Under the new guidance, an entity can elect to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any period and proceed directly to
performing the first step of the two-step goodwill impairment. The amendments are effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2011. Early adoption is permitted, however the Company did not early adopt this amendment.

In
June 2011, the FASB issued amendments to guidance regarding the presentation of comprehensive income. The amendments eliminate the option to present components of other comprehensive
income
as part of the statement of changes in stockholders' equity. The amendments require that comprehensive income be presented in either a single continuous statement or in two separate but consecutive
statements. In a single continuous statement, the entity would present the components of net income and total net income, the components of other comprehensive income and a total of other
comprehensive income, along with the total of comprehensive income in that statement. In the two-statement approach, the entity would present components of net income and total net income
in the statement of net income and a statement of other comprehensive income would immediately follow the statement of net income and include the components of other comprehensive income and a total
for other comprehensive income, along with a total for comprehensive income. The amendments also require the entity to present on the face of the financial statements any reclassification adjustments
for items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income in the statement(s) where the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive income are presented. The
amendments do not change the items that must be reported in other comprehensive income, when an item of other comprehensive income must be reclassed to net income or the option to present components
of other comprehensive income either net of related tax effects or before related tax effects. The amendments, excluding the specific requirement to present on the face of the financial statements any
reclassification adjustments for items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income in the statement(s) where the components of net income and the components of other
comprehensive income are presented which was deferred by the FASB in December 2011, are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011 and
are to be applied retrospectively. The Company adopted the guidance, except for the deferred requirement to present reclassification adjustments in the statement(s) where the components of net income
and the components of other comprehensive income are presented, as of January 1, 2012. The Company plans to present comprehensive income in two separate but consecutive statements.

In
May 2011, the FASB issued amendments to existing fair value measurement guidance in order to achieve common requirements for measuring fair value and disclosures in accordance with
GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. The guidance clarifies how a principal market is determined, addresses the fair value measurement of instruments with offsetting market or
counterparty credit risks, addresses the concept of valuation premise and highest and best use, extends the prohibition on blockage factors to all three levels of the fair value hierarchy and requires
additional disclosures. The amendments are to be applied prospectively and are effective during interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company adopted the guidance as
of January 1, 2012, which did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.

In
April 2010, the FASB issued guidance on accruing for jackpot liabilities. The guidance clarifies that an entity should not accrue jackpot liabilities (or portions thereof) before a
jackpot is won if the entity can legally avoid paying that jackpot (for example, by removing the gaming machine from the casino floor). Jackpots should be accrued and charged to revenue when an entity
has the obligation to pay the jackpot. This guidance applies to both base jackpots and the incremental portion of progressive jackpots. However, the guidance only affected the accounting for base
jackpots, as the guidance uses the same principle that is applied by the Company to the incremental portion of progressive jackpots. The guidance was effective for fiscal years, and interim periods
within those fiscal years, beginning on



or
after December 15, 2010. This guidance was applied by recording a cumulative-effect adjustment to opening retained earnings in the period of adoption. The Company adopted the guidance as of
January 1, 2011, and as such, recorded a cumulative-effect adjustment, which increased retained earnings by $2.9 million.

ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The table below provides information at December 31, 2011 about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in
interest rates. For debt obligations, the table presents notional amounts maturing during the year and the related weighted-average interest rates by maturity dates. Notional amounts are used to
calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged by maturity date and the weighted-average interest rates are based on implied forward LIBOR rates at December 31, 2011.






Thereafter

Total

Fair Value

12/31/11

(in thousands)

Long-term debt

:

Fixed rate

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

325,000

$

325,000

$

353,438

Average interest rate

8.75

%

Other Long Term Obligations

$

1,949

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

1,949

$

1,949

Average interest rate

6.20

%

Variable rate

$

42,500

$

51,250

$

68,750

$

77,500

$

767,000

$

708,750

$

1,715,750

$

1,716,720

Average interest rate(1)

2.63

%

2.81

%

3.00

%

3.21

%

3.33

%

4.73

%

(1)

Estimated
rate, reflective of forward LIBOR plus the spread over LIBOR applicable to variable-rate borrowing.



ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Board
of Directors

Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries

We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, changes in shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. These financial statements are the responsibility of
the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In
our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Penn National Gaming, Inc. and
subsidiaries at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in
conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries' internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission and our report dated February 24, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania

February 24, 2012



Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Balance Sheets

(in thousands, except share and per share data)

December 31,



Assets

Current assets

Cash and cash equivalents

$

238,440

$

246,385

Receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $4,115 and $3,332 at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively

55,455

44,463

Insurance receivable

1,072

—

Prepaid expenses

39,801

72,393

Deferred income taxes

32,306

25,206

Other current assets

48,715

77,506

Total current assets

415,789

465,953

Property and equipment, net

2,277,200

1,965,774

Other assets

Investment in and advances to unconsolidated affiliates

174,116

64,120

Goodwill

1,180,359

1,185,756

Other intangible assets

421,593

415,152

Debt issuance costs, net of accumulated amortization of $4,860 and $45,234 at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively

33,310

27,742

Loan receivable

—

230,500

Other assets

103,979

107,882

Total other assets

1,913,357

2,031,152

Total assets

$

4,606,346

$

4,462,879

Liabilities

Current liabilities

Current maturities of long-term debt

$

44,559

$

357,927

Accounts payable

39,582

17,312

Accrued expenses

113,699

101,447

Accrued interest

17,947

36,597

Accrued salaries and wages

85,285

73,432

Gaming, pari-mutuel, property, and other taxes

49,559

46,449

Income taxes

5,696

—

Insurance financing

16,363

11,602

Other current liabilities

53,650

46,763

Total current liabilities

426,340

691,529

Long-term liabilities

Long-term debt, net of current maturities

1,998,606

1,813,196

Deferred income taxes

167,576

134,572

Noncurrent tax liabilities

33,872

36,846

Other noncurrent liabilities

8,321

8,970

Total long-term liabilities

2,208,375

1,993,584

Shareholders' equity

Preferred stock ($.01 par value, 1,000,000 shares authorized, 12,275 shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2011 and 2010)

—

—

Common stock ($.01 par value, 200,000,000 shares authorized, 76,213,126 and 78,414,022 shares issued at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010,
respectively)



Additional paid-in capital

1,385,355

1,446,932

Retained earnings

583,202

337,940

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

2,318

(7,885

)

Total shareholders' equity

1,971,631

1,777,766

Total liabilities and shareholders' equity

$

4,606,346

$

4,462,879

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.



Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statements of Operations

(in thousands, except per share data)

Year ended December 31,




Revenues

Gaming

$

2,468,630

$

2,242,515

$

2,158,028

Food, beverage and other

400,258

334,808

339,235

Management service fee

15,185

15,190

14,787

Revenues

2,884,073

2,592,513

2,512,050

Less promotional allowances

(141,816

)

(133,402

)

(142,775

)

Net revenues

2,742,257

2,459,111

2,369,275

Operating expenses

Gaming

1,298,938

1,198,097

1,161,510

Food, beverage and other

321,801

266,800

266,351

General and administrative

423,718

411,415

403,136

Depreciation and amortization

211,476

212,387

194,436

Impairment losses

—

224,709

532,377

Insurance recoveries, net of deductible charges

(13,257

)

(7,523

)

6,063

Total operating expenses

2,242,676

2,305,885

2,563,873

Income (loss) from operations

499,581

153,226

(194,598

)

Other income (expenses)

Interest expense

(99,564

)

(130,215

)

(134,984

)

Interest income


1,579

6,522

Gain (loss) from unconsolidated affiliates

7,364

(25,974

)

(1,121

)

Loss on early extinguishment of debt

(17,838

)

(519

)

(4,793

)

Other

(734

)

6,421

1,093

Total other expenses

(110,349

)

(148,708

)

(133,283

)

Income (loss) from operations before income taxes

389,232

4,518

(327,881

)

Taxes on income

146,881

66,178

(60,468

)

Net income (loss) including noncontrolling interests

242,351

(61,660

)

(267,413

)

Less: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests

—

(2,193

)

(2,465

)

Net income (loss) attributable to the shareholders of Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries

$

242,351

$

(59,467

)

$

(264,948

)

Earnings (loss) per common share attributable to the shareholders of Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries:

Basic earnings (loss) per common share

$

2.52

$

(0.76

)

$

(3.39

)

Diluted earnings (loss) per common share

$

2.26

$

(0.76

)

$

(3.39

)

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.



Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity

(in thousands, except share data)

Penn National Gaming, Inc. shareholders

Preferred Stock

Common Stock

Additional

Paid-In

Capital

Retained

Earnings

Accumulated Other

Comprehensive

(Loss) Income

Noncontrolling

Interests

Total

Shareholders'

Equity

Comprehensive

Income (Loss)

Shares

Amount

Shares

Amount

Balance, December 31, 2008

12,500

$

—

78,148,488

$


$

1,442,829

$

662,355

$

(48,693

)

$

—

$

2,057,273

Stock option activity, including tax benefit of $2,388

—

—

491,078


35,173

—

—

—

35,177

$

—

Restricted stock activity

—

—

332,690

—

2,474

—

—

—

2,474

—

Change in fair value of interest rate swap contracts, net of income taxes of $8,150

—

—

—

—

—

—

14,586

—

14,586

14,586

Change in fair value of corporate debt securities

—

—

—

—

—

—

6,843

—

6,843

6,843

Foreign currency translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

—

1,236

—

1,236

1,236

Contributions from noncontrolling interests

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

1,900

1,900

—

Net loss

—

—

—

—

—

(264,948

)

—

(2,465

)

(267,413

)

(267,413

)

Balance, December 31, 2009

12,500

—

78,972,256


1,480,476

397,407

(26,028

)

(565

)

1,852,076

(244,748

)

Repurchase of preferred stock

(225

)

—

—

—

(11,200

)

—

—

—

(11,200

)

—

Repurchase of noncontrolling interest

—

—

—

—

(27,758

)

—

—

2,758

(25,000

)

—

Stock option activity, including tax benefit of $3,311

—

—

823,056


35,875

—

—

—

35,883

—

Share repurchases

—

—

(1,526,400

)

(15

)

(35,843

)

—

—

—

(35,858

)

—

Restricted stock activity

—

—

145,110

—

5,382

—

—

—

5,382

—

Change in fair value of interest rate swap contracts, net of income taxes of $9,427

—

—

—

—

—

—

16,410

—

16,410

16,410

Change in fair value of corporate debt securities

—

—

—

—

—

—

1,165

—

1,165

1,165

Foreign currency translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

—


—



Net loss

—

—

—

—

—

(59,467

)

—

(2,193

)

(61,660

)

(61,660

)

Balance, December 31, 2010

12,275

—

78,414,022


1,446,932

337,940

(7,885

)

—

1,777,766

(43,517

)

Stock option activity, including tax benefit of $2,557

—

—

695,915


39,352

—

—

—

39,359

—

Share repurchases

—

—

(2,981,406

)

(30

)

(105,176

)

—

—

—

(105,206

)

—

Restricted stock activity, net

—

—

84,595

—

4,247

—

—

—

4,247

—

Change in fair value of interest rate swap contracts, net of income taxes of $5,238

—

—

—

—

—

—

9,374

—

9,374

9,374

Change in fair value of corporate debt securities

—

—

—

—

—

—

1,116

—

1,116

1,116

Foreign currency translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

—

(287

)

—

(287

)

(287

)

Cumulative-effect of adoption of amendments to ASC 924 regarding jackpot liabilities, net of income taxes of $1,068

—

—

—

—

—

2,911

—

—

2,911

—

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

242,351

—

—

242,351

242,351

Balance, December 31, 2011

12,275

$

—

76,213,126

$


$

1,385,355

$

583,202

$

2,318

$

—

$

1,971,631

$

252,554

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.



Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

(in thousands)

Year ended December 31,




Operating activities

Net income (loss) including noncontrolling interests

$

242,351

$

(61,660

)

$

(267,413

)

Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) including noncontrolling interests to net cash provided by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

211,476

212,387

194,436

Amortization of items charged to interest expense and interest income

9,601

12,581

10,733

Loss on sale of fixed assets


3,104


(Gain) loss from unconsolidated affiliates

(7,364

)

25,974

1,121

Loss on early extinguishment of debt

12,212


4,793

Hollywood Casino Joliet fire

—

—

5,186

Loss on police services contract termination at Hollywood Casino Aurora

—

6,624

—

Gain on accelerated payment of other long-term obligations

—

—

(1,305

)

Gain on litigation settlement

—

(9,619

)

—

Gain on sale of corporate debt securities

—

—

(6,598

)

Impairment loss on corporate debt securities

—


—

Deferred income taxes

21,560

(2,204

)

(146,408

)

Charge for stock-based compensation

24,330

25,954

28,360

Impairment losses

—

224,709

532,377

(Increase) decrease, net of businesses acquired

Accounts receivable

(6,064

)

(1,338

)

(16,091

)

Insurance receivable

(1,073

)

28,673

—

Prepaid expenses and other current assets

(4,648

)

3,585

(13,160

)

Other assets

(2,556

)

10,160

(8,138

)

Increase (decrease), net of businesses acquired

Accounts payable



(5,292

)

Accrued expenses

8,382


4,837

Accrued interest

(4,038

)


4,332

Accrued salaries and wages

8,961

7,824

10,228

Gaming, pari-mutuel, property and other taxes

2,047

7,506

(5,560

)

Income taxes

49,285

—

—

Other current and noncurrent liabilities

2,849

6,827

11,401

Other noncurrent tax liabilities

(683

)

(10,323

)


Net cash provided by operating activities

567,365

493,178

338,246

Investing activities

Expenditures for property and equipment, net of reimbursements

(293,081

)

(362,955

)

(289,551

)

Proceeds from sale of property and equipment

12,966

1,627

2,628

Proceeds from sale of corporate debt securities

—

—

50,602

Insurance proceeds related to damaged property and equipment

3,862

4,821

20,593

Purchase of outstanding loans of M Resorts LLC

—

(230,500

)

—

Investment in joint ventures, net of proceeds received

(100,398

)

(63,632

)

(12,895

)

Decrease (increase) in cash in escrow

28,975

(30,224

)

(25,036

)

Cash acquired, net of acquisitions of businesses and licenses

8,874

(55,895

)

(9,000

)

Net cash used in investing activities

(338,802

)

(736,758

)

(262,659

)

Financing activities

Proceeds from exercise of options

16,719

11,488

5,431

Repurchase of common stock

(105,206

)

(35,858

)

—

Repurchase of preferred stock

—

(11,200

)

—

Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt, net of issuance costs

1,773,232

212,732

762,068

Principal payments on long-term debt

(1,928,571

)

(383,476

)

(879,193

)

Proceeds from insurance financing

17,406

18,271

15,454

Payments on insurance financing

(12,645

)

(13,421

)

(16,795

)

(Repurchase of)/contributions from noncontrolling interest

—

(25,000

)

1,900

Tax benefit from stock options exercised

2,557

3,311

2,388

Net cash used in financing activities

(236,508

)

(223,153

)

(108,747

)

Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents

(7,945

)

(466,733

)

(33,160

)

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

246,385

713,118

746,278

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$

238,440

$

246,385

$

713,118

Supplemental disclosure

Interest expense paid

$

98,756

$

121,821

$

124,992

Income taxes paid

$

90,702

$

72,091

$

109,200

Non-cash transaction:

On June 1, 2011, following the purchase of all of the outstanding debt of The M Resorts LLC in
October 2010 and the receipt of requisite regulatory approvals, the Company acquired the business in exchange for the debt. This non-cash transaction at the acquisition date, resulted in
the removal of the Company's loan receivable and increased property and equipment, net, total current assets, total other assets and total current liabilities by $203.7 million,
$13.7 million, $2.4 million and $17.3 million, respectively.

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.



Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

1.     Business and Basis of Presentation

Penn National Gaming, Inc. ("Penn") and subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company") is a diversified, multi-jurisdictional owner and manager of gaming and
pari-mutuel properties. Penn is the successor to several businesses that have operated as Penn National Race Course since 1972. Penn was incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1982 as PNRC Corp.
and adopted its current name in 1994, when the Company became a public company. In 1997, the Company began its transition from a pari-mutuel company to a diversified gaming company with
the acquisition of the Charles Town property and the introduction of video lottery terminals in West Virginia. Since 1997, the Company has continued to expand its gaming operations through strategic
acquisitions (including the acquisitions of Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi, CRC Holdings, Inc., the Bullwhackers properties, Hollywood Casino Corporation, Argosy
Gaming Company, Zia Park Casino,
Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club and The M Resorts LLC (the "M Resort") in June 2011), greenfield projects (such as at Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course, Hollywood Slots Hotel and
Raceway and Hollywood Casino Perryville), and property expansions (such as Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races and Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg). Most recently, the Company, along with its joint
venture partner, opened Hollywood Casino at Kansas Speedway on February 3, 2012, and the Company anticipates opening facilities in Columbus and Toledo, Ohio in 2012.

As
of December 31, 2011, the Company owned, managed, or had ownership interests in twenty-five facilities in the following eighteen jurisdictions: Colorado, Florida,
Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, West Virginia, and Ontario.

The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses for the reporting periods.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

For
purposes of comparability, certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.

2.     Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Penn and its subsidiaries, including wholly-owned subsidiaries and subsidiaries that had a
noncontrolling interest. Investment in and advances to unconsolidated affiliates are accounted for under the equity method. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated
in consolidation.

3.     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Cash and Cash Equivalents

The Company considers all cash balances and highly-liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less to be cash and
cash equivalents.

Concentration of Credit Risk

Financial instruments that subject the Company to credit risk consist of cash equivalents, corporate securities, interest rate swap
contracts and accounts receivable.



The
Company's policy is to limit the amount of credit exposure to any one financial institution, and place investments with financial institutions evaluated as being creditworthy, or in
short-term money market and tax-free bond funds which are exposed to minimal interest rate and credit risk. The Company has bank deposits and overnight repurchase agreements
that exceed federally-insured limits.

Concentration
of credit risk, with respect to casino receivables, is limited through the Company's credit evaluation process. The Company issues markers to approved casino customers only
following credit checks and investigations of creditworthiness. Marker balances issued to approved casino customers were $7.6 million at December 31, 2011, compared to
$4.8 million at December 31, 2010.

The
Company's receivables of $55.5 million and $44.5 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, primarily consist of $10.9 million and
$8.1 million, respectively, due from the West Virginia Lottery for gaming revenue settlements and capital reinvestment projects at the Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races,
$11.2 million and $11.1 million, respectively, for reimbursement of expenses paid on behalf of Casino Rama, $3.6 million and $4.1 million, respectively, for racing
settlements due from simulcasting at Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course, and markers issued to customers mentioned above.

Accounts
are written off when management determines that an account is uncollectible. Recoveries of accounts previously written off are recorded when received. An allowance for doubtful
accounts is determined to reduce the Company's receivables to their carrying value, which approximates fair value. The allowance is estimated based on historical collection experience, specific review
of individual customer accounts, and current economic and business conditions. Historically, the Company has not incurred any significant credit-related losses.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The following methods and assumptions are used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instruments for which it is
practicable to estimate:

Cash and Cash Equivalents

The fair value of the Company's cash and cash equivalents approximates the carrying value of the Company's cash and cash equivalents,
due to the short maturity of the cash equivalents.

Investment in Corporate Debt Securities

The fair value of the investment in corporate debt securities is estimated based on a third party broker quote. The investment in
corporate debt securities is measured at fair value on a recurring basis.

Loan Receivable

On June 1, 2011, following the purchase of all of the outstanding debt of the M Resort for $230.5 million and the receipt
of requisite regulatory approvals, the Company acquired the business in exchange for the debt. The Company purchased all of the outstanding bank and subordinated debt of the M Resort in October 2010
at which time the Company also secured the right
to acquire the business of the M Resort in exchange for the property's outstanding debt obligations. At December 31, 2010, the $230.5 million loan was recorded as a loan receivable
within total other assets on the consolidated balance sheet. See Note 6 for further information.

Long-term Debt

The fair value of the Company's Term Loan B component of the senior secured credit facility and senior subordinated notes is estimated
based on quoted prices in active markets. The fair value of the



remainder
of the Company's senior secured credit facility approximates its carrying value as it is variable rate debt. The fair value of the Company's other long-term obligations
approximates its carrying value.

Interest Rate Swap Contracts

The fair value of the Company's interest rate swap contracts was measured at the present value of all expected future cash flows based
on the LIBOR-based swap yield curve as of the date of the valuation, subject to a credit adjustment to the LIBOR-based yield curve's implied discount rates. The credit adjustment reflected the
Company's best estimate as to the Company's credit quality at December 31, 2010. The interest rate swap contracts were measured at fair value on a recurring basis. There were no outstanding
interest rate swap contracts as of December 31, 2011.

The
estimated fair values of the Company's financial instruments are as follows (in thousands):



December 31,

Carrying

Amount

Fair

Value

Carrying

Amount

Fair

Value

Financial assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

238,440

$

238,440

$

246,385

$

246,385

Investment in corporate debt securities

6,790

6,790

5,828

5,828

Loan receivable

—

—

230,500

230,500

Financial liabilities:

Long-term debt

Senior secured credit facility

1,714,001

1,716,720

1,589,125

1,589,125

Senior subordinated notes

325,000

353,438

575,000

612,875

Other long-term obligations

1,949

1,949

3,782

3,782

Interest rate swap contracts

—

—

16,746

16,746

See
Note 21 for further information regarding the Company's assessment of the inputs used to measure the fair value for the investment in corporate debt securities and interest
rate swap contracts.

Property and Equipment

Property and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation. Maintenance and repairs that neither add materially to the
value of the asset nor appreciably prolong its useful life are charged to expense as incurred. Gains or losses on the disposal of property and equipment are included in the determination of income.

Depreciation
of property and equipment is recorded using the straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives:

Land improvements

5 to 15 years

Building and improvements

10 to 40 years

Furniture, fixtures, and equipment

3 to 7 years

Leasehold
improvements are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the improvement or the related lease term.

The
estimated useful lives are determined based on the nature of the assets as well as the Company's current operating strategy.

The
Company reviews the carrying value of its property and equipment for possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may
not be recoverable based on undiscounted estimated future cash flows expected to result from its use and



eventual
disposition. The factors considered by the Company in performing this assessment include current operating results, trends and prospects, as well as the effect of obsolescence, demand,
competition and other economic factors. In estimating expected future cash flows for determining whether an asset is impaired, assets are grouped at the individual property level. In assessing the
recoverability of the carrying value of property and equipment, the Company must make assumptions regarding future cash flows and other factors. If these estimates or the related assumptions change in
the future, the Company may be required to record an impairment loss for these assets. Such an impairment loss would be recognized as a non-cash component of operating income.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

At December 31, 2011, the Company had $1,180.4 million in goodwill and $421.6 million in other intangible assets
within its consolidated balance sheet, representing 25.6% and 9.2% of total assets, respectively, resulting from the Company's acquisition of other businesses and payment for gaming licenses and
racing permits. Two issues arise with respect to these assets that require significant management estimates and judgment: (i) the valuation in connection with the initial purchase price
allocation; and (ii) the ongoing evaluation for impairment.

In
connection with the Company's acquisitions, valuations are completed to determine the allocation of the purchase prices. The factors considered in the valuations include data gathered
as a result of the Company's due diligence in connection with the acquisitions, projections for future operations, and data obtained from third-party valuation specialists as deemed appropriate.
Goodwill is tested annually, or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist, for impairment by comparing the fair value of the reporting units to their carrying amount. If the carrying amount of
a reporting unit exceeds its fair value in step 1 of the impairment test, then step 2 of the impairment test is performed to determine the implied value of goodwill for that reporting unit. If the
implied value of goodwill is less than the goodwill allocated for that reporting unit, an impairment loss is recognized.

In
accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 350, "Intangibles-Goodwill and Other," the Company considers its gaming
licenses, racing permits and the majority of its trademark intangible assets as indefinite-life intangible assets that do not require amortization based on the Company's future
expectations to operate its gaming facilities indefinitely as well as its historical experience in renewing these intangible assets at minimal cost with various state gaming and racing commissions.
Rather, these intangible assets are tested annually, or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist, for impairment by comparing the fair value of the recorded assets to their carrying amount.
If the carrying amounts of the indefinite-life intangible assets exceed their fair value, an impairment loss is recognized.

The
evaluation of goodwill and indefinite-life intangible assets requires the use of estimates about future operating results of each reporting unit to determine their
estimated fair value. The Company uses a market approach model, which includes the use of forecasted adjusted EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, charges for stock compensation, depreciation and
amortization, gain or loss on disposal of assets, and certain other income and expenses, and inclusive of loss from unconsolidated affiliates) and adjusted EBITDA multiples, as the Company believes
that adjusted EBITDA is a widely-used measure of performance in the gaming industry and as the Company uses adjusted EBITDA as the primary measurement of the operating performance of its
properties (including the evaluation of operating personnel). In addition, the Company believes that an
adjusted EBITDA multiple is the principal basis for the valuation of gaming companies. Changes in the estimated adjusted EBITDA multiples or forecasted operations can materially affect these
estimates.

Forecasted
adjusted EBITDA levels (based on the Company's annual operating plan as determined in the fourth quarter) can be significantly impacted by the local economy in which the
Company's reporting units operate. For example, increases in unemployment rates can result in decreased customer



visitations
and/or lower customer spend per visit. In addition, the impact of new legislation which approves gaming in nearby jurisdictions or further expands gaming in jurisdictions where the
Company's reporting units currently operate can result in opportunities for the Company to expand its operations. However, it also has the impact of increasing competition for the Company's
established properties which generally will have a negative effect on those locations' profitability once competitors become established as a certain level of cannibalization occurs absent an overall
increase in customer visitations. Lastly, increases in gaming taxes approved by state regulatory bodies can negatively impact forecasted adjusted EBITDA.

The
adjusted EBITDA multiple utilized by the Company in its goodwill impairment valuation methodology is determined based on the Company's current enterprise value, increased for a
control premium. The control premium assumption is based on acquisitions of precedent transactions of comparable businesses. In evaluating the estimates derived by the market based approach,
management assesses the relevance and reliability of the multiples by considering factors unique to its reporting units, including recent operating results, business plans, economic projections,
anticipated future cash flows, and other market data. These considerations can lead the Company to modify its individual reporting units adjusted EBITDA multiple. EBITDA multiples can be significantly
impacted by various factors, such as a company's present and future cost of capital, the future growth opportunities for the industry as well as for the company itself, general market sentiment,
investors' perceptions of senior management's effectiveness at deploying capital and managing overall operations, as well as pending or recently completed merger transactions.

Assumptions
and estimates about future adjusted EBITDA levels and multiples by individual reporting units are complex and subjective. They are sensitive to changes in underlying
assumptions and can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors, such as industry and economic trends, and internal factors, such as changes in the Company's business strategy,
which may reallocate capital and resources to different or new opportunities which management believes will enhance the Company's overall value but may be to the detriment of an individual reporting
unit.

Once
an impairment of goodwill or other indefinite-life intangible assets has been recorded, it cannot be reversed. Because the Company's goodwill and
indefinite-life
intangible assets are not amortized, there may be volatility in reported income because impairment losses, if any, are likely to occur irregularly and in varying amounts. Intangible assets that have a
definite-life are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or related service contract. The Company reviews the carrying value of its intangible
assets that have a definite-life for possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. If the carrying amount of
the intangible assets that have a definite-life exceed their fair value, an impairment loss is recognized.

Debt Issuance Costs

Debt issuance costs that are incurred by the Company in connection with the issuance of debt are deferred and amortized to interest
expense using the effective interest method over the contractual term of the underlying indebtedness.

Comprehensive Income

The Company accounts for comprehensive income in accordance with ASC 220, "Comprehensive Income," which established standards for the
reporting and presentation of comprehensive income in the consolidated financial statements. The Company presents comprehensive income in its consolidated statements of changes in shareholders'
equity.



Income Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740, "Income Taxes" ("ASC 740"). Under ASC 740, deferred tax assets and
liabilities are determined based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of existing assets and liabilities and are measured at the prevailing enacted tax
rates that will be in effect when these differences are settled or realized. ASC 740 also requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some
portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.

The
realizability of the deferred tax assets is evaluated quarterly by assessing the valuation allowance and by adjusting the amount of the allowance, if necessary. The factors used to
assess the likelihood of realization are the forecast of future taxable income and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the net deferred tax assets. The Company has
used tax-planning strategies to realize or renew net deferred tax assets in order to avoid the potential loss of future tax benefits.

ASC
740 also creates a single model to address uncertainty in tax positions, and clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise's financial
statements by prescribing the minimum recognition threshold a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in an enterprise's financial statements. It also provides guidance on
derecognition, measurement, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. The liability for unrecognized tax benefits is included in noncurrent tax
liabilities within the consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2011 and 2010.

Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities

The Company uses fixed and variable-rate debt to finance its operations. Both funding sources have associated risks and
opportunities, such as interest rate exposure, and the Company's risk management policy permits the use of derivatives to manage this exposure. The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial
instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Thus, uses of derivatives are strictly limited to hedging and risk management purposes in connection with managing interest rate exposure. Acceptable
derivatives for this purpose include interest rate swap contracts, futures, options, caps, and similar instruments.

When
using derivatives, the Company has historically desired to obtain hedge accounting, which is conditional upon satisfying specific documentation and performance criteria. In
particular, the underlying hedged item must expose the Company to risks associated with market fluctuations and the instrument used as the hedging derivative must generate offsetting effects in
prescribed magnitudes. If these criteria are not met, a change in the market value of the financial instrument and all associated settlements would be recognized as gains or losses in the period of
change.

Under
cash flow hedge accounting, effective derivative results are initially recorded in other comprehensive income ("OCI") and later reclassified to earnings, coinciding with the income
recognition relating to the variable interest payments being hedged (i.e., when the interest expense on the variable-rate liability is recorded in earnings). Any hedge
ineffectiveness (which represents the amount by which hedge results exceed the variability in the cash flows of the forecasted transaction due to the risk being hedged) is recorded in current period
earnings. Under cash flow hedge accounting, derivatives are included in the consolidated balance sheets as assets or liabilities at fair value.

Previously,
the Company had a number of interest rate swap contracts in place. These contracts served to mitigate income volatility for a portion of the Company's
variable-rate funding. In effect, these interest rate swap contracts synthetically converted the portion of variable-rate debt being hedged to the equivalent of
fixed-rate funding. Under the terms of the swap contracts, the Company received cash flows from the swap contract counterparties to offset the benchmark interest rate component of



variable
interest payments on the hedged financings, in exchange for paying cash flows based on the swap contracts' fixed rates. These two respective obligations were net-settled
periodically. The fair value of the Company's interest rate swap contracts was measured at the present value of all expected future cash flows based on the LIBOR-based swap yield curve as of the date
of the valuation, subject to a credit adjustment to the LIBOR-based yield curve's implied discount rates. The credit adjustment reflected the Company's best estimate as to the Company's credit
quality. The interest rate swap contract liabilities were included in accrued interest within the consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2010. There were no outstanding interest rate swap
contracts as of December 31, 2011.

Effective
July 1, 2011, the Company de-designated its interest rate swap contracts that historically qualified for cash flow hedge accounting. This was due to the new
$2.15 billion senior secured credit facility that the Company entered into in July 2011. As a result, the loss in OCI related to these swaps of $4.7 million was amortized to interest
expense over the swaps remaining lives. The total notional value of these swaps was $440 million, with $200 million expiring in October 2011 and the remainder maturing in December 2011.
Subsequent to the de-designation date of July 1, 2011, the Company had accounted for changes in the fair value of these derivatives in earnings as a component of interest expense in
the consolidated statements of operations.

In
addition, the Company had certain other derivative instruments that were not designated to qualify for hedge accounting, which expired in May 2011. The periodic change in the
mark-to-market of these derivative instruments had been recorded in current period earnings in interest expense in the consolidated statements of operations.

Credit
risk relating to derivative counterparties is mitigated by using multiple, highly rated counterparties, and the credit quality of each is monitored on an ongoing basis.

See
Note 11 for additional information related to the Company's derivatives.

Revenue Recognition and Promotional Allowances

Gaming revenue is the aggregate net difference between gaming wins and losses, with liabilities recognized for funds deposited by
customers before gaming play occurs, for chips
and "ticket-in, ticket-out" coupons in the customers' possession, and for accruals related to the anticipated payout of progressive jackpots. Progressive slot machines, which
contain base jackpots that increase at a progressive rate based on the number of coins played, are charged to revenue as the amount of the jackpots increase.

Food,
beverage and other revenue, including racing revenue, is recognized as services are performed. Racing revenue includes the Company's share of pari-mutuel wagering on
live races after payment of amounts returned as winning wagers, its share of wagering from import and export simulcasting, and its share of wagering from its off-track wagering facilities
("OTWs").

Revenue
from the management service contract for Casino Rama is based upon contracted terms and is recognized when services are performed.

Revenues
are recognized net of certain sales incentives in accordance with ASC 605-50, "Revenue Recognition—Customer Payments and Incentives." The Company records
certain sales incentives and points earned in point-loyalty programs as a reduction of revenue.

The
retail value of accommodations, food and beverage, and other services furnished to guests without charge is included in gross revenues and then deducted as promotional allowances.
The estimated cost of providing such promotional allowances is primarily included in food, beverage and



other
expense. The amounts included in promotional allowances for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 are as follows:

Year ended December 31,




(in thousands)

Rooms

$

24,646

$

23,980

$

23,316

Food and beverage

106,687

99,024

108,473

Other

10,483

10,398

10,986

Total promotional allowances

$

141,816

$

133,402

$

142,775

The
estimated cost of providing such complimentary services for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 are as follows:

Year ended December 31,




(in thousands)

Rooms

$

9,149

$

9,188

$

9,406

Food and beverage

76,357

75,180

77,444

Other

6,430

6,544

6,590

Total cost of complimentary services

$

91,936

$

90,912

$

93,440

Gaming and Racing Taxes

The Company is subject to gaming and pari-mutuel taxes based on gross gaming revenue and pari-mutuel revenue in
the jurisdictions in which it operates. The Company primarily recognizes gaming and pari-mutuel tax expense based on the statutorily required percentage of revenue that is required to be
paid to state and local jurisdictions in the states wagering occurs. In certain states in which the Company operates, gaming taxes are based on graduated rates. The Company records gaming tax expense
at the Company's estimated effective gaming tax rate for the year, considering estimated taxable gaming revenue and the applicable rates. Such estimates are adjusted each interim period. If gaming tax
rates change during the
year, such changes are applied prospectively in the determination of gaming tax expense in future interim periods. Finally, the Company recognizes purse expense based on the statutorily required
percentage of revenue that is required to be paid out in the form of purses to the winning owners of horseraces run at the Company's racetracks in the period in which wagering occurs. For the years
ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, these expenses, which are recorded primarily within gaming expense in the consolidated statements of operations, was $1.06 billion,
$975.7 million, and $947.1 million, respectively.

Earnings Per Share

The Company calculates earnings per share ("EPS") in accordance with ASC 260, "Earnings Per Share" ("ASC 260"). Basic EPS is computed
by dividing net income applicable to common stock, excluding net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted
EPS reflects the additional dilution for all potentially-dilutive securities such as stock options and unvested restricted shares.

At
December 31, 2011, the Company had outstanding 12,275 shares of Series B Redeemable Preferred Stock (the "Preferred Stock"), which the Company determined qualified as a
participating security as defined in ASC 260. Under ASC 260, a security is considered a participating security if the security may participate in undistributed earnings with common stock, whether that
participation is conditioned upon the occurrence of a specified event or not. In accordance with ASC 260, a company is required to use the two-class method when computing EPS when a
company has a security that qualifies as a "participating security." The two-class method is an earnings allocation formula that



determines
EPS for each class of common stock and participating security according to dividends declared (or accumulated) and participation rights in undistributed earnings. A participating security
is included in the computation of basic EPS using the two-class method. Under the two-class method, basic EPS for the Company's Common Stock is computed by dividing net income
attributable to the shareholders of Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries applicable to common stock by the weighted-average common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS for
the Company's Common Stock is computed using the more dilutive of the two-class method or the if-converted method.

The
following table sets forth the allocation of net income attributable to the shareholders of Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries for the year ended December 31,
2011 under the two-class method:

Year ended December, 31


(in thousands)

Net income attributable to the shareholders of Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries

$

242,351

Net income attributable to the shareholders of Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries applicable to preferred stock

46,101

Net income attributable to the shareholders of Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries applicable to common stock

$

196,250

The
following table reconciles the weighted-average common shares outstanding used in the calculation of basic EPS to the weighted-average common shares outstanding used in the
calculation of diluted EPS for the year ended December 31, 2011:

Year ended December 31,


(in thousands)

Determination of shares:

Weighted-average common shares outstanding

77,991

Assumed conversion of dilutive employee stock-based awards

1,782

Assumed conversion of preferred stock

27,278

Diluted weighted-average common shares outstanding

107,051

Reflecting
the issuance of the Preferred Stock and the repurchase of 225 shares of Preferred Stock during the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company is required to adjust its
diluted weighted-average common shares outstanding for the purpose of calculating diluted EPS as follows: 1) when the price of the Company's Common Stock is less than $45, the diluted
weighted-average common shares outstanding is increased by 27,277,778 shares (regardless of how much the stock price is below $45); 2) when the price of the Company's Common Stock is between
$45 and $67, the diluted weighted-average common shares outstanding is increased by an amount which can be calculated by dividing $1.23 billion (face value) by the current price per share of
the Company's Common Stock, which will result in an increase in the diluted weighted-average common shares outstanding of between 18,320,896 shares and 27,277,778 shares; and 3) when the price
of the Company's Common Stock is above $67, the diluted weighted-average common shares outstanding is increased by 18,320,896 shares (regardless of how much the stock price exceeds $67).



The
following table presents the calculation of basic and diluted EPS for the Company's Common Stock:

Year ended December 31,


(in thousands, except

per share data)

Calculation of basic EPS attributable to the shareholders of Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries:

Net income attributable to the shareholders of Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries applicable to common stock

$

196,250

Weighted-average common shares outstanding

77,991

Basic EPS

$

2.52

Calculation of diluted EPS attributable to the shareholders of Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries:

Net income attributable to the shareholders of Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries

$

242,351

Diluted weighted-average common shares outstanding

107,051

Diluted EPS

$

2.26

Since
the Company reported a net loss for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, it was required by ASC 260 to use basic weighted-average common shares outstanding, rather
than diluted weighted-average common shares outstanding, when calculating diluted EPS. In addition, since the Company reported a loss from operations for the years ended December 31, 2010 and
2009, the Preferred Stock was not deemed to be a participating security for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, pursuant to ASC 260. The basic weighted-average common shares outstanding
for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were 78,078,602 and 78,121,571, respectively.

Options
to purchase 3,004,402 shares were outstanding during the year ended December 31, 2011 but were not included in the computation of diluted EPS because they were
antidilutive. Options to purchase 10,834,444 and 9,966,125 shares were outstanding during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, but were not included in the computation of
diluted EPS because they were antidilutive since the Company reported a loss from operations for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009.

Stock-Based Compensation

The Company accounts for stock compensation under ASC 718, "Compensation—Stock Compensation," which requires the Company to
expense the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the award. This expense is recognized ratably over the
requisite service period following the date of grant.

The
fair value for stock options was estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which requires management to make certain assumptions. The
risk-free interest rate was based on the United States ("U.S.") Treasury spot rate with a term equal to the expected life assumed at the date of grant. Expected volatility was estimated
based on the historical volatility of the Company's stock price over a period of 5.82 years, in order to match the expected life of the options at the grant date. There is no expected dividend
yield since the Company has not paid any cash dividends on its Common Stock since its initial public offering in May 1994 and since the Company intends to retain all of its earnings to finance the
development of its business for the foreseeable future. The weighted-average expected life was based on the contractual term of the stock option and expected employee exercise dates, which was based
on the historical and expected exercise behavior of the Company's employees. Forfeitures are estimated at the date of grant based on historical experience.



The
following are the weighted-average assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:

Year ended December 31,




Risk-free interest rate

1.04

%

2.27

%

2.80

%

Expected volatility

47.60

%

48.02

%

49.68

%

Dividend yield

—

—

—

Weighted-average expected life (years)

5.82

5.73

5.32

Forfeiture rate

5.00

%

5.00

%

5.00

%

Segment Information

During 2011, the Company realigned its reporting structure in connection with the hiring of an additional senior vice president of
regional operations. The Company now has three senior vice presidents of regional operations who oversee various properties based primarily on their geographic locations and whom report directly to
the Company's President and Chief Operating Officer. This event impacted how the Company's Chief Executive Officer, who is the Company's Chief Operating Decision Maker ("CODM") as that term is defined
in ASC 280, "Segment Reporting" ("ASC 280"), measures and assesses the Company's business performance and has caused the Company to conclude that it now has reportable segments. Therefore, the Company
has aggregated its properties into three reportable segments: (i) Midwest, (ii) East/West, and (iii) Southern Plains consistent with how the Company's CODM reviews and assesses
the Company's financial performance.

The
Midwest reportable segment consists of the following properties: Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg, Hollywood Casino Aurora, Hollywood Casino Joliet, and Argosy Casino Alton. It also
includes the Company's Casino Rama management service contract as well as the two Ohio properties that are currently under construction, Hollywood Casino Toledo and Hollywood Casino Columbus, which
are scheduled to open by the end of May 2012 and November 1, 2012, respectively.

The
East/West reportable segment consists of the following properties: Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races, Hollywood Casino Perryville, Hollywood Slots Hotel and Raceway, Hollywood
Casino at Penn National Race Course, Zia Park Casino, and M Resort.

The
Southern Plains reportable segment consists of the following properties: Argosy Casino Riverside, Argosy Casino Sioux City, Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge, Hollywood Casino Tunica,
Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis, and Boomtown Biloxi. It also includes the Company's 50% investment in Kansas Entertainment, LLC ("Kansas Entertainment"), which owns the Hollywood Casino
at Kansas Speedway which opened in February 2012.

The
Other category consists of the Company's standalone racing operations, namely Beulah Park, Raceway Park, Rosecroft Raceway, Sanford-Orlando Kennel Club, and the Company's joint
venture interests in Sam Houston Race Park and Valley Race Park, Freehold Raceway, and Maryland Jockey Club (which was sold in July 2011). If the Company is successful in obtaining gaming operations
at these locations, they would be assigned to one of the Company's regional executives and reported in their respective reportable segment. The Other category also includes the Company's corporate
overhead operations which does not meet the definition of an operating segment under ASC 280 and our Bullwhackers property.

See
Note 17 for further information with respect to the Company's segments.

Statements of Cash Flows

The Company has presented the consolidated statements of cash flows using the indirect method, which involves the reconciliation of net
income (loss) including noncontrolling interests to net cash flow from operating activities.



Acquisitions

The Company accounts for its acquisitions in accordance with ASC 805, "Business Combinations." The results of operations of
acquisitions are included in the consolidated financial statements from their respective dates of acquisition.

Certain Risks and Uncertainties

The Company faces intense gaming competition in most of the markets where its properties operate. Various states are currently
considering or implementing legislation to legalize or expand gaming. Such legislation presents potential opportunities for the Company to establish new properties; however, this also presents
potential competitive threats to the Company's existing properties. For example, the Company's two largest properties in terms of net revenues will face new sources of significant competition in the
near term. Namely, a casino scheduled to open in 2013 in Cincinnati, Ohio will compete in the same market as Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg and
increased competition to Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races is anticipated in 2012 from the opening of a significant casino complex at the Arundel Mills mall in Anne Arundel, Maryland. Although
these openings will have a significant impact on the Company's operations, they are anticipated to be mitigated by the Company's planned openings of Hollywood Casino Toledo and Hollywood Casino
Columbus in Ohio. However, no assurance can be given that these casinos in Toledo and Columbus will open as scheduled or be as successful as anticipated.

The
Company's operations are dependent on its continued licensing by state gaming commissions. The loss of a license, in any jurisdiction in which the Company operates, could have a
material adverse effect on future results of operations.

The
Company is dependent on each gaming property's local market for a significant number of its patrons and revenues. If economic conditions in these areas deteriorate or additional
gaming licenses are awarded in these markets, the Company's results of operations could be adversely affected.

The
Company is dependent on the economy of the U.S. in general, and any deterioration in the national economic, energy, credit and capital markets could have a material adverse effect on
future results of operations.

The
Company is dependent upon a stable gaming and admission tax structure in the locations that it operates in. Any change in the tax structure could have a material adverse affect on
future results of operations.

4.     New Accounting Pronouncements

In December 2011, the FASB issued amendments to enhance disclosures about offsetting and related arrangements. This information will enable the users of the
financial statements to evaluate the effect or potential effect of netting arrangements on an entity's financial position, including the effect or potential effect of rights of setoff associated with
certain financial and derivative instruments. These amendments are effective for annual reporting periods, and interim periods within those years, beginning on or after January 1, 2013. The
disclosures required by these amendments should be provided retrospectively for all comparative periods presented. Management does not believe that these amendments will have a material impact on the
consolidated financial statements.

In
September 2011, the FASB issued amendments to simplify how entities test goodwill for impairment. Under the updated guidance, an entity now has the option to first assess qualitative
factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the
two-step goodwill impairment test. If the assessment of qualitative factors leads to a
determination that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then performing



the
two-step impairment test is unnecessary. However, if an entity concludes otherwise, then the entity is required to perform the first step of the two-step impairment test by
calculating the fair value of the reporting unit and comparing it against its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, then the entity is required to perform
the second step of the goodwill impairment test to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. Under the new guidance, an entity can elect to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting
unit in any period and proceed directly to performing the first step of the two-step goodwill impairment. The amendments are effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests
performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. Early adoption is permitted, however the Company did not early adopt this amendment.

In
June 2011, the FASB issued amendments to guidance regarding the presentation of comprehensive income. The amendments eliminate the option to present components of OCI as part of the
statement of changes in stockholders' equity. The amendments require that comprehensive income be presented in either a single continuous statement or in two separate but consecutive statements. In a
single continuous statement, the entity would present the components of net income and total net income, the components of OCI and a total of OCI, along with the total of comprehensive income in that
statement. In the two-statement approach, the entity would present components of net income and total net income in the statement of net income and a statement of OCI would immediately
follow the statement of net income and include the components of OCI and a total for OCI, along with a total for comprehensive income. The amendments also require the entity to present on the face of
the financial statements any reclassification adjustments for items that are reclassified from OCI to net income in the statement(s) where the components of net income and the components of OCI are
presented. The amendments do not change the items that must be reported in OCI, when an item of OCI must be reclassed to net income or the option to present components of OCI either net of related tax
effects or before related tax effects. The amendments, excluding the specific requirement to present on the face of the financial statements any reclassification adjustments for items that are
reclassified from OCI to net income in the statement(s) where the components of net income and the components of OCI are presented which was deferred by the FASB in December 2011, are effective for
fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011 and are to be applied retrospectively. The Company adopted the guidance, except for the deferred
requirement to present reclassification adjustments in the statement(s) where the components of net income and the components of OCI are presented, as of January 1, 2012. The Company plans to
present comprehensive income in two separate but consecutive statements.

In
May 2011, the FASB issued amendments to existing fair value measurement guidance in order to achieve common requirements for measuring fair value and disclosures in accordance with
GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. The guidance clarifies how a principal market is determined, addresses the fair value measurement of instruments with offsetting market or
counterparty credit risks, addresses the concept of valuation premise and highest and best use, extends the prohibition on blockage factors to all three levels of the fair value hierarchy and requires
additional disclosures. The amendments are to be applied prospectively and are effective during interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company adopted the guidance as
of January 1, 2012, which did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.

In
April 2010, the FASB issued guidance on accruing for jackpot liabilities. The guidance clarifies that an entity should not accrue jackpot liabilities (or portions thereof) before a
jackpot is won if the entity can legally avoid paying that jackpot (for example, by removing the gaming machine from the casino floor). Jackpots should be accrued and charged to revenue when an entity
has the obligation to pay the jackpot. This guidance applies to both base jackpots and the incremental portion of progressive jackpots. However, the guidance only affected the accounting for base
jackpots, as the guidance uses the same principle that is applied by the Company to the incremental portion of progressive jackpots. The guidance was effective for fiscal years, and interim periods
within those fiscal years, beginning on



or
after December 15, 2010. This guidance was applied by recording a cumulative-effect adjustment to opening retained earnings in the period of adoption. The Company adopted the guidance as of
January 1, 2011, and as such, recorded a cumulative-effect adjustment, which increased retained earnings by $2.9 million.

5.     Acquisitions and Other Recent Business Ventures

Sale of Maryland Jockey Club Interest

In July 2011, the Company sold its joint venture interest in the Maryland Jockey Club. See Note 7 for further discussion.

M Resort Transaction

On June 1, 2011, following the purchase of all of the outstanding debt of the M Resort for $230.5 million and the receipt
of requisite regulatory approvals, the Company acquired the business in exchange for the debt. See Note 6 for further discussion.

Texas Joint Venture Interest

On April 8, 2011, the Company established a joint venture that owns and operates racetracks in Texas. See Note 7 for
further discussion.

Rosecroft Acquisition

On February 28, 2011, the Company completed its acquisition of Rosecroft Raceway in Oxon Hill, Maryland following the completion
of a bankruptcy auction and approval of the purchase by a U.S. Bankruptcy Court judge. Rosecroft Raceway, located approximately 13 miles south of Washington, D.C., is situated on approximately 125
acres just outside the Washington I-495 Beltway in Prince George's county. The Rosecroft facility features a


/


-mile standardbred race track with a seven race
paddock, a 53,000 square foot grandstand building, and a 96,000 square foot three story clubhouse building with dining facilities. In August 2011, Rosecroft Raceway re-opened for
simulcasting and live standardbred racing resumed in late October 2011.

Beulah Park Acquisition

On July 1, 2010, the Company completed its acquisition of Beulah Park in Grove City, Ohio from Heartland Jockey Club Ltd.
Located on approximately 210 acres just outside of Columbus, Ohio, Beulah Park is a thoroughbred racing facility that features live thoroughbred racing from October to May as well as simulcast
wagering from a number of nationwide tracks. Beulah Park includes a grandstand, outdoor paddock, a clubhouse facility and numerous food and dining options. The results of Beulah Park have been
included in the Company's consolidated financial statements since the July 1, 2010 acquisition date.

6.     Loan Receivable

The Company purchased all of the outstanding bank and subordinated debt of the M Resort in October 2010 for $230.5 million at which time the Company also
secured the right to acquire the business of the M Resort in exchange for the property's outstanding debt obligations. At December 31, 2010, the $230.5 million loan was recorded as a
loan receivable within total other assets on the consolidated balance sheet. On June 1, 2011, following the requisite regulatory approvals, the Company acquired the business in exchange for the
debt. This non-cash transaction resulted in the removal of the Company's loan receivable and the purchase price allocation resulted in an increase to property and equipment, net, total
current assets, total other assets, and total current liabilities, of $203.7 million,



$13.7 million,
$2.4 million, and $17.3 million, respectively based on their estimated fair values at June 1, 2011.

7.     Investment In and Advances to Unconsolidated Affiliates

As of December 31, 2011, investment in and advances to unconsolidated affiliates primarily included the Company's 50% interest in Freehold Raceway, its 50%
investment in Kansas Entertainment, which is a joint venture with International Speedway Corporation ("International Speedway"), and its 50% joint venture with MAXXAM, Inc. ("MAXXAM") that owns
and operates racetracks in Texas. These investments are more fully described below.

Texas Joint Venture

On April 8, 2011, following final approval by the Texas Racing Commission, the Company completed its investment in a joint
venture with MAXXAM that owns and operates the Sam Houston Race Park in Houston, Texas and the Valley Race Park in Harlingen, Texas, and holds a license for a planned racetrack in Laredo, Texas. Under
the terms of the joint venture, the Company secured a 50% interest in the joint venture, which has sole ownership of the above facilities
including interests in 323 acres at Sam Houston Race Park, 80 acres at Valley Race Park, and an option to purchase 135 acres for the planned racetrack in Laredo, Texas.

Sam
Houston Race Park, opened in April 1994, is located 15 miles northwest from downtown Houston along Beltway 8. Sam Houston Race Park hosts thoroughbred and quarter horse racing and
offers daily simulcast operations, as well as hosts various special events, private parties and meetings, concerts and national touring festivals throughout the year. Valley Race Park, which was
opened in 1990 and acquired by Sam Houston Race Park in 2000, is a 91,000 square foot dog racing and simulcasting facility located in Harlingen, Texas.

The
Company intends to work collaboratively with MAXXAM to strengthen and enhance the existing racetrack operations as well as pursue other opportunities, including the potential for
gaming operations at the pari-mutuel facilities, to maximize the overall value of the business. As part of the agreement for the joint venture, the Company agreed to fund, upon the
legalization of gaming, a loan to the joint venture for up to $375 million to cover development costs that cannot be financed through third party debt. This loan commitment is in place through
December 31, 2015, however it may be extended to December 31, 2016 in order to obtain gaming referendum approval in the event gaming legislation approval has occurred prior to
December 31, 2015. If the joint venture elects to utilize the loan, the rates to be paid will be LIBOR plus 800 to 900 basis points for a senior financing and an additional 500 to 600 basis
points for a subordinated financing.

The
Company determined that the Texas joint venture did not qualify as a variable interest entity ("VIE") at December 31, 2011. Using the guidance for entities that are not VIEs,
the Company determined that it did not have a controlling financial interest in the joint venture at, and for the year ended December 31, 2011, primarily as it did not have the ability to
direct the activities of the joint venture that most significantly impacted the joint venture's economic performance without the input of MAXXAM. Therefore, the Company did not consolidate its
investment in the joint venture at, and for the year ended December 31, 2011.

Kansas Entertainment

In December 2009, Kansas Entertainment was selected by the Kansas Lottery Gaming Facility Review Board to develop and operate a
facility in the North East Gaming Zone in Wyandotte County, Kansas, and in February 2010, Kansas Entertainment received the final approval under the Kansas Expanded Lottery Act, along with its gaming
license from the Kansas Racing and Gaming Commission,



to
proceed with the development of an approximately $411 million Hollywood-themed destination facility overlooking Turn 2 at Kansas Speedway.

Kansas
Entertainment recently completed the construction of its planned $411 million facility, inclusive of licensing fees, which features a 95,000 square foot casino with
approximately 2,000 slot machines, 52 table games and 12 poker tables, a 1,253 space parking structure, as well as a variety of dining and entertainment facilities. The Company and International
Speedway shared equally in the cost of developing and constructing the facility. The Company estimates that its share of the project will be approximately $155 million. During the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company funded $70.9 million, $30.6 million and $12.9 million, respectively, for capital expenditures and other operating expenses.

The
Company determined that Kansas Entertainment qualified as a VIE at December 31, 2011 and 2010. The Company did not consolidate its investment in Kansas Entertainment at, and
for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, as the Company determined that it did not qualify as the primary beneficiary of Kansas Entertainment at, and for the years ended
December 31, 2011 and 2010, primarily as it did not have the ability to direct the activities of Kansas Entertainment that most significantly impacted Kansas Entertainment's economic
performance without the input of International Speedway. In addition, the Company determined that International Speedway had substantive participating rights in Kansas Entertainment at, and for the
years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.

Sale of Maryland Jockey Club Interest

In July 2011, the Company sold its joint venture interest in Maryland RE & R LLC, a joint venture with MI
Developments, Inc. that owned and operated the Maryland Jockey Club. This transaction resulted in a gain of $20.2 million which was included in gain (loss) from unconsolidated affiliates
within the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2011.

For
the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company's share of losses in the Maryland Jockey Club included a $14.4 million charge for the Company's share of a goodwill
impairment write-down recorded by the Maryland Jockey Club during the fourth quarter of 2010 as a result of the negative outcome related to the zoning referendum in which voters approved a
proposed casino complex at the Arundel Mills mall in Anne Arundel, Maryland.

New Jersey Joint Venture

During the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company recorded a $5.9 million charge to reflect its share of a goodwill impairment
recorded at its joint venture. This charge reduced the Company's investment balance to $11.2 million at December 31, 2011. The Company believes this amount is realizable based on its
share of the underlying fair value of the business which was utilized in the joint venture's goodwill impairment analysis.

The
Company determined that the New Jersey joint venture did not qualify as a VIE at December 31, 2011 and 2010. Using the guidance for entities that are not VIEs, the Company
determined that it did not have a controlling financial interest in the joint venture at, and for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, primarily as it did not have the ability to direct
the activities of the joint venture that most significantly impacted the joint venture's economic performance without the input of Greenwood Limited Jersey, Inc. Therefore, the Company did not
consolidate its investment in the joint venture at, and for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.



8.     Property and Equipment

Property and equipment, net, consists of the following:

December 31,



(in thousands)

Land and improvements

$

362,402

$

298,482

Building and improvements

1,715,144

1,534,117

Furniture, fixtures, and equipment

1,021,362

938,443

Leasehold improvements

16,910

17,089

Construction in progress

256,459

106,963

Total property and equipment

3,372,277

2,895,094

Less accumulated depreciation

(1,095,077

)

(929,320

)

Property and equipment, net

$

2,277,200

$

1,965,774

During
the year ended December 31, 2011, total property and equipment increased by $477.2 million primarily due to the M Resort transaction that closed on June 1,
2011, as well as expenditures for the facilities under construction in Ohio.

Depreciation
expense, for property and equipment, totaled $209.3 million, $206.6 million, and $187.8 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Interest
capitalized in connection with major construction projects was $5.6 million, $5.5 million, and $7.0 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

On
May 4, 2010, in a statewide election in Ohio, the voters determined that the Company's casino in Columbus will be located at the site of the former Delphi Automotive plant
along Columbus's West Side. As a result of the election, the Company initiated the process to sell the parcel of land that it purchased in Columbus's Arena District, the original site approved by
voters, and reclassified the land as held for sale. The Company obtained an appraisal to determine the estimated fair market value of the land and recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of
$31.3 million ($20.1 million, net of taxes) during the year ended December 31, 2010, which was comprised of the difference between the land's estimated fair market value less
costs to sell and its carrying value. This land was sold in August 2011, which did not have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated statement of operations.

During
the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company recorded a pre-tax impairment charge for the replaced Lawrenceburg vessel of $11.9 million
($7.1 million, net of taxes) in conjunction with the opening of the new casino riverboat at Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg. During the year-ended December 31, 2010, the
Company recorded a $0.2 million charge on this replaced vessel.



9.     Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

A reconciliation of goodwill and accumulated goodwill impairment losses is as follows (in thousands):

Balance at January 1, 2010:

Goodwill

$

2,024,963

Accumulated goodwill impairment losses

(645,002

)

Goodwill, net

$

1,379,961

Goodwill impairment losses

(188,855

)

Other

(5,350

)

Balance at December 31, 2010:

Goodwill

$

2,019,613

Accumulated goodwill impairment losses

(833,857

)

Goodwill, net

$

1,185,756

Goodwill impairment losses

—

Other

(5,397

)

Balance at December 31, 2011:

Goodwill

$

2,014,216

Accumulated goodwill impairment losses

(833,857

)

Goodwill, net

$

1,180,359

Goodwill
consists mainly of goodwill from the acquisitions of Hollywood Casino Corporation in March 2003, Argosy in October 2005 and Zia Park Casino in April 2007.

During
the year ended December 31, 2010, goodwill decreased by $194.2 million. Due to decreased earning projections at the Company's properties in the Chicagoland regional
market resulting from an anticipated increase in competition from the scheduled opening of a casino in the second half of 2011 in Des Plaines, Illinois, as well as continued challenging market
conditions in the Chicagoland regional market, the Company recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $144.6 million ($144.6 million, net of taxes) and $44.2 million
($28.4 million, net of taxes) for Hollywood Casino Aurora and Hollywood Casino Joliet, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2010, as the Company determined that a portion of
the value of the goodwill associated with the original purchase of Hollywood Casino Aurora and Hollywood Casino Joliet was impaired.

During
the year ended December 31, 2009, goodwill decreased by $218.6 million. As a result of the anticipated impact of gaming expansion in Ohio, the Company recorded a
pre-tax impairment charge of $213.3 million ($188.7 million, net of taxes) during the year ended December 31, 2009, as the Company determined that a portion of the
value of the goodwill associated with the original purchase of Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg was impaired.

The
table below presents the gross carrying value, accumulated amortization, and net book value of each major class of other intangible assets at December 31, 2011 and 2010:



December 31,

Gross

Carrying

Value

Accumulated

Amortization

Net Book

Value

Gross

Carrying

Value

Accumulated

Amortization

Net Book

Value

(in thousands)

Indefinite-life intangible assets

$

421,260

$

—

$

421,260

$

412,686

$

—

$

412,686

Other intangible assets

49,666

49,333


49,600

47,134

2,466

Total

$

470,926

$

49,333

$

421,593

$

462,286

$

47,134

$

415,152



Indefinite-life
intangible assets consist mainly of gaming licenses and racing permits.

During
the year ended December 31, 2010, indefinite-life intangible assets increased by $34.2 million, primarily due to the gaming license for table games at
Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course and the indefinite-life intangible assets, primarily a racing permit, acquired as part of Beulah Park, which were partially offset by the
write-down of the Argosy trademark intangible asset for $4.4 million ($2.8 million, net of taxes) due to management's strategy to transition Argosy properties to the
Hollywood Casino brand.

During
the year ended December 31, 2009, indefinite-life intangible assets decreased by $310.2 million. As a result of the anticipated impact of gaming
expansion in Ohio, the Company recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $307.2 million ($180.1 million, net of taxes), as the Company determined that a portion of the value of
the indefinite-life intangible assets associated with the original purchase of Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg was impaired.

The
Company's intangible asset amortization expense was $2.2 million, $5.8 million, and $6.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively.

The
following table presents expected intangible asset amortization expense based on existing intangible assets at December 31, 2011 (in thousands):


$








Total

$


The
Company's remaining goodwill and other intangible assets by reporting unit at December 31, 2011 is shown below (in thousands):

Reporting Unit

Remaining Goodwill and

other intangible assets

at December 31, 2011

Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg

$

362,491

Hollywood Casino Joliet

210,158

Hollywood Casino Aurora

207,207

Argosy Casino Riverside

159,296

Zia Park Casino

145,777

Argosy Casino Alton

135,511

Argosy Casino Sioux City

92,795

Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge

75,521

Others

213,196

Total

$

1,601,952

10.   Investment in Corporate Securities

During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company made a $47.3 million investment in the corporate debt securities of other gaming companies.
During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company sold $42.2 million of this investment and recorded a $6.6 million gain, which is included in other income (expenses) within
the consolidated statements of operations. The Company's investment in corporate debt securities are accounted for as an available-for-sale investment security and are included
in other assets within the consolidated balance sheets.

The
remaining investment had a fair value totaling $6.8 million and $5.8 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. During 2010, the issuer of the security
went into default on its obligations



as
it ceased making interest payments and the security was downgraded by certain rating agencies. As a result, during the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company recorded a
pre-tax charge of $0.3 million, which is included in other income (expenses) within the consolidated statements of operations, to write down the investment to its fair value, which
was based on the transaction prices of the security subsequent to when the issuer defaulted on its obligations. The Company will continue to account for this security as an available for sale
investment and will monitor its realizability in future periods. At December 31, 2011, the investment had an unrealized gain within accumulated other comprehensive loss within the consolidated
balance sheet of $1.1 million.

11.   Long-term Debt and Derivatives

Long-term debt, net of current maturities, is as follows:

December 31,



(in thousands)

Senior secured credit facility

$

1,715,750

$

1,589,125

$250 million 6


/


% senior subordinated notes due March 2015

—

250,000

$325 million 8


/


% senior subordinated notes due August 2019

325,000

325,000

Other long-term obligations

1,949

3,782

Capital leases

2,215

3,216

2,044,914

2,171,123

Less current maturities of long-term debt

(44,559

)

(357,927

)

Less discount on senior secured credit facility Term Loan B

(1,749

)

—

$

1,998,606

$

1,813,196

The
following is a schedule of future minimum repayments of long-term debt as of December 31, 2011 (in thousands):


$

44,559


51,340


68,848


77,605


767,114

Thereafter

1,035,448

Total minimum payments

$

2,044,914

Senior Secured Credit Facility

On July 14, 2011, the Company entered into a new $2.15 billion senior secured credit facility, which is comprised of a
$700 million revolving credit facility that will mature in July 2016, a $700 million variable rate Term Loan A due in July 2016 and a $750 million variable rate
Term Loan B due in July 2018. The interest rates payable on the facilities are based on the leverage ratios of the Company as defined in the debt agreements, however, based on current borrowing
levels, the Company will pay LIBOR plus 150 basis points on the revolver and Term Loan A and LIBOR plus 275 basis points on Term Loan B (subject to a 1% LIBOR floor). The Company utilized the proceeds
of the two term loan borrowings and cash on hand to retire its previous senior secured credit facility obligation of $1,518.1 million (which had significant principal repayments due at the end
of 2011 and 2012) and pay transaction costs and accrued interest and fees on the retired debt. As a result of this refinancing, the Company incurred debt extinguishment charges of $10.2 million
during the year ended December 31, 2011.



The
Company's senior secured credit facility had a gross outstanding balance of $1,715.8 million at December 31, 2011, consisting of $287.0 million drawn under the
revolving credit facility, a $682.5 million Term Loan A facility, and a $746.3 million Term Loan B facility. Additionally, at December 31, 2011, the Company was contingently
obligated under letters of credit issued pursuant to the $2.15 billion senior secured credit facility with face amounts aggregating $24.9 million, resulting in $388.1 million of
available borrowing capacity as of December 31, 2011 under the revolving credit facility.

Redemption of 6


/


% Senior Subordinated Notes

In July 2011, the Company announced its intention to redeem all of its $250 million 6


/


% senior subordinated
notes. The redemption price was $1,022.50 per $1,000 principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, which was paid in August 2011. The Company funded the redemption of its $250 million


/


% senior subordinated notes from its new revolving credit facility and available cash. The Company recorded a $7.6 million loss on early extinguishment of debt during the
year ended December 31, 2011 related to debt issuance costs write-offs and the call premium on the $250 million 6


/


% senior subordinated notes.



/


% Senior Subordinated Notes

In August 2009, the Company completed an offering of $325 million 8


/


% senior subordinated notes that mature on
August 15, 2019. Interest on the $325 million 8


/


% senior subordinated notes is payable on February 15 and August 15 of each year. The $325 million


/


% senior subordinated notes are general unsecured obligations and are not guaranteed by the Company's
subsidiaries and were issued in a private placement pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. At any time prior to August 15, 2014,
the Company may redeem all or part of the 8


/


% senior subordinated notes at par plus the present value (discounted at the treasury rate plus 50 basis points) of scheduled interest
payments through August 15, 2014, along with accrued and unpaid interest, if any, at the date of redemption. On or after August 15, 2014, the Company may redeem all or part of the


/


% senior subordinated notes at a redemption price of 104.375% which gradually reduces to par by 2017.

Other Long-Term Obligations

In April 2010, the Company entered into a termination contract with the city of Aurora, Illinois, whereby the Company will pay
$7 million in lieu of perpetual annual payments (of approximately $1 million) to have off duty Aurora police officials provide security at Hollywood Casino Aurora each day. Payments of
$1.5 million were made on June 1, 2010 and September 1, 2010 and a payment of $2.0 million was made on June 1, 2011. A final payment of $2.0 million is due on
June 1, 2012. This liability was discounted using an estimate of the Company's incremental borrowing rate over the term of the obligation. The accretion of this discount is recorded in interest
expense in the consolidated statements of operations.

Covenants

The Company's senior secured credit facility and $325 million 8


/


% senior subordinated notes require it, among
other obligations, to maintain specified financial ratios and to satisfy certain financial tests, including fixed charge coverage, interest coverage, senior leverage and total leverage ratios. In
addition, the Company's senior secured credit facility and $325 million 8


/


% senior subordinated notes restrict, among other things, the Company's ability to incur additional
indebtedness, incur guarantee obligations, amend debt instruments, pay dividends, create liens on assets, make investments, engage in mergers or consolidations, and otherwise restrict corporate
activities.



At December 31, 2011, the Company was in compliance with all required financial covenants.

Interest Rate Swap Contracts

In accordance with the terms of its previous senior secured credit facility, the Company was required to enter into
fixed-rate debt or interest rate swap agreements in an amount equal to 50% of the Company's consolidated indebtedness, excluding the revolving credit facility, within 100 days of
the closing date of the previous senior secured credit facility. This requirement was not included in the new senior secured credit facility. As discussed in Note 3, the Company
de-designated its cash flow hedges on July 1, 2011 in connection with its new senior secured credit facility.

The
effect of derivative instruments on the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 was as follows (in thousands):

Derivatives in a Cash Flow Hedging Relationship

Gain (Loss)

Recognized in

OCI on Derivative

(Effective Portion)

Location of Gain (Loss)

Reclassified from

AOCI into Income

(Effective Portion)

Gain (Loss)

Reclassified from

AOCI into Income

(Effective Portion)

Location of Gain (Loss)

Recognized in Income

on Derivative

(Ineffective Portion)

Gain (Loss)

Recognized in Income

on Derivative

(Ineffective Portion)

Interest rate swap contracts

$

(672

)

Interest expense

$

(8,173

)

None

$

—

Total

$

(672

)

$

(8,173

)

$

—

Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments

Location of Gain (Loss)

Recognized in Income

on Derivative

Gain (Loss) Recognized

in Income on Derivative

Interest rate swap contracts

Interest expense

$

(10

)

Total

$

(10

)

The
effect of derivative instruments on the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 was as follows (in thousands):

Derivatives in a Cash Flow Hedging Relationship

Gain (Loss)

Recognized in

OCI on Derivative

(Effective Portion)

Location of Gain (Loss)

Reclassified from

AOCI into Income

(Effective Portion)

Gain (Loss)

Reclassified from

AOCI into Income

(Effective Portion)

Location of Gain (Loss)

Recognized in Income

on Derivative

(Ineffective Portion)

Gain (Loss)

Recognized in Income

on Derivative

(Ineffective Portion)

Interest rate swap contracts

$

(13,998

)

Interest expense

$

(24,424

)

None

$

—

Total

$

(13,998

)

$

(24,424

)

$

—

Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments

Location of Gain (Loss)

Recognized in Income

on Derivative

Gain (Loss) Recognized

in Income on Derivative

Interest rate swap contracts

Interest expense

$

(60

)

Total

$

(60

)

The
effect of derivative instruments on the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 was as follows (in thousands):

Derivatives in a Cash Flow Hedging Relationship

Gain (Loss)

Recognized in

OCI on Derivative

(Effective Portion)

Location of Gain (Loss)

Reclassified from

AOCI into Income

(Effective Portion)

Gain (Loss)

Reclassified from

AOCI into Income

(Effective Portion)

Location of Gain (Loss)

Recognized in Income

on Derivative

(Ineffective Portion)

Gain (Loss)

Recognized in Income

on Derivative

(Ineffective Portion)

Interest rate swap contracts

$

(23,478

)

Interest expense

$

(30,358

)

None

$

—

Total

$

(23,478

)

$

(30,358

)

$

—



Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments

Location of Gain (Loss)

Recognized in Income

on Derivative

Gain (Loss) Recognized

in Income on Derivative

Interest rate swap contracts

Interest expense

$


Total

$


In
addition, during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company amortized to interest expense $7.2 million, $15.4 million and $15.9 million,
respectively, in OCI related to the derivatives that were de-designated as hedging instruments under ASC 815, "Derivatives and Hedging."

There
were no outstanding interest rate swap contracts as of December 31, 2011. Unrealized losses for the Company's interest rate swap contracts within accumulated other
comprehensive loss within the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2010 was $9.4 million. The following table sets forth the fair value of the interest rate swap contract
liabilities included in accrued interest within the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2010:

December 31, 2010

Balance Sheet

Location

Fair

Value

Derivatives designated as hedging instruments

Interest rate swap contracts

Accrued interest

$

13,034

Total derivatives designated as hedging instruments

$

13,034

Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments

Interest rate swap contracts

Accrued interest

$

3,712

Total derivatives not designated as hedging instruments

$

3,712

Total derivatives

$

16,746

12.   Commitments and Contingencies

Litigation

The Company is subject to various legal and administrative proceedings relating to personal injuries, employment matters, commercial
transactions and other matters arising in the normal course of business. The Company does not believe that the final outcome of these matters will have a material adverse effect on the Company's
consolidated financial position or results of operations. In addition, the Company maintains what it believes is adequate insurance coverage to further mitigate the risks of such proceedings. However,
such proceedings can be costly, time consuming and unpredictable and, therefore, no assurance can be given that the final outcome of such proceedings may not materially impact the Company's
consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Further, no assurance can be given that the amount or scope of existing insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover losses arising from
such matters.

The
following proceedings could result in costs, settlements, damages, or rulings that materially impact the Company's consolidated financial condition or operating results. In each
instance, the Company believes that it has meritorious defenses, claims and/or counter-claims, and intends to vigorously defend itself or pursue its claim.

The
Illinois Legislature passed into law House Bill 1918, effective May 26, 2006, which singled out four of the nine Illinois casinos, including the Company's Hollywood Casino
Joliet and Hollywood Casino Aurora, for a 3% surcharge to subsidize local horse racing interests. On May 30, 2006, Hollywood Casino Joliet and Hollywood Casino Aurora joined with the two other
riverboats affected by the law, Harrah's Joliet and the Grand Victoria Casino in Elgin (collectively, the "Four Casinos"), and



filed
suit in the Circuit Court of the Twelfth Judicial District in Will County, Illinois (the "Court"), asking the Court to declare the law unconstitutional. Hollywood Casino Joliet and Hollywood
Casino Aurora began paying the 3% surcharge into a protest fund which accrued interest during the pendency of the lawsuit. In two orders dated March 29, 2007 and April 20, 2007, the
Court declared the law unconstitutional under the Uniformity Clause of the Illinois Constitution and enjoined the collection of this surcharge. The State of Illinois requested, and was granted, a stay
of this ruling. As a result, Hollywood Casino Joliet and Hollywood Casino Aurora continued paying the 3% surcharge into the protest fund until May 25, 2008, when the 3% surcharge expired. The
State of Illinois appealed the ruling to the Illinois Supreme Court. On June 5, 2008, the Illinois Supreme Court reversed the trial court's ruling and issued a decision upholding the
constitutionality of the 3% surcharge. On January 21, 2009, the Four Casinos filed a petition for certiorari, requesting the U.S. Supreme Court to hear the case. Seven amicus curiae briefs
supporting the plaintiffs' request were also filed. On June 8, 2009, the U.S. Supreme Court decided not to hear the case. On June 10, 2009, the Four Casinos filed a petition with the
Court to open the judgment based on new evidence that came to light during the investigation
of former Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich that the 2006 law was procured by corruption. On August 17, 2009, the Court dismissed the Four Casinos' petition to reopen the case, and the Four
Casinos decided not to pursue an appeal of the dismissal.

On
December 15, 2008, former Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich signed Public Act No. 95-1008 requiring the Four Casinos to continue paying the 3% surcharge to
subsidize Illinois horse racing interests. On January 8, 2009, the Four Casinos filed suit in the Court, asking it to declare the law unconstitutional. The 3% surcharge being paid pursuant to
Public Act No. 95-1008 was paid into a protest fund where it accrued interest. The defendants filed a motion to dismiss, which was granted on August 17, 2009. The Four
Casinos appealed the dismissal and filed motions to keep the payments in the protest fund while the appeal is being litigated. The motion to keep the monies in the protest fund was denied and the
funds were released to the racetracks. On January 27, 2011, the Illinois appellate court affirmed the trial court's dismissal of this case. Hollywood Casino Joliet and Hollywood Casino Aurora
asked the Illinois Supreme Court to hear an appeal of this dismissal and this request was denied. The monies paid into the protest fund have been transferred by the State of Illinois to the
racetracks. The payment of the 3% surcharge under the 2008 statute ended on July 14, 2011 with the opening of the new casino in Des Plaines, Illinois.

On
June 12, 2009, the Four Casinos filed a lawsuit in Illinois Federal Court naming former Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich, his campaign fund, racetrack owner John Johnston, and
his two racetracks as defendants alleging a civil conspiracy in violation of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, 18 U.S.C. §1962(c),(d) ("RICO"), based on an illegal
scheme to secure the enactment of the 3% surcharge legislation in exchange for the payment of money by Johnston and entities controlled by him. The Four Casinos sought to impose a constructive trust
over all funds paid under the surcharge, and therefore all of the Illinois racetracks were named as parties to the lawsuit. The defendants in the RICO case filed motions to dismiss. On
December 7, 2009, the district court denied the motions to dismiss the RICO count, but it granted the motion to dismiss the constructive trust count, stating that it did not have jurisdiction
in this case to impose the constructive trust. The Four Casinos appealed this dismissal to the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals, which affirmed the dismissal in an en banc opinion. The Illinois
racetracks are now free to use the monies that they received from the 3% surcharge. Since the passing of House Bill 1918 into law, Hollywood Casino Joliet and Hollywood Casino Aurora have recognized
approximately $55.2 million in expense as a result of the 3% surcharge, including $5.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2011. The 3% surcharge is included in gaming
expense within the consolidated statements of operations.

On
July 16, 2008, the Company was served with a purported class action lawsuit brought by plaintiffs seeking to represent a class of shareholders who purchased shares of the
Company's Common Stock between March 20, 2008 and July 2, 2008. The lawsuit alleges that the Company's disclosure



practices
relative to the proposed transaction with Fortress Investment Group LLC ("Fortress") and Centerbridge Partners, L.P. ("Centerbridge") and the eventual termination of that
transaction were misleading and deficient in violation of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The complaint, which seeks class certification and unspecified damages, was filed in federal court in
Maryland. The complaint was amended, among other things, to add three new named plaintiffs and to name Peter M. Carlino, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and William J. Clifford, Senior Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer, as additional defendants. The Company filed a motion to dismiss the complaint in November 2008, and the court granted the motion and dismissed the complaint with
prejudice. The plaintiffs filed a motion for reconsideration, which was denied on October 21, 2009. The plaintiffs subsequently appealed the dismissal to the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals and
an oral argument was heard on October 26, 2010. On March 14, 2011, the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the decision of the lower court. The plaintiffs have requested the U.S.
Supreme Court to consider an appeal of the decision. In October 2011, the U.S. Supreme Court denied the application for an appeal.

On
September 11, 2008, the Board of County Commissioners of Cherokee County, Kansas (the "County") filed suit against Kansas Penn Gaming, LLC ("KPG," a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Penn created to pursue a development project in Cherokee County, Kansas) and the Company in the District Court of Shawnee County, Kansas. The petition alleges that KPG breached its
pre-development agreement with the County when KPG withdrew its application to manage a lottery gaming facility in Cherokee County and currently seeks in excess of $50 million in
damages. In connection with their petition, the County obtained an ex-parte order attaching the $25 million privilege fee (which is included in current assets) paid to the Kansas
Lottery Commission in conjunction with the gaming application for the Cherokee County zone. The defendants have filed motions to dissolve and reduce the attachment. Those motions were denied.
Following discovery, both parties have filed dispositive motions.

On
September 23, 2008, KPG filed an action against HV Properties of Kansas, LLC ("HV") in the U.S. District Court for the District of Kansas seeking a declaratory judgment
from the U.S. District Court finding that KPG has no further obligations to HV under a Real Estate Sale Contract (the "Contract") that KPG and HV entered into on September 6, 2007, and that KPG
properly terminated this Contract under the terms of the Repurchase Agreement entered into between the parties effective September 28, 2007. HV filed a counterclaim claiming KPG breached the
Contract, and seeks $37.5 million in damages. On October 7, 2008, HV filed suit against the Company claiming the Company is liable to HV for KPG's alleged breach based on a Guaranty
Agreement signed by the Company. Both cases were consolidated. Following extensive discovery and briefings, on July 23, 2010, the court granted KPG's motion for summary judgment and dismissed
HV's claim. KPG filed a motion requesting reimbursement of the attorneys' fees and costs incurred in litigating this case pursuant to the terms of the Contract and was awarded approximately
$0.9 million. HV has appealed both rulings of the district court. In December 2011, the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the district courts' rulings.

On
March 11, 2011, CD Gaming Ventures, LLC ("CD Gaming"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and developer of the Columbus casino, filed suit in U.S. District Court
against the City of Columbus (the "City"), Columbus officials, Franklin County and County officials. The lawsuit alleged
that the City, Franklin County and various city and county officials violated the Company's rights under the U.S. and Ohio Constitutions, principally by removing preexisting sewer and water service in
an effort to force annexation of the constitutionally-authorized casino site into the City. CD Gaming asked the court for an injunction preventing the City and the county from denying water and sewer
service to the casino site and also sought monetary damages. On May 24, 2011, the City and CD Gaming announced they had reached a contingent agreement, subject to final documentation, that
would result in the annexation of the casino site into the City in exchange for water and sewer service and other considerations. The agreement was conditioned, among other things, on the sale of real
estate



previously
purchased by the Company in downtown Columbus for $11 million and an acceptable settlement agreement with certain affiliates of the Columbus Dispatch. A sale agreement for the real
estate in downtown Columbus closed on August 23, 2011 and a release and settlement agreement has been finalized with certain affiliates of the Columbus Dispatch.

Operating Lease Commitments

The Company is liable under numerous operating leases for assets including an airplane, automobiles, land for the property on which
some of its casinos operate, other equipment and buildings, which expire at various dates through 2093. Total rental expense under these agreements was $28.9 million, $30.5 million, and
$31.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

The
leases for land consist of annual base lease rent payments plus, in some instances, a percentage rent based on a percent of adjusted gaming wins, as described in the respective
leases.

The
Company has an operating lease with the City of Bangor which covers the permanent facility that opened on July 1, 2008. Under the lease agreement, there is a fixed rent
provision, as well as a revenue-sharing provision, which is equal to 3% of gross slot revenue. The final term of the lease, which commenced with the opening of the permanent facility, is for an
initial term of fifteen years, with three ten-year renewal options.

On
March 23, 2007, BTN, Inc. ("BTN"), one of the Company's wholly-owned subsidiaries, entered into an amended and restated ground lease (the "Amended Lease") with Skrmetta
MS, LLC. The lease amends the prior ground lease, dated October 19, 1993. The Amended Lease requires BTN to maintain
a minimum gaming operation on the leased premises and to pay rent equal to 5% of adjusted gaming win after gaming taxes have been deducted. The term of the Amended Lease expires on January 1,
2093.

The
future minimum lease commitments relating to the base lease rent portion of noncancelable operating leases at December 31, 2011 are as follows (in thousands):

Year ending December 31,


$

6,451


5,156


3,743


2,370


1,973

Thereafter

31,677

Total

$

51,370

Capital Expenditure Commitments

The Company's current construction program for 2012 calls for capital expenditures of approximately $452.4 million (including
licensing fees), of which the Company was contractually committed to spend approximately $205.0 million at December 31, 2011.

Employee Benefit Plans

The Company maintains a profit-sharing plan under the provisions of Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended, which covers all eligible employees.
The plan enables participating employees to defer a portion of their salary in a retirement fund to be administered by the Company. The Company makes a discretionary match contribution of 50% of
employees' elective



salary
deferrals, up to a maximum of 6% of eligible employee compensation. The matching contributions for the profit-sharing plan for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were
$3.7 million, $3.5 million, and $3.6 million, respectively.

The
Company also has a defined contribution plan, the Charles Town Races Future Service Retirement Plan, covering substantially all of its union employees at Hollywood Casino at Charles
Town Races. Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races makes annual contributions to this plan for the eligible union employees and to the Penn National Gaming, Inc. 401(k) Plan for the eligible
non-union employees for an amount equal to the amount accrued for retirement expense, which is calculated as 0.25% of the daily mutual handle, 1.0% of net video lottery revenue up to a
base and, after the base is met, it reverts to 0.5% and 0.84% of table and poker revenue, respectively. The contributions for the two plans at Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races for the years
ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $3.8 million, $3.1 million, and $2.7 million, respectively.

The
Company maintains a non-qualified deferred compensation plan that covers most management and other highly-compensated employees. This plan was effective March 1,
2001. The plan allows the participants to defer, on a pre-tax basis, a portion of their base annual salary and/or their annual bonus, and earn tax-deferred earnings on these
deferrals. The plan also provides for matching Company contributions that vest over a five-year period. The Company has established a Trust, and transfers to the Trust, on a periodic
basis, an amount necessary to provide for its respective future liabilities with respect to participant deferral and Company contribution amounts. The Company's matching contributions for the
non-qualified deferred compensation plan for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $2.3 million, $1.8 million, and $1.5 million, respectively.
The Company's deferred compensation liability, which was included in other current liabilities within the consolidated balance sheets, was $41.2 million and $37.6 million at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.

Labor Agreements

The Company is required to have agreements with the horsemen at each of its racetracks to conduct its live racing and simulcasting
activities, with the exception of the Company's tracks in Ohio and New Mexico. In addition, in order to operate gaming machines and
table games in West Virginia, the Company must maintain agreements with each of the Charles Town Horsemen, pari-mutuel clerks and breeders.

At
Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races, the Company has an agreement with the Charles Town Horsemen expiring on December 31, 2012, and an agreement with the breeders that
expires on June 30, 2012. The pari-mutuel clerks at Charles Town are represented under a collective bargaining agreement with the West Virginia Union of Mutuel Clerks, which expired
on December 31, 2010 and has been informally extended on a month-to-month basis while negotiations are in process.

The
Company's agreement with the Pennsylvania Thoroughbred Horsemen at Penn National Race Course expired on September 30, 2011 has been extended through February 29, 2012
pending continuing negotiations. The Company has a collective bargaining agreement with Local 137 of the Sports Arena Employees at Penn National Race Course with respect to pari-mutuel
clerks, admissions and Telebet personnel which expired on December 31, 2011 and will likely be extended pending negotiations. The Company also has an agreement in place with Local 137 of the
Sports Arena Employees with respect to pari-mutuel clerks and admission personnel at the Company's OTWs, which expires on August 31, 2013.

The
Company's agreement with the Maine Harness Horsemen Association at Bangor Raceway expired on December 31, 2011. Although not required to have an agreement in place, the
Company is in the process of negotiating a new agreement prior to the commencement of live racing which is expected to occur in May 2012.



The
Company's agreement with the Ohio Harness Horsemen Association at Raceway Park expires on November 30, 2012. In connection with the acquisition of Beulah Park, the Company has
assumed the agreement with the Ohio Horsemen's Protective and Benevolent Association, which expires on November 30, 2012. Rosecroft Raceway entered into agreements with the Cloverleaf
Standardbred Owners Association and Maryland Standardbred Breeder's Association as of July 5, 2011. Both of these agreements expire on December 31, 2022.

Across
certain of the Company's properties, the Seafarers Entertainment and Allied Trade Union represents approximately 1,860 of the Company's employees under agreements that expire at
various times between June 2012 and November 2020. At Hollywood Casino Joliet, the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Union ("UNITE/HERE") Local 1 represents approximately 280 employees under a
collective bargaining agreement which expires on March 31, 2015. In addition, at some of the Company's properties, the Seafarer International Union of North America, Atlantic, Gulf, Lakes and
Inland Waters District/NMU, AFL-CIO, the Security Police and Fire Professionals of America, the International Brotherhood of Electronic Workers, the UNITE/HERE Local 10, the Local
No. 27 United Food and Commercial Workers, and the United Industrial, Service, Transportation, Professional and Government Workers of North America represent certain of the Company's employees
under collective bargaining agreements that expire at various times between May 2012 and February 2020. None of these particular unions represent more than 50 of the Company's employees.

If
the Company fails to maintain operative agreements with the horsemen at a track, it will not be permitted to conduct live racing and export and import simulcasting at that track and
OTWs and, in West Virginia, the Company will not be permitted to operate its gaming machines and table games unless the state intervenes or changes the statute. In addition, the Company's simulcasting
agreements are subject to the horsemen's approval. If the Company fails to renew or modify existing agreements on satisfactory terms, this failure could have a material adverse effect on its business,
financial condition and results of operations. Except for the closure of the facilities at Penn National Race Course and its OTWs from February 16, 1999 to March 24, 1999 due to a
horsemen's strike, and a few days at other times and locations, the Company has been able to maintain the necessary agreements. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain the
required agreements.

13.   Income Taxes

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are provided for the effects of temporary differences between the tax basis of an asset or liability and its reported amount
in the consolidated balance sheets. These temporary differences result in taxable or deductible amounts in future years.



The
components of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:

Year ended December 31,



(in thousands)

Deferred tax assets:

Stock-based compensation expense

$

37,752

$

31,836

Accrued expenses

53,050

40,355

Deferred tax assets resulting from unrecognized tax benefits

12,231

10,371

State net operating losses

6,165

6,978

Accumulated other comprehensive loss


5,238

Gross deferred tax assets

109,257

94,778

Less valuation allowance

(3,160

)

(3,166

)

Net deferred tax assets

106,097

91,612

Deferred tax liabilities:

Property, plant and equipment

(123,525

)

(105,751

)

Intangibles

(117,842

)

(95,227

)

Net deferred tax liabilities

(241,367

)

(200,978

)

Net:

$

(135,270

)

$

(109,366

)

Reflected on consolidated balance sheets:

Current deferred tax assets, net

$

32,306

$

25,206

Noncurrent deferred tax liabilities, net

(167,576

)

(134,572

)

Net deferred taxes

$

(135,270

)

$

(109,366

)

For
income tax reporting, the Company has gross state net operating loss carryforwards aggregating approximately $143.9 million available to reduce future state income taxes,
primarily for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the States of Mississippi, Colorado and Maryland as of December 31, 2011. The tax benefit associated with these net operating loss
carryforwards is approximately $6.2 million. Due to state tax statutes on annual net operating loss utilization limits, the availability of gaming tax credits and income and loss projections in
the applicable jurisdictions, a $3.2 million valuation allowance has been recorded to reflect the net operating losses which are not presently expected to be realized. If not used,
substantially all the carryforwards will expire at various dates from December 31, 2012 to December 31, 2030.

In
addition, certain subsidiaries have accumulated gross state net operating loss carryforwards aggregating approximately $857.1 million for which no benefit has been recorded as
they are attributable to uncertain tax positions. The unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2011 attributable to these net operating losses was approximately $54.1 million. Due to
the uncertain tax position, these net operating losses are not included as components of deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2011. In the event of any benefit from realization of these net
operating losses, $8.9 million would be treated as an increase to equity, and the remainder would be treated as a reduction of tax expense. If not used, substantially all the carryforwards will
expire at various dates from December 31, 2012 to December 31, 2030.



The provision/(benefit) for income taxes charged to operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was as follows:

Year ended December 31,




(in thousands)

Current tax expense

Federal

$

106,982

$

55,008

$

65,941

State

23,392

11,630

20,232

Foreign

(5,053

)

1,744

(233

)

Total current

125,321

68,382

85,940

Deferred tax (benefit) expense

Federal

24,893

(4,996

)

(112,072

)

State

(3,333

)

2,792

(34,336

)

Total deferred

21,560

(2,204

)

(146,408

)

Total provision/(benefit)

$

146,881

$

66,178

$

(60,468

)

The
following table reconciles the statutory federal income tax rate to the actual effective income tax rate for 2011, 2010 and 2009:

Year ended December 31,




Percent of pretax income

Federal taxes

35.0

%

35.0

%

35.0

%

State and local income taxes

3.4

%

197.1

%

3.3

%

Permanent differences

2.2

%

1263.1

%

(20.5

)%

Foreign

(1.6

)%

16.1

%

0.4

%

Other miscellaneous items

(1.3

)%

(46.5

)%

0.2

%

37.7

%

1464.8

%

18.4

%

Year ended December 31,




(in thousands)

Amount based upon pretax income

Federal taxes

$

136,205

$

1,581

$

(114,758

)

State and local income taxes

13,398

8,905

(10,671

)

Permanent differences

8,405

57,058

67,166

Foreign

(6,223

)


(1,291

)

Other miscellaneous items

(4,904

)

(2,095

)

(914

)

$

146,881

$

66,178

$

(60,468

)



A
reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount for the liability for unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:

Noncurrent tax liabilities

(in thousands)

Balance at December 31, 2009

$

46,702

Additions based on current year positions

5,712

Reductions based on prior year positions

(1,749

)

Decreases due to settlements and/or reduction in liabilities

(16,436

)

Currency translation adjustments

2,617

Balance at December 31, 2010

36,846

Additions based on current year positions

4,309

Additions based on prior year positions

3,178

Decreases due to settlements and/or reduction in liabilities

(10,422

)

Currency translation adjustments

(39

)

Balance at December 31, 2011

$

33,872

During
the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company recorded $4.1 million of tax reserves and $0.2 million of accrued interest related to current year uncertain tax
positions. In regards to prior year tax positions, the Company recorded $3.2 million of tax reserves and accrued interest and reversed $6.7 million and $3.7 million of previously
recorded tax reserves and accrued interest, respectively, for
uncertain tax positions that have settled and/or closed. Out of the $10.4 million of current year tax reverses and accrued interest reversals, $7.3 million related to foreign tax
positions and $2.3 million was a reclassification against income taxes payable. The Company recorded $1.9 million of a federal deferred tax benefit in the current year associated with
its uncertain tax positions. Overall, the Company recorded a net tax benefit of $2.5 million in connection with its uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2011.

Included
in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were $21.5 million and $32.9 million, respectively, of tax positions that, if
reversed, would affect the effective tax rate.

Included
in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were ($39) thousand and $2.6 million, respectively, of currency translation
adjustments for foreign currency tax positions.

The
Company is required under ASC 740 to disclose its accounting policy for classifying interest and penalties, the amount of interest and penalties charged to expense each
period, as well as the cumulative amounts recorded in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company will continue to classify any income tax-related penalties and interest accrued related
to unrecognized tax benefits in taxes on income within the consolidated statements of operations.

During
the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company recognized approximately $0.3 million and $1.0 million, respectively, of interest and penalties, net
of deferred taxes. In addition, due to the filing of amended income tax returns, settlements and/or reductions in previously recorded liabilities, the Company had reductions in previously accrued
interest and penalties of $2.3 million, net of deferred taxes. These accruals are included in income taxes and prepaid expenses within the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2011
and 2010, respectively.

The
Company is currently in various stages of the examination process in connection with our open audits. Generally, it is difficult to determine when these examinations will be closed,
but the



Company
reasonably expects that its ASC 740 liabilities will not significantly change over the next twelve months.

As
of December 31, 2011, the Company is subject to U.S. federal income tax examinations for the tax years 2008, 2009, and 2010. In addition, the Company is subject to state and
local income tax examinations for various tax years in the taxing jurisdictions in which the Company operates.

At
December 31, 2010, prepaid expenses within the consolidated balance sheet included prepaid income taxes of $42.4 million.

14.   Shareholders' Equity

Repurchase of Common Stock

On June 9, 2010, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $300 million of the Company's Common
Stock effective immediately and continuing until the Annual Meeting of Shareholders in 2011, unless otherwise extended or shortened by the Board of Directors. On June 9, 2011, the Board of
Directors authorized the extension of the repurchase program previously authorized by the Board of Directors on June 9, 2010 which provided for the purchase of up to $300 million of the
Company's Common Stock. The current authorization extends the repurchase program until the Annual Meeting of Shareholders in 2012, unless otherwise extended or shortened by the Board of Directors.

During
the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company repurchased 2,981,406 shares of its Common Stock in open market transactions for approximately $105.2 million at an
average price of $35.29 per share. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company repurchased 1,526,400 shares of its Common Stock in open market transactions for approximately
$35.9 million at an average price of $23.49 per share. The Company did not repurchase any shares of its Common Stock in 2009.

Issuance of the $1.25 billion, Zero Coupon Preferred Equity Investment

On June 15, 2007, the Company announced that it had entered into a merger agreement that, at the effective time of the
transactions contemplated thereby, would have resulted in the Company's shareholders receiving $67.00 per share. Specifically, the Company, PNG Acquisition Company Inc. ("Parent") and PNG
Merger Sub Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent
("Merger Sub"), announced that they had entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 15, 2007 (the "Merger Agreement"), that provided, among other things, for Merger Sub to be
merged with and into the Company, as a result of which the Company would have continued as the surviving corporation and would have become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent. Parent is indirectly
owned by certain funds managed by affiliates of Fortress and Centerbridge.

On
July 3, 2008, the Company entered into an agreement with certain affiliates of Fortress and Centerbridge, terminating the Merger Agreement. In connection with the termination
of the Merger Agreement, the Company agreed to receive a total of $1.475 billion, consisting of a nonrefundable $225 million cash termination fee and a $1.25 billion, zero coupon,
preferred equity investment (the "Investment"). On October 30, 2008, the Company closed the sale of the Investment and issued 12,500 shares of the Preferred Stock. During the year ended
December 31, 2010, the Company repurchased 225 shares of Preferred Stock for $11.2 million.

The
Investment is generally non-voting, but possesses voting rights with respect to certain extraordinary events. The Investment is entitled to vote with the Common Stock on
an as-converted basis with respect to any change-in-control or other significant transaction if the consideration to be paid to shareholders is less than $45 per
share (which amount is subject to adjustment in certain circumstances). In addition, the approval of holders of a majority of the Investment shares is required to authorize (i) special
dividends to security holders of the Company; (ii) issuance by the Company of



equity
securities senior to or on a parity with the Investment; (iii) stock repurchases, including but not limited to, by means of a tender offer which is funded by an asset sale outside the
ordinary course (other than repurchases in the open market and repurchases by tender offer at not greater than a 20% premium); and (iv) certain other amendments to the terms of the Investment.
At December 31, 2011, the Investment had an aggregate liquidation preference equal to $1.23 billion, the aggregate purchase price paid for the Investment shares (the "Purchase Price"),
subject to certain adjustments. In addition, the Investment terms provide that the Investment participates in any dividends paid on the Common Stock. To the extent that the Company pays a special
dividend, such special dividend will reduce the amount to be paid to the holders of the Investment upon a liquidation or redemption.

The
Company is required to redeem, for either cash or common shares at the Company's election, all of the outstanding shares of the Investment on June 30, 2015, unless a
change-in-control transaction in which all holders of shares of the Common Stock receive consideration in the transaction has occurred prior to that time. In the event of such
a change-in-control transaction, the holders of the Investment will receive cash and/or other consideration in such transaction (the same consideration as the holders of Common
Stock receive) with a value equal to the net present value of the Purchase Price, subject to increase or decrease in the event that the value of the consideration paid to the holders of the
Common Stock is greater than $67 per share or less than $45 per share, respectively, which thresholds are subject to adjustment in certain circumstances.

The
redemption price to be paid to the holders of the Investment on June 30, 2015 is equal to the Purchase Price, subject to increase or decrease in the event that the average
trading price of the Common Stock (measured over the 20 consecutive trading days prior to May 26, 2015) is greater than $67 per share or less than $45 per share, respectively. There is no
coupon payable with respect to the Investment. The Company shall redeem all of the Investment for cash, provided the Company may elect on or prior to June 1, 2015 to pay all or part of the
redemption price in shares of the Common Stock. At December 31, 2011, the redemption price was $1.04 billion (27.3 million shares of Common Stock if the Company elected to redeem
through the issuance of Common Stock).

The
holders of the Investment are subject to the Investor Rights Agreement, dated as of July 3, 2008, by and among the Company, FIF V PFD LLC, Centerbridge Capital
Partners, L.P., DB Investment Partners, Inc. and Wachovia Investment Holdings, LLC. (the "Investor Rights Agreement"), which, among other things, contains a voting agreement
requiring certain Investment holders to vote all of their shares of Common Stock as directed by the Company and a standstill agreement restricting the activities of certain Investment holders. In
addition, Investment holders who may receive 20% or more of the outstanding Common Stock upon redemption would be subject to Subchapter 25G of the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law of 1988,
as amended (the "Control Share Statute"). The Control Share Statute prohibits any person or group that acquires more than 20% of the voting power of the Company from voting any securities held by such
person or group unless the shareholders vote to accord voting rights to such securities within 90 days of the time such threshold was exceeded. Under the Investment terms, unless such
shareholder approval is obtained, the Investment holders shall execute and deliver a proxy in favor of an attorney-in-fact to be designated by the Board of Directors covering
the number of shares of Common Stock necessary to avoid the application of the Control Share Statute.

The
Investor Rights Agreement also provides that until Fortress and its affiliates own less than two-thirds of the shares of the Investment issued to them on
October 30, 2008, Fortress and the Company must take all action in their power to appoint one designee of the purchasers (the "Purchaser Designee") as a Class II director on the Board of
Directors and to use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause the election of the Purchaser Designee at every meeting thereafter at which a Class II director is to be elected. The initial
Purchaser Designee is Wesley R. Edens. Mr. Edens is the founding principal and Co-Chairman of the Board of Directors of Fortress.



Under
the terms of the Investor Rights Agreement, the Company has agreed to file a short-form registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
for the registration and sale of Investment shares and certain shares of Common Stock owned by the
purchasers ("Registrable Securities"), which it filed on December 30, 2008. The Company is required to keep the shelf registration statement continuously effective under the Securities Act of
1933, as amended, until the earlier of (i) such time as all Registrable Securities have been sold and (ii) such time as the purchasers beneficially own (as defined in the Investor Rights
Agreement) less than 2.5% of the Common Stock on a fully-diluted basis (including Common Shares issuable upon redemption of the Investment shares at maturity). The purchasers and any permitted
transferees of Registrable Securities are also entitled to four demand registrations and unlimited piggyback registration during the term of the Investor Rights Agreement.

Under
the Investor Rights Agreement, each Investment holder has preemptive rights with respect to certain sales of Common Stock, stock options or securities convertible into Common Stock
for so long as such holder beneficially owns at least two-thirds of the shares of the Investment issued to it on October 30, 2008.

15.   Noncontrolling Interests

In November 2009, the Company entered into a Funding and Option Agreement with Lakes Entertainment, Inc. ("Lakes"), permitting Lakes to invest up to a 10%
equity interest in each of the Company's proposed facilities in Columbus and Toledo, Ohio.

During
the year ended December 31, 2010, Lakes made no contribution to the Company towards the proposed facilities, and its portion of the net loss for the proposed facilities was
$2.2 million. During the year ended December 31, 2009, Lakes contributed $1.9 million to the Company towards the proposed facilities, and its portion of the net loss for the
proposed facilities was $2.5 million.

On
July 16, 2010, the Company paid $25 million to Lakes to terminate the agreement. In exchange for this payment, Lakes agreed to relinquish all of its rights, title and
interests held in connection with these two projects. In accordance with ASC 810, "Consolidation," the Company accounted for this change in ownership interest as an adjustment through equity
attributable to the parent. Therefore, the Company recorded the $25 million payment and the cumulative $2.8 million loss attributable to noncontrolling interests from previous periods to
additional paid in capital.

16.   Stock-Based Compensation

On April 16, 2003, the Company's Board of Directors adopted and approved the 2003 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the "2003 Plan"). On
May 22, 2003, the Company's shareholders approved the 2003 Plan. The 2003 Plan was effective June 1, 2003 and permitted the grant of options to purchase Common Stock and other
market-based and performance-based awards. Up to 12,000,000
shares of Common Stock were available for awards under the 2003 Plan. The 2003 Plan provided for the granting of both incentive stock options intended to qualify under Section 422 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and nonqualified stock options, which do not so qualify. The exercise price per share may be no less than (i) 100% of the fair market value of the
Common Stock on the date an option is granted for incentive stock options and (ii) 85% of the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date an option is granted for nonqualified stock
options. This plan will remain in place until it terminates in 2013. However the shares which remained available for issuance under such plan as of November 12, 2008 are no longer available for
issuance and all future equity awards will be pursuant to the 2008 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the "2008 Plan") described below.

On
August 20, 2008, the Company's Board of Directors adopted and approved the 2008 Plan. On November 12, 2008, the Company's shareholders approved the 2008 Plan. The 2008
Plan permits the



Company
to issue stock options (incentive and/or non-qualified), stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, phantom stock units and other equity and cash awards to employees.
Non-employee directors are eligible to receive all such awards, other than incentive stock options. On June 9, 2011, the Company's shareholders approved an amendment to the 2008
Plan to increase the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock that may be issued by 2,350,000 to 9,250,000. Awards of stock options and stock appreciation rights will be counted against the
9,250,000 limit as one share of Common Stock for each share granted. However, each share awarded in the form of restricted stock, or any other full value stock award, will be counted as issuing 2.44
shares of Common Stock for purposes of determining the number of shares available for issuance under the plan. Any awards that are not settled in shares of Common Stock shall not count against this
limit. At December 31, 2011, there were 2,929,655 options available for future grants under the 2008 Plan.

Stock
options that expire between January 6, 2012 and October 11, 2018 have been granted to officers, directors and employees to purchase Common Stock at prices ranging
from $7.95 to $61.82 per share. All options were granted at the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date the options were granted. The Company issues new authorized common shares to satisfy
stock option exercises as well as restricted stock lapses.

The
following table contains information on stock options issued under the plans for the three-year period ended December 31, 2011:

Number of

Option Shares

Weighted-Average

Exercise Price

Weighted-Average

Remaining

Contractual

Term (in years)

Aggregate

Intrinsic Value

(in thousands)

Outstanding at December 31, 2008

8,804,578

$

28.27

6.30

$

17,677

Granted

1,849,375

22.32

Exercised

(491,078

)

11.06

Canceled

(196,750

)

32.27

Outstanding at December 31, 2009

9,966,125

$

27.83

5.67

$

33,038

Granted

1,868,500

27.19

Exercised

(823,056

)

13.96

Canceled

(177,125

)

28.84

Outstanding at December 31, 2010

10,834,444

$

28.75

5.16

$

76,807

Granted

1,631,000

35.47

Exercised

(695,915

)

24.02

Canceled

(161,500

)

26.96

Outstanding at December 31, 2011

11,608,029

$

30.00

4.53

$

100,337

Included
in the above are Common Stock options that were issued in 2003 to the Company's Chairman outside of the Company's stock option plans. These options were issued at $7.95 per
share, and are exercisable through February 6, 2013. At December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the number of these Common Stock options that were outstanding was 23,750.

The
weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $16.68, $12.92, and $8.91, respectively.

Exercisable at December 31,

Number of Option Shares

Weighted-Average Exercise Price


7,490,154

$

30.26


6,586,882

29.85


5,872,151

27.41



The
aggregate intrinsic value of stock options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $9.5 million, $15.1 million, and
$8.4 million, respectively.

At
December 31, 2011, there were 7,490,154 shares that were exercisable, with a weighted-average exercise price of $30.26, a weighted-average remaining contractual term of
4.08 years, and an aggregate intrinsic value of $64.7 million.

The
following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at December 31, 2011:

Exercise Price Range

Total

$7.95 to

$29.22

$29.34 to

$35.15

$35.75 to

$61.82

$7.95 to

$61.82

Outstanding options

Number outstanding

5,559,390

4,484,390

1,564,249

11,608,029

Weighted-average remaining contractual life (years)

3.75

5.30

5.13

4.53

Weighted-average exercise price

$

24.66

$

32.63

$

41.48

$

30.00

Exercisable options

Number outstanding

3,457,765

2,628,140

1,404,249

7,490,154

Weighted-average exercise price

$

24.48

$

31.68

$

41.82

$

30.26

The
following table contains information on restricted stock awards issued under the plans for the three-year period ended December 31, 2011:

Number of

Award Shares

Outstanding at December 31, 2008

380,000

Awarded

332,690

Released

(160,000

)

Canceled

—

Outstanding at December 31, 2009

552,690

Awarded

165,110

Released

(203,734

)

Canceled

(20,000

)

Outstanding at December 31, 2010

494,066

Awarded

97,005

Released

(234,772

)

Canceled

(1,010

)

Outstanding at December 31, 2011

355,289

Compensation
costs related to stock-based compensation for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 totaled $24.7 million pre-tax ($17.8 million
after-tax), $26.0 million pre-tax ($19.1 million after-tax) and $28.4 million pre-tax ($20.9 million after-tax),
respectively, and are included within the consolidated statements of operations under general and administrative expense.

At
December 31, 2011 and 2010, the total compensation cost related to nonvested awards not yet recognized equaled $40.1 million and $37.2 million, respectively,
including $34.2 million and $30.1 million for stock options, respectively, and $5.9 million and $7.1 million for restricted stock, respectively. This cost is expected to be
recognized over the remaining vesting periods, which will not exceed five years.



Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company issued cash-settled phantom stock unit awards, which vest over a period up to five years.
Cash-settled phantom stock unit awards entitle employees and directors to receive cash based on the fair value of the Company's Common Stock on the vesting date. These phantom stock unit
awards are accounted for as liability awards and are re-measured at fair value each reporting period until they become vested with compensation expense being recognized over the requisite
service period in accordance with ASC 718-30 "Compensation—Stock Compensation, Awards Classified as Liabilities." As of December 31, 2011, there was $5.9 million
of total unrecognized compensation cost that will be recognized over the grants remaining vesting period. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company recognized
$2.1 million and $0.4 million, respectively, of compensation expense associated with these awards.

Additionally
starting in 2011, the Company issued stock appreciation rights to certain employees, which vest over a period of four years. The Company's stock appreciation rights are
accounted for as liability awards since they will be settled in cash. The fair value of these awards is calculated during each reporting period and estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing
model based on the various inputs discussed previously. As of December 31, 2011, there was $5.2 million of total unrecognized compensation cost that will be recognized over the awards
remaining weighted average vesting period. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company recognized $1.4 million of compensation expense associated with these awards.



17.   Segment Information

The following tables present certain information with respect to the Company's segments. Intersegment revenues between the Company's segments were not material in
any of the periods presented below.

Midwest(1)(2)

East/West(3)

Southern

Plains

Other(4)

Total

(in thousands)

Year ended December 31, 2011

Net revenues

$

826,436

$

1,290,732

$

590,709

$

34,380

$

2,742,257

Income (loss) from operations

211,356

263,423

137,580

(112,778

)

499,581

Depreciation and amortization

62,844

85,723

53,764

9,145

211,476

(Loss) gain from unconsolidated affiliates

—

—

(4,834

)

12,198

7,364

Capital expenditures

206,081

51,701

25,488

9,811

293,081

Year ended December 31, 2010

Net revenues

825,847

997,262

602,257

33,745

2,459,111

(Loss) income from operations

(39,514

)

181,175

125,318

(113,753

)

153,226

Depreciation and amortization

64,402

79,244

59,777

8,964

212,387

Loss from unconsolidated affiliates

—

—

(2,242

)

(23,732

)

(25,974

)

Impairment losses

220,236

—

—

4,473

224,709

Capital expenditures

198,282

118,398

41,215

5,060

362,955

Year ended December 31, 2009

Net revenues

806,866

896,941

632,543

32,925

2,369,275

(Loss) income from operations

(346,260

)

137,418

136,164

(121,920

)

(194,598

)

Depreciation and amortization

49,007

78,896

57,676

8,857

194,436

Loss from unconsolidated affiliates

—

—

(295

)

(826

)

(1,121

)

Impairment losses

532,377

—

—

—

532,377

Capital expenditures

195,648

59,566

31,451

2,886

289,551

Balance sheet at December 31, 2011

Total assets

1,897,164

1,265,438

1,034,506

409,238

4,606,346

Investment in and advances to unconsolidated affiliates

—


107,204

66,802

174,116

Goodwill and other intangible assets, net

925,822

226,234

394,018

55,878

1,601,952

Balance sheet at December 31, 2010

Total assets

1,730,760

1,279,200

997,748

455,171

4,462,879

Investment in and advances to unconsolidated affiliates

—


41,028

22,972

64,120

Goodwill and other intangible assets, net

923,414

226,450

394,018

57,026

1,600,908

(1)

As
a result of decreased earning projections resulting from an anticipated increase in competition from the scheduled opening of a casino in the second half
of 2011 in Des Plaines, Illinois, as well as continued challenging market conditions in the Chicagoland regional market, the Company recorded a pre-tax goodwill impairment charge during
the year ended December 31, 2010 of $144.6 million ($144.6 million, net of taxes) at Hollywood Casino Aurora and $44.2 million ($28.4 million, net of taxes) at
Hollywood Casino Joliet, respectively. In addition, in conjunction with the voters determining that the Company's casino in Columbus, Ohio will be located at the site of the former Delphi Automotive
plant along Columbus's West Side, rather than the original site in the Arena District, the Company recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $31.3 million ($20.1 million, net
of taxes) during the year December 31, 2010 for the parcel of land that the Company purchased in Columbus's Arena District.

(2)

As
a result of the anticipated impact of gaming expansion in Ohio, the Company recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $520.5 million
($368.8 million, net of taxes) during the year ended December 31, 2009, as the Company determined that a portion of the value of the goodwill and indefinite-life intangible
assets



associated
with the original purchase of Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg was impaired. In addition, in conjunction with the opening of the new casino riverboat at Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg, the
Company recorded a pre-tax impairment charge for the replaced Lawrenceburg vessel of $11.9 million ($7.1 million, net of taxes) during the year ended December 31,
2009.

(3)

Net
revenue and income from operations for the East/West segment increased by $293.5 million and $82.2 million, respectively, for the year
ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the corresponding period in the prior year, primarily due to the acquisition of the M Resort on June 1, 2011, as well as the opening of Hollywood
Casino Perryville on September 27, 2010. The East/West segment also experienced an increase in net revenue and income from operations for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 from
the introduction of table games in July 2010 at Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races and Hollywood Casino at Penn National Race Course.

(4)

(Loss)
gain from unconsolidated affiliates for Other for the year ended December 31, 2011 included a gain of $20.2 million on the sale of the
Company's joint venture interest in the Maryland Jockey Club in July 2011, whereas results for the year ended December 31, 2010 included the Company's share of losses in the Maryland Jockey
Club, which included a $14.4 million charge for the Company's share of a goodwill impairment write-down recorded by the Maryland Jockey Club during the fourth quarter of 2010 as a
result of a negative outcome related to a zoning referendum.

18.   Summarized Quarterly Data (Unaudited)

The following table summarizes the quarterly results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010:

Fiscal Quarter

First

Second

Third

Fourth

(in thousands, except per share data)


Net revenues

$

667,023

$

687,879

$

710,905

$

676,450

Income from operations

122,735

140,592

130,335

105,919

Net income

51,528

75,989

70,803

44,031

Earnings per common share:

Basic earnings per common share

0.53

0.79

0.73

0.46

Diluted earnings per common share

0.48

0.71

0.66

0.41


Net revenues

$

592,323

$

598,311

$

638,256

$

630,221

Income (loss) from operations

92,351

51,711

110,462

(101,298

)

Net income (loss) including noncontrolling interests

36,155

6,972

48,345

(153,132

)

Net income (loss) attributable to the shareholders of Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries

36,164

9,156

48,345

(153,132

)

Earnings (loss) per common share attributable to the shareholders of Penn National Gaming, Inc. and shareholders:

Basic earnings (loss) per common share

0.37

0.09

0.51

(1.97

)

Diluted earnings (loss) per common share

0.34

0.09

0.46

(1.97

)

As
a result of decreased earning projections resulting from an anticipated increase in competition from the scheduled opening of a casino in the second half of 2011 in Des Plaines,
Illinois, as well as
continued challenging market conditions in the Chicagoland regional market, the Company recorded a pre-tax goodwill impairment charge of $144.6 million ($144.6 million, net
of taxes) at Hollywood Casino Aurora and $44.2 million ($28.4 million, net of taxes) at Hollywood Casino Joliet, respectively, during the fourth quarter of 2010. Additionally during the
fourth quarter of 2010, the Company wrote-down



the
remaining value of the Argosy trademark intangible asset of $4.4 million ($2.8 million, net of taxes) due to management's strategy to transition Argosy properties to the Hollywood
Casino brand.

In
addition, in conjunction with the voters determining that the Company's casino in Columbus, Ohio will be located at the site of the former Delphi Automotive plant along Columbus's
West Side, rather than the original site in the Arena District, the Company recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $30.5 million ($19.6 million, net of taxes) during the
second quarter of 2010 for the parcel of land that the Company purchased in Columbus's Arena District.

19.   Related Party Transactions

The Company currently leases 45,917 square feet of executive office and warehouse space for buildings in Wyomissing, Pennsylvania from affiliates of its Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer. Rent expense for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 amounted to $0.9 million, $0.9 million, and $0.9 million, respectively. The
leases for the office space expire in March 2012, May 2012 and May 2013, and the lease for the warehouse space expires in July 2013. The future minimum lease commitments relating to these leases at
December 31, 2011 equaled $0.6 million.

20.   Subsidiary Guarantors

Under the terms of the $2.15 billion senior secured credit facility, all of Penn's subsidiaries are guarantors under the agreement, with the exception of
several minor subsidiaries with total assets, excluding intercompany balances, of $202.6 million (approximately 4.4% of total assets at December 31, 2011). Each of the subsidiary
guarantors is 100% owned by Penn. In addition, the guarantees provided by Penn's subsidiaries under the terms of the $2.15 billion senior secured credit facility are full and unconditional,
joint and several, and Penn had no significant independent assets and no independent operations at, and for the year ended December 31, 2011. There are no significant restrictions within the
$2.15 billion senior secured credit facility on the Company's ability to obtain funds from its
subsidiaries by dividend or loan. However, in certain jurisdictions, the gaming authorities may impose restrictions pursuant to the authority granted to them with regard to Penn's ability to obtain
funds from its subsidiaries.

With
regard to the $2.15 billion senior secured credit facility, the Company has not presented condensed consolidating balance sheets, condensed consolidating statements of
operations and condensed consolidating statements of cash flows at, and for the year ended December 31, 2011, as Penn had no significant independent assets and no independent operations at, and
for the year ended December 31, 2011, the guarantees are full and unconditional and joint and several, and any subsidiaries of Penn other than the subsidiary guarantors are considered minor.

The
Company's $325 million 8


/


senior subordinated notes are not guaranteed by the Company's subsidiaries.

21.   Fair Value Measurements

ASC 820, "Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures," establishes a hierarchy that prioritizes fair value measurements based on the types of inputs used for
the various valuation techniques (market approach, income approach, and cost approach). The levels of the hierarchy are described below:

•

Level 1: Observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.

•

Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or
indirectly; these include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, such as interest rates and yield curves that are observable at commonly quoted intervals.



•

Level 3: Unobservable inputs that reflect the reporting entity's own assumptions, as there is little, if any,
related market activity.

The
Company's assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement requires judgment, and may affect the valuation of assets and liabilities and their
placement within the fair value hierarchy.

The
following tables set forth the assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, by input level, in the consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2011 and
2010 (in thousands):

Balance Sheet

Location

Quoted Prices in

Active Markets for

Identical Assets or

Liabilities (Level 1)

Significant Other

Observable Inputs

(Level 2)

Significant

Unobservable

Inputs

(Level 3)

December 31,

2011 Total

Assets:

Investment in corporate debt securities

Other assets

$

—

$

6,790

$

—

$

6,790

Balance Sheet

Location

Quoted Prices in

Active Markets for

Identical Assets or

Liabilities (Level 1)

Significant Other

Observable Inputs

(Level 2)

Significant

Unobservable

Inputs

(Level 3)

December 31,

2010 Total

Assets:

Investment in corporate debt securities

Other assets

$

5,828

$

—

$

—

$

5,828

Liabilities:

Interest rate swap contracts

Accrued interest

—

16,746

—

16,746

The valuation technique used to measure the fair value of the investment in corporate debt securities and interest rate swap contracts was the
market approach. See Note 3 for a description of the inputs used in calculating the fair value measurements of investment in corporate debt securities and interest rate swap contracts. Although
the Company determined that the majority of the inputs used to value its interest rate swap contracts fell within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, the credit valuation adjustments
associated with it utilized Level 3 inputs, such as estimates of current credit spreads to evaluate the likelihood of default by itself and its counterparties. However, as of
December 31, 2010, the Company assessed the significance of the impact of the credit valuation adjustments on the overall
valuation of its interest rate swap contracts and determined that the credit valuation adjustments were not significant to the overall valuation. As a result, the Company determined that its interest
rate swap contracts were classified in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. The Company did not have any outstanding interest rate swap contracts as of December 31, 2011.

At
December 31, 2011, the Company's investment in corporate debt securities was transferred from Level 1 to Level 2 due to a lack of trading in the security in the
fourth quarter of 2011.



There
were no significant long-lived assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis during the year ended December 31, 2011. The amounts below represent the
assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis during the year ended December 31, 2010 (in thousands):

Balance Sheet

Location

Quoted Prices in

Active Markets for

Identical Assets or

Liabilities (Level 1)

Significant Other

Observable Inputs

(Level 2)

Significant

Unobservable

Inputs (Level 3)

Balance at

December 31,

2010 Total

Total

Reduction in

Fair Value

Recorded at

December 31,


Assets:

Goodwill

Goodwill

$

—

$

—

$

235,924

$

235,924

$

(188,855

)

Indefinite-life intangible assets

Other intangible assets

—

—

—

—

(4,351

)

Long-lived assets

Other assets

—

17,310

—

17,310

(31,503

)

$

(224,709

)

For the year ended December 31, 2010, as a result of decreased earning projections resulting from an anticipated increase in competition
from the scheduled opening of a casino in the second half of 2011 in Des Plaines, Illinois, as well as continued challenging market conditions in the Chicagoland regional market, the Company recorded
a pre-tax goodwill impairment charge of $144.6 million at Hollywood Casino Aurora and $44.2 million at Hollywood Casino Joliet.

Additionally,
during the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company wrote-off the trademark intangible asset associated with the Argosy acquisition for
$4.4 million due to management's strategy to transition Argosy properties to the Hollywood Casino brand.

In
addition, in conjunction with the voters determining that the Company's casino in Columbus, Ohio will be located at the site of the former Delphi Automotive plant along Columbus's
West Side, the Company recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $31.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 for the parcel of land that the Company purchased in
Columbus's Arena District, as the asset was reclassified as held for sale in 2010. This land was sold in August 2011, which did not have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated statement of
operations. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company recorded a $0.2 million charge on the replaced vessel at Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg.

The
valuation technique used to measure the fair value of goodwill, indefinite-life intangible assets and long-lived assets was the market approach. For the land
held for sale in Columbus, Ohio, the Company engaged a qualified external real estate appraiser to assist in the valuation, which was based on the sales prices of properties with similar
characteristics to the Company's property in the Columbus Arena District. See Note 3 for a description of the inputs and the information used to develop the inputs in calculating the fair value
measurements of goodwill, indefinite-life intangible assets and long-lived assets.

22.   Insurance Recoveries and Deductibles

Hollywood Casino Joliet Fire

On March 20, 2009, Hollywood Casino Joliet, which was undergoing a $55 million renovation, was closed following a fire
that started in the land-based pavilion at the facility. All customers and employees were successfully evacuated, and the fire was contained on the land-side of the property
before it could spread to the adjacent casino barge. On June 25, 2009, the casino barge was reopened with temporary land-based facilities, and the Company began construction of a
new land-based pavilion. In December 2010, the first phase of the new permanent land-based pavilion was opened to the public and in January 2011 the final phase, including a
sports bar, was completed.



At
the time of the fire, the Company carried a builders' risk insurance policy for the on-going renovations with a policy limit of $57 million, inclusive of
$14 million for delay in completion and $43 million for property damage. The builders' risk insurance policy included a $50,000 property damage deductible and a 30-day delay
in completion deductible for the peril of fire. In addition, the Company carried comprehensive business interruption and property damage insurance for the operational components of Hollywood Casino
Joliet with an overall limit of $228 million. The operational insurance policy included a $2.5 million property damage deductible and a 48-hour business interruption
deductible for the peril of fire.

The
Company received $81.2 million in insurance proceeds related to the fire at Hollywood Casino Joliet, with $18.6 million, $42.0 million and $20.6 million
received during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As the insurance recovery amount exceeded the net book value of assets believed to be damaged, destroyed or
abandoned and other costs incurred as a result of the fire at Hollywood Casino Joliet in 2010, the Company recorded a pre-tax gain of $18.5 million and $7.5 million during
the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. During the second quarter of 2011, the insurance claim for the fire at Hollywood Casino Joliet was settled and no further proceeds will
be received.

During
the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company recorded a $6.1 million pre-tax loss for the insurance deductibles for property damage, business
interruption and employee lost wages, as well as a write-off of construction fees related to this renovation that were not recoverable under the Company's insurance policies and certain
consulting fees.

Hollywood Casino Tunica Flood

On May 1, 2011, Hollywood Casino Tunica was forced to close as a result of flooding by the Mississippi River. Due to the
flooding, access to the property was temporarily cut off and the property sustained minor damage. The property reopened on May 25, 2011.

At
the time of the flood, the Company carried property insurance coverage with a flood limit of $300 million for both property damage and business interruption applicable to this
event. This coverage included a $5 million property damage and two day business interruption deductible for the peril of flood.

During
the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company recorded a $5.2 million pre-tax loss for the insurance deductibles for property damage and business
interruption.

The
$1.1 million insurance receivable within the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2011 was limited to the net book value of assets believed to be damaged and
other costs incurred as a result of the flood at Hollywood Casino Tunica that are expected to be recovered via the insurance claim. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company received
$7.0 million in insurance proceeds related to the flood at Hollywood Casino Tunica.



ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

The Company's management, under the supervision and with the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial
officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined under Rule 13a-15(e) promulgated under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), as of December 31, 2011, which is the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In designing and evaluating
the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognized that any controls and procedures, no matter how well-designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving
the desired control objectives, and management was required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. Based on this evaluation,
our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that the Company's disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2011 to ensure that information
required to be disclosed by the Company in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is (i) recorded, processed, summarized, evaluated and reported, as applicable, within the time
periods specified in the United States Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and forms and (ii) accumulated and communicated to the Company's management, including the Company's principal
executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) that occurred during the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2011, that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)). Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Our
management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and concluded that it was effective as of December 31, 2011. In making this assessment,
we used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ("COSO") in

Internal Control—Integrated
Framework

.

The
effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm, as stated in their report below.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Board
of Directors

Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries

We
have audited Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal
Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries'
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the
accompanying Management's
Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In
our opinion, Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2011, based on the COSO criteria.

We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Penn National
Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2011 and our report dated February 24, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

February 24, 2012



ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION

None

PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The information required by this item concerning directors is hereby incorporated by reference to the Company's definitive proxy
statement for its 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the "2012 Proxy Statement"), to be filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after December 31, 2011,
pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Act. Information required by this item concerning executive officers is included in Part I of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information called for in this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the 2012 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDERS MATTERS

The information called for in this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the 2012 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

The information called for in this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the 2012 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

The information called for in this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the 2012 Proxy Statement.



PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

(a) 1 and 2.

Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules. The following is a list of the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and its subsidiaries and supplementary data filed as part of
Item 8 hereof:

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009

All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable, or not required, or because the required information is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or notes thereto.

3.    Exhibits, Including Those Incorporated by Reference.

The exhibits to this Report are listed on the accompanying index to exhibits and are incorporated herein by reference or are filed as part of this annual report on Form 10-K.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

PENN NATIONAL GAMING, INC.

By:

/s/ PETER M. CARLINO

Peter M. Carlino

Chairman of the Board and

Chief Executive Officer

Dated:
February 24, 2012

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.

Signature

Title

Date

/s/ PETER M. CARLINO

Peter M. Carlino

Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer)

February 24, 2012

/s/ WILLIAM J. CLIFFORD

William J. Clifford

Senior Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)

February 24, 2012

/s/ DESIREE A. BURKE

Desiree A. Burke

Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer)

February 24, 2012

/s/ HAROLD CRAMER

Harold Cramer

Director

February 24, 2012

/s/ WESLEY R. EDENS

Wesley R. Edens

Director

February 24, 2012

/s/ DAVID A. HANDLER

David A. Handler

Director

February 24, 2012

/s/ JOHN M. JACQUEMIN

John M. Jacquemin

Director

February 24, 2012

/s/ ROBERT P. LEVY

Robert P. Levy

Director

February 24, 2012

/s/ SAUL V. REIBSTEIN

Saul V. Reibstein

Director

February 24, 2012

/s/ BARBARA Z. SHATTUCK

Barbara Z. Shattuck

Director

February 24, 2012



EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit

Description of Exhibit

3.1(a)

Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Penn National Gaming, Inc., filed with the Pennsylvania Department of State on October 15, 1996. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's
registration statement on Form S-3, File No. 333-63780, dated June 25, 2001).

3.1(b)

Articles of Amendment to the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Penn National Gaming, Inc., filed with the Pennsylvania Department of State on November 13, 1996. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 3.2 to the Company's registration statement on Form S-3, File No. 333-63780, dated June 25, 2001).

3.1(c)

Articles of Amendment to the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Penn National Gaming, Inc., filed with the Pennsylvania Department of State on July 23, 2001. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 3.4 to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001).

3.1(d)

Articles of Amendment to the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Penn National Gaming, Inc., filed with the Pennsylvania Department of State on December 28, 2007. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed on January 2, 2008).

3.1(e)

Statement with Respect to Shares of Series B Redeemable Preferred Stock of Penn National Gaming, Inc., filed with the Pennsylvania Department of State on July 9, 2008. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed on July 9, 2008).

3.2

Second Amended and Restated Bylaws of Penn National Gaming, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed on November 18, 2008).

4.1

Specimen copy of Common Stock Certificate (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.6 to the Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2003).

4.2

Indenture dated as of March 9, 2005 by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association relating to the 6


/


% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2015.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed March 15, 2005).

4.2(a)

First Supplemental Indenture dated as of July 5, 2005 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association relating to the 6


/


% Senior Subordinated Notes due
2015. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.37 to the Company's registration statement on Form S-4, filed July 7, 2005 (File No. 333-125274)).

4.3

Form of Penn National Gaming, Inc. 6


/


% Senior Subordinated Note due 2015. (Included as Exhibit A to Exhibit 4.2).

4.4

Specimen copy of Series B Redeemable Preferred Stock Certificate. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
2008).

4.5

Investor Rights Agreement, dated as of July 3, 2008, by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc., FIF V PFD LLC, Centerbridge Capital Partners, L.P., DB Investment Partners, Inc. and Wachovia
Investment Holdings, LLC. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed on July 9, 2008).

4.6

Indenture, dated as of August 14, 2009, between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee, relating to the 8


/


% Senior Subordinated Notes due
2019 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed on August 14, 2009).


Exhibit

Description of Exhibit

4.7

Form of Penn National Gaming, Inc. 8


/


% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2019 (Included as Exhibit A to Exhibit 4.6)

9.1

Form of Trust Agreement of Peter D. Carlino, Peter M. Carlino, Richard J. Carlino, David E. Carlino, Susan F. Harrington, Anne de Lourdes Irwin, Robert M. Carlino, Stephen P. Carlino and Rosina E. Carlino Gilbert.
(Incorporated by reference to the Company's registration statement on Form S-1, File No. 33-77758, dated May 26, 1994).

10.1#

Penn National Gaming, Inc. 1994 Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's registration statement on Form S-1, File No. 33-77758, dated May 26, 1994).

10.2#

Penn National Gaming, Inc. 2003 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan. (Incorporated by reference to Appendix A of the Company's Proxy Statement dated April 22, 2003 filed pursuant to Section 14(a) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended).

10.3#

Employment Agreement dated April 28, 2010 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Peter M. Carlino. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed on
May 4, 2010).

10.4#

Employment Agreement dated December 31, 2008 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and William Clifford. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2008).

10.4(a)#

First Amendment to Employment Agreement dated June 10, 2011 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and William Clifford. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's current report on
Form 8-K, filed on June 15, 2011).

10.5#

Employment Agreement dated December 31, 2008 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Jordan B. Savitch. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2008).

10.5(a)#

First Amendment to Employment Agreement dated June 10, 2011 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Jordan B. Savitch. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's current report on
Form 8-K, filed on June 15, 2011).

10.6#

Employment Agreement dated December 31, 2008 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Robert S. Ippolito. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2008).

10.6(a)#*

First Amendment to Employment Agreement dated June 10, 2011 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Robert S. Ippolito.

10.7#

Employment Agreement dated December 31, 2008 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and John V. Finamore. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.35 to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2008).

10.8#

First Amendment to Employment Agreement dated June 16, 2010 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and John V. Finamore. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's current report on
Form 8-K filed on June 22, 2010).

10.9

Form of Change in Control Payment Acknowledgement and Agreement between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Certain Executive Officers of Penn National Gaming, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 the
Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed on January 2, 2008).

10.9(a)

Schedule of executive officers entering into Change in Control Payment Acknowledgement and Agreement. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8(a) to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2007).

10.10

Consulting Agreement dated August 29, 1994, between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Peter D. Carlino. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 1994).


Exhibit

Description of Exhibit

10.11

Amended and Restated Lease dated April 5, 2005 between Wyomissing Professional Center III, LP and Penn National Gaming, Inc. for portion of the Wyomissing Corporate Office. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed on April 8, 2005).

10.12

Lease dated January 25, 2002 between Wyomissing Professional Center II, LP and Penn National Gaming, Inc. for portion of the Wyomissing Corporate Office. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to
the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004).

10.12(a)

Commencement Agreement, dated May 21, 2002, in connection with Lease dated January 25, 2002 Wyomissing Professional Center II, LP and Penn National Gaming, Inc. for portion of the Wyomissing Corporate
Office. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12(a) to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004).

10.12(b)

First Lease Amendment, dated December 4, 2002, to Lease dated January 25, 2002 Wyomissing Professional Center II, LP and Penn National Gaming, Inc. for portion of the Wyomissing Corporate Office.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12(b) to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004).

10.13

Lease dated April 5, 2005 between Wyomissing Professional Center, Inc. and Penn National Gaming, Inc. for portion of the Wyomissing Corporate Office. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed on April 8, 2005).

10.14

Lease dated August 22, 2003 between The Corporate Campus at Spring Ridge 1250, L.P. and Penn National Gaming, Inc. for portion of the Wyomissing Corporate Office. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.13 to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004).

10.15

Agreement dated April 7, 2006 by and between PNGI Charles Town Gaming Limited Liability Company and the West Virginia Union of Mutuel Clerks, Local 553, Service Employees International Union, AFL—CIO.
(Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed on April 24, 2006).

10.16

Agreement dated February 20, 2009 between PNGI Charles Town Gaming Limited Liability Company and Charles Town HBPA, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 to the Company's annual report on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008).

10.17

Credit Agreement, dated October 3, 2005 by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc., the subsidiary guarantors party thereto, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and Lehman
Brothers Inc., as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., as Co-Syndication Agents, Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as Swingline Lender, Administrative
Agent and as Collateral Agent, and Calyon New York Branch, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and Bank of Scotland, as Co-Documentation Agents, and the lenders party thereto. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's
current report on Form 8-K, filed October 4, 2005).


Exhibit

Description of Exhibit

10.17(a)

Amendment, dated September 18, 2006, to the Credit Agreement by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc., the subsidiary guarantors party thereto, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Goldman Sachs Credit
Partners L.P. and Lehman Brothers Inc., as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., as Co-Syndication Agents, Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as
Swingline Lender, Administrative Agent and as Collateral Agent, and Calyon New York Branch, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and Bank of Scotland, as Co-Documentation Agents, and the lenders party thereto. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed on September 21, 2006).

10.17(b)

Second Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated as of September 23, 2009, among Penn National Gaming, Inc., certain of its subsidiaries, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Banc of
America Securities LLC and RBS Securities Inc., as co-lead arrangers and co-book running managers, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and Bank of America, N.A., as syndication agents, the lenders party thereto, Deutsche Bank Trust
Company Americas, as Swingline Lender, Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent under the Credit Agreement (as defined therein), and Wachovia Bank National Association, as L/C Lender under the Credit Agreement. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed on September 25, 2009).

10.18

Credit Agreement, dated July 14, 2011, by and among the Company; the Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto; the Lenders party thereto; the L/C Lenders party thereto; Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated, Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Commerz Markets LLC, RBS Securities Inc., and UBS Securities LLC, as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners; Bank of America, N.A., Commerzbank AG, New York and Grand Cayman Branches,
and UBS Securities LLC as Co-Syndication Agents; Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Swingline Lender, Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent; The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC, as Documentation Agent; and U.S. Bank National
Association, as Senior Managing Agent. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed on July 20, 2011).

10.19#

Penn National Gaming, Inc. Nonqualified Stock Option granted to Peter M. Carlino, dated February 6, 2003. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.26 to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2003).

10.20

Riverboat Gaming Development Agreement between the City of Lawrenceburg, Indiana and Indiana Gaming Company, L.P. dated as of April 13, 1994, as amended by Amendment Number One to Riverboat Development Agreement
between the City of Lawrenceburg, Indiana and Indiana Gaming Company L.P., dated as of December 28, 1995 (Incorporated by reference to Argosy Gaming Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
1995).

10.20(a)

Second Amendment to Riverboat Gaming Development Agreement Between City of Lawrenceburg, Indiana, and the Indiana Gaming Company, L.P. dated August 20, 1996. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.23(a)
to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005).

10.20(b)

Third Amendment to Riverboat Gaming Development Agreement Between City of Lawrenceburg, Indiana, and the Indiana Gaming Company, L.P. dated June 24, 2004. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of
Argosy Gaming Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004).

10.21#

Penn National Gaming, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.27 to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
2006).


Exhibit

Description of Exhibit

10.22#

Employment Agreement by and between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Timothy J. Wilmott dated December 31, 2008. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K,
filed on January 7, 2009).

10.22(a)#*

Letter Agreement between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Timothy J. Wilmott dated December 29, 2011.

10.23

Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of July 3, 2008, by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc., FIF V PFD LLC, Centerbridge Capital Partners, L.P., DB Investment Partners, Inc. and Wachovia
Investment Holdings, LLC. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed on July 9, 2008).

10.24

Termination and Settlement Agreement, dated as of July 3, 2008, by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc., PNG Acquisition Company Inc., PNG Merger Sub Inc., PNG Holdings LLC, FIG PNG
Holdings LLC, Fortress Investment Fund V (Fund A) L.P., Fortress Investment Fund V (Fund D) L.P., Fortress Investment Fund V (Fund E) L.P., Fortress Investment Fund V (Fund B) L.P., Fortress Investment Fund V (Fund
C) L.P., Fortress Investment Fund V (Fund F) L.P., CB PNG Holdings LLC, Centerbridge Capital Partners, L.P., Centerbridge Capital Partners Strategic, L.P., Centerbridge Capital Partners SBS, L.P., DB Investment Partners,
 Inc., Wachovia Investment Holdings, LLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, Wachovia Bank, National Association and Wachovia Investment Holdings, LLC.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K filed on July 9, 2008).

10.25#

Penn National Gaming, Inc. 2008 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed on June 15,
2011).

10.26

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Certificate for the Penn National Gaming, Inc. 2008 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.33 to the Company's annual report on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008).

10.27

Form of Restricted Stock Award for the Penn National Gaming, Inc. 2008 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.32 to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2009).

10.28#

Employment Agreement by and between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Steven T. Snyder dated June 10, 2005. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.28 to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2010).

10.29

Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of August 14, 2009, among Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Banc of America Securities LLC and RBS
Securities Inc., each for itself and on behalf of each of the other initial purchasers (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed on August 14, 2009).

10.30

Lottery Gaming Facility Management Contract dated August 25, 2009 between the Kansas Lottery and Kansas Entertainment, LLC (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Company's current report on
Form 8-K, filed on February 19, 2010).

10.31

Development Agreement dated as of September 8, 2009 by and between the Unified Government of Wyandotte County/Kansas City, Kansas and Kansas Entertainment, LLC (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to
the Company's current report on Form 8-K, filed on February 19, 2010).

10.32

Form of Phantom Stock Unit Award for Penn National Gaming, Inc. 2008 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.32 to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2011).


Exhibit

Description of Exhibit

10.33#*

Employment Agreement by and between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Jay Snowden dated April 11, 2011.

21.1*

Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23.1*

Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.

31.1*

CEO Certification pursuant to rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

31.2*

CFO Certification pursuant to rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

32.1*

CEO Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, As Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.2*

CFO Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, As Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

99.1*

Description of Governmental Regulation.


Interactive data files pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T: (i) the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2011 and 2010, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 and (v) the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, tagged as blocks of text.

#

Compensation
plans and arrangements for executives and others.

*

Filed
herewith.

**

Pursuant
to Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, the Indenture Data Files on Exhibit 101 hereto are deemed not filed or part of a
registration statement or prospectus for purposes of Sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, are deemed not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and otherwise are not subject to liability under these sections.