10-K


a2129475z10-k.htm

10-K

QuickLinks

-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

ý

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period
from                             to

Commission File Number 0-24206

Penn National Gaming, Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Pennsylvania

(State or other jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization)

23-2234473

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

Wyomissing Professional Center

825 Berkshire Blvd., Suite 200

Wyomissing, Pennsylvania

(Address of principal executive offices)


(Zip Code)

Registrant's
telephone number, including area code: (610) 373-2400

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each

exchange on which registered

None

None

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Common Stock, par value $.01 per share

(Title of Class)

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days. Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment
to this Form 10-K.

ý

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act). Yes

ý

No

o

As of June 30, 2003, the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately
$811.6 million. Such aggregate market value was computed by reference to the closing price of the Common Stock as reported on the Nasdaq National Market on June 30, 2003. For purposes of
making this calculation only, the registrant has defined affiliates as including all directors, executive officers and beneficial owners of more than ten percent of the Common Stock of the Company.

The
number of shares of the registrant's Common Stock outstanding as of March 2, 2004 was 39,896,450.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant's definitive proxy statement for its 2004 annual meeting of shareholders are incorporated by reference into Part III.


Page

PART I

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS


ITEM 2.

PROPERTIES


ITEM 3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS


ITEM 4.

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS


PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS


ITEM 6.

SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA


ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


ITEM 7A.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK


ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA


ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE


ITEM 9A.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES


PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT


ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION


ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDERS MATTERS


ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS


ITEM 14.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES


PART IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K


This
document includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange
Act, as amended. These statements are included throughout the document, including the section entitled "Risk Factors," and relate to our business strategy, our prospects and our financial position.
These statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "may," "will," "should" or "anticipates" or the negative or other
variation of these or similar words, or by discussions of strategy or risks and uncertainties. Specifically, forward-looking statements may include, among others, statements concerning:

•

our
expectations of future results of operations or financial condition;

•

our
expectations for our properties and the facility that we manage in Canada;

•

the
timing, cost and expected impact on our market share and results of operations of our planned capital expenditures;

•

the
impact of our regional diversification;

•

our
expectations with regard to further acquisitions and the integration of any companies we have acquired or may acquire;

•

the
outcome and financial impact of the litigation in which we are involved;

•

the
actions of regulatory authorities with regard to our business and the impact of any such actions;

•

the
expected effect of regulatory changes that we are pursuing or monitoring; and

•

our
expectations of the continued availability of capital resources.

Although
we believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, they are inherently subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about our
subsidiaries and us, and accordingly, our forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors described below under the heading "Risk Factors" and in the information
incorporated by reference herein. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include, without limitation, risks related to the
following:

•

the
passage of state, federal or local legislation that would expand, restrict, further tax or prevent gaming operations in the jurisdictions in which we do business;

•

the
activities of our competitors;

•

increases
in our effective rate of taxation at any of our properties or at the corporate level;

•

successful
completion of capital projects at our gaming and pari-mutuel facilities;

•

the
existence of attractive acquisition candidates and the costs and risks involved in the pursuit of those acquisitions;

•

our
ability to maintain regulatory approvals for our existing businesses and to receive regulatory approvals for our new businesses;

•

the
maintenance of agreements with our horsemen and pari-mutuel clerks;

•

our
dependence on key personnel;

•

the
impact of terrorism and other international hostilities;

•

the
availability and cost of financing; and

•

the
outcome and financial impact from the event of default under the indentures governing the 13% senior secured notes due 2006 and 13% first mortgage notes due 2006 issued
by the Hollywood Casino Shreveport general partnership and Shreveport Capital Corporation.

All
subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements
included in this document. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as
required by law. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed in this document may not occur.

PART I

ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

Overview

We are a leading, diversified, multi-jurisdictional owner and operator of gaming properties, as well as horse racetracks and associated off-track
wagering facilities, or OTWs, which we collectively refer to in this document as our pari-mutuel operations. We own or operate nine gaming properties located in Colorado, Illinois,
Louisiana, Mississippi, Ontario and West Virginia that are focused primarily on serving customers within driving distance of the properties. We also own two racetracks and eleven OTWs in Pennsylvania,
one racetrack in West Virginia, and, through a joint venture, own and operate a racetrack in New Jersey. We believe that our portfolio of assets provides us with a diversified cash flow from
operations. We intend to continue to expand our gaming operations through the implementation of a disciplined capital expenditure program at our existing properties and the continued pursuit of
strategic acquisitions of gaming properties in attractive regional markets.

On
March 3, 2003, we completed the acquisition of Hollywood Casino Corporation for a purchase price and related acquisition costs of approximately $397.9 million plus debt,
bringing three new regional markets to our expanded gaming portfolio: Aurora, Illinois, Tunica, Mississippi and Shreveport, Louisiana. We believe this combination with Hollywood Casino Corporation
makes us the sixth largest publicly-traded gaming company in the United States based on reported total revenues.

The
following table summarizes certain features of our properties and our managed facility as of March 1, 2004:

Location

Type of Facility

Gaming

Square

Footage

Gaming

Machines

Table

Games

Owned Gaming Properties:

Charles Town Entertainment Complex

Charles Town, WV

Land-based gaming/ Thoroughbred racing

121,700

3,500

—

Hollywood Casino Aurora

Aurora, IL

Dockside gaming

53,000

1,161


Casino Rouge

Baton Rouge, LA

Dockside gaming

28,000

1,097


Casino Magic-Bay St. Louis

Bay St. Louis, MS

Dockside gaming

39,500

1,210


Hollywood Casino Tunica

Tunica, MS

Land-based gaming

54,000

1,626


Boomtown Biloxi

Biloxi, MS

Dockside gaming

33,600

1,118


Hollywood Casino Shreveport

Shreveport, LA

Dockside gaming

59,000

1,434


Bullwhackers

Black Hawk, CO

Land-based gaming

20,700


—

Operated Gaming Property:

Casino Rama

Orillia, Ontario

Land-based gaming

90,766

2,312


Racing Properties:

Penn National Race Course(1)

Harrisburg, PA

Thoroughbred racing

—

—

—

Pocono Downs(1)

Wilkes-Barre, PA

Harness racing

—

—

—

Freehold Raceway(2)

Monmouth, NJ

Harness racing

—

—

—

Totals

500,266

14,348


(1)

In
addition to our racetracks, Penn National Race Course and Pocono Downs operate six and five off-track wagering facilities, respectively, located throughout
Pennsylvania.

(2)

Pursuant
to a joint venture with Greenwood New Jersey, Inc., a subsidiary of Greenwood Racing, Inc.


Recent Developments

Discussions concerning the potential acquisition of Wembley plc

On November 19, 2003, we announced that we were in discussions with Wembley plc concerning the cash acquisition of some or all of the assets of Wembley
plc. On January 27, 2004, the boards of MGM Mirage and Wembley announced that they reached an agreement on an acquisition by MGM Mirage of Wembley plc. We wrote off all of our costs in
connection with the due diligence related to the potential acquisition of Wembley plc.

Development activity in Maine

In November 2003, Maine voters approved legislation permitting the operation of slot machines at existing commercial racetracks provided that the
commercial racetrack receives local referendum approval of such operations on or before December 31, 2003. The law required that any such local referendum occur in the racetrack's home
community or in a community within a five-mile radius of the racetrack.

There
are two commercial racetracks in the State of Maine. Bangor Raceway is located in Bangor, Maine. It is operated by Bangor Historic Track, Inc., or BHT, on property owned by
the City of Bangor. Scarborough Downs is located in Scarborough, Maine. It is owned and operated by Davric Maine Corporation. Voters in Bangor approved the operation of slot machines at Bangor Raceway
in June 2003. Voters in Scarborough declined to approve the operation of slot machines at Scarborough Downs in November 2003.

On
December 10, 2003, we announced the execution of an agreement with Davric Maine Corporation that grants us the exclusive rights to develop and operate any gaming facilities,
subject to local and regulatory approvals, that Scarborough Downs may be entitled to develop. Under the terms of the agreement, we agreed to provide funding and to work with Scarborough Downs to
obtain the local and other approvals necessary to operate a racing and gaming facility in Southern Maine and to obtain a site for such facility. In addition, provided that the necessary approvals have
been granted, we agreed to fund the construction costs for the facility. Scarborough Downs would operate the racing facility and receive 100% of the racing facility's net income. Subject to licensing
requirements, we would operate the proposed gaming facility and receive 100% of the proposed gaming facility's net income subject to a net gaming revenue sharing arrangement with Scarborough Downs
that varies depending on the gaming taxes, horsemen purses and other statutory payments.

In
December 2003, we worked with Scarborough Downs in an attempt to obtain local referendum approval in Westbrook, Maine and Saco, Maine. Voters in both towns declined to approve
the operation of slot machines in special municipal elections held on December 30, 2003. As a result, absent a change to current legislation, Scarborough Downs does not currently have an
opportunity to obtain the legal right to operate slot machines at its facility. Both Scarborough Downs and we have made proposals to the legislature to amend the current legislation; however, no
assurance can be given that the legislature will approve such amendments. As of December 31, 2003, we have expensed approximately $750,000 for costs associated with seeking local approvals to
operate a gaming facility.

On
January 6, 2004, we entered into an agreement with Shawn Scott and Capital Seven, LLC to purchase all of the shares of BHT. In conjunction with the purchase agreement, we also
secured an option to purchase the interests in Vernon Downs, which does business as Mid-State Raceway, a harness racing facility in Vernon, New York, controlled by an affiliate of Capital
Seven, LLC. Initially, the purchase agreement provided that the purchase price would consist of up front cash, progress and milestone payments and a final and more significant payment, subject to
adjustment based on the final passage of gaming legislation. The agreement also provided that the closing was subject to a number of conditions and contingencies, including gaming and other approvals.


On
January 15, 2004, the Maine Harness Racing Commission, or MHRC, issued an order providing that they would issue a conditional license to BHT if, among other things, we
accelerated our purchase of BHT. In order to comply with the MHRC order, we amended our purchase agreement to provide for an accelerated closing without the payment of any additional funds and to
provide for the payment of the balance of the purchase price over time if, and when, the various conditions and contingencies specified for such additional payments were satisfied. In addition, we
also provided for a put mechanism allowing us to dispose of our ownership interest under certain circumstances. Upon exercise of the put, the shares would be transferred to a trustee who has been
instructed to resell the shares for the benefit of the seller. In such event, the seller will be entitled to keep any amounts paid or accrued through the date of the put. On February 12, 2004,
after the completion of the due diligence process, we decided not to exercise our option to purchase the interest in Vernon Downs.

At
this stage, no assurance can be given that we will be able to complete the transaction contemplated by the purchase agreement. In addition, both the regulatory and legislative
environment are currently subject to significant uncertainty. While the voter initiated legislation authorizing the operation of slot machines at commercial tracks became effective in
February 2004, the MHRC has not yet commenced the process of adopting rules and regulations necessary to allow for the issuance of gaming related licenses. In addition, the Maine legislature is
currently considering various amendments to the existing legislation that may adversely impact the timing and ability of BHT to conduct gaming operations. Finally, although the MHRC issued an order on
March 3, 2004 conditionally granting to BHT a license, subject to certain conditions, to conduct racing operations at Bangor Raceway in 2004, certain special interest groups have commenced
litigation challenging the grant of the racing license to BHT. While we intend to defend BHT vigorously, such challenges, if successful, may adversely impact the timing and ability of BHT to conduct
racing or gaming operations at Bangor Raceway.

Bid for Illinois license

On January 22, 2004, we submitted a bid to finance and construct a casino in the greater Chicago area. We were one of seven companies seeking to purchase
the bankrupt Emerald Casino, Inc. and one of three companies proposing to construct a casino in Rosemont, Illinois. We were not among the three finalists selected by the Illinois Gaming Board
on February 24, 2004.

Hollywood Casino Shreveport

On February 3, 2004, our indirect subsidiary, HCS I, Inc., the managing general partner of Hollywood Casino Shreveport general partnership, or HCS,
announced that its Board of Directors has initiated a process that it hopes will result in the sale or other disposition of the riverboat casino/hotel complex of HCS located in Shreveport, Louisiana.
The announcement followed action by the Board authorizing HCS's financial advisor, Libra Securities LLC, to begin contacting potential acquirers. The Board also authorized the creation of an
independent committee to oversee the sale process, consisting of the director who is not employed directly by us. The Board created the independent committee in case we seek to participate as a bidder
in the sale process. The Board took action after consultation with an ad hoc committee of holders of the $150 million First Mortgage Notes due 2006 and the $39 million Senior Secured
Notes due 2006, which we refer to as the Hollywood Casino Shreveport notes, issued by HCS and its subsidiary Shreveport Capital Corporation. Although no formal agreement has been reached with the ad
hoc committee regarding the sale process, HCS anticipates that it will consult with the ad hoc committee throughout the process. There can be no assurance that the process will result in the sale or
other disposition of the riverboat casino/hotel complex or that, if it does, the sale proceeds will be adequate to pay the Hollywood Casino Shreveport notes in full. HCS currently anticipates that any
transaction would be effected through a federal bankruptcy proceeding. HCS did not make the August 1, 2003 and the February 1, 2004 interest payments, aggregating $24.6 million,
due on the Hollywood Casino Shreveport notes. The Hollywood Casino Shreveport notes have been in


default
under the terms of their respective note indentures since May 2003. The Hollywood Casino Shreveport notes are non-recourse to us and our subsidiaries (other than HCS,
Shreveport Capital Corporation, HCS I, Inc., HCS II, Inc. and HWCC-Louisiana, Inc.).

Owned Gaming Properties

Charles Town Entertainment Complex

The Charles Town Entertainment Complex in Charles Town, West Virginia was our most profitable property for 2003. The Charles Town Entertainment Complex features
approximately 3,500 gaming machines (up from 2,715 in 2002), live thoroughbred racing, simulcast wagering and dining. The facility is located within approximately a one-hour drive from
Baltimore, Maryland and Washington, D.C. and is the only gaming property located conveniently west of these two cities. The complex is located on a portion of a 250-acre parcel and
includes a


/


-mile all-weather, lighted thoroughbred racetrack with a 3,000-person
grandstand. Significant undeveloped land surrounds the property and we have a right of first refusal for an additional 250 acres that are adjacent to the complex.

We
have undertaken a number of initiatives to drive growth at Charles Town. In September 2002, we opened 20,000 square feet of new gaming space along with a
five-outlet food court, two lounges and a larger retail shop. On July 1, 2003, we opened the Hollywood slot gaming area, a 38,100 square foot themed area with 746 slot machines. The
new gaming area offers a stage, lounge and new valet entrance. In 2004, we seek to expand the parking garage and add an additional 300 gaming machines.

Hollywood Casino Aurora

Hollywood Casino Aurora is located in Aurora, Illinois, the third largest city in Illinois, approximately 35 miles west of Chicago. The facility is easily
accessible from major highways, can be reached by train from downtown Chicago, and is approximately 30 miles from both the O'Hare International and Midway airports. The principal target markets are
Chicago and the surrounding northern and western suburbs.

Hollywood
Casino Aurora is a 53,000 square foot single-level dockside casino facility with 28 gaming tables and 1,161 gaming machines. The facility features a glass-domed,
four-story atrium with two upscale lounges, the award-winning Fairbanks® gourmet steakhouse, the Hollywood Epic Buffet®, a 1950's-style diner, a
high-end customer lounge and a private dining room for premium players. Hollywood Casino Aurora also has two parking garages with approximately 1,564 parking spaces. In addition, Hollywood
Casino Aurora has retail items at the Hollywood Casino Studio Store™, a highly themed shopping facility that offers movies on video, soundtrack compact discs and logo merchandise from
major Hollywood studios.

Casino Rouge

Casino Rouge is currently one of two dockside riverboat gaming facilities operating in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. The property features a four-story,
47,000-square foot riverboat casino, reminiscent of a nineteenth century Mississippi River paddlewheel steamboat, and a two-story, 58,000-square foot dockside
embarkation building. The riverboat features approximately 28,000 square feet of gaming space, 1,097 gaming machines and 31 table games and has a capacity of 1,800 customers. The dockside embarkation
facility offers a variety of amenities, including a steakhouse, a 268-seat buffet, food and bar service, a lounge area that includes a band stage and dance floor, meeting and planning
space and a gift shop.


Casino Magic—Bay St. Louis

Casino Magic—Bay St. Louis currently offers 39,500 square feet of gaming space, with 1,210 slot machines and 30 table games. Casino
Magic—Bay St. Louis is located on the Mississippi Gulf Coast, within driving distance of New Orleans, Louisiana, Mobile, Alabama and other cities in the Southeast. We were the first
dockside casino in Mississippi to operate on a barge rather than a traditional riverboat. The casino is located on a 17-acre marina with the adjoining land-based facilities
situated on 591 acres. The property includes the 291-room Bay Tower Hotel, the 201-room Casino Magic Inn, banquet and meeting space, a 10,000 square foot conference facility,
an 1,800-seat entertainment facility, an 18-hole Arnold Palmer-designed championship golf course, five restaurant venues and a live entertainment lounge. There remains ample
room for expansion, to the extent the market grows.

Hollywood Casino Tunica

Hollywood Casino Tunica is located in Tunica, Mississippi. Tunica County is the closest gaming jurisdiction to, and is easily accessible from, the Memphis,
Tennessee metropolitan area. The Tunica market has become a regional destination resort, attracting customers from surrounding markets such as Nashville, Tennessee, Atlanta, Georgia, St. Louis,
Missouri, Little Rock, Arkansas, and Tulsa, Oklahoma.

Hollywood
Casino Tunica features a 54,000 square foot, single-level casino with approximately 1,626 slot machines and 39 table games. Hollywood Casino Tunica's 494-room hotel
and 123-space recreational vehicle park provide overnight accommodations for its patrons. In 2003, we completed the conversion of 22 hotel rooms into eleven new suites and renovations to
the rest of the hotel rooms.

The
casino includes the highly-themed Adventure Slots® gaming area, featuring multimedia displays of memorabilia from famous adventure motion pictures and over 200 slot
machines. Additional entertainment amenities include the award-winning Fairbanks steakhouse, the Hollywood Epic Buffet, a 1950's-style diner named the Hollywood Diner, an entertainment lounge, a
premium players' club, a themed bar facility, an indoor pool and showroom as well as banquet and meeting facilities. There is also an 18-hole championship golf course adjacent to the
facility that is owned and operated through a joint venture with Harrah's and Boyd Gaming. In addition, Hollywood Casino Tunica offers parking for 1,635 cars.

Boomtown Biloxi

Boomtown Biloxi, also located in the Mississippi Gulf Coast, offers 33,600 square feet of gaming space, with 1,118 slot machines and 21 table games. In addition,
the property includes a full service buffet/menu service restaurant, a 120-seat deli-style restaurant, a full-service bakery, a western dance hall/cabaret and a
20,000-square foot family entertainment center.

Boomtown
Biloxi offers gaming and entertainment amenities to primarily local, middle-income customers. The casino has an "old west" theme with western memorabilia, country/western music
and employees dressed in western attire. Our strategy is to continue to focus on this market by providing moderately priced, quality amenities and by utilizing a broad array of marketing programs.

Hollywood Casino Shreveport

Hollywood Casino Shreveport is located in Shreveport, Louisiana, and is 190 miles east of Dallas, Texas. The principal target markets for Hollywood Casino
Shreveport are Dallas, Fort Worth and other communities in East Texas.

The
Hollywood Casino Shreveport resort consists of a 403-room, all suites, art deco-style hotel, and a three-level riverboat dockside casino. The casino contains
approximately 59,000 square feet of space with approximately 1,434 slot machines and 71 table games.


The
centerpiece of the resort is a 170,000 square foot land-based pavilion housing numerous restaurants and entertainment amenities. An 85-foot wide seamless
entrance connects the casino to the land-based pavilion on all three levels resulting in the feel of a land-based casino. Other amenities include the Fairbanks gourmet
steakhouse, the Hollywood Epic Buffet, the Hollywood Diner, the Director's Club and the Celebrity Lounge. Hollywood Casino Shreveport also features the unique Hollywood theme throughout its gaming,
dining and entertainment facilities that has been successfully applied at Hollywood Casino Aurora and Hollywood Casino Tunica.

Bullwhackers

In April 2002, we acquired the assets of the Bullwhackers properties in Black Hawk, Colorado from Colorado Gaming and Entertainment Co., a subsidiary of
Hilton Group plc. These assets include the Bullwhackers Casino, the adjoining Bullpen Sports Casino and the Silver Hawk Saloon and Casino. The Bullwhackers Casino includes 20,700 square feet of gaming
space consisting of 890 slot machines. These casinos are located on leased land and 3.25 acres of land purchased by us in the acquisition, most of which is utilized for a 475-car parking
area.

In
2003, we completed renovations to the interior and exterior of our casinos to improve the quality of the customer experience and increase our market share. On April 24, 2003,
we completed the purchase of the land lease for Bullwhackers Casino for $6.1 million including closing costs.

Operated Gaming Property

Casino Rama

Through CHC Casinos Canada Limited, or CHC Casinos, our indirectly wholly-owned subsidiary, we operate Casino Rama, a full service gaming and entertainment
facility, on behalf of the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation, an agency of the Province of Ontario. Casino Rama was established in July 1996 and is located on the lands of the Mnjikaning
First Nation, approximately 90 miles north of Toronto. The property has approximately 90,766 square feet of gaming space, 2,312 gaming machines and 122 table games. A 5,000-seat
entertainment facility was opened in July 2001 and a 300-room hotel was opened on June 30, 2002. The majority of the capital for this expansion was financed by an affiliate
of the Mnjikaning First Nation, and is projected to be repaid out of the revenue of Casino Rama pursuant to the terms of the management contract. We were not required to commit any capital to these
projects.

The
Development and Operating Agreement under which CHC Casinos operates the facility, which we refer to as the management contract for Casino Rama, sets out the duties, rights and
obligations of CHC Casinos. As the operator, CHC Casinos is entitled to a base fee equal to 2.0% of gross revenues of the casino and an incentive fee equal to 5.0% of the casino's net operating
profit. The agreement terminates on July 31, 2011, and the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation has the option to extend the term of the agreement and CHC Casinos' appointment as operator for
two successive periods of five years each commencing on August 1, 2011.

Racing Properties

Racing Property Overview

In addition to our gaming assets, we own and operate Penn National Race Course, Pocono Downs and eleven off-track wagering facilities, or OTWs, in
Pennsylvania and Freehold Raceway in New Jersey.

Penn
National Race Course is located on approximately 225 acres and is 15 miles northeast of Harrisburg, 100 miles west of Philadelphia and 200 miles east of Pittsburgh. Penn National is
one of only two thoroughbred racetracks in Pennsylvania. The property includes a one-mile all-weather, lighted


thoroughbred
racetrack, a


/


-mile turf track, a grandstand and a clubhouse. The property also includes approximately 400 acres that are available for future expansion or
development.

Pocono
Downs, located on approximately 400 acres in Plains Township, outside Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, is one of only two harness racetracks in Pennsylvania. The property includes a


/


-mile all-weather, lighted harness racetrack, a grandstand and a clubhouse.

Our
OTWs and racetracks provide areas for viewing import simulcasts and televised sporting events, placing pari-mutuel wagers and dining. We operate eleven of the
twenty-one OTWs in operation in Pennsylvania; two remaining OTWs are authorized for operation. Only licensed racing associations can operate OTWs or accept customer wagers on simulcast
races. We have been transmitting simulcasts of our races to other OTWs and receiving simulcasts of races from other OTWs for wagering by customers at our OTW locations year-round for more
than eight years. Import simulcasts typically include races from premier racetracks such a Belmont Park, Churchill Downs, Gulfstream Park, Hollywood Park, Santa Anita and Saratoga.

In
October 1998, we formed a 50%-50% joint venture with Greenwood New Jersey, Inc., a subsidiary of Greenwood Racing, Inc. In January 1999,
Greenwood New Jersey acquired certain assets of Garden State Park and Freehold Raceway on behalf of the joint venture. In July 1999, after receiving New Jersey Racing Commission approval, we
completed our investment in the joint venture through our interest in Pennwood Racing, Inc. Until May 2001, we operated and held a leasehold interest in Garden State Park through our
interest in Pennwood Racing, Inc. In May 2001, Garden State Park was sold and the joint venture ceased operating it. Freehold Raceway is located on a 51-acre site in western
Monmouth, New Jersey and is the nation's oldest harness track. The property is located less than fifty miles from New York City. Daytime racing has been conducted at Freehold Raceway since 1853 and
pari-mutuel wagering commenced in 1941. The grandstand can accommodate up to 10,000 spectators in its 150,000 square foot, five level, steel frame, enclosed, fully heated and air
conditioned facility. The grandstand also offers a sit-down restaurant and seven concession stands.

Agreements with Horsemen and Pari-Mutuel Clerks

We are required to have agreements with the horsemen at each of our racetracks to conduct our live racing and simulcasting activities. In addition, in order to
operate gaming machines in West Virginia, we must maintain agreements with each of the Charles Town horsemen, pari-mutuel clerks and breeders.

At
the Charles Town Entertainment Complex, we have an agreement with the Charles Town horsemen that expires on June 30, 2004. The pari-mutuel clerks at Charles Town
are represented under a collective bargaining agreement with the West Virginia Division of Mutuel Clerks which expires on December 31, 2004.

Our
agreement with the Pennsylvania Thoroughbred horsemen at Penn National Race Course expires on March 31, 2004. Our agreement with the Pennsylvania Harness horsemen at Pocono
Downs expires on March 16, 2004.

We
have an agreement in place with the Sports Arena Employees Local 137 (AFL-CIO) with respect to pari-mutuel clerks and admission personnel at six of our OTWs.
That agreement expires on September 30, 2005. We also have an agreement with Local 137 at Penn National Race Course with respect to pari-mutuel clerks and admissions and Telebet
personnel that expired on September 30, 2002. To date, we have operated under that contract by formal and informal extensions.

Pennwood
Racing also has an agreement in effect with the horsemen at Freehold Raceway which expires May 2006.


Telephone Account Wagering/Internet Wagering

In 1983, we pioneered Telebet®, the complete account wagering operation for Penn National Race Course. The platform offers account wagering on more
than 70 U.S. racetracks, and currently has more than 8,900 active telephone account betting customers from the 17 states that
permit account wagering. In 1995, Pocono Downs instituted Dial-A-Bet®, a similar account betting system.

We
have also developed strategic relationships to further our wagering activities. In August 1999, we entered into an agreement with eBet Limited, an Internet wagering operation
in Australia, to license their eBetUSA.com technology in the U.S. Through eBetUSA.com, Inc., our wholly-owned subsidiary, we use the eBetUSA.com technology to permit on-line
pari-mutuel horseracing wagering over the internet in selected jurisdictions with the approval of the Pennsylvania State Horse Racing Commission and the Pennsylvania Harness Racing
Commission and as permitted by applicable federal and state laws, rules and regulations. We currently accept wagers from residents of 17 U.S. jurisdictions.

In
April 2001, we entered into an agreement with Playboy.com, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Playboy Enterprises, Inc., to develop and operate the
PlayboyRacingUSA.com, an online pari-mutuel horseracing wagering site. We are responsible for the day-to-day operations of the site and Playboy is responsible for
marketing related services, user interface and design.

Trademarks

We own a number of trademarks registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or U.S. PTO, including but not limited to, "Telebet,"
"Dial-A-Bet" and "Players' Choice." We also have a number of trademark applications pending with the U.S. PTO.

BSL, Inc.,
our wholly-owned subsidiary entered into a License Agreement with Casino Magic Corp. dated August 8, 2000 pursuant to which it uses "Casino Magic" and other
trademarks.

BTN, Inc.,
our wholly-owned subsidiary, entered into a License Agreement with Boomtown, Inc. dated August 8, 2000 pursuant to which it uses "Boomtown" and other
trademarks.

As
a result of our acquisition of Hollywood Casino Corporation, we own the service mark "Hollywood Casino "which is registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. We have been
informed that our rights to the "Hollywood Casino" service mark are well established and have significant competitive value to the Hollywood casino properties. We have also acquired other trademarks
used by the Hollywood Casino facilities and their related services. These marks are either registered or are the subject of pending applications with the U.S. PTO.

Competition

—Gaming Operations

The gaming industry is highly fragmented and characterized by a high degree of competition among a large number of participants, many of which have financial and
other resources that are greater than our resources. Competitive gaming activities include casinos, video lottery terminals and other forms of legalized gaming in the U.S. and other jurisdictions.

Legalized
gambling is currently permitted in various forms throughout the U.S. and in several Canadian provinces. Other jurisdictions may legalize gaming in the near future. In addition,
established gaming jurisdictions could award additional gaming licenses or permit the expansion of existing gaming operations. New or expanded operations by other persons will increase competition for
our gaming operations and could have a material adverse impact on us.

Charles Town, West Virginia.

Our gaming machine operations at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex face competition from
other gaming machine venues in West Virginia and in neighboring


states
(including, but not limited to, Dover Downs, Delaware Park and Harrington Raceway in Delaware and the casinos in Atlantic City, New Jersey). These venues are permitted to offer significantly
higher stakes for their gaming machines than are permitted in West Virginia. Atlantic City, New Jersey does not have a per-pull limit on its gaming machines, while Delaware has a $25
per-pull limit. The per-pull limit in West Virginia is currently $5 per gaming machine. In addition, both Maryland and Pennsylvania are considering the legislation permitting
slot machines in their states. The failure to attract or retain gaming machine customers at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex, whether arising from such competition or from other factors, could
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The West Virginia Legislature is considering a bill to allow certain table games at racetracks in the
state, although it appears that there are insufficient votes to pass table games legislation this season.

Aurora, Illinois.

Aurora is part of the Chicago-area market that includes properties in the Chicago suburbs in
both Illinois and northern Indiana. Hollywood Casino Aurora faces competition from eight other riverboat casinos in the Chicago-area market, three dockside casinos that are located in
Illinois and five dockside casinos that are located in Indiana. Due to the significantly
higher gaming taxes imposed on Illinois riverboats in 2002 and 2003, the Indiana riverboats are generally able to spend greater amounts on marketing and other amenities, which has significantly
increased their ability to compete with the Illinois riverboats.

New
competition in the region is currently limited by state legislation. The Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act and the regulations promulgated by the Illinois Gaming Board under the
Riverboat Gambling Act authorize only ten owners' licenses for riverboat gaming operations in Illinois and permit a maximum of 1,200 gaming positions at any time for each of the ten licensed sites.
All authorized owners' licenses have been granted; however, one of the licenses is dormant due to a pending bankruptcy proceeding and ongoing dispute among the investors in such license, their host
city, the Illinois Gaming Board and Illinois government. Illinois is currently seeking to sell this tenth license. In the event that these disputes are fully resolved and a sale is consummated, this
license will likely become operational. We may face additional competition if such a licensee were to open a gaming facility near Hollywood Casino Aurora.

Baton Rouge, Louisiana.

Casino Rouge faces competition from land-based and riverboat casinos throughout Louisiana
and on the Mississippi Gulf Coast, casinos on Native American lands and from non-casino gaming opportunities within Louisiana. The principal competitor to Casino Rouge is the Argosy
Casino, which is the only other licensed riverboat casino in Baton Rouge. We also face competition from three major riverboat casinos and one land-based casino in the New Orleans area,
which is approximately 75 miles from Baton Rouge, and from three Native American casinos in Louisiana. The two closest Native American casinos are land-based facilities located
approximately 45 miles southwest and approximately 65 miles northwest of Baton Rouge. In addition, we face competition from a racetrack located approximately 55 miles from Baton Rouge that began
operating approximately 1,500 gaming machines in December 2003. We will face competition from this racetrack once it operates gaming machines. We also face competition from several truck stop
gaming facilities located in certain surrounding parishes, each of which are authorized to operate up to 50 video poker machines.

Mississippi Gulf Coast.

Our Mississippi Gulf Coast casino operations, Boomtown Biloxi and Casino Magic-Bay St.
Louis, face intense competition. Dockside gaming has grown rapidly on the Mississippi Gulf Coast, increasing from no dockside casinos in March 1992 to twelve operating dockside casinos on
December 31, 2003. Nine of these facilities are located in Biloxi, two are located in Gulfport and one is located in Bay St. Louis. In addition, the Mississippi Gaming Control Act does not
limit the number of licenses that may be granted and there are a number of additional sites located in the Gulf


Coast
region that are in various stages of development. Any significant increase in the competition in the region could negatively impact our existing operations.

Tunica County, Mississippi.

Hollywood Casino Tunica faces intense competition from nine other casinos operating in north
Tunica County and Coahoma County. The Tunica County market is segregated into
two casino clusters, Casino Center and Casino Strip, where Hollywood Casino Tunica is located, as well as three stand-alone properties. A shuttle service provides transportation between the various
Tunica County casinos. In addition, we compete with another casino located approximately 40 miles south of the Casino Strip cluster in Coahoma County. The close proximity of the casinos in Tunica
County has contributed to the competition between casinos because it allows consumers to visit a variety of casinos in a short period of time. The Mississippi Gaming Control Act does not limit the
number of licenses that may be granted. Any significant increase in new competition in or around Tunica County could negatively impact the operations of Hollywood Casino Tunica.

Hollywood
Casino Tunica also competes to some extent with a land-based casino complex operated by the Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians in central Mississippi,
approximately 200 miles south and east of Memphis, TN. In addition, Hollywood Casino Tunica may eventually face competition from the opening of gaming casinos closer to Memphis, such as in DeSoto
County, Mississippi, which is the only county between Tunica County and the Tennessee border. DeSoto County has defeated gaming proposals on three separate occasions, most recently in
November 1996, and by statute cannot vote on such an issue again until November 2004. Casino gaming is not currently legalized in Tennessee or Arkansas; however, the legalization of
gaming in either Tennessee or Arkansas could have a material adverse impact on Hollywood Casino Tunica.

Shreveport, Louisiana.

The Shreveport/Bossier City gaming market is characterized by intense competition. Hollywood Casino
Shreveport competes directly with five casinos and a racetrack in the Shreveport market. All but one of these competitors have operated in the Shreveport market for several years and have established
customer bases and the newest facility is owned by one of the existing participants in the market. Casino gaming is currently prohibited in several jurisdictions from which the Shreveport market draws
customers, primarily Texas. Although casino gaming is currently not permitted in Texas, the Texas legislature has considered proposals to authorize casino gaming in the past. In July 2003, the
Chickasaw Nation announced the opening of WinStar Casinos, a Las Vegas-style, 110,000-square-foot gaming facility located in Oklahoma approximately 60 miles north of the
Dallas/Fort Worth area. Although gaming in Oklahoma is limited by law to Class II-type games, which games have previously been technologically incapable of offering a similar
entertainment experience to Hollywood Casino Shreveport's Class III-type games, recent innovations have allowed the Class II-type product to compete much more
effectively than in the past. Since Hollywood Casino Shreveport draws a significant amount of its customers from the Dallas/Fort Worth area but is located approximately 180 miles from that area, we
believe Hollywood Casino Shreveport will face increased competition from these types of facilities.

Black Hawk, Colorado.

The Black Hawk gaming market is characterized by intense competition. The primary competitive factors
in the market are location, availability and convenience of parking, number of slot machines and gaming tables, promotional incentives, types and pricing of non-gaming amenities, name
recognition and overall atmosphere. There are currently 21 gaming facilities in the Black Hawk market and five gaming facilities in nearby Central City. Central City and Black Hawk gaming facilities
compete for visitors, but historically, Black Hawk has enjoyed an advantage over Central City because customers have to drive through Black Hawk to reach Central City. Central City has received
approval for the development of a road directly connecting Central City and Black Hawk with Interstate 70, which would allow customers to reach Central City without driving by or through Black Hawk.
Construction has begun and it is anticipated that the project will be completed by the end of 2004.


Currently,
limited stakes gaming in Colorado is constitutionally authorized in Central City, Black Hawk, Cripple Creek and two Native American reservations in southwest Colorado. At
present, Colorado law does not authorize video lottery terminals and, in November 2003, voters defeated a ballot referendum to permit 500 video lottery terminals at each of the state's five
currently licensed horse and greyhound race tracks. However, Colorado law permits the legislature, with executive approval, to authorize new types of lottery gaming, such as video lottery terminals,
which could compete with slot machine gaming. The legalization of gaming closer to Denver could have a material adverse effect on our Bullwhackers operation. Bullwhackers also competes with other
existing forms of gaming in Colorado, including lottery gaming, and horse and dog racing.

Ontario.

Our operation of Casino Rama through CHC Casinos Canada Limited faces competition in Ontario from two other
commercial casinos, six charity casinos and at least 15 racetracks with gaming machines in the province. All of the casinos (including Casino Rama) and gaming machine facilities are operated by or on
behalf of the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation, an agency of the Province of Ontario. The Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation also operates several province-wide lotteries.

There
are two charity casinos and three racetracks with gaming machine facilities that directly affect Casino Rama. The two charity casinos together have 105 gaming tables and 902 gaming
machines. The number of gaming machines at the racetracks ranges from 100 to over 1,700 each.

There
is an interim commercial casino located in Niagara Falls, Ontario, 80 miles southwest of Toronto with approximately 135 gaming tables and 2,700 gaming machines. There is a
permanent casino under development in Niagara Falls with a similar number of gaming tables and gaming machines as the interim casino that is scheduled for completion in the spring of 2004.

—Racing and pari-mutuel operations

Our racing and pari-mutuel operations face significant competition for wagering dollars from other racetracks and OTWs, some of which also offer other
forms of gaming, as well as other gaming venues such as casinos and state-sponsored lotteries, including the Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware and West Virginia lotteries. Our telephone account and
internet wagering operations compete with other providers of such services throughout the country. We also may face competition in the future from new OTWs, new racetracks or new providers of
telephone account or internet wagering. From time to time, states consider legislation to permit other forms of gaming. If additional gaming opportunities become available near our racing and
pari-mutuel operations, such gaming opportunities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our
OTWs compete with OTWs owned by other Pennsylvania racetracks, a number of which are in close proximity to us, and new OTWs that may compete with our existing wagering facilities.
There are currently two thoroughbred and two harness racetracks in Pennsylvania. On September 26, 2002, MTR Racing Group, Inc. announced that its wholly-owned subsidiary, Presque Isle
Downs, Inc., was granted a license by the Pennsylvania State Horse Racing Commission to conduct thoroughbred horse racing and pari-mutuel wagering in Erie, Pennsylvania. MTR Racing
Group plans to build a state-of-the-art horse racing facility with dirt and turf racing and simulcasting that will also offer concerts, entertainment, and fine and
casual dining. In the event MTR does so, MTR has agreed to purchase from us our OTW in Erie, Pennsylvania.

U.S. and Foreign Revenues

Our revenues from operations in the U.S. for 2001, 2002 and 2003 were approximately $508.8 million, $644.5 million and $1,149.3 million,
respectively. Our revenues from operations in Canada for 2001, 2002 and 2003 were approximately $8.3 million, $11.5 million and $13.7 million, respectively. We currently do not
derive revenue from any countries other than the U.S. and Canada and had no operations in Canada prior to 2001.


Segments

We operate in two segments, gaming and pari-mutuel operations. For financial data about our segments for the years ended December 31, 2001,
2002 and 2003, please see Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Management

Name

Position

Peter M. Carlino

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Kevin G. DeSanctis

President and Chief Operating Officer

Leonard M. DeAngelo

Executive Vice President of Operations

William J. Clifford

Senior Vice President—Finance and Chief Financial Officer

Robert S. Ippolito

Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer

Jordan B. Savitch

Senior Vice President and General Counsel

Peter M. Carlino.

Mr. Carlino has served as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since April 1994. From
1984 to 1994, he devoted a substantial portion of his time to developing, building and operating residential and commercial real estate projects located primarily in central Pennsylvania. Since 1976,
Mr. Carlino has been President of Carlino Financial Corporation, a holding company that owns and operates various Carlino family businesses, in which capacity he has been continuously active in
strategic planning for Carlino Financial and monitoring its operations.

Kevin G. DeSanctis.

Mr. DeSanctis joined us in February 2001 as our President and Chief Operating Officer. From
1995 to 2000, Mr. DeSanctis served as Chief Operating Officer, North America, for Sun International Hotels Limited where he was responsible for complete oversight of
day-to-day operations of the company's gaming properties in North America and the Bahamas. Prior to joining Sun International, Mr. DeSanctis' experience included
management and pre-opening responsibilities for gaming operations in Las Vegas, Atlantic City, New Orleans and Colorado.

Leonard M. DeAngelo.

Mr. DeAngelo joined us in July 2003 as Executive Vice President of Operations. From,
December 2000 to July 2003, Mr. DeAngelo served as President of the Atlantic City Hilton Casino Resort. Prior to being named President of the Atlantic City Hilton,
Mr. DeAngelo served for three years as Corporate Senior Vice President of Casino Marketing with Sun International where, in addition to his marketing responsibilities, he also oversaw
information technology initiatives relating to the casinos, including operations, marketing, data warehousing and online projects. From November 1995 to December 1997,
Mr. DeAngelo was President of the Sands Hotel and Casino in Atlantic City, New Jersey. He served with the Sands in other executive positions beginning in 1983, holding the titles of Director of
Casino Administration, Vice President Casino Administration and Senior Vice President before being named President. He began his career in the gaming and hotel industry in 1979 at Bally's Park Place
Hotel and Casino in Atlantic City.

William J. Clifford.

Mr. Clifford joined us in August 2001 and was appointed to his current position as Senior
Vice President—Finance and Chief Financial Officer in October 2001. From March 1997 to July 2001, Mr. Clifford served as the Chief Financial Officer and Senior
Vice President of Finance with Sun International Resorts, Inc., Paradise Island, Bahamas. From November 1993 to February 1997, Mr. Clifford was Financial, Hotel and
Operations Controller for Treasure Island Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada. From May 1989 to November 1993, Mr. Clifford was Controller for


Golden
Nugget Hotel and Casino, Las Vegas, Nevada. Prior to May 1989, Mr. Clifford held the positions of Controller for the Dunes Hotel and Casino, Las Vegas, Nevada, Property Operations
Analyst with Aladdin Hotel and Casino, Las Vegas, Nevada, Casino Administrator with Las Vegas, Hilton, Las Vegas, Nevada, Senior Internal Auditor with Del Webb, Las Vegas, Nevada and Agent, Audit
Division, of the Nevada Gaming Control Board, Las Vegas, and Reno, Nevada.

Robert S. Ippolito.

In July 2001, we appointed Mr. Ippolito to the position of Vice President.
Mr. Ippolito has served as our Secretary and Treasurer since April 1994 and as our Chief Financial Officer from April 1994 until July 2001. Mr. Ippolito brings more
than 21 years of gaming and racing experience to the management team both as a manager at a major accounting firm and as an officer of companies in the racing business.

Jordan B. Savitch.

Mr. Savitch joined us in September 2002 as Senior Vice President and General Counsel. From
June 1999 to April 2002, Mr. Savitch served as a director and senior executive at iMedium, Inc., a venture-backed software company offering innovative software solutions
for increasing sales effectiveness. From 1995 to 1999, Mr. Savitch served as senior corporate counsel at Safeguard Scientifics, Inc., a NYSE-listed company specializing in
identifying, developing and operating emerging technology companies. Mr. Savitch also spent four years in private practice as an associate at Willkie Farr & Gallagher, LLP in New York,
New York.

Governmental Regulations

The gaming industry is highly regulated, and we must maintain our licenses and pay gaming taxes to continue our operations. Each of our casinos is subject to
extensive regulation under the laws, rules and regulations of the jurisdiction where it is located. These laws, rules and regulations generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and
character of the owners, managers, and persons with financial interests in the gaming operations. Violations of laws in one jurisdiction could result in disciplinary action in other jurisdictions. A
more detailed description of the regulations to which we are subject is contained in Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which exhibit is incorporated herein by
reference.

Our
businesses are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations in addition to gaming regulations. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to,
restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. Such laws and
regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. Material changes, new laws or regulations, or material differences in
interpretations by courts or governmental authorities could adversely affect our operating results.

Employees and Labor Relations

As of March 2, 2004, we had 12,919 full-time employees.

At
the Charles Town Entertainment Complex, we have an agreement with the Charles Town horsemen that expires on June 30, 2004. The pari-mutuel clerks at Charles Town
are represented under a collective bargaining agreement with the West Virginia Division of Mutuel Clerks which expires on December 31, 2004.

Our
agreement with the Pennsylvania Thoroughbred horsemen at Penn National Race Course expires on March 31, 2004. Our agreement with the Pennsylvania Harness horsemen at Pocono
Downs expires on March 16, 2004.

We
have an agreement in place with the Sports Arena Employees Local 137 (AFL-CIO) with respect to pari-mutuel clerks and admission personnel at six of our OTWs.
That agreement expires on September 30, 2005. We also have an agreement with Local 137 at Penn National Race Course with


respect
to pari-mutuel clerks and admissions and Telebet personnel that expired on September 30, 2002. To date, we have operated under that contract by formal and informal
extensions.

Pennwood
Racing also has an agreement in effect with the horsemen at Freehold Raceway which expires May 2006.

Risks Related to Our Business

A substantial portion of our revenues and operating income is derived from our Charles Town and Aurora facilities.

Approximately 45.7% and 69.6% of our revenue and operating income, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2003 was derived from our Charles Town and
Aurora operations. We expect that a substantial portion of our revenues and operating income for the immediate future will be derived from our Charles Town, West Virginia and Aurora, Illinois
facilities. If, among other things, new competitors enter one of these markets, our effective rate of taxation is increased, economic conditions in one of these regions deteriorates or a business
interruption occurs, our operating revenues and cash flow could decline significantly. For example, in July, 2003, the State of Illinois increased admissions tax rates, certain tax rates and added new
tax brackets for gaming licenses. We have taken steps to mitigate the Illinois tax increase through a variety of methods including employee reduction, marketing and promotional programs reductions,
other cost reductions and the adoption of admission fees. While these steps have been successful, we cannot assure you that they will continue to be successful.

There is substantial risk inherent in potential acquisitions in the gaming industry.

Because of the complex conditions which must be satisfied in order to complete acquisitions in the gaming industry and the regulatory approvals required in
connection with such acquisitions, our involvement in potential acquisitions may result in uncapitalized expenses, non-recurring charges, litigation, substantial obligations and a
substantial risk of loss.

We may face disruption in integrating and managing facilities we have acquired or may acquire in the future.

The integration of any properties we may acquire will require the dedication of management resources that may temporarily divert attention from our
day-to-day business and may interrupt the activities of those businesses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations.

We
continually evaluate opportunities to acquire new properties, some of which are potentially significant in relation to our size. We expect to continue pursuing expansion and
acquisition opportunities and could face significant challenges in managing and integrating the expanded or combined operations. Management of new properties, especially in new geographic areas, may
require that we increase our managerial resources. If we fail to effectively manage any growth we may have, it could materially adversely affect our operating results. We cannot assure you that we
will be able to manage the combined operations effectively or realize any of the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions.

Our
ability to achieve our objectives in connection with any acquisition we may consummate may be highly dependent on, among other things, our ability to retain the senior level property
management teams of such acquisition candidates. If, for any reason, we are unable to retain these management teams following such acquisitions or if we fail to attract new capable executives, our
operations after consummation of such acquisitions could be materially adversely affected.


We face risks related to the development and expansion of our current properties.

We
expect to use a portion of our cash on hand, cash flow from operations and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility for capital expenditures at our properties. These
enhancements involve risks, including cost over-runs, delays, market deterioration and receipt of required licenses, permits or authorizations, among others.

Any
proposed enhancement will require us to significantly increase the size of our existing work force at those properties. We cannot be certain that management will be able to hire and
retain a sufficient number of employees to operate these facilities at their optimal levels. The failure to employ the necessary work force could result in inadequate customer service that could
ultimately harm profitability.

We face significant competition from other gaming operations and racing and pari-mutuel operations.

Gaming Operations.

The gaming industry is highly fragmented and characterized by a high degree of competition among a large
number of participants, many of which have financial and other resources that are greater than our resources. Competitive gaming activities include casinos, video lottery terminals and other forms of
legalized gaming in the U.S. and other jurisdictions.

Legalized
gambling is currently permitted in various forms throughout the U.S., in several Canadian provinces and on various lands taken into trust for the benefit of certain Native
Americans in the U.S. and Canada. Other jurisdictions may legalize gaming in the near future. In addition, established gaming jurisdictions could award additional gaming licenses or permit the
expansion of existing gaming operations. New or expanded operations by other entities will increase competition for our gaming operations and could have a material adverse impact on us.

Racing and pari-mutuel operations.

Our racing and pari-mutuel operations face significant competition
for wagering dollars from other racetracks and OTWs, some of which also offer other forms of gaming, as well as other gaming venues such as casinos and state-sponsored lotteries, including the
Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware and West Virginia lotteries. Our telephone account and internet wagering operations compete with providers of such services throughout the country. We also may face
competition in the future from new OTWs, new racetracks or new providers of telephone account or internet wagering. From time to time, states consider legislation to permit other forms of gaming. If
additional gaming opportunities become available near our racing and pari-mutuel operations, such gaming opportunities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations.

We are or may become involved in legal proceedings that, if adversely adjudicated or settled, could impact our financial condition.

We are defendants in various lawsuits relating to matters incidental to our business. The nature of our business subjects us to the risk of lawsuits filed by
customers, past and present employees, competitors and others in the ordinary course. As with all litigation, no assurance can be provided as to the outcome of these matters and in general, litigation
can be expensive and time consuming. We believe that we have defenses to these lawsuits and are contesting them vigorously. However, we cannot be sure that we will be successful in defending these
claims, which could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We face extensive regulation from gaming and other regulatory authorities.

Licensing requirements.

As owners and operators of gaming and pari-mutuel betting facilities, we are subject to
extensive state, local and, in Canada, provincial regulation. State, local and provincial authorities require us and our subsidiaries to demonstrate suitability to obtain and retain various


licenses
and require that we have registrations, permits and approvals to conduct gaming operations. Various regulatory authorities, including the Colorado Division of Gaming, the Illinois Gaming
Board, the Louisiana Gaming Control Board, the Mississippi Gaming Commission, the New Jersey Casino Control Commission, the New Jersey Racing Commission, the Alcohol and Gaming Commission of Ontario,
the Pennsylvania State Horse Racing Commission, the Pennsylvania State Harness Racing Commission, the West Virginia Racing Commission and the West Virginia Lottery Commission may, for any reason set
forth in the applicable legislation, rules and regulations, limit, condition, suspend or revoke a license or registration to conduct gaming operations or prevent us from owning the securities of any
of our gaming subsidiaries. Like all gaming operators in the jurisdictions in which we operate, we must periodically apply to renew our gaming licenses or registrations and have the suitability of
certain of our directors, officers and employees approved. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such renewals or approvals. Regulatory authorities may also levy substantial fines
against or seize our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries or the people involved in violating gaming laws or regulations. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations.

We
have demonstrated suitability to obtain and have obtained all governmental licenses, registrations, permits and approvals necessary for us to operate our existing gaming and
pari-mutuel facilities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them or demonstrate suitability to obtain any new licenses, registrations, permits or approvals. If we expand
our gaming operations in Canada, Colorado, Illinois, Louisiana, Mississippi, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, West Virginia or to new areas, we will have to meet suitability requirements and obtain
additional licenses, registrations, permits and approvals from gaming authorities in these jurisdictions. The approval process can be time-consuming and costly and we cannot be sure that
we will be successful. An unsuccessful license application or renewal in one jurisdiction can adversely affect licensing in other jurisdictions.

Gaming
authorities in the U.S. generally can require that any beneficial owner of our securities, including holders of our common stock file an application for a finding of suitability.
If a gaming authority requires a record or beneficial owner of our common stock, to file a suitability application, the owner must apply for a finding of suitability within 30 days or at
an earlier time prescribed by the gaming authority. The gaming authority has the power to investigate an owner's suitability and the
owner must pay all costs of the investigation. If the owner is found unsuitable, then the owner may be required by law to dispose of our securities.

Potential changes in regulatory environment.

From time to time, legislators and special interest groups have proposed
legislation that would expand, restrict or prevent gaming operations or which may otherwise adversely impact our operations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Any expansion of gaming or
restriction on or prohibition of our gaming operations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.

Taxation and fees.

We believe that the prospect of significant revenue is one of the primary reasons that jurisdictions
permit legalized gaming. As a result, gaming companies are typically subject to significant taxes and fees in addition to normal federal, state, local and provincial income taxes, and such taxes and
fees are subject to increase at any time. We pay substantial taxes and fees with respect to our operations. From time to time, federal, state, local and provincial legislators and officials have
proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. In addition, worsening economic conditions could intensify the efforts of state and local
governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes. It is not possible to determine with certainty the likelihood of changes in tax laws or in the administration of such laws. Such
changes, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in July 2003, the State of Illinois increased the
graduated gaming tax rate structure by increasing certain tax rates, adding new brackets and raising the highest marginal tax rate from 50% to 70%. Additionally, Illinois increased the admission tax
from $3 to $4 or $5 per person, depending on


the
prior year's annual admissions. In the absence of any operational response by us, the tax increases would have reduced our operating income by $30 million in 2003. We have taken steps that
have successfully mitigated some of the impact of the tax increase. However, we cannot provide assurance that the steps we took will continue to be successful.

Compliance with Other Laws.

We are also subject to a variety of other rules and regulations, including zoning, environmental,
construction and land-use laws and regulations governing the serving of alcoholic beverages. If we are not in compliance with these laws, it could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.

We depend on our key personnel.

We are highly dependent on the services of Peter M. Carlino, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Kevin G. DeSanctis, our President and Chief Operating
Officer and other members of our senior management team. Our ability to retain key personnel is affected by the competitiveness of our compensation packages and the other terms and conditions of
employment, our continued ability to
compete effectively against other gaming companies and our growth prospects. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations.

Inclement weather and other conditions could seriously disrupt our business, financial condition and results of operations.

The operations of our facilities are subject to disruptions or reduced patronage as a result of severe weather conditions. Our dockside facilities in Mississippi,
Louisiana and Illinois are subject to risks in addition to those associated with land-based casinos, including loss of service due to casualty, mechanical failure, extended or
extraordinary maintenance, flood, hurricane or other severe weather conditions. Reduced patronage and the loss of a dockside casino or riverboat from service for any period of time due to severe
weather could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We depend on agreements with our horsemen and pari-mutuel clerks.

We are required to have agreements with the horsemen at each of our racetracks to conduct our live racing and simulcasting activities. In addition, in order to
operate gaming machines in West Virginia, we must maintain agreements with each of the Charles Town horsemen, pari-mutuel clerks and breeders.

At
the Charles Town Entertainment Complex, we have an agreement with the Charles Town horsemen that expires on June 30, 2004. The pari-mutuel clerks at Charles Town
are represented under a collective bargaining agreement with the West Virginia Division of Mutuel Clerks which expires on December 31, 2004.

Our
agreement with the Pennsylvania Thoroughbred horsemen at Penn National Race Course expires on March 31, 2004. Our agreement with the Pennsylvania Harness horsemen at Pocono
Downs expires on March 16, 2004.

We
have an agreement in place with the Sports Arena Employees Local 137 (AFL-CIO) with respect to pari-mutuel clerks and admission personnel at six of our OTWs.
That agreement expires on September 30, 2005. We also have an agreement with Local 137 at Penn National Race Course with respect to pari-mutuel clerks and admissions and Telebet
personnel that expired on September 30, 2002. To date, we have operated under that contract by formal and informal extensions.

Pennwood
Racing also has an agreement in effect with the horsemen at Freehold Raceway which expires May 2006.


If
we fail to maintain operative agreements with the horsemen at a track, we will not be permitted to conduct live racing and export and import simulcasting at that track and OTWs, and,
in West Virginia, we will not be permitted to operate our gaming machines. In addition, our simulcasting agreements are subject to the horsemen's approval. If we fail to renew or modify existing
agreements on satisfactory terms, this failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that these agreements will
be renewed or extended.

We experience quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations.

Our quarterly operating results fluctuate because of seasonality and other factors. We typically generate the best operating profits in our second and third
fiscal quarters, which end in June and September, respectively. These seasonal trends may impact our financial condition to the extent we need more funds during periods of slower activity in the
future.

We are subject to environmental laws and potential exposure to environmental liabilities.

We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern our operations, including emissions and discharges into the
environment, and the handling and disposal of hazardous and nonhazardous substances and waste. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in costs for corrective action, penalties
or the imposition of other liabilities or restrictions. From time to time, we incur costs and obligations for correcting environmental noncompliance matters. To date, none of these matters has had a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations; however, there can be no assurance that such matters will not have such an effect in the future.

We
are also subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of
these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of remediating contaminated soil or groundwater on or from its property without regard to
whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused, the contamination, as well as incur liability to third parties impacted by such contamination. The presence of contamination, or failure to remediate
it properly,
may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent such property. The Bullwhackers and Silver Hawk Casinos are located within the geographic footprint of the Clear Creek/Central City Superfund Site, a
large area of historic mining activity, which is the subject of state and federal clean-up actions. Although we have not been named a potentially responsible party for this Superfund Site,
it is possible that as a result of our ownership and operation of these properties (on which mining may have occurred in the past), we may occur costs related to this matter in the future.
Furthermore, we are aware that there is or may be soil or groundwater contamination at certain of our facilities resulting from current or former operations. These matters are in various stages of
investigation, and we are not able at this time to estimate the costs that will be required to resolve them. To date, none of these matters of other matters arising under environmental laws has had a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations; however, there can be no assurance that such matters will not have such an effect in the future.

Energy and fuel price increases may adversely affect our costs of operations and our revenues.

Our casino properties use significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy. While no shortages of energy have been experienced, the
recent substantial increases in the cost of electricity in the United States may negatively affect our results of operations. The extent of the impact is subject to the magnitude and duration of the
energy and fuel price increases. Dramatic increases in fuel prices may also adversely affect customer visits.


Risks Related to our Capital Structure

Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health.

We continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to our financial health. For example, it
could:

•

make
it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the our debt;

•

increase
our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;

•

require
us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital,
capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;

•

limit
our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;

•

place
us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and

•

limit,
along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. A failure to comply with
those covenants could result in an event of default.

Any
of the above-listed factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may incur substantial additional
indebtedness in the future, including, for example, to fund new acquisitions. The terms of our existing indebtedness relating to the notes do not fully prohibit us from doing so. If new debt is added
to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify.

The availability and cost of financing could have an adverse effect on business.

We intend to finance our current and future expansion and renovation projects primarily with cash flow from operations, borrowings under our bank credit facility
and equity or debt financings. If we are unable to finance our current or future expansion projects, we will have to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying planned expansion,
development and renovation projects as well as capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt, or obtaining additional equity financing or joint venture partners, or modifying our bank
credit facility. These sources of funds may not be sufficient to finance our expansion, and other financing may not be available on acceptable terms, in a timely manner or at all. In addition, our
existing indebtedness contains certain restrictions on our
ability to incur additional indebtedness. If we are unable to secure additional financing, we could be forced to limit or suspend expansion, development and renovation projects, which may adversely
affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our indebtedness imposes restrictive covenants on us.

Our senior secured credit facility requires us, among other obligations, to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial tests, including
interest coverage and total leverage ratios. In addition, our senior secured credit facility restricts, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, incur guarantee obligations,
repay indebtedness or amend debt instruments, pay dividends, create liens on assets, make investments, make acquisitions, engage in mergers or consolidations, make capital expenditures or engage in
certain transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates. A failure to comply with the restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our existing senior
subordinated notes could lead to an event of default thereunder which could result in an acceleration of such indebtedness.


To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash, which depends on many factors beyond our control.

Based on our current level of operations, we believe our cash flow from operations, available cash and available borrowings under our senior secured credit
facility will be adequate to meet our future liquidity needs for the next few years. We cannot assure you, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future
borrowings will be available to us under our senior secured credit facility in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs with respect to our indebtedness. In addition, if we
consummate significant acquisitions in the future, our cash requirements may increase significantly. As we are required to satisfy amortization requirements under our senior secured credit facility or
other debt matures, we may also need to raise funds to refinance all or a portion of our debt. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our debt on attractive terms, commercially
reasonable terms or at all. Our future operating performance and our ability to service or refinance our debt will be subject to future economic conditions and to financial, business and other
factors, many of which are beyond our control.

An event of default has occurred under the indentures governing the Hollywood Casino Shreveport notes.

Under the terms of the indentures governing the Hollywood Casino Shreveport notes, HCS and Shreveport Capital Corporation were required to make an offer to
purchase the Hollywood Casino Shreveport notes at 101% of the principal amount thereof within ten days of March 3, 2003, which was the date our wholly-owned subsidiary consummated its merger
with Hollywood Casino Corporation. At such time, HCS and Shreveport Capital Corporation determined that they did not have the liquidity to repurchase the Hollywood Casino Shreveport notes at 101% of
their principal amount and, accordingly, could not make an offer to purchase the Hollywood Casino Shreveport notes as required under the indentures. The Hollywood Casino Shreveport notes are
non-recourse to us and our subsidiaries (other than HCS, Shreveport Capital Corporation, HCS I, Inc., HCS II, Inc. and HWCC-Louisiana, Inc. which we refer
to as the Shreveport entities).

On
March 14, 2003, the HCS issuers were notified by an ad hoc committee of holders of the Hollywood Casino Shreveport notes that they had 60 days from receipt of the notice
to cure the failure to offer to purchase the Hollywood Casino Shreveport notes as required under the indentures governing the notes or an Event of Default would occur. HCS did not cure such failure
and, therefore, on May 14, 2003 the representative of the holders of the HCS notes declared an Event of Default. In addition, the managing general partner of HCS did not make the interest
payments aggregating $24.6 million that became due on the Hollywood Casino Shreveport notes on August 1, 2003 and February 1, 2004. On February 3, 2004, HCS I, Inc.,
the managing general partner of HCS, announced that its Board of Directors has initiated a process that it hopes will result in the sale or other disposition of the riverboat casino/hotel complex of
HCS located in Shreveport, Louisiana. The Board took action after consultation with an ad hoc committee of holders of the Hollywood Casino Shreveport notes, whom HCS expects that it will consult with
throughout the process. HCS currently anticipates that any transaction would be effected through a federal bankruptcy proceeding.

There
can be no assurance that the process will result in the sale or other disposition of the riverboat casino/hotel complex or that, if it does, the sale proceeds will be adequate to
pay the Hollywood Casino Shreveport notes in full. In addition, there can be no assurance that the holders of the Hollywood Casino Shreveport notes will not challenge the non-recourse
nature of the Hollywood Casino Shreveport notes or that we will not incur significant costs in connection with the Hollywood Casino Shreveport notes.


Available Information

For more information about us, visit our web site at www.pngaming.com. Our electronic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including all annual
reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports), including the
exhibits, are available free of charge through our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the Securities and Exchange Commission.

ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES

The following describes our principal real estate properties:

Charles Town Entertainment Complex.

We own a 250-acre parcel in Charles Town, West Virginia, a portion of which
contains the Charles Town Entertainment Complex. The property also includes a


/


-mile thoroughbred racetrack and an enclosed grandstand/clubhouse. We have a right of first
refusal for an additional 250 acres that are adjacent to the facility.

Hollywood Casino Aurora.

We own an 117,000 square foot dockside barge structure and land based pavilion with 53,000 square
feet of gaming space in Aurora, Illinois. The property also includes two parking garages under capital lease agreements.

Casino Rouge.

We own five acres of a 23-acre site on the east bank of the Mississippi River in the East Baton
Rouge Downtown Development District. The remaining 18 acres of the site are currently leased. The property site serves as the dockside embarkation for the Casino Rouge and features a
two-story, 58,000 square foot building. The Casino Rouge is a four-story 47,000 square foot riverboat casino, which we own.

Casino Magic—Bay St. Louis.

We own approximately 591 acres in the city of Bay St. Louis, Mississippi, including
the 17-acre marina where the gaming barge is moored. The property includes an 18-hole golf course, two hotels, and other land-based facilities, all of which we own.

Hollywood Casino Tunica.

We lease approximately 70 acres of land in Tunica, Mississippi, which contains a single-level casino
with 54,000 square feet of gaming space and other land-based
facilities. Hollywood Casino Tunica is located amongst a cluster of gaming facilities, including those operated by Harrah's Entertainment, Inc. and Boyd Gaming Corporation.

Boomtown Biloxi.

We lease substantially all of the 19 acres on which Boomtown Biloxi is located under a 99-year
lease that began in 1994. We also lease approximately 5.1 acres of submerged tidelands at the casino site from the State of Mississippi under a ten-year lease with a five-year
option to renew. We own the barge on which the casino with 33,600 square feet of gaming space is located and all of the land-based facilities. In January 2004, we completed the
acquisition of an adjacent property which we plan to utilize for additional parking and to develop the property in the event we move the casino barge.

Hollywood Casino Shreveport.

We lease approximately nine acres of land in Shreveport, Louisiana, which contains a dockside
casino with 59,000 square feet of gaming space along with a hotel and land-based pavilion that includes various entertainment amenities.

Bullwhackers.

Our Bullwhackers Casino, the adjoining Bullpen Sports Casino and the Silver Hawk Saloon and Casino are located
on an approximately four-acre site. The casinos on the property have 20,700 square feet of gaming space.

Casino Rama.

We do not own any of the land located at or near the casino or Casino Rama's facilities and equipment. The
Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation has a long-term ground lease


with
an affiliate of the Mnjikaning First Nation, for the land on which Casino Rama is situated. Under the Development and Operating Agreement, CHC Casinos has been granted a license coupled with an
interest in land pursuant to which it, as the operator, has been granted full access to Casino Rama during the term of the Development and Operating Agreement to perform its services under the
Agreement. The Casino Rama facilities are located on approximately 57 acres.

Penn National Race Course.

We own approximately 225 acres in Grantville, Pennsylvania where the Penn National Race Course is
located. The property includes a one-mile all-weather thoroughbred racetrack and a


/


-mile turf track, a clubhouse and a grandstand. The property
also includes approximately 400 acres surrounding the Penn National Race Course that are available for future expansion or development.

Pocono Downs.

We own approximately 400 acres in Plains Township, outside of Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania where Pocono Downs is
located. The property includes a


/


-mile all weather,
lighted harness track, a grandstand and a clubhouse. A two-story 14,000 square foot building that house the Pocono Downs office is also located on the property.

Freehold Raceway.

Through our joint venture, we own a 51-acre site in Freehold in Western Monmouth County, New
Jersey where Freehold Raceway in located. The property features a half-mile oval harness track and a 150,000 square foot grandstand.

OTWs.

We own four of our existing OTW facilities and lease the remaining seven facilities. The following is a list of our OTW
facilities and their locations:

Our OTW Locations

Location

Size (Sq. Ft.)

Owned/Leased

Date Opened

Erie, PA

22,500

Owned

May, 1991

Reading, PA

22,500

Leased

May, 1992

Allentown, PA

28,500

Owned

July, 1993

Chambersburg, PA

12,500

Leased

April, 1994

York, PA

25,000

Leased

March, 1995

Lancaster, PA

24,000

Leased

July, 1996

Williamsport, PA

14,000

Owned

February, 1997

Carbondale, PA

13,000

Owned

March, 1998

Hazleton, PA

13,000

Leased

March, 1998

Johnstown, PA

14,220

Leased

September, 1998

East Stroudsburg, PA

12,000

Leased

July, 2000

Other.

We lease 19,045 square feet of office space in two office buildings in Wyomissing, Pennsylvania for our executive
offices. The office buildings are owned by an affiliate of Peter M. Carlino, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Prior to March 6, 2003, we also leased an aircraft from a company owned by
one of our directors. We believe the lease terms for both the executive office and aircraft to be no less favorable than such lease terms that could have been obtained from unaffiliated third parties.

ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

We are subject to various legal and administrative proceedings relating to personal injuries, employment matters, commercial transactions and other matters
arising in the normal course of business. We do not believe that the final outcome of these matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.
In addition, we maintain what is believed to be adequate insurance coverage to further mitigate the risks of such proceedings. However,


such
proceedings can be costly, time consuming and unpredictable and, therefore, no assurance can be given that the final outcome of such proceedings may not materially impact the our consolidated
financial condition or results of operations. Further, no assurance can be given that the amount or scope of existing insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover losses arising from such matters.

The
following proceedings could result in costs, settlements or damages that materially impact our consolidated financial condition or operating results. In each instance, we believe
that we have meritorious defenses and/or counter-claims and intend to vigorously defend ourselves.

In
August 2002, the lessor of the property on which Casino Rouge conducts a significant portion of its dockside operations filed a lawsuit against us in the 19

th

Judicial District Court for the Parish of East Baton Rouge, Louisiana seeking a declaratory judgment that the plaintiff is entitled to terminate the lease and/or void our option to renew the lease due
to certain alleged defaults by us or our predecessors-in-interest. The term of our lease expired in January 2004 and we exercised our automatic right to renew, for an
additional five year term (which, as previously noted is being contested by the landlord). In September 2003, the court granted us a partial motion for summary judgment. In
February 2004, we filed another motion for partial judgment on most of the remaining issues. A hearing date has not yet been set. Further litigation on the remaining issues is anticipated.

In
October 2002, in response to our plans to relocate the river barge underlying the Boomtown Biloxi casino to an adjacent property, the lessor of the property on which the
Boomtown Biloxi casino conducts a portion of its dockside operations, filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Mississippi seeking a declaratory judgment that
(i) we must use the leased premises for a gaming use or, in the alternative, (ii) after the move, we will remain obligated to make the revenue based rent payments to plaintiff set forth
in the lease. The plaintiff filed this suit immediately after the Mississippi Gaming Commission approved our request to relocate the barge. Since such approval, the Mississippi Department of Marine
Resources and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers have also approved our plan to relocate the barge. We filed a motion for summary judgment
in October 2003 and the plaintiff filed its own motion for summary judgment in January 2004. Discovery is substantially complete at this time and a trial date has been set for
April 2004.

In
October 2003 we and one of our subsidiaries brought a declaratory action for coverage against Lexington Insurance Company and National Union Fire Insurance of Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, or National Union, in the Circuit Court of Jefferson County, West Virginia. The case involves a dispute over coverage for punitive damage awards for claims arising in West Virginia.
Subsequent to the filing of this action in West Virginia, National Union brought an action against us and several of our subsidiaries in the Court of Common Pleas of Berks County, Pennsylvania denying
coverage for punitive damage awards for claims arising in West Virginia. We have resolved the underlying cases in West Virginia in which punitive damages had been pled, paid out the settlement amounts
in the first quarter of 2004 (which amounts will be included in miscellaneous assets) and are seeking reimbursement for these settlement amounts in the West Virginia action.

ITEM 4.    SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None.


PART II

ITEM 5.    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS

Range of Market Price

Our common stock is quoted on The Nasdaq National Market under the symbol "PENN." The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the high and low sales
prices per share of our common stock as reported on The Nasdaq National Market.

High

Low


First Quarter

$

19.05

$

12.43

Second Quarter

20.89

14.81

Third Quarter

20.85

11.00

Fourth Quarter

22.25

14.61


First Quarter

$

19.42

$

14.69

Second Quarter

23.60

14.75

Third Quarter

23.46

19.53

Fourth Quarter

25.95

21.02

The
closing sale price per share of common stock on The Nasdaq National Market on March 8, 2004, was $26.39. As of March 2, 2004, there were approximately 604 holders of record of common
stock.

Dividend Policy

Since our initial public offering of common stock in May 1994, we have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We intend to retain all of our
earnings to finance the development of our business, and thus, do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Payment of any cash dividends in the future will
be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon, among other things, our future earnings, operations and capital requirements, our general financial condition and general business
conditions. Moreover, our existing credit facility prohibits us from authorizing, declaring or paying any dividends until our commitments under the credit facility have been terminated and all amounts
outstanding thereunder have been repaid. In addition, future-financing arrangements may prohibit the payment of dividends under certain conditions.


ITEM 6.    SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA

The following selected consolidated financial and operating data for the years ended December 31, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003 are derived from our
consolidated financial statements that have been audited by BDO Seidman, LLP, independent certified public accountants. The selected consolidated financial and operating data should be read in
conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and Notes thereto, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and the other financial information
included herein.

Year Ended December 31,


2000(1)

2001(2)

2002(3)

2003(6)

(in thousands, except per share data)

Income statement data:(4)

Net Revenues

$

170,360

$

291,801

$

517,137

$

655,961

$

1,162,995

Total operating expenses

152,695

246,642

440,246

553,786

979,812

Income from operations

17,665

45,159

76,891

102,175

183,183

Other income (expenses), net

(7,155

)

(27,645

)

(40,525

)

(52,381

)

(100,020

)

Income before income taxes

10,510

17,514

36,366

49,794

83,163

Taxes on income

3,777

5,522

12,608

18,931

31,692

Net income

$

6,733

$

11,992

$

23,758

$

30,863

$

51,471

Per share data:(5)

Basic net income per share

$

0.23

$

0.40

$

0.78

$

0.82

$

1.30

Diluted net income per share

$

0.22

$

0.39

$

0.75

$

0.79

$

1.27

Weighted shares outstanding—basic

29,674

29,936

30,653

37,775

39,473

Weighted shares outstanding—diluted

30,392

30,886

31,837

39,094

40,612

Other data:

Net cash provided by operating activities

$

22,461

$

41,813

$

85,833

$

100,854

$

154,942

Net cash used in investing activities

(29,756

)

(229,770

)

(216,335

)

(102,433

)

(320,953

)

Net cash provided by financing activities

9,903

201,810

145,593

18,312

217,459

Depreciation and amortization

7,733

12,039

32,093

36,456

67,487

Interest expense

9,613

20,644

46,096

42,104

97,492

Capital expenditures

13,243

27,295

41,511

88,902

57,482

Balance sheet data:

Cash and cash equivalent

$

9,434

$

23,287

$

38,378

$

55,121

$

106,969

Total assets

189,712

439,900

679,377

765,480

1,609,599

Total debt

91,213

309,299

458,909

375,018

1,109,468

Shareholders' equity

66,272

79,221

103,265

247,000

309,878

(1)

Reflects
operations included since the August 8, 2000 acquisition of Casino Magic-Bay St. Louis casino and Boomtown Biloxi casino.

(2)

Reflects
operations included since the April 27, 2001 acquisition of all of the gaming assets of CRC Holdings, Inc. and the minority interest in Louisiana Casino
Cruises, Inc.

(3)

Reflects
operations included since the April 25, 2002 acquisition of Bullwhackers.

(4)

Certain
prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.

(5)

Per
share data has been retroactively restated to reflect the increased number of common stock shares outstanding as a result of our June 25, 2002 stock split.

(6)

Reflects
the operations of the Hollywood Casino properties since the March 3, 2003 acquisition date.


ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Our Operations

We are a leading, diversified, multi-jurisdictional owner and operator of gaming properties, as well as horse racetracks and associated off-track
wagering facilities, or OTWs. We own or operate nine gaming properties located in Colorado, Illinois, Louisiana, Mississippi, Ontario and West Virginia that are focused primarily on serving customers
within driving distance of the properties. We also own two racetracks and eleven OTWs in Pennsylvania, one racetrack in West Virginia, and through a joint venture, own and operate a racetrack in New
Jersey. We operate in two segments, gaming and pari-mutuel operations, and derive substantially all of our revenues from such operations. Since September 1997, when we started our
gaming operations at Charles Town, our gaming revenues have increasingly accounted for a larger share of our total revenues. We believe that our portfolio of assets provides us with a diversified cash
flow from operations.

We
intend to continue to expand our gaming operations through the implementation of a disciplined capital expenditure program at our existing properties and the continued pursuit of
strategic acquisitions of gaming properties particularly in attractive regional markets.

We
have made significant acquisitions over the last three years and expect to continue to pursue additional acquisition and development opportunities in the future. On March 3,
2003, we completed our largest acquisition to date, the acquisition of Hollywood Casino Corporation. We acquired 100 percent of its outstanding common stock for approximately
$397.9 million in cash, including acquisition costs of $50.8 million. The Hollywood Casino Corporation acquisition significantly increased our revenues and cash flow. With the
acquisition of Hollywood Casino Corporation in the first quarter of 2003, our gaming revenue accounted for over 90.0% of our total revenue in 2003. Gaming revenues are derived primarily from gaming on
slot machines and table games.

Pari-mutuel
revenues are derived from wagering on our live races, wagering on import simulcasts at our racetracks and OTWs and through telephone account wagering, and fees
from wagering on export simulcasting our races at out-of-state locations. Other revenues are derived from hotel, dining, retail, admissions, program sales, concessions and
certain other ancillary activities.

Key
performance indicators related to revenues are:

•

Gaming
revenue indicators—slot handle (volume indicator), table game drop (volume indicator) and "win" or "hold" percentages, which are not fully controllable by
us. Our typical slot win percentage is in the range of 5% to 9% of slot handle and our typical table games win percentage is in the range of 15% to 21% of table game drop; and

•

Pari-mutuel
revenue indicators—pari-mutuel wagering commissions (volume indicator) earned on wagering on our live races, wagering on
import simulcasts at our racetracks and OTWs and through telephone account wagering, and fees from wagering on export simulcasting our races at out-of-state locations.

Our
properties generate significant operating cash flow since most of our revenue is cash-based from slot machines and pari-mutuel wagering. Our business is
capital intensive and we rely on cash flow from our properties to generate operating cash to repay debt, fund maintenance capital expenditures, fund new capital projects at existing properties and
provide excess cash for future development and acquisitions.


Results of Operations

The results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2002, and 2003 are summarized below (in thousands):




Revenue:

Gaming

$

364,139

$

490,240

$

976,411

Racing

112,087

113,340

107,900

Management service fee

8,297

11,479

13,726

Other

57,193

68,615

139,282

Gross revenues

541,716

683,674

1,237,319

Less: Promotional allowances

(24,579

)

(27,713

)

(74,324

)

Net Revenues

517,137

655,961

1,162,995

Operating expenses:

Gaming

206,633

278,399

528,270

Racing

78,110

83,291

79,745

Food, beverage and other expenses

31,407

41,674

100,319

General and administrative

92,003

113,966

203,991

Depreciation and amortization

32,093

36,456

67,487

Total operating expenses

440,246

553,786

979,812

Income from operations

$

76,891

$

102,175

$

183,183

The following are the most important factors and trends that contribute to our operating performance:

•

The
acquisitions of five casino properties and the Casino Rama management contract since January 1, 2001.

•

The
continued emphasis on slot revenue at our properties, which revenue is the consistently profitable segment of the gaming industry.

•

The
continued expansion and revenue gains at our Charles Town Entertainment Complex.

•

The
racing revenues continue to decline at each of our racing properties. However, our gaming revenues have increased and, as a result, our racing revenues represent a less
significant percentage of our overall revenue.

•

Recent
economic conditions could intensify the efforts of state and local governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes, as illustrated by our experience
in Illinois in 2003.

•

A
number of states are currently considering legislation to legalize or expand gaming. Such legislation presents both potential opportunities to establish new properties
(for instance in Pennsylvania and Maine) and potential competitive threats to business at our existing properties (such as Maryland). The timing and occurrence of these events remain uncertain.
Legalized gaming from casinos located on Native American lands can also have a significant competitive effect.

•

Financing
in a favorable interest environment and under an improved credit profile facilitates our growth.


The
results of operations by property level for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2002, and 2003 are summarized below (in thousands):

Revenues(1)

Income from operations







Charles Town Entertainment Complex

$

193,624

$

253,539

$

329,150

$

40,830

$

56,891

$

72,929

Hollywood Casino Aurora(4)

—

—

201,938

—

—

54,547

Casino Rouge(2)

61,980

105,034

106,940

10,729

21,608

23,650

Casino Magic-Bay St. Louis

86,146

95,756

106,315

11,190

10,333

12,333

Hollywood Casino Tunica(4)

—

—

96,648

—

—

11,041

Boomtown Biloxi

69,761

73,225

72,644

8,433

9,264

9,766

Hollywood Casino Shreveport(4)

—

—

113,925

—

—

2,933

Bullwhackers(3)

—

16,815

26,431

—


1,626

Casino Rama Management Contract(2)

8,297

11,479

13,726

7,662

10,608

12,343

Pennsylvania Racing Operations

98,713

101,855

96,894

10,400

9,528

8,233

Corporate eliminations(5)

(1,384

)

(1,742

)

(1,616

)

—

—

—

Corporate overhead

—

—

—

(12,353

)

(17,005

)

(26,218

)

Total

$

517,137

$

655,961

$

1,162,995

$

76,891

$

102,175

$

183,183

(1)

Net
revenues are net of promotional allowances.

(2)

Reflects
results since the April 27, 2001 acquisition.

(3)

Reflects
results since the April 25, 2002 acquisition.

(4)

Reflects
results since the March 3, 2003 acquisition.

(5)

Primarily
reflects intracompany transactions related to import/export simulcasting.

Revenues

Revenues increased in 2003 by $507.0 million, or 77.3%, to $1,163.0 million from $656.0 million in 2002. The three new Hollywood Casino
properties contributed $412.5 million of the increase. From the properties we owned prior to the acquisition of the Hollywood Casino properties, revenues increased by $94.5 million, or
14.4%. The Charles Town Entertainment Complex had another record year as revenues increased by $75.6 million due to the opening of an additional 38,000 square feet of gaming space with 700 new
slot machines in July and a full year of results from the 2002 expansion. At Casino Magic—Bay St. Louis revenues increased by $10.6 million due to the impact of a full year of
operations of the 291-room Bay Tower Hotel and Conference Center that opened in May of 2002.

Revenues
for the year ended December 31, 2002 increased by $138.9 million, or 26.9%, to $656.0 million in 2002 from $517.1 million in 2001. Revenues from the
CRC Holdings, Inc. (Casino Rouge and Casino Rama management contract), or CRC, and Bullwhackers properties acquisitions generated $63.1 million. Revenues increased at the Charles Town
Entertainment Complex by $59.9 million, or 30.9%, to $253.5 million in 2002 from $193.6 million in 2001 as a result of the addition of gaming space, the building of a parking
facility, an increase in the number of gaming machines in 2002 and a higher percentage in 2002 of coin-out machines compared to video voucher machines. Revenues increased at Casino
Magic—Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi by $13.1 million, or 8.4%, to $169.0 million in 2002 from $155.9 million in 2001, as a result of the new hotel and increased
marketing efforts.


Income from operations

Operating income increased by $81.0 million, or 79.3%, to $183.2 million in 2003 from $102.2 million in 2002. The three new Hollywood Casino
properties contributed $68.5 million. Operating income from Charles Town increased in 2003 by $16.0 million. In 2003, we made new capital expenditures of $23.9 million to expand
and add new additional gaming machines at Charles Town which resulted in an increase in our depreciation and amortization expense of $6.5 million.

Corporate
overhead expenses increased by $9.2 million in 2003, primarily due to additional CRC acquisition cost, lobbying and site development expenses in connection with
Pennsylvania slot legislation, Scarborough referendum expenses, and legal fees. Other corporate expenses also increased as a result of the Hollywood Casino acquisition in March of 2003. However, our
corporate overhead as a percentage of our net revenues decreased.

Operating
income for the year ended December 31, 2002 increased by $25.3 million, or 32.9%, to $102.2 million in 2002 from $76.9 million in 2001. Operating
income from the CRC and Bullwhackers acquisitions generated $14.8 million. Operating income at Charles Town increased in 2002 by $16.1 million.

Corporate
overhead increased by $4.6 million, or 37.1%, to $17.0 million in 2002 from $12.4 million in 2001 primarily due to additional corporate staff and office
space needed to support the recent acquisitions.

Depreciation and amortization

Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $31.0 million, or 84.9%, to $67.5 million in 2003 from $36.5 million in 2002. The addition
of the Hollywood Casino properties increased depreciation and amortization expense by $22.2 million. The remaining increase of $8.8 million was primarily a result of the expansion at
Charles Town for additional gaming space and the parking structure, the new hotel at Casino Magic-Bay St. Louis and the purchase of new slot machines at many of our properties.

For
the year ended December 31, 2002 there was no significant change in depreciation and amortization compared to the year ended December 31, 2001.

Other
income (expense) summary (in thousands):

December 31,




Other income (expense):

Interest expense

$

(46,096

)

$

(42,104

)

$

(97,492

)

Interest income

3,040

1,553

1,770

Earnings from joint venture

2,531

1,965

1,825

Other

—

(52

)

(4,286

)

Loss on change in fair values of interest rate swaps

—

(5,819

)

(527

)

Loss on early extinguishment of debt

—

(7,924

)

(1,310

)

Total other expense

$

(40,525

)

$

(52,381

)

$

(100,020

)

Interest expense

Interest expense increased by $55.4 million in 2003 as a result of borrowing an additional $700 million for the acquisition of Hollywood Casino
Corporation and the interest expense associated with the Hollywood Casino Shreveport notes. During the year we restructured our debt by reducing the principal amount due on the credit facility by
$100 million, negotiating a reduction in the interest rate


applicable
to loans under the credit facility and replacing approximately $200 million in term loans under the credit facility with new 6


/


% senior subordinated notes. Subject
to the availability of attractive acquisition or project opportunities, we expect to continue to accelerate our principal payments as free cash flow allows.

Interest
expense decreased by $4.0 million in 2002 as a result of reducing and restructuring our debt. By using the proceeds of our February 2002 equity offering and the
$175 million 8


/


% senior subordinated note offering, we were able to reduce our outstanding debt by approximately $84 million.

Other non-recurring expense

In 2003, we incurred other expenses of $4.3 million. These expenses included costs for debt negotiations incurred at Hollywood Casino Shreveport, the
write-off of an option on a greyhound race track and costs incurred for due diligence in the Wembley plc potential acquisition.

During
the year ended 2002, we incurred a $5.8 million pre-tax charge to earnings as a result of the change in fair value of our interest rate swaps. The financial
institutions that provided our $350 million senior credit facility required the interest rate swap agreements for the variable rate term loans. The term loans were repaid in March 2002
from the proceeds of our equity and senior subordinated note offerings. Generally accepted accounting principles require the change in fair value of the swaps be recognized in our financial statements
as if they were settled at the end of each reporting period until the agreements expire.

In
2002, as part of our debt restructuring, we charged operations for deferred financing costs of $5.9 million related to the prepayment of the variable rate term loans provided
by our $350 million senior credit facility. In addition, we paid a prepayment penalty of $2.0 million.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Historically, our primary sources of liquidity and capital resources have been cash flow from operations, borrowings from banks and proceeds from the issuance of
debt and equity securities.

Net
cash provided by operating activities was $154.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. This consisted of net income of $51.5 million,
non-cash reconciling items of $112.9 million and net decreases in current liability accounts along with net decreases in current asset accounts of $9.5 million, net of assets
and liabilities acquired in the Hollywood Casino Corporation acquisition.

Cash
flows used in investing activities totaled $321.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. Expenditures for property, plant, and equipment totaled
$57.5 million in 2003 and included $23.9 million at Charles Town for additional gaming space, $9.2 million in renovations and the land lease purchase at
Bullwhackers and $23.6 million in maintenance capital expenditures including new slot machines. Net payments under interest rate swaps were $1.9 million. The aggregate cash purchase
price for the Hollywood Casino Corporation acquisition, net of cash acquired, was $264.1 million.

Cash
flows from financing activities provided net cash flow of $217.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. During the year we borrowed $700 million under a
new credit facility to finance the purchase of Hollywood Casino Corporation and issued $200 million in 6


/


% senior notes. We also incurred $23.3 million in deferred
financing costs for these two transactions. Principal payments on long-term debt included $101.6 million in payments under our credit facility, $360.0 million in payments for
the Hollywood Casino Corporation senior notes that were refinanced by the credit facility and $200 million in payments that were refinanced with the 6


/


% senior notes. Net
proceeds from the exercise of stock options totaled $2.3 million.


Outlook

Based on our current level of operations, and anticipated revenue growth, we believe that cash generated from operations and amounts available under our credit
facility will be adequate to meet our anticipated debt service requirements, capital expenditures and working capital needs for the foreseeable future. We cannot assure you, however, that our business
will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that our anticipated revenue growth will be realized, or that future borrowings will be available under our credit facility or otherwise will be
available to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the credit facility and the notes, to retire or redeem the notes when required or to make anticipated capital expenditures. In addition,
if we consummate significant acquisitions in the future, our cash requirements may increase significantly. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. Our future
operating performance and our ability to service or refinance our debt will be subject to future economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.

Capital Expenditures

The following table summarizes our capital expenditures, other than maintenance capital expenditures, by property for the fiscal year ended December 31,
2003 (in thousands):

Property

Budget

Actual

Charles Town Entertainment Complex

$

24,000

$

23,865

Boomtown Biloxi

24,000


Bullwhackers Casino

10,000

9,160

Corporate



Totals

$

58,600

$

33,837

The
Charles Town facility added 38,100 square feet of gaming space, which houses 746 additional slot machines, expanded the food court and provided space for an entertainment facility.
The additional gaming space was opened to the public on July 1, 2003 and brought the total number of slot machines in operation at the facility to 3,500.

At
Boomtown Biloxi, we signed an option to purchase approximately 4 acres of land adjacent to our Boomtown Biloxi property in January 2002. This purchase was completed in
January 2004 at a cost of $3.7 million and will be part of our 2004 budget. We expect to use the land for additional parking and to develop the property in the event that we move the
casino barge. The decision to move the casino barge is contingent upon the outcome of the lawsuit filed by our landlord that goes to trial in 2004. Moving the casino barge is estimated to cost
approximately $20.0 million.

At
Bullwhackers, we purchased the land lease for Bullwhackers Casino, refurbished the exterior facade and renovated the interior gaming areas. On April 24, 2003, we completed the
purchase of the land lease for $6.1 million, including closing costs. The purchase will save approximately $1.0 million per year in rent expense based on current operating performance.
The property underwent interior renovations during most of the year. This project was completed in December, before the holiday season. The interior renovations consisted of paint, wallpaper, new trim
work and carpet throughout the facility,
requiring the closing of gaming areas and reducing the number of slot machines available for play while construction was going on.

During
2003, we began expanding our corporate offices to provide additional workstations and office space for our employees. The first part of this project was completed in the second
quarter of 2003. Additional office space expansion is planned for 2004.


For
2003, we spent approximately $23.6 million for maintenance capital expenditures at our properties, including $13.5 million for new slot machines.

Cash
generated from operations funded our capital expenditures and maintenance capital expenditures in 2003.

The
following table summarizes our planned capital expenditures, other than maintenance capital expenditures, by property for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2004 (in
thousands):

Property

Year Ending

December 31, 2004

Charles Town Entertainment Complex

$

21,700

Boomtown Biloxi

5,460

Corporate

1,000

Totals

$

28,160

The
Charles Town Entertainment Complex has started the design work for Phase III of the facility expansion. Phase III includes the expansion of the parking garage by approximately 1,050
spaces, adding an additional 300 slot machines and related equipment and infrastructure improvements, including a loading dock, dry storage area, offices and a maintenance shop. The parking garage
should be completed by the third quarter of 2004 and the new gaming area should be open by the fourth quarter of 2004.

Due
to the ongoing litigation with our landlord at the Boomtown Biloxi property, we have elected not to budget for any additional project-related capital expenditures in 2004 other than
the acquisition of the land. In the event that this dispute can be resolved, we may elect to revisit the decision.

In
2004, we expect to complete expanding our corporate offices to allow for additional workstations and office space for our employees.

For
2004, we expect to spend approximately $55.1 million for maintenance capital expenditures at our properties. Of this total, approximately $11.1 million will be spent on
slot machines and ticket-in, ticket-out ("TITO") slot technology at our facilities in states where the new technology is approved.

We
expect to use cash generated from operations and cash available under the revolver portion of our credit facility to fund our anticipated capital expenditure and maintenance capital
expenditures in 2004.

Senior Secured Credit Facility

On March 3, 2003, we entered into an $800 million senior secured credit facility with a syndicate of lenders that replaced our $350 million
credit facility.

The
credit facility was initially comprised of a $100 million revolving credit facility maturing on September 1, 2007, a $100 million Term A facility loan maturing
on September 1, 2007 and a $600 million Term B facility loan maturing on September 1, 2007. On March 3, 2003 we borrowed the entire Term A and Term B term loans to complete
the purchase of Hollywood Casino Corporation and to call Hollywood Casino Corporation's $360 million senior secured notes.

On
September 30, 2003, we made an optional prepayment of $27 million toward our $800 million senior secured credit facility. Based on our consolidated EBITDA (as
defined in the credit agreement) for the 12 months ended September 30, 2003, the payment triggered a reduction of the interest rate margin on the Term A portion of the credit facility by
0.25% and a reduction of the interest rate margin on the Term B portion of the credit facility by 0.5%. The reductions of the interest rate margins became effective on October 23, 2003.


On
December 3, 2003, we made a pre-payment of $10.5 million plus accrued interest to satisfy in full our Term Loan A Facility due March 2008.
Additionally, we made a pre-payment of $195.1 million plus accrued interest against our Term Loan B Facility due March 2009, which had approximately $596.3 million
outstanding at September 30, 2003. The pre-payments were funded with the net proceeds of the $200 million 6


/


% senior subordinated note offering and with cash
from operations.

On
December 5, 2003, the $800 million senior credit facility was amended and restated. The amended agreement reduced the total credit facility from $800 million to
$500 million and converted the Term Loan B facility to a Term Loan D facility due September 2007. The Term Loan D facility will initially accrue interest at 250 basis points over LIBOR,
representing a 100 basis point reduction from the original terms of the Term Loan B facility.

At
December 31, 2003, we had an outstanding balance of $399.7 million on the Term Loan D facility and $91.8 million available to borrow under the revolving credit
facility after giving effect to outstanding letters of credit of $8.2 million. The weighted average interest rate on the Term D facility is 3.63% at year-end excluding swaps and
deferred finance fees.



/


% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2008

On March 12, 2001, we completed a private offering of $200 million of 11


/


% senior subordinated notes due 2008. The net proceeds of
the 11


/


% notes were used, in part, to finance our acquisition of Casino Rouge and the management contract at Casino Rama, including the repayment of certain existing indebtedness at
CRC. Interest on the 11


/


% notes is payable on March 1 and September 1 of each year. The 11


/


% notes mature on March 1, 2008. As of
December 31, 2003, the entire principal amount of the 11


/


% notes is outstanding. The 11


/


% notes are general unsecured obligations and are guaranteed on a
senior subordinated basis by certain of our current and future wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries.



/


% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2010

On February 28, 2002, we completed a public offering of $175 million of 8


/


% senior subordinated notes due 2010. Interest on the


/


% notes is payable on March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning September 15, 2002. The 8


/


% notes mature on March 15, 2010. As
of December 31, 2003, the entire principal amount of the 8


/


% notes is outstanding. We used the net proceeds from the offering to repay term loan indebtedness under our prior
senior secured credit facility. The 8


/


% notes are general unsecured obligations and are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by certain of our current and future wholly-owned
domestic subsidiaries.



/


% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2011

On December 1, 2003, we completed an offering of $200 million of 6


/


% senior subordinated notes due 2011. Interest on the notes is
payable on June 1 and December 1 of each year, beginning June 1, 2004. These notes mature on December 1, 2011. We used the net proceeds from the offering to repay term loan
indebtedness under our current senior secured credit facility. The 6


/


% notes are general unsecured obligations and are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by all of certain
current and future wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries.

Covenants

Our senior secured credit facility requires us, among other obligations, to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial tests, including
interest coverage and total leverage ratios. In addition, our senior secured credit facility restricts, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, incur guarantee obligations,
amend debt instruments, pay dividends, create liens on assets, make investments, make acquisitions, engage in mergers or consolidations, make capital


expenditures,
or engage in certain transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates and otherwise restrict corporate activities. The terms of our senior subordinated notes contain similar restrictions.
At December 31, 2003, we were in compliance with all required financial covenants.

Commitments and Contingencies

—Contractual Cash Obligations

As of December 31, 2003, there was no indebtedness outstanding under our revolving credit facility and there was approximately $91.8 million
available for borrowing under the revolving credit portion of the credit facility. The following table presents our contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2003 (in thousands):

Payments Due By Period

Total


2005 - 2006

2007 - 2008

2009 and

After

Senior secured credit facility(1)

$

399,700

$

3,997

$

7,994

$

387,709

$

—



/


% senior subordinated notes due 2008(2)

Principal

200,000

—

—

200,000

—

Interest

100,125

22,250

44,500

33,375

—



/


% senior subordinated notes due 2010(3)

Principal

175,000

—

—

—

175,000

Interest

100,953

15,531

31,063

31,062

23,297



/


% senior subordinated notes due 2011(4)

Principal

200,000

—

—

—

200,000

Interest

109,885

13,635

27,500

27,500

41,250

13% Hollywood Casino Shreveport notes(5)

Principal

189,000

189,000

—

—

—

Interest

24,808

24,808

—

Purchase obligations

23,791

15,365

5,972

2,454

—

Construction commitments

5,000

5,000

—

—

—

Capital Leases

15,423

1,637

3,694

4,377

5,715

Operating Leases

20,990

4,464

5,403

3,215

7,908

Total

$

1,564,675

$

295,687

$

126,126

$

689,692

$

453,170

(1)

As
of December 31, 2003 there was no indebtedness outstanding under the credit facility and there was approximately $91.8 million available for borrowing under the
revolving credit portion of the credit facility.

(2)

The
$200.0 million aggregate principal amount of 11


/


% notes matures on March 1, 2008. Interest payments of approximately $11.1 million are due on
each March 1 and September 1 until March 1, 2008.

(3)

The
$175.0 million aggregate principal amount of 8


/


% notes matures on March 15, 2010. Interest payments of approximately $7.8 million are due on
each March 15 and September 15 until March 15, 2010.

(4)

The
$200.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6


/


% notes matures on December 1, 2011. Interest payments of approximately $6.8 million are due
on each June 1 and December 1 until December 1, 2011.

(5)

The
$150.0 million aggregate principal amount of 13% senior secured notes matures August 1, 2006 and the $39.0 million aggregate principal amount of 13% first
mortgage notes matures


August 1,
2006. Interest payments of approximately $12.3 million are due on the notes each August 1 and February 1 until August 1, 2006. The Hollywood Casino
Shreveport notes are non-recourse to us and our subsidiaries (other than HCS, Shreveport Capital Corporation, HCS I, Inc., HCS II, Inc. and
HWCC-Louisiana, Inc.). The Hollywood Casino Shreveport notes have been in default under the terms of their respective note indentures since May 2003, and accordingly are classified
as current obligations at December 31, 2003.

—Other Commercial Commitments

The following table presents our material commercial commitments as of December 31, 2003 for the following future periods:

Amount of Commitment Expiration Per Period

Total Amounts

Committed


2005 - 2006

2007 - 2008

2009 and

After

(in thousands)

Revolving Credit Facility(1)

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

Letters of Credit(1)

8,166

8,166

—

—

—

Guarantees of New Jersey Joint Venture Obligations(2)

8,817

8,817

—

—

—

Total

$

16,983

$

16,983

$

—

$

—

$

—

(1)

The
available balance under the revolving portion of the $100.0 senior secured credit facility is diminished by outstanding letters of credit.

(2)

In
connection with our 50% ownership interest in Pennwood Racing, Inc., our joint venture in New Jersey, we have entered into a debt service maintenance agreement with
Pennwood's lender to guarantee up to 50% of Pennwood's $17.6 million term loan. Our obligation as of December 31, 2003 under this guarantee is approximately $8.8 million.

—Interest Rate Swap Agreements

See Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" below.

Hollywood Casino Shreveport Notes

Hollywood Casino Shreveport and Shreveport Capital Corporation are co-issuers of $150 million aggregate principal amount of 13% senior secured
notes due 2006 and $39 million aggregate principal amount of 13% first mortgage notes due 2006, which we refer to in this document
as the Hollywood Casino Shreveport notes. Hollywood Casino Shreveport is a general partnership that owns the casino operations. Shreveport Capital Corporation is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Hollywood
Casino Shreveport formed solely for the purpose of being a co-issuer of the Hollywood Casino Shreveport notes.

The
Hollywood Casino Shreveport notes are non-recourse to us and our subsidiaries (other than Hollywood Casino Shreveport, Shreveport Capital Corporation, HCS I, Inc.,
HCS II, Inc. and HWCC-Louisiana, Inc., which we refer to as the Shreveport entities) and are secured by substantially all of the assets of the casino, and the partnership
interests held by HCS I, Inc. and HCS II, Inc. and the stock held by HWCC-Louisiana, Inc.

On
February 3, 2004, our indirect subsidiary, HCS I, Inc., the managing general partner of Hollywood Casino Shreveport general partnership, or HCS, announced that its Board
of Directors has initiated a process that it hopes will result in the sale or other disposition of the riverboat casino/hotel complex of HCS located in Shreveport, Louisiana. The announcement followed
action by the Board


authorizing
HCS's financial advisor, Libra Securities LLC, to begin contacting potential acquirers. The Board also authorized the creation of an independent committee to oversee the sale process,
consisting of the director who is not employed directly by us. The Board created the independent committee in case we seek to participate as a bidder in the sale process. The Board took action after
consultation with an ad hoc committee of holders of the $150 million First Mortgage Notes due 2006 and the $39 million Senior Secured Notes due 2006, which we refer to as the Hollywood
Casino Shreveport notes, issued by HCS and its subsidiary Shreveport Capital Corporation. Although no formal agreement has been reached with the ad hoc committee regarding the sale process, HCS
anticipates that it will consult with the ad hoc committee throughout the process. There can be no assurance that the process will result in the sale or other disposition of the riverboat casino/hotel
complex or that, if it does, the sale proceeds will be adequate to pay the Hollywood Casino Shreveport notes in full. HCS currently anticipates that any transaction would be effected through a federal
bankruptcy proceeding. HCS did not make the August 1, 2003 and the February 1, 2004 interest payments, aggregating $24.6 million, due on the Hollywood Casino Shreveport notes. The
Hollywood Casino Shreveport notes have been in default under the terms of their respective note indentures since May 2003, and accordingly are classified as current obligations at
December 31, 2003.

Critical Accounting Estimates

Financial Reporting Release No. 60 requires all companies to include a discussion of critical accounting policies or methods and estimates used in the
preparation of financial statements. We prepare our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Certain of our accounting
policies, including the estimated lives assigned to our assets, asset impairment, insurance reserves, the purchase price allocations made in connection with our acquisitions and the calculation of our
income tax liabilities, require that we apply significant judgment
in defining the appropriate assumptions for calculating financial estimates. By their nature, these judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. Our judgments are based on our
historical experience, terms of existing contracts, our observance of trends in the industry, information provided by our customers and information available from other outside sources, as
appropriate. There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from our estimates. The policies and estimates discussed below are considered by management to be those in which our
policies, estimates and judgments have a significant impact on issues that are inherently uncertain.

Valuation of long-lived tangible and intangible assets, including goodwill

As a result of our recent acquisitions, intangible assets and goodwill increased significantly. Two issues arise with respect to these assets that require
significant management estimates and judgment: (i) the valuation in connection with the initial purchase price allocation and (ii) the ongoing evaluation for impairment.

In
connection with our acquisitions, a valuation was completed to determine the allocation of the purchase prices. Upon completion of the valuation process, approximately
$589.9 million was allocated to goodwill and $25.7 million to the management contract. The management contract is amortizable under Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB,
Statement No. 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," or SFAS 142. Because our goodwill is no longer amortized, there may be more volatility in reported income than under previous
accounting standards because impairment losses, if any, are likely to occur irregularly in varying amounts. The purchase price allocation process requires management estimates and judgments as to the
remaining useful lives of the assets purchased and present value computations for the management services contract. If growth rates, operating margins, or useful lives, among other assumptions, differ
from the estimates and judgments used in the purchase price allocation, the amounts recorded in the financial statements could result in a possible impairment


of
the intangible assets and goodwill or require an acceleration in amortization expense of the management contract.

At
December 31, 2003, we had a net property and equipment balance of $740.5 million, representing 46.0% of total assets. We depreciate property and equipment on a
straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives are based on the nature of the assets as well as our current operating strategy. Future events such as
property expansions, new competition and new regulations, could result in a change in the manner in which we are using certain assets requiring changes in the estimated useful lives of such assets. In
assessing the recoverability of the carrying value of property and equipment, we must make assumptions regarding future cash flows and other factors. If these estimates or the related assumptions
change in the future, we may be required to record impairment loss for these assets. Such an impairment loss would be recognized as a non-cash component of operating income.

Accounting for income taxes

We account for income taxes in accordance with FASB Statement No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," or SFAS 109, which requires that deferred tax
assets and liabilities be recognized using enacted tax rates for the effect of temporary differences between the book and tax basis of recorded assets and liabilities. SFAS 109 also requires
that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion of all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized.

The
realizability of the deferred tax assets is evaluated quarterly by assessing the valuation allowance and by adjusting the amount of the allowance, if necessary. The factors used to
assess the likelihood of realization are the forecast of future taxable income and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the net deferred tax assets. We have used
tax-planning strategies to realize or renew net deferred tax assets in order to avoid the potential loss of future tax benefits.

In
addition, we operate within multiple taxing jurisdictions and are subject to audit in each jurisdiction. These audits can involve complex issues that may require an extended period of
time to resolve. In our opinion, adequate provisions for income taxes have been made for all periods.

Litigation, claims and assessments

We utilize estimates for litigation, claims and assessments. These estimates are based on our knowledge and experience regarding current and past events, as well
as assumptions about future events. If our assessment of such a matter should change, we may have to change the estimate, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Actual results
could differ from these estimates.

Accounting Pronouncements Issued or Adopted in 2003

In January 2003, FASB issued Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities," or Interpretation No. 46, clarifies the
application of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, "Consolidated Financial Statements," to certain entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial
interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties. Interpretation No. 46 is
applicable immediately for variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003. For variable interest entities created prior to February 1, 2003, the provisions of Interpretation
No. 46 are applicable at the
end of the annual reporting period ending after December 15, 2003. This interpretation did not have an effect on the consolidated financial statements.

In
April 2002, the FASB issued Statement No. 145, "Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44 and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical
Corrections," or SFAS 145. The rescission of


FASB
No. 4, "Reporting Gains and Losses from Extinguishment of Debt" applies to us. FASB No. 4 required that gains and losses from extinguishment of debt that were included in the
determination of net income be aggregated and, if material, classified as an extraordinary item, net of the related income tax effect. SFAS 145 is effective for our fiscal year beginning
January 1, 2003. We had losses on early extinguishment of debt, net of income taxes of $5.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. These losses reflect the
write-off of deferred finance fees and pre-payment fees associated with bank debt that was repaid with the proceeds of new financing. Effective January 1, 2003, pursuant
to SFAS 145, the losses on early extinguishment of debt are included in "Other (expense)" in our consolidated statements of income.

There
are no accounting standards issued before December 31, 2003 but effective after December 31, 2003 which are expected to have a material impact on our financial
reporting.

ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

On December 20, 2000, we entered into an interest rate swap with a notional amount of $100 million and a termination date of December 22,
2003. Under this agreement, we pay a fixed rate of 5.835% against a variable interest rate based on the 90-day LIBOR rate. On August 3, 2001, we entered into an interest rate swap
with a notional amount of $36 million with a termination date of June 30, 2004. Under this agreement, we pay a fixed rate of 4.8125% against a variable interest rate based on the
90-day LIBOR rate. At December 31, 2003, the 90-day LIBOR rate was 1.15%. We entered into these interest rates swap agreements due to the requirements of the then
current senior secured credit facility and to reduce the impact of future variable interest payments related to such senior secured credit facility.

In
2001, we accounted for the effective interest rate swap agreements as cash flow hedges. The changes in the fair values of effective interest rate swaps were recorded as adjustments to
accrued interest in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet with the offset recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss, which as of December 31, 2001 amounted to $3.8 million,
net of an income tax benefit of $2.0 million. The amount of ineffectiveness related to the cash flow hedges in 2001 and 2002 was immaterial. In March 2002, we repaid all of our then
outstanding variable rate debt with the issuance of the 8


/


% Senior Subordinated Notes, fixed rate debt. The hedge designation was removed.
Subsequent changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap contracts are recognized as adjustments to loss on change in fair values of interest rate swaps in the accompanying statements of income
in the period in which they occur. Accordingly, we have recorded a non-cash pre-tax loss of $5.8 million, or $.09 per diluted share after tax, for the year ended
December 31, 2002. Amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income will be reclassified to income over the remaining term of the swap as we incur interest expense on the replacement
debt. Over the next twelve months, approximately $125,000 will be reclassified to income. On March 3, 2003, we terminated our $36 million notional amount interest rate swap originally
scheduled to expire in June 2004. We paid $1.9 million to terminate the swap agreement.

On
March 27, 2003, we entered into interest rate swap agreements with a total notional amount of $375.0 million in accordance with the terms of the $800 million
senior secured credit facility. There are three two-year swap contracts totaling $175 million with an effective date of March 27, 2003 and a termination date of
March 27, 2005. Under these contracts, we pay a fixed rate of 1.92% and receive a variable rate based on the 90-day LIBOR rate. We also entered into three three-year
swap contracts totaling $200 million with a termination date of March 27, 2006. We accounted for these effective interest rate swap agreements as cash flow hedges. The changes in the
fair values of effective interest rate swaps were recorded as adjustments to accrued interest in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet with the offset recorded in accumulated other comprehensive
loss. The amount of ineffectiveness related to the cash flow hedges in 2003, was immaterial. Under these contracts, we pay fixed rates of 2.48% to 2.49% against a variable rate based on the
90-day LIBOR rate. The difference between amounts received and amounts paid under such agreements, as well as any costs or fees, is recorded as a reduction of, or addition to, interest
expense as incurred over the life of the swap.


ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Report of Independent Certified Public Accountants

Board
of Directors

Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries

Wyomissing, Pennsylvania

We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2002 and 2003, and the related consolidated
statements of income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of
the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.

We
conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
consolidated financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In
our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Penn National Gaming, Inc. and
subsidiaries at December 31, 2002 and 2003, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003 in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

As
discussed in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the consolidated financial statements, in January 1, 2002, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets."

/s/

BDO SEIDMAN, LLP

BDO Seidman, LLP

Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania

January 30, 2004, except for Note 15,

which is as of February 22, 2004


Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Balance Sheets

(In thousands, except share and per share data)

December 31,



Assets

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

55,121

$

106,969

Receivables

19,418

28,304

Prepaid income taxes

6,415

7,593

Prepaid expenses and other current assets

9,080

29,592

Deferred income taxes

4,405

17,285

Total current assets

94,439

189,743

Net property and equipment, at cost

450,886

740,507

Other assets:

Investment in and advances to unconsolidated affiliate

16,152

17,187

Excess of cost over fair market value of net assets acquired

160,506

603,470

Management contract (net of accumulated amortization of $4,206 and $6,719, respectively)

21,539

19,027

Deferred financing costs, net

10,463

28,214

Miscellaneous

11,495

11,451

Total other assets

220,155

679,349

$

765,480

$

1,609,599

Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity

Current liabilities:

Current maturities of long-term debt

$


$

124,979

Accounts payable

19,450

28,155

Accrued liabilities:

Expenses

21,973

46,117

Interest

18,041

36,516

Salaries and wages

17,351

29,925

Gaming, pari-mutuel, property and other taxes

9,282

11,624

Other current liabilities

6,867

9,722

Total current liabilities

92,982

287,038

Long-term liabilities:

Long-term debt, net of current maturities

375,000

984,489

Other liabilities

—


Deferred income taxes

50,498

27,791

Total long-term liabilities

425,498

1,012,683

Commitments and contingencies

Shareholders' equity:

Preferred stock, $.01 par value; 1,000,000 shares authorized; none issued

—

—

Common stock, $.01 par value; 200,000,000 shares authorized; shares issued 40,033,684 and 40,621,350, respectively



Treasury stock, at cost 849,400 shares

(2,379

)

(2,379

)

Additional paid-in capital

154,049

162,442

Retained earnings

96,584

148,055

Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income

(1,657

)

1,351

Total shareholders' equity

247,000

309,878

$

765,480

$

1,609,599

See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statements of Income

(In thousands, except per share data)

Year ended December 31,




Revenues:

Gaming

$

364,139

$

490,240

$

976,411

Racing

112,087

113,340

107,900

Management service fee

8,297

11,479

13,726

Food, beverage and other revenue

57,193

68,615

139,282

Gross revenues

541,716

683,674

1,237,319

Less: Promotional allowances

(24,579

)

(27,713

)

(74,324

)

Net revenues

517,137

655,961

1,162,995

Operating expenses:

Gaming

206,633

278,399

528,270

Racing

78,110

83,291

79,745

Food, beverage and other expenses

31,407

41,674

100,319

General and administrative

92,003

113,966

203,991

Depreciation and amortization

32,093

36,456

67,487

Total operating expenses

440,246

553,786

979,812

Income from operations

76,891

102,175

183,183

Other income (expense):

Interest expense

(46,096

)

(42,104

)

(97,492

)

Interest income

3,040

1,553

1,770

Earnings from joint venture

2,531

1,965

1,825

Other

—

(52

)

(4,286

)

Loss on change in fair values of interest rate swaps

—

(5,819

)

(527

)

Loss on early extinguishment of debt

—

(7,924

)

(1,310

)

Total other expense

(40,525

)

(52,381

)

(100,020

)

Income before income taxes

36,366

49,794

83,163

Taxes on income

12,608

18,931

31,692

Net income

$

23,758

$

30,863

$

51,471

Per share data:

Basic net income per share

$

.78

$

.82

$

1.30

Diluted net income per share

$

.75

$

.79

$

1.27

Weighted average shares outstanding:

Basic

30,653

37,775

39,473

Diluted

31,837

39,094

40,612

See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity

(In thousands, except share data)

Common Stock

Accumulated

Other

Comprehensive

(Loss) Income

Treasury

Stock

Additional

Paid-In

Capital

Retained

Earnings

Compre-

hensive

Income

Shares

Amount

Total

Balance, December 31, 2000

30,918,350

$


$

(2,379

)

$

39,482

$

41,963

$

—

$

79,221

$

—

Exercise of stock options including tax benefit of $1,196

948,500


—

4,123

—

—

4,128

—

Change in fair value of interest rate swap contracts, net of income tax benefit of $2,043

(3,794

)

(3,794

)

(3,794

)

Foreign currency translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

(48

)

(48

)

(48

)

Net income

—

—

—

—

23,758

—

23,758

23,758

Balance, December 31, 2001

31,866,850


(2,379

)

43,605

65,721

(3,842

)

103,265

$

19,916

Exercise of stock options including tax benefit of $3,528

1,466,834


—

14,161

—

—

14,176

$

—

Issuance of common stock

6,700,000


—

96,009

—

—

96,077

—

Accelerated vesting of stock options

—

—

—


—

—


—

Change in fair value of interest rate swap contracts, net of income taxes of $495

—

—

—

—

—




Amortization of unrealized loss on interest rate swap contracts, net of income taxes of $676

—

—

—

—

—

1,257

1,257

—

Stock split

—


—

(160

)

—

—

—

—

Foreign currency translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

—




Net income

—

—

—

—

30,863

—

30,863

30,863

Balance, December 31, 2002

40,033,684


(2,379

)

154,049

96,584

(1,657

)

247,000

$

31,791

Exercise of stock options including tax benefit of $6,067

587,666


—

8,393

—

—

8,399

$

—

Change in fair value of interest rate swap contracts, net of income taxes of $669

—

—

—

—

—

1,091

1,091

1,091

Amortization of unrealized loss on interest rate swap contracts, net of income taxes of $810

—

—

—

—

—

1,517

1,517

—

Foreign currency translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

—




Net income

—

—

—

—

51,471

—

51,471

51,471

Balance, December 31, 2003

40,621,350

$


$

(2,379

)

$

162,442

$

148,055

$

1,351

$

309,878

$

52,962

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

(In thousands)

Year ended December 31,




Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income

$

23,758

$

30,863

$

51,471

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

32,093

36,456

67,487

Amortization of deferred financing costs charged to interest expense

2,444

2,036

4,247

Amortization of the unrealized loss on interest rate swap contracts charged to interest expense net of income tax benefit.

—

1,257

1,517

Loss on sale of fixed assets



1,819

Earnings from joint venture

(2,531

)

(1,965

)

(1,825

)

Loss relating to early extinguishment of debt

—

5,906

1,310

Deferred income taxes

6,959

10,454

31,764

Accelerated vesting of stock options

—


—

Tax benefit from stock options exercised

1,196

3,528

6,067

Loss on change in value of interest rate swap contracts

—

5,819


Decrease (increase), net of businesses acquired, in

Receivables

2,226

1,160


Prepaid income taxes

1,905

(6,415

)

(1,178

)

Prepaid expenses and other current assets

(546

)

(1,045

)

(10,756

)

Miscellaneous other assets

(1,149

)

(1,813

)

9,914

Increase (decrease), net of businesses acquired, in

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities

15,414

8,176

5,647

Gaming, pari-mutuel, property and other taxes

2,456

3,689

(10,740

)

Income taxes payable


(180

)

—

Other current liabilities


1,759

(2,423

)

Net cash provided by operating activities

85,833

100,854

154,942

Cash flows from investing activities:

Expenditures for property and equipment

(41,511

)

(88,902

)

(57,482

)

Net payments under interest rate swaps

—

(3,830

)

(1,902

)

Proceeds from sale of property and equipment




Distributions from joint venture

2,928

—


Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired

(182,658

)

(9,570

)

(264,081

)

(Increase) decrease in cash in escrow

4,607

(500

)

1,000

Net cash used in investing activities

(216,335

)

(102,433

)

(320,953

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Proceeds from exercise of options

2,932

10,646

2,332

Proceeds from sale of common stock

—

96,077

—

Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt

211,000

173,752

900,000

Principal payments on long-term debt

(61,389

)

(258,891

)

(661,566

)

Increase in deferred financing cost

(6,950

)

(3,272

)

(23,307

)

Net cash provided by financing activities

145,593

18,312

217,459

Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash

—



Net increase in cash and cash equivalents

15,091

16,743

51,848

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

23,287

38,378

55,121

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$

38,378

$

55,121

$

106,969

See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

1.     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Business

Penn National Gaming, Inc. ("Penn") and subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company") is a diversified, multi-jurisdictional owner and operator of gaming and
pari-mutuel properties. Penn is the successor to several businesses that have operated as Penn National Race Course since 1972. Penn was incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1982 as PNRC Corp.
and adopted its current name in 1994. In 1997, the Company began its transition from a pari-mutuel company to a diversified gaming company with the acquisition of the Charles Town property
and the introduction of video lottery terminals in West Virginia. From 2000 to 2002, the Company acquired five other gaming properties through its Mississippi (Casino Magic-Bay St. Louis
and Boomtown Biloxi), CRC Holdings, Inc. (Casino Rouge and Casino Rama management contract), and Bullwhackers properties acquisitions. The transition continued with the acquisition of Hollywood
Casino Corporation on March 3, 2003.

The
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Penn and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. The Company owns and operates, through its subsidiaries, eight gaming properties in
Charles Town, West Virginia; Bay St. Louis, Biloxi and Tunica, Mississippi; Baton Rouge and Shreveport, Louisiana; Black Hawk, Colorado; and Aurora, Illinois. The Company also owns Penn National Race
Course, a thoroughbred racetrack in Grantville, Pennsylvania, Pocono Downs, a harness racetrack in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania and eleven off-track wagering ("OTW") facilities located
throughout Pennsylvania. The Company has a 50% interest in Pennwood Racing, Inc., which owns and operates Freehold Raceway in New Jersey. In addition, the Company has a management contract and
receives a management service fee for operating a gaming facility in Orillia, Ontario, Canada ("Casino Rama").

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Penn and its subsidiaries. Investment in and advances to an unconsolidated affiliate that is 50%
owned is accounted for under the equity method. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses for
the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

The Company considers all cash balances and highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

Concentration of Credit Risk

Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to credit risk consist of cash equivalents and accounts receivable.

The
Company's policy is to limit the amount of credit exposure to any one financial institution and place investments with financial institutions evaluated as being creditworthy, or in
short-term money


market
and tax-free bond funds which are exposed to minimal interest rate and credit risk. The Company has bank deposits and overnight repurchase agreements that exceed federally insured
limits.

Concentration
of credit risk, with respect to casino receivables, is limited through the Company's credit evaluation process. The Company issues markers to approved casino customers only
following background checks and investigations of creditworthiness.

The
Company's trade receivables consist principally of amounts due from other racetracks and their OTWs for the settlement of simulcast fees, amounts due from the West Virginia Lottery
for gaming revenue settlements and $12.1 million due from Casino Rama for management service fees of $1.3 million and reimbursement of $10.8 million of expenses to be paid on
behalf of Casino Rama as of December 31, 2003. The payable on behalf of Casino Rama is included in accrued salaries in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2003.

Accounts
are written off when management determines that an account is uncollectible. Recoveries of accounts previously written off are recorded when received. An estimated allowance for
doubtful accounts is determined to reduce the Company's receivables to their carrying value, which approximates fair value. The allowance is estimated based on historical collection experience,
specific review of individual customer accounts, and current economic and business conditions. Historically, the Company has not incurred any significant credit-related losses.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The following methods and assumptions are used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instruments for which it is practical to estimate:

Cash
and Cash Equivalents: The carrying amount approximates the fair value due to the short maturity of the cash equivalents.

Long-term
Debt: The fair value of the Company's long-term debt approximates carrying value and is estimated based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or
on the current rates offered to the Company for debt of the same remaining maturities.

Property, Equipment and Management Contract

Property and equipment are stated at cost. Maintenance and repairs that do not add materially to the value of the asset nor appreciably prolong its useful life
are charged to expense as incurred. Gains or losses on the disposal of property and equipment are included in the determination of income.

Depreciation
of property and equipment and amortization of leasehold improvements are provided using the straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives:

Land improvements

5 to 15 years

Building and improvements

25 to 40 years

Furniture, fixtures, and equipment

3 to 7 years

Transportation equipment

5 years

Leasehold Improvements

10 to 20 years

Amortization
of the management contract for Casino Rama is computed by the straight-line method through July 2011, the expiration date of the agreement.


The
Company reviews the carrying values of its long-lived and identifiable intangible assets, other than goodwill, for possible impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable based on undiscounted estimated future operating cash flows. As of December 31, 2003, the Company has
determined that no impairment has occurred.

Excess of Cost Over Fair Market Value of Net Assets Acquired (Goodwill)

In 2002, the Company adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Statement No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets"
("SFAS 142"). SFAS 142 establishes standards for the accounting of intangible assets that are acquired individually or with a group of other assets and the accounting for goodwill and
other intangible assets after they have been initially recognized in the financial statements. Under SFAS No. 142, amortization of goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life
is discontinued and additional financial statement disclosure for goodwill and other intangibles is required. Goodwill and intangible assets are tested at least annually for impairment by comparing
the fair value of the recorded assets to their carrying amount. If the carrying amount of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized.

Because
the Company's goodwill is no longer being amortized, the reported amounts of goodwill will not decrease in the same manner as under previous accounting pronouncements. There may
be more volatility in reported income than under previous accounting pronouncements because impairment losses, if any, are likely to occur irregularly and in varying amounts. For the years ended
December 31, 2002 and 2003, no impairment charges were required as a result of the impairment test.

Deferred Financing Costs

Deferred financing costs that are incurred by the Company in connection with the issuance of debt are deferred and amortized to interest expense over the life of
the underlying indebtedness using the interest method adjusted to reflect any early repayments.

Income Taxes

The Company recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in the Company's financial
statements or tax returns. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets
and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect in the years in which the differences are expected to reverse.

Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities

Effective January 1, 2001, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities" ("SFAS 133"), which requires that all derivative instruments be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.

The
Company uses fixed and variable rate-debt to finance its operations. Variable rate debt obligations expose the Company to variability in interest payments due to changes
in interest rates. The Company continuously monitors changes in interest rate exposures and evaluates hedging opportunities. The Company's risk management policy permits the Company to use any
combination of interest rate swaps, futures, options, caps and similar instruments.


The
Company's objective is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows. The Company currently achieves this by entering into interest rate swap agreements to
convert a percentage of its debt from variable to fixed rates. Under interest rate swap contracts, the Company agrees to pay an amount equal to a specified fixed rate of interest times a notional
principal amount, and to receive in return an amount equal to a specified variable rate of interest times a notional amount. Net settlements are made quarterly. If the contracts are terminated prior
to maturity, the amount paid or received in settlement is established by agreement at the time of the termination and usually represents the net present value, at current rates of interest, of the
remaining obligations to exchange payments under the terms of the contract. The Company accounts for these swaps as cash flow hedges. Generally, the Company does not issue or hold derivative contracts
for speculative purposes.

The
Company is exposed to credit losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to these interest rate swap agreements, but it does not expect any of the
counterparties to fail to meet their obligations. To manage credit risks, the Company selects counterparties based on credit ratings, limits its exposure to a single counterparty under defined Company
guidelines, and monitors the market position with each counterparty.

The
fair value of derivatives is included in the balance sheets as an asset or liability. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and that is designated and
qualifies as a cash flow hedge, to the extent that the hedge is effective, are recorded in other comprehensive income, until earnings are affected by the variability of cash flows of the hedged
transaction (e.g., until periodic settlements of a variable-rate asset or liability are recorded in earnings). Any hedge ineffectiveness (which represents the amount by which the changes
in the fair value of the derivative
exceed the variability in the cash flows of the forecasted transaction) is recorded in current-period earnings.

The
Company formally documents all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking various
hedge transactions. The Company also formally assesses (both at the hedge's inception and on an ongoing basis) whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions have been highly effective
in offsetting changes in the cash flows of hedged items and whether those derivatives may be expected to remain highly effective in the future periods. When it is determined that a derivative is not
(or has ceased to be) highly effective as a hedge, the Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively, as discussed below.

The
Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively when (1) it determines that the derivative is no longer effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows of a hedged item
(including hedged items such as firm commitments or forecasted transactions, such as future variable rate interest payments); (2) the derivative expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised;
(3) it is no longer probable that the forecasted transaction will occur; or (4) management determines that designating the derivative as a hedging instrument is no longer appropriate.

When
the Company discontinues hedge accounting because it is no longer probable that the forecasted transaction will occur in the originally expected period, the gain or loss on the
derivative remains in accumulated other comprehensive income and is reclassified into earnings when the forecasted transaction affects earnings. However, if it is probable that a forecasted
transaction will not occur by the end of the originally specified time period or within an additional two-month period of time thereafter, the gains and losses that were accumulated in
other comprehensive income will be recognized immediately in earnings. In all situations in which hedge accounting is discontinued and the derivative remains outstanding, the Company will carry the
derivative at its fair value on the balance


sheet,
recognizing changes in the fair value in current-period earnings. For purposes of the cash flows statement, cash flows from derivative instruments designated and qualifying as hedges are
classified with the cash flows from the hedged item. Cash flows from derivatives held for speculative purposes are classified as investing cash flows.

Revenue Recognition

In accordance with gaming industry practice, the Company recognizes casino revenues as the net of gaming wins less losses. Net revenues exclude the retail value
of complimentary rooms, food and
beverage furnished gratuitously to customers. These amounts that are included in promotional allowances were as follows:

Year ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Rooms

$

1,468

$

1,721

$

10,920

Food and beverage

22,405

23,416

56,000

Other


2,576

7,404

Total promotional allowances

$

24,579

$

27,713

$

74,324

The
estimated cost of providing such complimentary services that is included in gaming expenses was as follows:

Year ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Rooms

$


$

1,108

$

8,164

Food and beverage

13,681

13,308

40,598

Other


1,570

4,825

Total cost of complimentary services

$

15,156

$

15,986

$

53,587

Racing
revenues include the Company's share of pari-mutuel wagering on live races after payment of amounts returned as winning wagers, and the Company's share of wagering
from import and export simulcasting, as well as its share of wagering from its OTWs.

Revenues
from the Management Contract for Casino Rama (see Note 2) are based upon contracted terms and are recognized when services are performed.

Earnings Per Share

Basic earnings per share ("EPS") are computed by dividing net income applicable to common stock by the weighted average common shares outstanding during the
period. Diluted EPS reflects the additional dilution for all potentially dilutive securities such as stock options.

Options
to purchase 156,000, 337,500, and 130,000 shares of common stock were outstanding during the years ended December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003, respectively, but were not
included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the options' exercise prices were greater than the


average
market price of the common shares and, therefore the effect would be antidilutive. The following represents reconciliation from basic earnings per share to diluted earnings per share.

Year ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Determination of shares:

Weighted average common shares outstanding

30,653

37,775

39,473

Assumed conversion of dilutive stock options

1,184

1,319

1,139

Diluted weighted average common shares outstanding

31,837

39,094

40,612

Stock-Based Compensation

The Company grants stock options for a fixed number of shares to employees with an exercise price equal to the fair value of the shares at the date of grant. The
Company accounts for stock option grants using the intrinsic-value method in accordance with APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" ("APB 25") and related
Interpretations. Under the intrinsic-value method, because the exercise price of the Company's employee stock options is less than or equals the market price of the underlying stock on the date of
grant, no compensation expense is recognized.

The
Company accounts for the plans under the recognition and measurement principles of APB 25 and related Interpretations. No stock-based employee compensation cost is reflected
in net income for options granted since all options granted under the plan had an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. However, there are
situations that may occur, such as the accelerated vesting of options, that require a current charge to income.

The
following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share if the Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS 123"), as amended by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 148, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation—Transition and Disclosure" ("SFAS 148"), to stock-based employee compensation:

Year ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Net income, as reported

$

23,758

$

30,863

$

51,471

Add: Stock-based employee compensation expense included in reported net income, net of related tax effects

—


—

Deduct: Total stock-based employee compensation expense determined under fair value based method for all awards, net of related tax effects

(773

)

(1,971

)

(2,912

)

Pro forma net income

$

22,985

$

29,162

$

48,559

Earnings per share:

Basic-as reported

$

.78

$

.82

$

1.30

Basic-pro forma

$

.75

$

.77

$

1.23

Diluted-as reported

$

..75

$

..79

$

1.27

Diluted-pro forma

$

.72

$

.75

$

1.20


The
fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions used for grants in
2001, 2002 and 2003:




Risk-free interest rate

6.0

%

3.0

%

3.0

%

Volatility

75.8

%

50.0

%

41.0

%

Dividend yield

0.0

%

0.0

%

0.0

%

Expected life (years)




The
effects of applying SFAS 123 and SFAS 148 in the above pro forma disclosure are not indicative of future amounts. SFAS 123 and SFAS 148 does not apply to
awards prior to 1995. Additional awards in future years are anticipated.

Certain Risks and Uncertainties

The Company's operations are dependent on its continued licensing by state gaming commissions. The loss of a license, in any jurisdiction in which the Company
operates, could have a material, adverse effect on future results of operations.

The
Company is dependent on each gaming property's local market for a significant number of its patrons and revenues. If economic conditions in these areas deteriorate or additional
gaming licenses are awarded in these markets, the Company's results of operations could be adversely affected.

The
Company is also dependent upon a stable gaming and admission tax structure in the states that it operates in. Any change in the tax structure could have a material adverse affect on
future results of operations.

Reclassification

Certain prior years amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.

Accounting Pronouncements Adopted in 2003

In January 2003, FASB issued Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities" ("Interpretation No. 46"), clarifies the
application of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, "Consolidated Financial Statements," to certain entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial
interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties. Interpretation No. 46 is
applicable immediately for variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003. For variable interest entities created prior to February 1, 2003, the provisions of Interpretation
No. 46 are applicable at the end of the annual reporting period ending after December 15, 2003. This Interpretation did not have an effect on the consolidated financial statements.

In
April 2002, the FASB issued Statement No. 145, "Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44 and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections"
("SFAS 145"). The rescission of FASB No. 4, "Reporting Gains and Losses from Extinguishment of Debt" applies to us. FASB No. 4 required that gains and losses from extinguishment
of debt that were included in the determination of net income be aggregated and, if material, classified as an extraordinary item, net of the related income tax effect. SFAS 145 is effective
for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2003. We had losses on early extinguishment of debt, net of income taxes of $5.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2002,


respectively.
These losses reflect the write-off of deferred finance fees and pre-payment fees associated with bank debt that was repaid with the proceeds of new financing.
Effective January 1, 2003, pursuant to SFAS 145, the losses on early extinguishment of debt will be included in "Other income (expense)" in our consolidated statements of income.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

There are no accounting standards issued before December 31, 2003 but effective after December 31, 2003 which are expected to have a material impact
on our financial reporting.

2.     Acquisitions

Acquisition Accounting

The Company has accounted for its acquisitions subsequent to June 30, 2001 under SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations." For purchase acquisitions
completed prior to June 30, 2001, the Company accounted for acquisitions in accordance with APB Opinion No. 16. The results of operations of acquisitions are included in the consolidated
financial statements from their respective dates of acquisition.

Hollywood Casino Corporation

On March 3, 2003, the Company completed its acquisition of Hollywood Casino Corporation and acquired 100 percent of its outstanding common stock for
approximately $397.9 million in cash, including acquisition costs of $50.8 million. The results of operations for Hollywood Casino® are included in the consolidated financial
statements from March 1, 2003. Hollywood Casino Corporation owns and operates distinctively themed casino entertainment facilities in major gaming markets in Aurora, Illinois, Tunica,
Mississippi and Shreveport, Louisiana. The acquisition expanded the Company's customer base and provided increased geographic diversity. Under the terms of the purchase agreement, a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company merged with and into Hollywood Casino Corporation, and Hollywood Casino Corporation stockholders received cash in the amount of $12.75 per share at closing or
$328.1 million and holders of Hollywood Casino Corporation stock options received $19.0 million (representing the aggregate difference between $12.75 per share and their option exercise
prices). The goodwill resulting from this acquisition is based on the excess of the amounts paid over the estimated fair value of the net assets acquired and this goodwill is not tax deductible.


The
following table summarizes the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition.

At March 3, 2003

(In thousands)

Current assets

$

170,718

Property and equipment

299,109

Other assets, including deferred income taxes of $32,436

64,501

Goodwill

442,964

Total assets acquired

977,292

Current liabilities

(72,157

)

Other liabilities

(8,277

)

Debt, current and non-current

(498,910

)

Total liabilities assumed

(579,344

)

Net assets acquired

$

397,948

Unaudited
pro forma financial information for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2003, as though the Hollywood Casino acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2002, is as
follows:



(In thousands)

Revenues

$

1,156,134

$

1,244,242

Net income

$

43,044

$

52,965

Net income per common share

Basic

$

1.14

$

1.34

Diluted

$

1.10

$

1.30

Weighted shares outstanding

Basic

37,775

39,473

Diluted

39,094

40,612

Bullwhackers Casinos

On April 25, 2002, the Company acquired all of the assets of the Bullwhackers Casino operations, in Black Hawk, Colorado, from Colorado Gaming and
Entertainment Co., a subsidiary of Hilton Group plc, for $7.1 million in cash including acquisition costs of $.6 million. The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase and accordingly
the results of operations are included from the date of acquisition. There was no goodwill recognized for this transaction. The Bullwhackers assets consist of the Bullwhackers Casino, the adjoining
Bullpen Sports Casino, the Silver Hawk Saloon and Casino, an administrative building and a 475-car parking area, all located in the Black Hawk, Colorado gaming jurisdiction.

CRC Acquisition

On April 27, 2001, the Company completed its acquisitions of (i) CRC Holdings, Inc. ("CRC") from the shareholders of CRC and (ii) the
minority interest in Louisiana Casino Cruises, Inc. ("LCCI") not owned by CRC from certain shareholders (together, the "CRC Acquisition"). The CRC Acquisition


was
accomplished pursuant to the terms of Agreement and Plan of Merger among CRC Holdings, Inc., Penn National Gaming, Inc., Casino Holdings, Inc. and certain shareholders of CRC
Holdings, Inc., dated as of July 31, 2000 (the "Merger Agreement"), and a Stock Purchase Agreement by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc. and certain shareholders of LCCI, dated
as of July 31, 2000. Under the Merger Agreement, CRC merged with Casino Holdings, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (the "Merger"). The aggregate consideration paid by the
Company for the CRC Acquisition was approximately $182 million, including the repayment of existing debt of CRC and its subsidiaries. The purchase price of the CRC Acquisition was funded by the
proceeds of the Company's offering of senior subordinated notes, which was completed in March 2001.

The
assets acquired pursuant to the Merger and CRC Acquisition consist primarily of the Casino Rouge riverboat gaming facility in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and a management contract for
Casino Rama, a gaming facility located in Orillia Ontario, Canada.

The
management contract expires July 31, 2011. CHC Casinos Canada Limited ("CHC"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, operates Casino Rama in the Province of Ontario. The
Company derives all of its management service fee revenue from this agreement. As of the date of the acquisition, the fair value of the management contract was $25.7 million.

3.     Property and Equipment

Property and equipment consist of the following (in thousands):

December 31,



Land and improvements

$

88,885

$

123,660

Building and improvements

289,782

530,845

Furniture, fixtures, and equipment

143,760

216,503

Transportation equipment

1,127

1,246

Leasehold improvements

14,657

14,495

Construction in progress

3,880

6,093

Total property and equipment

542,091

892,842

Less: accumulated depreciation and amortization

91,205

152,335

Property and equipment, net

$

450,886

$

740,507

Interest
capitalized in connection with major construction projects was $.5 million, $1.6 million, and $.3 million in 2001, 2002 and 2003, respectively. Depreciation
and amortization expense, for property and equipment, totaled $26.9 million, $34.0 million, and $65.0 million in 2001, 2002, and 2003, respectively.

4.     Excess of the Cost Over Fair Value of Net Assets Acquired (Goodwill) and Other Intangible Assets

For the year ended December 31, 2001, the Company recorded amortization of goodwill of $3.5 million. Excluding amortization of goodwill, pro forma
net income and diluted net income per share for the year ended December 31, 2001 would have been $26.2 million and $.82 per share, respectively. Substantially all of the goodwill relates
to the Company's gaming operations.

At
December 31, 2003, the Company had goodwill of $603.5 million, an increase of $443.0 million from the prior year. The increase in goodwill is attributed to the
Hollywood Casino Corporation acquisition (see Note 2).


As part of the CRC acquisition in April 2001, the Company acquired the management contract (the "Contract") for Casino Rama. This intangible asset is being
amortized over its contractual life on the straight-line method through July 31, 2011, the expiration date of the Contract. The gross carrying amount of the Contract is
$25.7 million and the accumulated amortization is $6.7 million as of December 31, 2003. The average annual amortization expense for the remaining life of the Contract is
approximately $2.5 million.

Amortization
expense for the Contract totaled $1.7 million in 2001 and $2.5 million in 2002 and 2003, respectively.

5.     Long-term Debt

Long-term debt is as follows (in thousands):

December 31,



Senior secured credit facility. This credit facility is secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company.

$

—

$

399,700

$200 million 11


/


% senior subordinated notes. These notes are general unsecured obligations of the Company

200,000

200,000

$175 million 8


/


% senior subordinated notes. These notes are general unsecured obligations of the Company

175,000

175,000

$200 million 6


/


% senior subordinated notes. These notes are general unsecured obligations of the Company

—

200,000

Hollywood Casino Shreveport non-recourse debt:

13% Shreveport First Mortgage Notes

—

150,000

13% Shreveport Senior Secured Notes, including bond premium of $686

—

39,686

Less: Bond valuation allowance

—

(70,348

)

Capital leases

—

15,423

Other notes payable



375,018

1,109,468

Less current maturities


124,979

$

375,000

$

984,489

The
following is a schedule of future minimum repayments of long-term debt as of December 31, 2003 (in thousands):


$

124,979


5,779


5,909


389,796


202,290

Thereafter

380,715

Total minimum payments

$

1,109,468

At
December 31, 2003, the Company was contingently obligated under letters of credit issued pursuant to the senior secured credit facility with face amounts aggregating
$8.2 million.


Senior Secured Credit Facility

On March 3, 2003, the Company entered into an $800 million senior secured credit facility with a syndicate of lenders that replaced its
$350 million credit facility.

The
credit facility was initially comprised of a $100 million revolving credit facility maturing on September 1, 2007, a $100 million Term A facility loan maturing
on September 1, 2007 and a $600 million Term B facility loan maturing on September 1, 2007. On March 3, 2003 the Company borrowed the entire Term A and Term B term loans to
complete the purchase of Hollywood Casino Corporation and to call Hollywood Casino Corporation's $360 million senior secured notes.

On
September 30, 2003, the Company made an optional prepayment of $27 million toward its $800 million senior secured credit facility. Based on the Company's
consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the credit agreement) for the 12 months ended September 30, 2003, the payment triggered a reduction of the interest rate margin on the Term A portion
of the credit facility by 0.25% and a reduction of the interest rate margin on the Term B portion of the credit facility by 0.5%. The reductions of the interest rate margins became effective on
October 23, 2003.

On
December 3, 2003, the Company made a pre-payment of $10.5 million plus accrued interest to satisfy in full its Term Loan A Facility due March 2008.
Additionally, the Company made a pre-payment of $195.1 million plus accrued interest against our Term Loan B Facility due March 2009, which had approximately
$596.3 million outstanding at September 30, 2003. The pre-payments were funded with the net proceeds of the $200 million 6


/


% senior
subordinated note offering and with cash from operations. Following the payments, the Term Loan B Facility had approximately $399.7 million outstanding.

On
December 5, 2003, the $800 million senior credit facility was amended and restated. The amended agreement reduced the total credit facility from $800 million to
$500 million and converted the Term Loan B facility to a Term Loan D facility due September 2007. The Term Loan D facility will initially accrue interest at 250 basis points over LIBOR,
representing a 100 basis point reduction from the original terms of the Term Loan B facility. In addition, the Term Loan D facility allows the Company to raise an additional $225 million in
senior secured credit to expand its Pennsylvania racetrack operations if legislation is passed permitting slot machines or video lottery terminals at these facilities. The Term Loan B facility had
allowed the Company to raise an additional $100 million in senior secured credit to expand its Pennsylvania racetrack operations if legislation is passed permitting slot machines or video
lottery terminals at these facilities.

At
December 31, 2003, the Company had an outstanding balance of $399.7 million on Term Loan D facility and $91.8 million available to borrow under the
revolving credit facility after giving effect to outstanding letters of credit of $8.2 million. The weighted average interest rate on the Term D facility is 3.63% at year-end
excluding swaps and deferred finance fees.

The
senior secured credit facility is secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company, except for the assets of Hollywood Casino Shreveport, which serve as collateral for the
notes of Hollywood Casino Shreveport. See "Hollywood Casino Shreveport Notes" below.

Interest Rate Swap Contracts

The Company has a policy designed to manage interest rate risk associated with its current and anticipated future borrowings. This policy enables the Company to
use any combination of interest rate swaps, futures, options, caps and similar instruments. To the extent the Company employs such financial instruments pursuant to this policy, they are generally
accounted for as hedging instruments. In order


to
qualify for hedge accounting, the underlying hedged item must expose the Company to risks associated with market fluctuations and the financial instrument used must be designated as a hedge and
must reduce the Company's exposure to market fluctuations throughout the hedge period. If these criteria are not met, a change in the market value of the financial instrument is recognized as a gain
or loss in the period of change. Net settlements pursuant to the financial instrument are included as interest expense in the period.

On
December 20, 2000, the Company entered into an interest rate swap with a notional amount of $100 million and a termination date of December 22, 2003. Under this
agreement, the Company pays a fixed rate of 5.835% against a variable interest rate based on the 90-day LIBOR rate. On August 3, 2001, the Company entered into an interest rate swap
with a notional amount of $36 million with a termination date of June 30, 2004. Under this agreement, the Company pays a fixed rate of 4.8125% against a variable interest rate based on
the 90-day LIBOR rate. The Company entered into these interest rates swap agreements due to the requirements of the then current senior secured credit facility and to reduce the impact of
future variable interest payments related to the such senior secured credit facility.

In
2001, the Company accounted for the effective interest rate swap agreements as cash flow hedges. The changes in the fair values of effective interest rate swaps were recorded as
adjustments to accrued interest in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet with the offset recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss. The amount of ineffectiveness related to the cash flow
hedges in 2001 and 2002 was immaterial. In March 2002, the Company repaid all of its then outstanding variable rate debt with the issuance of the 8


/


% Senior Subordinated Notes,
fixed rate debt. The hedge designation was removed. Subsequent changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap contracts are recognized as adjustments to loss on change in fair values of interest
rate swaps in the accompanying statements of income in the period in which they occur. Accordingly, the Company has recorded a non-cash pre-tax loss of $5.8 million, or
$.09 per diluted share after tax, for the year ended December 31, 2002 and $.5 million, or $.01 per diluted share after tax, for the year ended December 31, 2003. Amounts
previously recognized in other comprehensive income will be reclassified to income over the remaining term of the swap as the Company incurs interest expense on the replacement debt. Over the next
twelve months, approximately $125,000 will be reclassified to income.

On
March 27, 2003, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements with a total notional amount of $375.0 million in accordance with the terms of the
$800 million senior secured credit facility. There are three two-year swap contracts totaling $175 million with an effective date of March 27, 2003 and a termination
date of March 27, 2005. Under these contracts, the Company pays a fixed rate of 1.92% and receive a variable rate based on the 90-day LIBOR rate. The Company also entered into three
three-year swap contracts totaling $200 million with a termination date of March 27, 2006. The Company accounted for these effective interest rate swap agreements as cash
flow hedges. The changes in the fair values of effective interest rate swaps were recorded as adjustments to accrued interest in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet with the offset recorded in
accumulated other comprehensive loss. The amount of ineffectiveness related to the cash flow hedges in 2003, was immaterial. Under these contracts, the Company pays fixed rates of 2.48% to 2.49%
against a variable rate based on the 90-day LIBOR rate. The difference between amounts received and amounts paid under such agreements, as well as any costs or fees, is recorded as a
reduction of, or addition to, interest expense as incurred over the life of the swap.

At
December 31, 2003, the 90-day LIBOR rate was 1.15%.


Termination of Interest Rate Swap Agreement

Effective March 3, 2003, the Company terminated its $36 million notional amount interest rate swap originally scheduled to expire in
June 2004. The Company paid $1.9 million to terminate the swap agreement.



/


% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2008

On March 12, 2001, the Company completed an offering of $200 million of its 11


/


% Senior subordinated notes that mature on
March 1, 2008. Interest on the notes is payable on March 1 and September 1 of each year, beginning September 1, 2001. The proceeds from these notes were used, in part, to
finance the CRC Acquisition.

The
Company may redeem all or part of the notes on or after March 1, 2005 at certain specified redemption prices. Prior to March 1, 2004, the Company may redeem up to 35%
of the notes from proceeds of certain sales of its equity securities. The notes are also subject to redemption requirements imposed by state and local gaming laws and regulations.

The
notes are general unsecured obligations and are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by all of the Company's current and future wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries. The notes
rank equally with the Company's future senior subordinated debt and junior to its senior debt, including debt under the Company's senior credit facility. In addition, the notes will be effectively
junior to any indebtedness of Penn's non-U.S. subsidiaries or subsidiaries that do not guarantee the notes ("Unrestricted Subsidiaries").

The


/


% notes and guarantees were originally issued in a private placement pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended (the "Securities Act"). On July 30, 2001, the Company completed an offer to exchange the notes and guarantees for notes and guarantees registered under the Securities Act having
substantially identical terms.



/


% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2010

On February 28, 2002, the Company completed an offering of $175 million of its 8


/


% senior subordinated notes that mature on
March 15, 2010. Interest on the 8


/


% notes is payable on March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning September 15, 2002. The Company used the net
proceeds from the offering, totaling approximately $170.0 million after deducting underwriting discounts and related expenses, to repay term loan indebtedness under its existing senior secured
credit facility.

The
Company may redeem all or part of the 8


/


% notes on or after March 15, 2006 at certain specified redemption prices. Prior to March 15, 2005, the Company
may redeem up to 35% of the 8


/


% notes from proceeds of certain sales of its equity securities. The 8


/


% notes also are subject to redemption requirements imposed by
state and local gaming laws and regulations.

The


/


% notes are general unsecured obligations and are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by certain of the Company's current and future wholly-owned domestic
subsidiaries. The 8


/


% notes rank equally with the Company's future senior subordinated debt and the 11


/


% senior subordinated notes, and junior to its senior debt,
including debt under the Company's senior credit facility. In addition, the 8


/


% notes will be effectively junior to any indebtedness of Penn's non-U.S. subsidiaries or
Unrestricted Subsidiaries, none of which have guaranteed the 8


/


% notes.




/


% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2011

On December 1, 2003, the Company completed an offering of $200 million of its 6


/


% senior subordinated notes that mature on
December 1, 2011. Interest on the notes is payable on June 1 and December 1 of each year, beginning June 1, 2004. The Company used the net proceeds from the offering,
totaling approximately $196.6 million after deducting underwriting discounts and related expenses, to repay term loan indebtedness under its existing senior secured credit facility.

The
Company may redeem all or part of the notes on or after December 1, 2007 at certain specified redemption prices. Prior to December 1, 2006, the Company may redeem up to
35% of the notes from proceeds of certain sales of its equity securities. The notes are also subject to redemption requirements imposed by state and local gaming laws and regulations.

The


/


% notes are general unsecured obligations and are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by all of the Company's current and future wholly-owned domestic
subsidiaries. The 6


/


% notes rank equally with the Company's future senior subordinated debt and junior to its senior debt, including debt under the Company's senior credit facility.
In addition, the 6


/


% notes will be effectively junior to any indebtedness of Penn's non-U.S. Unrestricted Subsidiaries.

The


/


% notes and guarantees were originally issued in a private placement pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act.

Covenants

The terms of the Company's senior secured credit facility and senior subordinated notes require the Company to satisfy certain financial covenants, including, but
not limited to, leverage and fixed charges coverage ratios and limitations on indebtedness, liens, investments and capital expenditures. At December 31, 2003, the Company was in compliance with
all required financial covenants.

Hollywood Casino Shreveport Notes

Hollywood Casino Shreveport and Shreveport Capital Corporation are co-issuers of $150 million aggregate principal amount of 13% senior secured
notes due 2006 and $39 million aggregate principal amount of 13% first mortgage notes due 2006 (the "Hollywood Casino Shreveport Notes"). Hollywood Casino Shreveport is a general partnership
that owns the casino operations. Shreveport Capital Corporation is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Hollywood Casino Shreveport formed solely for the purpose of being a co-issuer of the
Hollywood Casino Shreveport Notes.

The
Hollywood Casino Shreveport Notes are non-recourse to Penn and its subsidiaries (other than Hollywood Casino Shreveport, Shreveport Capital Corporation,
HCS I, Inc., HCS II, Inc. and HWCC-Louisiana, Inc. (collectively the "Shreveport Entities") and are secured by substantially all of the assets of the casino,
and the partnership interests held by HCS I, Inc. and HCS II, Inc. and the stock held by HWCC-Louisiana, Inc.

The
indentures governing the Hollywood Casino Shreveport Notes require the issuers to make an offer to purchase the Hollywood Casino Shreveport Notes at 101% of the principal amount
thereof within 10 days of the occurrence of a "Change of Control" as defined in the indentures. A "Change of Control" was deemed to have occurred under the indentures on March 3, 2003 as
a result of the consummation of the merger of our wholly-owned subsidiary with and into Hollywood Casino Corporation. Hollywood Casino Shreveport determined that it did not have the liquidity to
repurchase the Hollywood Casino Shreveport Notes at 101% of their principal amount.


On
March 14, 2003, the Hollywood Casino Shreveport and Shreveport Capital Corporation were notified by an ad hoc committee of holders of the Hollywood Casino Shreveport Notes that
they have 60 days from receipt of the notice to cure the failure to offer to purchase the Hollywood Casino Shreveport Notes or an event of default will have occurred under the indentures.
Neither Hollywood Casino Shreveport nor Shreveport Capital Corporation made a Change of Control offer to purchase the Hollywood Casino Shreveport Notes within the sixty days. Hollywood Casino
Shreveport did not make the August 1, 2003 interest payment of $12.3 million due on the Hollywood Casino Shreveport Notes. There can be no assurance that the holders of the Hollywood
Casino Shreveport Notes will not pursue all rights and remedies that they may have under the indentures as a result. Further, any action on the part of the note holders may require the Shreveport
Entities to seek the protection of the bankruptcy laws or other similar remedies. (See Note 15 for subsequent events).

6.     Commitments and Contingencies

Litigation

Penn and its subsidiaries are subject to various legal and administrative proceedings relating to personal injuries, employment matters, commercial transactions
and other matters arising in the normal course of business. The Company does not believe that the final outcome of these matters will have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated
financial position or results of operations. In addition, the Company maintains what it believes is adequate insurance coverage to further mitigate the risks of such proceedings. However, such
proceedings can be costly, time consuming and unpredictable and, therefore, no assurance can be given that the final outcome of such proceedings may not materially impact the Company's consolidated
financial condition or results of operations. Further, no assurance can be given that the amount or scope of existing insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover losses arising from such matters.

The
following proceedings could result in costs, settlements or damages that materially impact the Company's consolidated financial condition or operating results. In each instance, the
Company believes that it has meritorious defenses and/or counter-claims and intends to vigorously defend itself.

In
August 2002, the lessor of the property on which Casino Rouge conducts a significant portion of its dockside operations filed a lawsuit against the Company in the

th

Judicial District Court for the Parish of East Baton Rouge, Louisiana seeking a declaratory judgment that the plaintiff is entitled to terminate the lease and/or void the Company's
option to renew the lease due to certain alleged defaults by the Company or its predecessors-in-interest. The term of the Company's lease expired in January 2004 and the
Company exercised its automatic right to renew for an additional five year term (which, as previously noted is being contested by the landlord). In September 2003 the court granted the Company
a partial motion for summary judgment. A hearing date has not yet been set. Further litigation on the remaining issues is anticipated. (See Note 15 for subsequent events).

In
October 2002, in response to the Company's plans to relocate the river barge underlying the Boomtown Biloxi casino to an adjacent property, the lessor of the property on which the
Boomtown Biloxi casino conducts a portion of its dockside operations, filed a lawsuit against the Company in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Mississippi seeking a declaratory
judgment that (i) the Company must use the leased premises for a gaming use or, in the alternative, (ii) after the move, the Company will remain obligated to make the revenue based rent
payments to plaintiff set forth in the lease. The plaintiff filed this suit immediately after the Mississippi Gaming Commission approved the Company's request to relocate the barge. Since such
approval, the Mississippi Department of Marine Resources and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers have also approved our plan to relocate the barge.


The
Company filed a motion for summary judgment in October 2003 and the plaintiff filed its own motion for summary judgment in January 2004. Discovery is substantially complete at this
time and a trial date has been set for April 2004.

In
October 2003, the Company and one of its subsidiaries brought a declaratory action for coverage against Lexington Insurance Company and National Union Fire Insurance of Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania ("National Union") in the Circuit Court of Jefferson County, West Virginia ("the West Virginia Action"). The case involves a dispute over coverage for punitive damage awards for claims
arising in West Virginia. Subsequent to the filing of the West Virginia action, National Union brought an action against the Company and several of its subsidiaries in the Court of Common Pleas of
Berks County, Pennsylvania denying coverage for punitive damage awards for claims arising in West Virginia. The Company is currently a defendant in several cases in West Virginia in which punitive
damages have been plead. (See Note 15 for subsequent events).

Operating Leases

The Company is liable under numerous operating leases for automobiles, other equipment and buildings, which expire through 2010. Total rental expense under these
agreements was $4.0 million, $5.2 million, and $6.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2002, and 2003, respectively.

The
future lease commitments relating to noncancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2003 are as follows (in thousands):

Year ending December 31,


$

4,464


3,057


2,346


1,714


1,501

Thereafter

7,908

$

20,990

The
Company leases land for use by Boomtown Biloxi. The lease term is 99 years and is cancelable upon one year's notice. The lease called for an initial deposit by the Company of
$2.0 million and for annual base lease rent payments of $2.0 million and percentage rent equal to 5.0% of adjusted gaming win (as defined in the lease) over $25.0 million and 6.0%
of the amount by which the adjusted gaming win exceeds $50.0 million. For the years ended December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003 the Company paid lease rent under this agreement of
$3.6 million, $4.2 million, and $4.3 million respectively.

The
Company leases land for use by Bullwhackers Casinos in Black Hawk, Colorado. There are four leases with terms of one to 20 years. The leases consist of annual base lease rent
payments, which are included in the above table, plus a percentage rent based on a percent of adjusted gaming win as described in the leases. The annual base lease rent payments were
$1.2 million for the period April 28, 2002 to December 31, 2002. Total lease payments for the period were $1.9 million. On April 24, 2003, the Company completed the
purchase of the leased land for the Bullwhackers Casino for a purchase price of $6.1 million. Based on current operating performance, this purchase reduces the rent expense by approximately
$1.0 million per year. In 2003, base lease payments were $1.1 million and total lease payments were $1.3 million.


Commitments

As of December 31, 2003, the Company is contractually committed to spend approximately $5.0 million in capital expenditures for projects in
progress.

Employee Benefit Plans

The Company has profit sharing plans under the provisions of Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, that cover all eligible
employees who are not members of a bargaining unit. The plans enable employees choosing to participate to defer a portion of their salary in a retirement fund to be administered by the Company. The
Company's contributions to the plans are set at 50% of employees' elective salary deferrals up to a maximum of 6% of employee compensation. The Company also has a defined contribution plan, the
Charles Town Races Future Service Retirement Plan, covering substantially all of its union employees at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex. The Company makes monthly contributions equal to the
amount accrued for retirement expense, which is calculated as .25% of the daily mutual handle and .5% of the net video lottery revenues. Total contributions to the plans for the years ended
December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003 were $1.8 million, $2.5 million and $2.8 million, respectively.

The
Company maintains a deferred compensation plan that covers most management and other highly compensated employees. This plan was effective March 1, 2001. The plan allows the
participants to defer, on a pre-tax basis, a portion of their base annual salary and bonus and earn tax-deferred earnings on these deferrals. The plan also provides for
matching Company contributions that vest over a five-year period. The Company has established a Trust and transfers to the Trust, on an annual basis, an amount necessary to provide on a
present value basis for its respective future liabilities with respect to participant deferral and Company contribution amounts. Company contributions in 2001, 2002 and 2003 were $.5 million,
$.3 million and $.6 million, respectively.

Agreements with Horsemen and Pari-Mutuel Clerks

The Company is required to have agreements with the horsemen at each of its racetracks to conduct its live racing and simulcasting activities. In addition, in
order to operate gaming machines in West Virginia, the Company must maintain agreements with each of the Charles Town horsemen, pari-mutuel clerks and breeders

At
the Charles Town Entertainment Complex, the Company has an agreement with the Charles Town horsemen that expires on June 30, 2004. The pari-mutuel clerks at Charles
Town are represented under a collective bargaining agreement with the West Virginia Division of Mutual clerks, which expires on December 31, 2004.

The
Company's agreement with the Pennsylvania Thoroughbred horsemen at Penn National Race Course expires on March 31, 2004. The Company's agreement with the Pennsylvania Harness
horsemen at Pocono Downs expires on March 16, 2004.

The
Company has an agreement in place with the Sports Arena Employees Local 137 (AFL-CIO) with respect to pari-mutuel clerks and admission personnel at six of its
OTWs. That agreement expires on September 30, 2005. The Company also has an agreement with Local 137 at Penn National Race Course with respect to pari-mutuel clerks and admissions
and Telebet personnel that expired on September 30, 2002. To date, the Company has operated under that contract by formal and informal extensions.


Pennwood
Racing also has an agreement in effect with the horsemen at Freehold Raceway which expires May 2006.

New Jersey Joint Venture

On January 28, 1999, the Company, along with its joint venture partner, Greenwood New Jersey, Inc. purchased certain assets and assumed certain
liabilities of Freehold Racing Association, Garden State
Racetrack and related entities, in a transaction accounted for as a purchase. During 2001, Garden State Racetrack ceased operations.

The
Company made an $11.3 million loan to the joint venture and an equity investment of $.3 million. The loan is evidenced by a subordinated secured note, which has been
included in investment in and advances to an unconsolidated affiliate in the consolidated financial statements. The note bears interest at prime plus 2.25% or a minimum of 10% (as of
December 31, 2003 the interest rate was 10%). The Company has recorded interest income in the accompanying consolidated financial statements of $1.2 million, $1.1 million, and
$1.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003, respectively.

The
Company entered into a Debt Service Maintenance Agreement with a bank to guarantee 50% of a $23.0 million term loan to the joint venture. As of December 31, 2003, the
Company's obligation under its guarantee of the term loan was limited to approximately $8.8 million. The Company's investment in the joint venture is accounted for under the equity method. The
original investment was recorded at cost and has been adjusted by the Company's share of income of the joint venture and distributions received. The Company's 50% share of the income of the joint
venture is included in other income (expense) in the accompanying consolidated statements of income.

7.     Income Taxes

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are comprised of the following (in thousands):

December 31,



Deferred tax assets:

Federal net operating losses

$

—

$

35,230

Federal general business credits

—


Accrued expenses

1,356

11,945

State net operating losses

7,443

12,683

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)


(559

)

Gross deferred tax assets

9,671

60,042

Less Valuation Allowance

(6,096

)

(10,604

)

Net Deferred Tax Asset

3,575

49,438

Deferred tax liabilities:

Property, plant and equipment

(49,668

)

(59,944

)

Net deferred taxes

$

(46,093

)

$

(10,506

)

Reflected on consolidated balance sheets:

Current deferred tax asset, net

$

4,405

$

17,285

Noncurrent deferred tax liabilities, net

(50,498

)

(27,791

)

Net deferred taxes

$

(46,093

)

$

(10,506

)


The valuation allowance represents the income tax effect of state net operating loss carryforwards of the Company, which are not presently expected to be
utilized.

For
income tax reporting, the Company has net operating loss carryforwards aggregating approximately $127.2 million available to reduce future state income taxes primarily for the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as of December 31, 2003. Due to Pennsylvania's tax statute on annual net operating loss utilization limit, a substantial valuation allowance has been recorded to
reflect the net operating losses which are not presently expected to be realized. If not used, substantially all the carryforwards will expire at various dates from December 31, 2006 to
December 31, 2024.

The
federal net operating loss and general business credits resulted from the acquisition of Hollywood Casino Corporation during 2003. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended, limits the utilization of the net operating loss to $15.3 million per year or a $5.4 million per year tax benefit.

The
provision for income taxes charged to operations was as follows (in thousands):

Year ended December 31,




Current tax expense

Federal

$

5,542

$

9,662

$

1,926

State




Total current

5,649

10,402

2,648

Deferred tax expense (benefit)

Federal

7,159

8,453

29,141

State

(200

)


(97

)

Total deferred

6,959

8,529

29,044

Total provision

$

12,608

$

18,931

$

31,692

The
following is a reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate to the actual effective income tax rate for the following periods:

Year ended December 31,




Percent of pretax income

Federal tax rate

35.0

%

35.0

%

35.0

%

State and local income taxes, net of federal tax benefit

(.2

)

1.0

.5

Permanent differences, including amortization of management contract

.3

2.0

2.0

Other miscellaneous items

(.4

)

—

.6

34.7

%

38.0

%

38.1

%


8.     Supplemental Disclosures of Cash Flow Information

Year ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Cash payments of interest

$

36,709

$

39,886

$

75,340

Cash payments of income taxes

3,480

12,752

—

Acquisitions:

Cash paid

182,000

7,114

397,948

Fair value of assets acquired

250,388

7,504

977,292

Fair value of liabilities assumed

211,662

1,495

579,344

9.     Shareholder's Equity

Equity Offering

On February 20, 2002, the Company completed a public offering of 9,200,000 shares of its common stock at a public offering price of $15.25 per share. Of
the common stock sold in the offering, the Company sold 6,700,000 shares and The Carlino Family Trust, a related party, sold 2,500,000 shares. The Company used its net proceeds from the offering,
totaling approximately $96.1 million after deducting underwriting discounts and related expenses, to repay term loan indebtedness under its existing senior secured credit facility. The Company
did not receive any proceeds from the offering by The Carlino Family Trust.

Stock Split

The Board of Directors authorized a two-for-one stock split of the Company's common stock on May 22, 2002 to shareholders of record
on June 4, 2002. The stock split
was effective on June 25, 2002. All references in the financial statements to number of shares and net income per share amounts of the Company's common stock have been retroactively restated to
reflect the increased number of common stock shares outstanding.

Shareholder Rights Plan

On May 20, 1998, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized and declared a dividend distribution of one Preferred Stock purchase right (the "Rights")
for each outstanding share of the Company's common stock, par value $.01 per share (the "Common Shares"), payable to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 19, 1999. Each
Right entitles the registered holder to purchase from the Company one one-hundredth of a share (a "Preferred Stock Fraction"), or a combination of securities and assets of equivalent
value, at a purchase price of $20.00 per Preferred Stock Fraction (the "Purchase Price"), subject to adjustment. The description and terms of the Rights are set forth in a Rights Agreement (the
"Rights Agreement") dated March 2, 1999 between the Company and Continental Stock Transfer and Trust Company as Rights Agent. All terms not otherwise defined herein are used as defined in the
Rights Agreement.

The
Rights will be exercisable only if a person or group acquires 15% or more of the Company's common stock (the "Stock Acquisition Date"), announces a tender or exchange offer that will
result in such person or group acquiring 20% or more of the outstanding common stock or is a beneficial owner of a substantial amount of Common Shares (at least 10%) whose ownership may have a
material adverse impact ("Adverse Person") on the business or prospects of the Company. The Company will be


entitled
to redeem the Rights at a price of $.01 per Right (payable in cash or stock) at any time until 10 days following the Stock Acquisition Date or the date on which a person has been
determined to be an Adverse Person. If the Company is involved in certain transactions after the Rights become exercisable, a Holder of Rights (other than Rights owned by a shareholder who has
acquired 15% or more of the Company's outstanding common stock or is determined to be an Adverse Person, which Rights become void) is entitled to buy a number of the acquiring company's Common Shares
or the Company's common stock, as the case may be, having a market value of twice the exercise price of each Right. A potential dilutive effect may exist upon the exercise of the Rights. Until a Right
is exercised, the holder will have no rights as a stockholder of the Company, including, without limitations, the right to vote as a stockholder or to receive dividends. The Rights are not exercisable
until the Distribution Date and will expire at the close of business on March 18, 2009, unless earlier redeemed or exchanged by the Company.

10.   Stock Based Compensation

In April 1994, the Company's Board of Directors and shareholders adopted and approved the Stock Option Plan (the "1994 Plan"). The 1994 Plan permits the
grant of options to purchase up to 6,000,000 shares of Common Stock, subject to antidilution adjustments, at a price per share no less than 100% of the fair market value of the Common Stock on the
date an option is granted with respect to incentive stock options only. The price would be no less than 110% of fair market value in the case of an incentive stock option granted to any individual who
owns more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of outstanding stock. The 1994 Plan provides for the granting of both incentive stock options intended to qualify under
Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and nonqualified stock options, which do not so qualify. At December 31, 2003, there were 18,750 options available for
future grants under the 1994 Plan. Unless the Board of Directors terminates the 1994 Plan earlier, the 1994 Plan will terminate in April 2004.

On
April 16, 2003, the Company's Board of Directors adopted and approved the 2003 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the "2003 Plan"). On May 22, 2003, the Company's
shareholders approved the 2003 Plan. The 2003 Plan was effective June 1, 2003 and permits the grant of options to purchase Common Stock and other market-based and performance-based awards. Up
to 6,000,000 shares of Common Stock are available for awards under the 2003 Plan. The 2003 Plan provides for the granting of both incentive stock options intended to qualify under Section 422
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and nonqualified stock options, which do not so qualify. The exercise price per share may be no less than (i) 100% of the fair market value of
the Common Stock on the date an option is granted for incentive stock options and (ii) 85% of the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date an option is granted for nonqualified stock
options. Unless this plan is extended, no awards shall be granted or exchanges effected under this plan after May 31, 2013. At December 31, 2003, there were 5,545,000 options available
for future grants under the 2003 Plan.

Stock
options that expire between May 26, 2004 and February 6, 2013 have been granted to officers and directors to purchase Common Stock at prices ranging from $1.67 to
$23.75 per share. All options were granted at market prices at date of grant.


The
following table contains information on stock options issued under the plans for the three-year period ended December 31, 2003:

Option

Shares

Average

Exercise

Price

Outstanding at January 1, 2001

2,827,500

$

4.01

Granted

1,070,392

6.00

Exercised

(948,500

)

3.10

Canceled

(46,000

)

2.39

Outstanding at December 31, 2001

2,903,392

5.08

Granted

1,035,500

15.85

Exercised

(867,334

)

6.22

Canceled

(138,392

)

5.00

Outstanding at December 31, 2002

2,933,166

8.55

Granted

1,057,500

17.58

Exercised

(587,666

)

8.96

Canceled

(36,250

)

9.42

Outstanding at December 31, 2003

3,366,750

12.18

In
addition, common stock options in the amount of 647,500 were issued to the Company's Chairman outside of the 1994 Plan and the 2003 Plan. 600,000 shares were issued in 1996 and 47,500
shares were issued in 2003. These options were issued at prices ranging from $8.82 to $15.90 per share and are exercisable through February 6, 2013. During the year 2002, 600,000 of these
options were exercised.

Exercisable
at year-end:

Option Shares

Weighted Average

Exercise Price


1,820,836

$

5.73


917,875

3.53


1,054,125

7.61

The
following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at December 31, 2003:

Exercise Price Range

Total

$1.67

to

$6.63

$7.19

to

$15.90

$15.98

to

$23.75

$1.67

to

$23.75

Outstanding options

Number outstanding

1,141,000

1,412,250

861,000

3,414,250

Weighted average remaining contractual life (years)

4.34

6.01

6.18

5.50

Weighted average exercise price

$

4.30

$

14.51

$

18.97

$

12.22

Exercisable options

Number outstanding

676,500

225,500

152,125

1,054,125

Weighted average exercise price

$

3.78

$

12.41

$

17.53

$

7.61


11.   Segment Information

The Company reviews the results from operations, depreciation and amortization and total assets based on two segments: gaming and racing. The accounting policies
for each segment are the same as those described in the "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies." The table below presents information about reported segments (in thousands):

Gaming(1)

Racing

Eliminations

Total

Year ended December 31, 2001

Revenue

$

420,199

$

98,713

$

(1,775

)(2)

$

517,137

Income from Operations

66,465

10,426

76,891

Depreciation and Amortization

28,072

4,021

32,093

Total Assets

1,092,400

90,014

(503,037

)(3)

679,377

Year ended December 31, 2002

Revenue

$

555,886

$

101,854

$

(1,779

)(2)

$

655,961

Income from Operations

91,643

10,532

102,175

Depreciation and Amortization

33,012

3,444

36,456

Total Assets

1,198,009

98,358

(530,887

)(3)

765,480

Year ended December 31, 2003

Revenue

$

1,067,713

$

96,894

$

(1,612

)(2)

$

1,162,995

Income from Operations

173,919

9,264

183,183

Depreciation and Amortization

64,041

3,446

67,487

Total Assets

2,716,800

98,109

(1,205,310

)(3)

1,609,599

(1)

Reflects
results of the CRC acquisition since April 28, 2001, the Bullwhackers acquisition since the April 25, 2002 and the Hollywood Casino acquisition since
March 3, 2003.

(2)

Primarily
reflects intercompany transactions related to import/export simulcasting.

(3)

Primarily
reflects elimination of intercompany investments, receivables and payable.


12.   Summarized Quarterly Data (Unaudited)

Following is a summary of the quarterly results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2003:

Fiscal Quarter

First

Second

Third

Fourth

(In thousands, except per share data)


Total revenues

$

153,489

$

164,097

$

174,404

$

163,971

Income from operations

24,501

26,975

28,097

22,602

Net income

4,131

9,162

9,936

7,634

Basic earnings per share

.12

.24

.25

.21

Diluted earnings per share

.12

.23

.25

.19


Total revenues

$

225,210

$

324,968

$

316,122

$

296,695

Income from operations

38,803

52,843

49,635

41,902

Net income

13,187

15,475

13,618

9,191

Basic earnings per share

.34

.39

.35

.22

Diluted earnings per share

.33

.38

.34

.22

13.   Related Party Transactions

Life Insurance Policies

The Company has paid premiums on life insurance policies (the "Policies") on behalf of certain irrevocable trusts (the "Trusts") created by the Company's Chief
Executive Officer ("CEO"). The policies cover the CEO's life and that of his spouse. The Trusts are the owners and beneficiaries of the policies and are obligated to reimburse the Company for all
premiums paid when the insurance matures or upon death. To secure the Company's interest in each of the Policies, the Trusts have executed a collateral assignment of each of the Policies to the
Company. As of December 31, 2003, the Company has recorded receivables from such trusts in the amount of $1,670,000. The Company paid premiums of $238,000, $227,000, and $249,000 in 2001, 2002,
and 2003, respectively.

Executive Office Lease

The Company currently leases executive office facilities from an affiliate of its Chief Executive Officer. Rent expense for the years ended December 31,
2001, 2002 and 2003 amounted to $105,000, $154,000,
and $326,000. The Company added 6,653 square feet of office space this year and currently leases 19,045 square feet of office space in Wyomissing, Pennsylvania. The lease expires in June 2012
and provides for minimum annual future payments of $358,000.

14.   Subsidiary Guarantors

Under the terms of the senior secured credit facility, all of the Company's domestic subsidiaries are guarantors under the agreement, except for Onward
Development, LLC, an inactive subsidiary, Tennessee Downs, Inc., an inactive subsidiary, HWCC-Argentina, Inc., an inactive subsidiary,
HWCC-Louisiana, Inc., HWCC-Shreveport, Inc. HCS I, Inc, HCS II Inc., HCS-Golf Course, LLC, Hollywood Casino Shreveport and Shreveport Capital
Corporation and their respective subsidiaries, if any, (the "Subsidiary Non-Guarantors").


Summarized
financial information as of and for the year ended December 31, 2003 for Penn, the Subsidiary Guarantors and Subsidiary Non-Guarantors is as follows:

Penn

Subsidiary

Guarantors

Subsidiary

Non-

Guarantors

Eliminations

Consolidated

As of December 31, 2003

Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet (In thousands)

Current assets

$

1,153,015

$

124,220

$

46,231

$

(1,133,723

)

$

189,743

Net property and equipment, at cost

1,793

627,970

110,744

—

740,507

Other assets

70,634

679,152

1,150

(71,587

)

679,349

Total

$

1,225,442

$

1,431,342

$

158,125

$

(1,205,310

)

$

1,609,599

Current liabilities

$

55,944

$

64,489

$

162,708

$

3,897

$

287,038

Long-term liabilities

976,012

1,207,221

5,734

(1,176,284

)

1,012,683

Shareholder's equity

193,486

159,632

(10,317

)

(32,923

)

309,878

Total

$

1,225,442

$

1,431,342

$

158,125

$

(1,205,310

)

$

1,609,599

Year Ended December 31, 2003

Condensed Consolidating Statement of Income (In thousands)

Total revenues

$

—

$

1,036,955

$

127,652

$

(1,612

)

$

1,162,995

Total operating expenses

21,749

835,847

123,829

(1,612

)

979,813

Income (loss) from operations

(21,749

)

201,108

3,823

—

183,182

Other income (expense)

61,722

(135,961

)

(25,780

)

—

(100,019

)

Income (loss) before income taxes (benefit)

39,973

65,147

(21,957

)

—

83,163

Taxes (benefit) on income (loss)

15,161

24,239

(7,708

)

—

31,692

Net income (loss)

$

24,812

$

40,908

$

(14,249

)

$

—

$

51,471

Year ended December 31, 2003

Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows (In thousands)

Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities

$

(330,393

)

$

470,386

$

14,949

$

—

$

154,942

Net cash used in investing activities

(240,461

)

(80,123

)

(369

)

—

(320,953

)

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

578,727

(360,184

)

(1,084

)

—

217,459

Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash

—


(107

)

—


Net increase in cash and cash equivalents

7,873

30,586

13,389

—

51,848

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

3,339

38,430

13,352

—

55,121

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$

11,212

$

69,016

$

26,741

$

—

$

106,969


15.   Subsequent Events

Bangor Historic Track

On January 6, 2004, the Company entered into an agreement with Shawn Scott and Capital Seven, LLC to purchase all of the shares of Bangor Historic
Track, Inc. ("BHT"), the company that operates Bangor Raceway in Bangor, Maine. In conjunction with the purchase agreement, the Company also secured an option to purchase the interests in
Vernon Downs, which does business as Mid-State Raceway, a harness racing facility in Vernon, New York, controlled by an affiliate of Capital Seven, LLC. Initially, the purchase agreement
provided that the purchase price includes up front cash, progress and milestone payments and a final payment, subject to adjustment based on the final passage of gaming legislation. The agreement also
provided that the closing was subject to a number of conditions and contingencies, including gaming and other approvals. The citizens of Bangor approved a local referendum authorizing the operation of
slot machines at Bangor Raceway in June 2003. On January 15, 2004, the Maine Harness Racing Commission ("MHRC") issued an order providing that they would issue a conditional license to
BHT if, among other things, the Company accelerated its purchase of BHT. To do so, the Company amended its purchase agreement to provide for an accelerated closing without the payment of any
additional funds and to provide for the payment of the balance of the purchase price over time if, as and when the various conditions and contingencies specified for such additional payments were
satisfied. In addition, the Company also provided for a put
mechanism allowing it to dispose of its ownership interest under certain circumstances. Upon exercise of the put, the shares would be transferred to a trustee who has been instructed to resell the
shares for the benefit of the seller. In such event, the seller will be entitled to keep any deposits paid or accrued through the date of the put. On February 12, 2004, after the completion of
the due diligence process, the Company decided not to exercise our option to purchase the interest in Vernon Downs.

At
this stage, no assurance can be given that the Company will be able to complete the transaction contemplated by the purchase agreement. In addition, both the regulatory and
legislative environment are currently subject to significant uncertainty. While the voter initiated legislation authorizing the operation of slot machines at commercial tracks became effective in
February 2004, the MHRC has not yet commenced the process of adopting rules and regulations necessary to allow for the issuance of gaming related licenses. In addition, the Maine legislature is
currently considering various amendments to the existing legislation that may adversely impact the timing and ability of BHT to conduct gaming operations. Finally, although the MHRC issued an order on
March 3, 2004 conditionally granting to BHT a license, subject to certain conditions, to conduct racing operations at Bangor Raceway in 2004, certain special interest groups have commenced
litigation challenging the grant of the racing license to BHT. While the Company intends to defend BHT vigorously, such challenges, if successful, may adversely impact the timing and ability of BHT to
conduct racing or gaming operations at Bangor Raceway.

Rosemont Proposal

On January 22, 2004, the Company submitted a bid to finance and construct a casino in the greater Chicago area. The Company was one of seven companies
seeking to purchase the bankrupt Emerald Casino, Inc. and one of three companies proposing to construct a casino in Rosemont, Illinois. The Company was not among the three finalists selected by
the Illinois Gaming Board.


Hollywood Casino Shreveport

On February 3, 2004, the Company's indirect subsidiary, HCS I, Inc., the managing general partner of Hollywood Casino Shreveport ("HCS"), announced
that its Board of Directors (the "Board") has initiated a process that it hopes will result in the sale or other disposition of the riverboat casino/hotel complex of HCS located in Shreveport,
Louisiana. The announcement followed action by the Board authorizing HCS's financial advisor, Libra Securities LLC, to begin contacting potential acquirers. The Board also authorized the creation of
an independent committee to oversee the sale process, consisting of the director who is not employed directly by Penn. The Board created the independent committee in the event that Penn seeks to
participate as a bidder in the sale process. The Board took action after
consultation with an ad hoc committee of holders of the Hollywood Casino Shreveport Notes. Such notes are carried on the balance sheet at $119.3 million, reflecting the fair value of the assets
acquired at the date of acquisition. Although no formal agreement has been reached with the ad hoc committee regarding the sale process, HCS anticipates that it will consult with the ad hoc committee
throughout the process. There can be no assurance that the process will result in the sale or other disposition of the riverboat casino/hotel complex or that, if it does, the sale proceeds will be
adequate to pay the Hollywood Casino Shreveport Notes in full. HCS currently anticipates that any transaction would be effected through a federal bankruptcy proceeding. The Board also determined not
to authorize HCS to make the February 1, 2004 interest payments, aggregating $12.3 million, due on the Hollywood Casino Shreveport Notes. As previously reported by HCS, the Hollywood
Casino Shreveport Notes have been in default under the terms of their respective note indentures since May 2003, and accordingly are classified as current obligations at December 31,
2003. The Hollywood Casino Shreveport Notes are non-recourse to the Company and its subsidiaries (other than HWCC-Louisiana, Inc.,
HWCC-Shreveport, Inc. HCS I, Inc, HCS II Inc., HCS-Golf Course, LLC, Hollywood Casino Shreveport and Shreveport Capital Corporation).

Legal Proceedings

Louisiana.

In connection with the lease dispute involving the Casino Rouge property, in February 2004, the Company
filed another motion for partial judgment on most of the remaining issues. A hearing date has not yet been set. Further litigation on the remaining issues is anticipated.

West Virginia.

As of February 22, 2004, the Company had resolved several cases in West Virginia in which punitive
damages had been pled, paid out the settlement amounts in the first quarter of 2004 (which amounts will be included in miscellaneous assets) and is seeking reimbursement for these settlement amounts
in the West Virginia Action.


ITEM 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

ITEM 9A.    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Our management, under the supervision and with the participation of the principal executive officer and principal financial officer, have evaluated the
effectiveness of our controls and procedures related to our reporting and disclosure obligations as of December 31, 2003, which is the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. Based on that evaluation, the principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are sufficient to
provide that (a) material information relating to us, including our consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to these officers by our and our consolidated subsidiaries other employees,
particularly material information related to the period for which this periodic report is being prepared; and (b) this information is recorded, processed, summarized, evaluated and reported, as
applicable, within the time periods specified in the rules and forms promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission.

There
were no changes that occurred during the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2003 that have materially affected, or are reasonable likely to materially affect, our internal
controls over financial reporting.

PART III

ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information required by this item concerning directors is hereby incorporated by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement for its 2004 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders, or our 2004 Proxy Statement, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after December 31, 2003 pursuant to Regulation 14A
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Information required by this item concerning executive officers is included in Part I of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information called for in this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the 2004 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDERS MATTERS

The information called for in this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the 2004 Proxy Statement

ITEM 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information called for in this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the 2004 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 14.    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the 2004 Proxy Statement.


PART IV

ITEM 15.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) 1 and 2.

Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules.

The following is a list of the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and its subsidiaries and supplementary data filed as part of Item 8 hereof:

Report of Independent Certified Public Accountants

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2002 and 2003

Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003

All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable, or not required, or because the required information is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or notes thereto.

3.

Exhibits,
Including Those Incorporated by Reference.

The
exhibits to this Report are listed on the accompanying index to exhibits and are incorporated herein by reference or are filed as part of this annual report on Form 10-K.

(b)

Reports
on Form 8-K.

Report

Item(s) No.

Date of Report

Date Filed or Furnished

Form 8-K


September 30, 2003

Furnished October 3, 2003

Form 8-K

7 and 12

October 23, 2003

Furnished October 29, 2003

Form 8-K

5 and 7

November 24, 2003

Filed November 25, 2003


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

PENN NATIONAL GAMING, INC.

By:

/s/

PETER M. CARLINO

Peter M. Carlino

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer

Dated:
March 12, 2004

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated have signed this
report below.

Each
person whose signature appears below in so signing also makes, constitutes and appoints Robert S. Ippolito his true and lawful attorney-in-fact, in his name,
place and
stead to execute and cause to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission any or all amendments to this report.

Signature

Title

Date

/s/

PETER M. CARLINO

Peter M. Carlino

Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer)

March 12, 2004

/s/

KEVIN DESANCTIS

Kevin DeSanctis

President and Chief Operating Officer

March 12, 2004

/s/

WILLIAM J. CLIFFORD

William J. Clifford

Senior Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)

March 12, 2004

/s/

ROBERT S. IPPOLITO

Robert S. Ippolito

Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer (Principal Accounting Officer)

March 12, 2004

/s/

HAROLD CRAMER

Harold Cramer

Director

March 12, 2004

/s/

DAVID A. HANDLER

David A. Handler

Director

March 12, 2004

/s/

JOHN M. JACQUEMIN

John M. Jacquemin

Director

March 12, 2004

/s/

ROBERT P. LEVY

Robert P. Levy

Director

March 12, 2004

Barbara Z. Shattuck

Director

March     , 2004


EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit

Description of Exhibit

2.1

Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of August 7, 2002, by and among Hollywood Casino Corporation, Penn National Gaming, Inc. and P Acquisition Corp. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's current report on Form
8-K, dated August 7, 2002).

3.1

Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Penn National Gaming, Inc., filed with the Pennsylvania Department of State on October 15, 1996. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's registration statement on Form S-3, File #333-63780, dated
June 25, 2001).

3.2

Articles of Amendment to the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Penn National Gaming, Inc., filed with the Pennsylvania Department of State on November 13, 1996. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's registration statement on
Form S-3, File #333-63780, dated June 25, 2001).

3.3

Statement with respect to shares of Series A Preferred Stock of Penn National Gaming, Inc., filed with the Pennsylvania Department of State on March 16, 1999. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's registration statement on
Form S-3, File #333-63780, dated June 25, 2001).

3.4

Articles of Amendment to the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Penn National Gaming, Inc., filed with the Pennsylvania Department of State on July 23, 2001. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001).

3.5

Amended and Restated Bylaws of Penn National Gaming, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2003).

4.1

Specimen copy of Common Stock Certificate (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.6 of Penn National Gaming Inc.'s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2003).

4.2

Rights Agreement dated as of March 2, 1999, between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Continental Stock Transfer and Trust Company. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, dated March 17, 1999).

4.3

Indenture dated as of March 12, 2001 by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc., certain guarantors and State Street Bank and Trust Company relating to the Series A and Series B 11


/


% Senior Subordinated
Notes due 2008. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2001).

4.4

Form of Penn National Gaming, Inc. Series A 11


/


% Senior Subordinated Note due 2008. (Included as Exhibit A to Exhibit 4.3).

4.5

Form of Penn National Gaming, Inc. Series B 11


/


% Senior Subordinated Note due 2008. (Included as Exhibit A to Exhibit 4.3).

4.6

Form of Supplemental Indenture to be Delivered by Subsequent Guarantors by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc., certain guarantors and State Street Bank and Trust Company relating to the 11


/


% Senior Subordinated
Notes due 2008. (Included as Exhibit F to Exhibit 4.3).


4.7

Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 20, 2002 by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc., certain guarantors and State Street Bank and Trust Company relating to the 11


/


% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2008.
(Incorporated by reference to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002).

4.8

Indenture dated as of February 28, 2002 by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc., certain guarantors and State Street Bank and Trust Company relating to the 8


/


% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2010. (Incorporated by
reference to the Company's registration statement on Form S-3, File #333-63780, dated June 25, 2001).

4.9

Form of Penn National Gaming, Inc. 8


/


% Senior Subordinated Note due 2010. (Included as Exhibit A to Exhibit 4.8).

4.10

Form of Supplemental Indenture to be Delivered by Subsequent Guarantors by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc., certain guarantors and State Street Bank and Trust Company relating to the 8


/


% Senior Subordinated Notes
due 2010. (Included as Exhibit F to Exhibit 4.8).

4.11

Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 20, 2002 by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc., certain guarantors and State Street Bank and Trust Company relating to the 8


/


% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2010.
(Incorporated by reference to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001).

4.12*

Indenture dated as of December 4, 2003 by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc., certain guarantors and U.S. Bank National Association relating to the 6


/


% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2011.

4.13*

Form of Penn National Gaming, Inc. 6


/


% Senior Subordinated Note due 2011. (Included as Exhibit A to Exhibit 4.12).

4.14*

Form of Supplemental Indenture to be Delivered by Subsequent Guarantors by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc., certain guarantors and U.S. Bank National Association relating to the 6


/


% Senior Subordinated Notes due
2011. (Included as Exhibit F to Exhibit 4.12).

4.15

Indenture among Hollywood Casino Shreveport and Shreveport Capital Corporation ("SCC") as Co-Issuers, and HWCC-Louisiana, Inc. ("HCL"), HCS I, Inc. and HCS II, Inc., as Guarantors, and State Street Bank and Trust Company, as
Trustee, dated as of August 10, 1999. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.1 of the registration statement of Hollywood Casino Shreveport and SCC on Form S-4, File #333-88679, dated October 8, 1999).

4.16

Collateral Assignment of Contracts and Documents dated August 10, 1999 between Hollywood Casino Shreveport and State Street Bank and Trust Company, as Trustee. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.3 of the registration statement of Hollywood
Casino Shreveport and SCC on Form S-4, File #333-88679, dated October 8, 1999).

4.17

Security Agreement dated August 10, 1999 between Hollywood Casino Shreveport and State Street Bank and Trust Company, as Trustee. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.4 of the registration statement of Hollywood Casino Shreveport and SCC
on Form S-4, File #333-88679, dated October 8, 1999).


4.18

Partnership Interest Pledge Agreement dated August 10, 1999 made by HCS I, Inc. in favor of State Street Bank and Trust Company, as Trustee and Secured Party. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.5 of the registration statement of Hollywood Casino
Shreveport and SCC on Form S-4, File #333-88679, dated October 8, 1999).

4.19

Cash Collateral and Disbursement Agreement dated August 10, 1999 between Hollywood Casino Shreveport, SCC, First American Title Insurance Company, as Disbursement Agent and State Street Bank and Trust Company, as Trustee. (Incorporated by reference
to exhibit 4.6 of the registration statement of Hollywood Casino Shreveport and SCC on Form S-4, File #333-88679, dated October 8, 1999).

4.20

First Amendment to Cash Collateral and Disbursement Agreement dated January 1, 2000 between Hollywood Casino Shreveport, SCC, First American Title Insurance Company and State Street Bank and Trust Company. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.24
of Hollywood Casino Shreveport's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999, File #333-88679).

4.21

Stock Pledge Agreement dated August 10, 1999 made by HCL in favor of State Street Bank and Trust Company, as Trustee. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.7 of the registration statement of Hollywood Casino Shreveport and SCC on Form S-4, File
#333-88679, dated October 8, 1999).

4.22

Security Agreement dated August 10, 1999 made by SCC, HCL, HCS I, Inc. and HCS II, Inc. to State Street Bank and Trust Company, as Trustee and Secured Party. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.8 of the registration
statement of Hollywood Casino Shreveport and SCC on Form S-4, File #333-88679, dated October 8, 1999).

4.23

Security Agreement—Vessel Construction dated August 10, 1999 between Hollywood Casino Shreveport and State Street Bank and Trust Company, as Trustee. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.9 of the registration statement of Hollywood
Casino Shreveport and SCC on Form S-4, File #333-88679, dated October 8, 1999).

4.24

Mortgage, Leasehold Mortgage and Assignment of Leases and Rents made by Hollywood Casino Shreveport in favor of State Street Bank and Trust Company, as Mortgagee, dated August 10, 1999. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.10 of the registration
statement of Hollywood Casino Shreveport and SCC on Form S-4, File #333-88679, dated October 8, 1999).

4.25

Partnership Interest Pledge Agreement dated August 10, 1999 made by HCS II, Inc. in favor of State Street Bank and Trust Company, as Trustee and Secured Party. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.11 of the registration statement of Hollywood
Casino Shreveport and SCC on Form S-4, File #333-88679, dated October 8, 1999).

4.26

First Amendment to Security Agreement dated August 10, 1999 between HWCC-Shreveport, Inc. and State Street Bank and Trust Company, as Trustee. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.12 of the registration statement of Hollywood Casino Shreveport and
SCC on Form S-4, File #333-88679, dated October 8, 1999).

4.27

Indenture among Hollywood Casino Shreveport and SCC as Issuers and State Street Bank and Trust Company, as Trustee, dated as of June 15, 2001. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.1 of Hollywood Casino Shreveport's quarterly report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended June 30, 2001, File #333-88679).


4.28

Collateral Assignment of Contracts and Documents dated June 15, 2001 between Hollywood Casino Shreveport and State Street Bank and Trust Company, as Trustee. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.3 of Hollywood Casino Shreveport's quarterly report
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2001, File #333-88679).

4.29

Security Agreement dated June 15, 2001 between Hollywood Casino Shreveport and State Street Bank and Trust Company, as Trustee. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.4 of Hollywood Casino Shreveport's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 2001, File #333-88679).

4.30

Security Agreement dated June 15, 2001 made by SCC to State Street Bank and Trust Company, as Trustee. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.5 of Hollywood Casino Shreveport's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30,
2001, File #333-88679).

4.31

Preferred Ship Mortgage made by Hollywood Casino Shreveport in favor of State Street Bank and Trust Company, as Trustee, on Hollywood Dreams Official No. 1099497 dated as of June 15, 2001. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.6 of Hollywood Casino
Shreveport's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2001, File #333-88679).

4.32

Mortgage, Leasehold Mortgage and Assignments of Leases and Rents made by Hollywood Casino Shreveport in favor of State Street Bank and Trust Company, as Trustee, dated as of June 15, 2001. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.7 of Hollywood Casino
Shreveport's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2001, File #333-88679).

9.1

Form of Trust Agreement of Peter D. Carlino, Peter M. Carlino, Richard J. Carlino, David E. Carlino, Susan F. Harrington, Anne de Lourdes Irwin, Robert M. Carlino, Stephen P. Carlino and Rosina E. Carlino
Gilbert. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May 26, 1994).

10.1#

1994 Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May 26, 1994).

10.2#

Penn National Gaming, Inc. 2003 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan. (Incorporated by reference to Appendix A of Penn National Gaming, Inc.'s Proxy Statement dated April 22, 2003 filed pursuant to Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended).

10.3#

Employment Agreement dated April 12, 1994 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Peter M. Carlino. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May 26, 1994).

10.4#

Amendment to Employment Agreement dated June 1, 1999, between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Peter M. Carlino. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1999).

10.5#

Employment Agreement dated April 12, 1994 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Robert S. Ippolito. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May 26, 1994).

10.6#

Amendment to Employment Agreement dated June 1, 1999, between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Robert S. Ippolito. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1999).


10.7#

Employment Agreement dated February 2001 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Kevin DeSanctis. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001).

10.8#

Employment Agreement dated July 30, 2001 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and William Clifford. (Incorporated by referenced to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001).

10.9#

Employment Agreement dated September 3, 2002 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Jordan B. Savitch. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
2002).

10.10#

Employment Agreement dated June 10, 2003 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Leonard DeAngelo. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Incorporated by reference to the Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 2003).

10.11

Consulting Agreement dated August 29, 1994, between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Peter D. Carlino. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994, File #
000-24206).

10.12

Lease dated March 31, 1995 between Wyomissing Professional Center III, LP and Penn National Gaming, Inc. for the Wyomissing Corporate Office. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
 1995, File # 000-24206).

10.13

Agreement dated September 1, 1995 between Mountainview Thoroughbred Racing Association and Pennsylvania National Turf Club, Inc. and Sports Arena Employees' Union Local 137 (non-primary location). (Incorporated by reference to the Company's annual
report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995, File # 000-24206).

10.14

Agreement dated January 1, 2001 by and between PNGI Charles Town Gaming Limited Liability Company, or its successors, and the West Virginia Union of Mutuel Clerks, Local 553, Service Employees International Union, AFL-CIO. (Incorporated by reference
to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000).

10.15

Agreement dated October 2, 1996 between Pennsylvania National Turf Club, Inc., Mountainview Racing Association and Sports Arena Employees' Union Local No. 137 (Primary Location). (Incorporated by reference to the Company's annual
report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997).

10.16

Live Racing Agreement dated March 23, 1999 among Pennsylvania National Turf Club, Inc., Mountainview Thoroughbred Racing Association and Pennsylvania Horsemen's Benevolent and Protection Association, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to
the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998).

10.16(a)*

Amendment dated December 30, 2003 to Live Racing Agreement among Pennsylvania National Turf Club, Inc., Mountainview Thoroughbred Racing Association and Pennsylvania Horsemen's Benevolent and Protection Association, Inc.


10.17

Harness Horsemen agreement effective January 16, 2003, between The Downs Racing, Inc., and the Pennsylvania Harness Horsemen's Association, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
31, 2002).

10.17(a)*

Amendment dated February 15, 2004 to Harness Horsemen agreement between The Downs Racing, Inc., and the Pennsylvania Harness Horsemen's Association, Inc.

10.18

Agreement dated May 7, 1997, between PNGI Charles Town Gaming, LLC and Charles Town H.B.P.A., Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002).

10.18(a)

Thoroughbred Horsemen letter dated February 24, 2000, between PNGI Charles Town Gaming, LLC and the Charles Town Thoroughbred Horsemen. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
1999).

10.18(b)

Amendment dated December 20, 2002 to Agreement between PNGI Charles Town Gaming, LLC and Charles Town H.B.P.A., Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002).

10.18(c)*

Amendment dated February 27, 2004 to Agreement between PNGI Charles Town Gaming, LLC and Charlestown H.B.P.A., Inc.

10.19*

Credit Agreement, dated March 3, 2003, as amended and restated as of December 5, 2003, among Penn National Gaming, Inc., Bear Stearns & Co., Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Bear Stearns Corporate Lending Inc.,
Socìete Generale, Credit Lyonnais New York Branch and the lenders party thereto.

10.20

Ground Lease dated as of October 11, 1993 between R.M. Leatherman and Hugh M. Mageveney, III, as Landlord, and SRCT, as Tenant. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.4 of HWCC-Tunica, Inc.'s registration statement on
Form S-1, File #33-82182, dated August 1, 1994).

10.21

Letter Agreement dated as of October 11, 1993 between R.M. Leatherman and Hugh M. Mageveney, III, as Landlord, and SRCT, as Tenant (relating to Ground Lease). (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.5 of HWCC-Tunica, Inc.'s registration statement on
Form S-1, File #33-82182, dated August 1, 1994).

10.22

Assignment of Lease and Assumption Agreement dated as of May 31, 1994 between SRCT and STP (relating to Ground Lease). (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.7 of HWCC-Tunica, Inc.'s registration statement on Form S-1, File
#33-82182, dated August 1, 1994).

10.23

Manager Subordination Agreement, dated as of August 10, 1999, by and among State Street Bank and Trust Company, as Trustee, HWCC-Shreveport, Inc. and Hollywood Casino Shreveport. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.3 of Amendment No. 1 to
Hollywood Casino Corporation's registration statement on Form S-4, File #333-83081, filed August 13, 1999).

10.24

Ground Lease, dated May 19, 1999, by and between the City of Shreveport, Louisiana and QNOV. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.13 of the registration statement of Hollywood Casino Shreveport and SCC on Form S-4, File #333-88679, dated October
8, 1999).


10.25

Manager Subordination Agreement, dated as of June 15, 2001, by and among State Street Bank and Trust Company, as Trustee, HWCC-Shreveport, Inc. and Hollywood Casino Shreveport. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 of Hollywood Casino
Shreveport's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2001, File #333-88679).

10.26#*

Penn National Gaming, Inc. Nonqualified Stock Option granted to Peter M. Carlino, dated Februray 6, 2003.

10.27

Ground Lease, dated October 19, 1993, between Raphael Skrmetta as Landlord and Mississippi—I Gaming, L.P. as Tenant. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.33 of Pinnacle Entertainment, Inc.'s quarterly report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended June 30, 1997, File # 000-10619).

10.27(a)

First Amendment to Ground Lease dated October 19, 1993, between Raphael Skrmetta and Mississippi—I Gaming, L.P. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.34 of Pinnacle Entertainment, Inc.'s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended June 30, 1997, File # 000-10619).

10.27(b)

Second Amendment to Ground Lease dated October 19, 1993, between Raphael Skrmetta and Mississippi—I Gaming, L.P. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.35 of Pinnacle Entertainment, Inc.'s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended June 30, 1997, File # 000-10619).

14.1*

Penn National Gaming, Inc. Code of Business Conduct.

21.1*

Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23.1*

Consent of BDO Seidman, LLP.

24.1*

Power of attorney (included on the signature page to this Form 10-K report).

31.1*

CEO Certification pursuant to rule 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

31.2*

CFO Certification pursuant to rule 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

32.1*

CEO Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, As Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.2*

CFO Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, As Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

99.1*

Description of Governmental Regulation.

#

Compensation
plans and arrangements for executives and others.

*

Filed
herewith.


QuickLinks


PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS

ITEM 6. SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Balance Sheets (In thousands, except share and per share data)

Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Income (In thousands, except per share data)

Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity (In thousands, except share data)

Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (In thousands)

Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDERS MATTERS

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

SIGNATURES

EXHIBIT INDEX