10-K


a2074455z10-k.htm

10-K

QuickLinks

-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

ý

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period
from                        to

Commission File Number 0-24206

Penn National Gaming, Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Pennsylvania

(State or other jurisdiction of

Incorporation or Organization)

23-2234473

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

Wyomissing Professional Center

825 Berkshire Blvd., Suite 200

Wyomissing, Pennsylvania

(Address of principal executive offices)


(Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code:

(610) 373-2400

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange

on which registered

None

None

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Common Stock, par value $.01 per share

(Title of Class)

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.        YES

ý

.    No

o

.

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the
registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

o

The
aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant is approximately $526,252,961. Such aggregate market value was computed by reference
to the closing price of the Common Stock as reported on the Nasdaq National Market on March 19, 2002. For purposes of making this calculation only, the registrant has defined affiliates as
including all directors, executive officers and beneficial owners of more than ten percent of the Common Stock of the Company.

The
number of shares of the registrant's Common Stock outstanding as of March 19, 2002 was 19,309,050.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant's definitive proxy statement for its 2002 annual meeting of shareholders are incorporated by reference into
Part III.


PART I

Item 1.

Business


Item 2.

Properties


Item 3.

Legal Proceedings


Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders


PART II

Item 5.

Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Shareholder Matters


Item 6.

Selected Consolidated Financial Data


Item 7.

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations


Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk


Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data


Item 9.

Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure


PART III

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant


Item 11.

Executive Compensation


Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management


Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions


PART IV

Item 14.

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K


SIGNATURES


This
document includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, regarding, among other things, our business strategy, our prospects and our financial position. These statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as
"believes," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "may," "will," "should" or "anticipates" or the negative or other variation of these or similar words, or by discussions of strategy or risks and
uncertainties. Specifically, forward-looking statements may include, among others, statements concerning:

•

our
expectations of future results of operations or financial condition;

•

our
expectations for our properties and the facility that we manage in Canada;

•

the
timing, cost and expected impact on our market share and results of operations of our planned capital expenditures;

•

the
timing of completion of our acquisition of Bullwhackers casino;

•

the
impact of our regional diversification;


•

our
expectations with regard to further acquisitions and the integration of any companies we may acquire;

•

the
outcome and financial impact of the litigation in which we are involved;

•

the
actions of regulatory authorities with regard to our business and the impact of any such actions;

•

the
expected effect of regulatory changes that we are pursuing; and

•

expectations
of the continued availability of capital resources.

Although
we believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, they are inherently subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us and
our subsidiaries and, accordingly, we cannot assure you that such expectations will prove to be correct. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking
statements include, without limitation, risks related to the following:

•

capital
projects at our gaming and pari-mutuel facilities;

•

the
activities of our competitors;

•

the
existence of attractive acquisition candidates;

•

our
ability to maintain regulatory approvals for our existing businesses and to receive regulatory approvals for our new businesses;

•

our
dependence on key personnel;

•

the
maintenance of agreements with our horsemen and pari-mutuel clerks;

•

the
risk factors and other risks and uncertainties described in this document and from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission; and

•

other
risks and uncertainties that have not been identified at this time.

All
subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements
included in this document. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as
required by law. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed in this document may not occur.


PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Overview

We are a leading diversified, multi-jurisdictional owner and operator of gaming properties, as well as horse racetracks and associated off-track
wagering facilities, which we refer to in this document as our pari-mutuel operations. We own or operate five gaming properties located in West Virginia, Mississippi, Louisiana and
Ontario, Canada that are focused primarily on serving customers within driving distance of our properties. We also own two racetracks and eleven off-track wagering facilities in
Pennsylvania. We believe our portfolio of assets provides us with diversified cash flow. We intend to pursue the expansion of our gaming operations through both the implementation of a disciplined
capital expenditure program at our existing properties and the continued pursuit of strategic acquisitions of gaming properties in attractive regional markets.

In
1997, we began our transition from a pari-mutuel company to a diversified gaming company with the introduction of video lottery terminals at our Charles Town Entertainment
Complex. In 1999, we expanded our offerings at Charles Town with the introduction of reel-spinning, coin-in/coin-out machines. We continued our transition through a
series of strategic acquisitions in four different regional markets. In August 2000, we acquired Casino Magic Bay St. Louis in Bay St. Louis, Mississippi and Boomtown Biloxi in Biloxi,
Mississippi for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $200 million and, in April 2001, we acquired Casino Rouge in Baton Rouge, Louisiana and the management contract for Casino
Rama in Orillia, Ontario, Canada for approximately $180 million. In addition, we have signed an agreement to acquire the operations of Bullwhackers Casino, the adjoining Bullpen Sports Casino
and Silver Hawk Saloon and Casino in Black Hawk, Colorado. We are also in the process of implementing significant capital improvement plans at Charles Town and Bay St. Louis. These projects include
the construction of additional floor space and a parking facility at Charles Town and the development of an additional hotel in Bay St. Louis. We believe these projects will broaden the customer
appeal of these properties.

The
following table summarizes certain features of our owned or leased properties and our managed facility as of March 15, 2002:

Property

Location

Type of

Facility

Gaming

Square

Footage

Gaming

Machines

Table

Games

Owned or Leased:

Charles Town Entertainment Complex

Charles Town, WV

Land-based gaming/ Thoroughbred racing

50,000

2,000

—

Casino Magic Bay St. Louis

Bay St. Louis, MS

Dockside gaming

39,500

1,138


Boomtown Biloxi

Biloxi, MS

Dockside gaming

33,600

1,171


Casino Rouge

Baton Rouge, LA

Dockside gaming

28,000

1,029


Penn National Race Course(1)

Harrisburg, PA

Thoroughbred racing

—

—

—

Pocono Downs(1)

Wilkes-Barre, PA

Harness racing

—

—

—

Operated:

Casino Rama

Orillia, Ontario

Land-based gaming

75,000

2,172


Totals

226,100

7,510


(1)

In
addition to our racetracks, Penn National Race Course and Pocono Downs operate six and five off-track wagering facilities, respectively, located throughout
Pennsylvania.

Charles Town Entertainment Complex.

The Charles Town Entertainment Complex in Charles Town, West Virginia
features 2,000 gaming machines, a thoroughbred racetrack, simulcast wagering, entertainment and dining. The facility is located within driving distance of Baltimore, Maryland and Washington, D.C. and
is a leading gaming property serving the area. There is a total population of approximately 3.1 million and 10.0 million persons within a 50 and 100-mile radius,
respectively, of the


property. We have experienced strong growth at the facility and have increased the number of gaming machines from 400 in September 1997 to their current levels. A change in law in
March 2001 increased the maximum per pull wagering limit on the machines from $2 to $5. We have undertaken a number of initiatives to drive growth at this property. In November 2000, we
expanded the gaming area to over 50,000 square feet and opened a 150-seat restaurant and bar. We also have begun construction of a 1,500-space structured parking facility that
is expected to open in the second quarter of 2002 and we are expanding the gaming floor space to accommodate additional gaming machines and patrons. The first phase of our expansion will add 41,000
square feet of space and will enable us to install 500 additional gaming machines. We expect to complete this phase of the expansion in July 2002. On February 28, 2002, the West Virginia
Lottery Commission approved our request to add up to 1,500 additional gaming machines at Charles Town. We expect to install 500 machines in 2002 and an additional 1,000 machines in 2003, for a total
of 3,500 machines.

Casino Magic Bay St. Louis.

Casino Magic Bay St. Louis offers approximately 39,500 square feet of gaming space, with
approximately 1,138 slot machines and 36 table games. The facility is located in the Gulf Coast gaming market and is within driving distance of New Orleans, Louisiana, Mobile, Alabama and other cities
in the Southeast. The property includes a 201-room hotel with banquet and meeting space, 1,800-seat arena, 18-hole Arnold Palmer-designed championship golf course,
steak and seafood restaurant, a buffet-style restaurant and a live entertainment lounge. We are constructing a 300-room hotel with conference facilities, which we expect to open in the
late second quarter of 2002. The hotel, which is attached to the casino, will be comprised of 236 deluxe rooms, 46 junior suites and 9 one-bedroom suites with attached parlors. We believe
the new hotel will enable us to enhance our status as a regional destination property.

Boomtown Biloxi.

Boomtown Biloxi, also located in the Gulf Coast gaming market, offers approximately 33,600 square feet of
gaming space, with 1,171 slot machines and 22 table games, as well as other gaming amenities including a full service buffet/menu service restaurant, 120-seat deli-style
restaurant, full-service bakery, western dance hall/cabaret and 20,000-square foot family entertainment center. We believe that the property offers a relaxed and friendly
environment and has a broad and loyal customer
base. There is an adult population of approximately 665,000 and 2.2 million persons within a 50 and 100-mile radius, respectively, of the Gulf Coast market.

Casino Rouge.

Casino Rouge is one of two dockside riverboat gaming facilities operating in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. The
property features a four-story, 47,000-square foot riverboat casino, replicating a nineteenth century Mississippi River paddlewheel steamboat, and a two-story,
58,000-square foot dockside embarkation building. The riverboat features approximately 28,000 square feet of gaming space, 1,029 gaming machines and 38 table games and has a capacity of
1,800 customers. The dockside embarkation facility offers a variety of amenities, including a steakhouse, a 268-seat buffet, food and bar service, lounge areas, meeting and planning space
and a gift shop. There is an adult population of approximately 650,000 and 2.3 million persons within a 50 and 100-mile radius, respectively, of the Baton Rouge market.

Casino Rama.

We operate Casino Rama, a full service gaming and entertainment facility, on behalf of the Ontario Lottery and
Gaming Corporation, an agency of the Province of Ontario. Casino Rama, located on the lands of the Mnjikaning First Nation, is approximately 90 miles north of Toronto, Canada, and has approximately
75,000 square feet of gaming space, 2,172 gaming machines and 122 table games. A 5,000-seat entertainment facility opened in July 2001 and a 300-room hotel currently is
under construction at the property and is expected to open in the second quarter of 2002. We have not and are not required to commit any of our capital to these projects. Under our operating
agreement, which expires in 2011, we are entitled to a base fee equal to two percent of gross revenue of the casino and an incentive fee equal to five percent on the casino's net operating profit.

Penn National Race Course, Pocono Downs and Other Pari-Mutuel Assets.

In addition to our gaming facilities, we
own and operate Penn National Race Course, located outside of Harrisburg, one


of two thoroughbred racetracks in Pennsylvania, and Pocono Downs, located outside of Wilkes-Barre, one of two harness racetracks in Pennsylvania. There is a total population of approximately
2.2 million persons within a 50-mile radius of Penn National Race Course. There is a total population of approximately 1.5 million persons within a 50-mile radius
of Pocono Downs. In addition to our racetracks, we operate eleven off-track wagering facilities, or OTWs, in Pennsylvania and hold a 50% interest in Pennwood Racing, Inc., a joint
venture that owns and operates Freehold Raceway in New Jersey.

In
August 2001, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire the operations of Bullwhackers Casino in Black Hawk, Colorado for $6.5 million cash. The Bullwhackers
properties include 20,700 square feet of gaming space, 1,002 slot machines, 16 table games and a 475-car parking area. The properties are located on leased land as well as 3.25 acres of
land included in the acquisition, much of which is utilized for parking. We expect to close the acquisition in the second quarter of 2002.

We
are the successor to several businesses that have operated the Penn National Race Course since 1972. We were incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1982 as PNRC Corp. and adopted our present
name in
1994. Our principal executive offices are located in the Wyomissing Professional Center, 825 Berkshire Boulevard, Suite 200, Wyomissing, Pennsylvania 19610; our telephone number is
(610) 373-2400.

Recent Developments

Equity Offering

On February 20, 2002, we completed a public offering of 4,600,000 shares of our common stock at a public offering price of $30.50 per share. Of the common
shares sold in the offering, 3,350,000 shares were sold by us and 1,250,000 shares were sold by The Carlino Family Trust, a related party. We have used the net proceeds from the offering, totaling
approximately $96.1 million after deducting underwriting discounts and related expenses, to repay term loan indebtedness under the existing senior secured credit facility. We did not receive
any proceeds from the offering by The Carlino Family Trust.



/


% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2010

On February 28, 2002, we completed a public offering of $175.0 million of our 8


/


% senior subordinated notes due 2010. Interest on
the 8


/


% notes is payable on March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning September 15, 2002. The 8


/


% notes mature on March 15, 2010.
As of February 28, 2002, all of the principal amount of the 8


/


% notes are outstanding. We have used the net proceeds from this offering, totaling approximately
$170.5 million after deducting underwriting discounts and related expenses to repay term loan indebtedness under the existing senior secured credit facility.

We
may redeem all or part of the 8


/


% notes on or after March 15, 2006 at certain specified redemption prices. Prior to March 15, 2005, we may redeem up to
35% of the 8


/


% notes from proceeds of certain sales of our equity securities. The 8


/


% notes also are subject to redemption requirements imposed by state and local
gaming laws and regulations.

The


/


% notes are general unsecured obligations and are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by certain of our current and future wholly-owned domestic
subsidiaries. The 8


/


% notes rank equally with our existing and any future senior subordinated debt, including our existing 11


/


% senior subordinated notes, and junior
to our senior debt, including debt under our senior credit facility. In addition, the 8


/


% notes will be effectively junior to any indebtedness of our non-U.S. or
unrestricted subsidiaries, none of which have guaranteed the 8


/


% notes.


Showboat Litigation Settlement

On February 13, 2002, Showboat Development Company filed a lawsuit against us in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
The substance of this lawsuit is substantially similar to Showboat's previous claim filed in the United States District Court of Nevada, which was dismissed for lack of personal jurisdiction on
January 25, 2002. That suit, filed in July 2001, alleged, among other claims, that the operation of our Charles Town facility constitutes the operation of a casino, thereby triggering an
option Showboat holds to manage a casino at the facility. On March 28, 2002, Penn National and Showboat agreed to settle all litigation related to this matter. Under the settlement, we agreed
to make a one-time payment of $1.0 million to Showboat, which was recognized in general and administrative expenses in our operating results for the fourth quarter of 2001.

The Charles Town Entertainment Complex

The Charles Town Entertainment Complex in Charles Town, West Virginia features 2,000 gaming machines, a thoroughbred racetrack, simulcast wagering, entertainment
and dining. The facility is approximately a 60-minute drive from Baltimore and a 70-minute drive from Washington, D.C. and is a leading gaming property serving the area. There
is a total population of approximately 3.1 million and 10.0 million persons within a 50 and 100-mile radius, respectively, of the property. We have experienced strong growth
at the facility in recent years and have increased the number of gaming machines from 400 in September 1997 to their current levels. On February 28, 2002, the West Virginia Lottery
Commission approved our request to add up to 1,500 additional gaming machines at Charles Town. A change in law in April 2001 increased the maximum per pull wagering limit on the machines from
$2 to $5. We have undertaken a number of initiatives to drive growth at this property. In November 2000, we expanded the gaming area to over 50,000 square feet and opened a 150-seat
restaurant and bar. We also have begun construction of a 1,500-space structured parking facility that is expected to open in the second quarter of 2002 and we are expanding the gaming
floor space to accommodate additional gaming machines and patrons. The first phase of our gaming floor expansion, which we expect to complete in July 2002, will add 41,000 square feet of space
and will enable us to install 500 additional gaming machines. We expect to install an additional 1,000 machines in 2003, for a total of 3,500 machines.

Of
the 2,000 machines at December 31, 2001, approximately 1,500 machines are coin-out, spinning-reel and video gaming machines. The remaining gaming
machines are dollar bill-fed video gaming machines that replicate traditional spinning reel gaming machines and video card games, such as blackjack and poker. We intend to convert some or
all of the video gaming machines to coin-out, spinning-reel machines and expect to add 1,500 gaming machines over the next two years.

Our
marketing efforts at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex include print and radio advertising and are focused on the Washington, D.C., Baltimore, Maryland, Northern Virginia,
Eastern West
Virginia and Southern Pennsylvania markets. In 1999, we installed a computerized player tracking system called Player's Choice

SM

at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex. This system
has helped to further refine our marketing efforts and our database now consists of approximately 188,000 players as of March 13, 2002. Our marketing efforts also include a bus program and cash
and merchandise give-aways.

Casino Magic Bay St. Louis

Casino Magic Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi (described below) operate in the established Mississippi Gulf Coast Gaming market. Gross casino gaming revenues on
the Mississippi Gulf Coast totaled approximately $1,151 million and $1,110 million in 2001 and 2000, respectively. The Mississippi Gulf Coast has a long tradition as a vacation
destination and it draws an estimated two million visitors annually, primarily from Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, Florida and Georgia. Approximately


0.6 million and 2.2 million adult persons live within a 50-mile and 100-mile radius, respectively, of the Gulf Coast and average household income in these areas
is more than 80% of the U.S. average. The Gulf Coast area also boasts a local population of over 200,000 adult persons.

Casino
Magic Bay St. Louis commenced operation in September 1992 as the first dockside casino in Mississippi to operate on a barge rather than a traditional riverboat. The casino
is located on a 17-acre marina with the adjoining land-based facilities situated on 591 acres. Casino Magic Bay St. Louis offers approximately 39,500 square feet of gaming
space, with approximately 1,138 slot machines and 36 table games. The three story land-based building houses a steak and seafood restaurant, buffet-style restaurant, café,
gift shop and live entertainment lounge. The property has a 201-room hotel that includes 24 suites, banquet and meeting space and an outdoor pool. The Casino Magic Bay St. Louis complex
also includes an 1,800-seat arena for concerts and sporting events, a 100-space recreational vehicle park, a child entertainment center, and the Bridges Golf Resort, an
18-hole Arnold Palmer-designed championship golf course that includes a clubhouse, pro shop, and a casual dining restaurant.

We
have begun a number of focused enhancements to the Casino Magic Bay St. Louis property. We began construction in April 2001 of a 300-room hotel with conference
facilities, which we expect to open in the late second quarter of 2002. The hotel, which is attached to the casino, will be comprised of 236 deluxe rooms, 46 junior suites and 9
one-bedroom suites with attached parlors. We believe that the new hotel will enhance mid-week business at the facility and will geographically extend the casino's target
market. We also have begun construction of three new restaurant venues, renovations to the existing buffet restaurant and adding certain amenities to the gaming floor. We believe that with these
enhancements and the existing golf course, Casino Magic Bay St. Louis, is evolving into a complete overnight destination resort with the broadest offering of amenities on the Gulf Coast.

Casino
Magic Bay St. Louis is located 1.5 miles north of U.S. Highway 90, approximately nine miles south of Interstate 10, the main thoroughfare connecting New Orleans, Louisiana and
Mobile, Alabama.

Boomtown Biloxi

Boomtown Biloxi, also located in the Gulf Coast gaming market, offers approximately 33,600 square feet of gaming space, with 1,171 slot machines and 22 table
games, as well as other gaming amenities including a full service buffet/menu service restaurant, 120-seat deli-style restaurant, full-service bakery, western dance
hall/cabaret and 20,000-square foot family entertainment center. Boomtown Biloxi commenced operations in July 1994 and occupies nine acres on Biloxi, Mississippi's historic Back
Bay. The dockside property consists of a land-based facility which houses all non-gaming operating space and an approximately 33,600 square foot casino constructed on a 400 by
100-foot barge permanently moored to the land-based building. There is approximately 14,000 square feet on the barge that remains available for development. We believe that the
property offers a relaxed and friendly environment and has a broad and loyal customer base.

Boomtown
Biloxi offers gaming and entertainment amenities to primarily middle income, value-oriented customers. The casino has an "old west" theme with western memorabilia in its
interior decor, country/western music and employees dressed in western attire. We believe that the property offers a relaxed and friendly environment and has a broad and loyal customer base. We intend
to continue to focus on this target market by providing moderately priced, high value amenities and by utilizing a broad array of marketing programs, including charter flights and bus programs, among
others.

Boomtown
Biloxi is located one-half mile from Interstate 110, the main highway connecting Interstate 10 and the Gulf of Mexico. Interstate 10 is the main thoroughfare
connecting New Orleans, Louisiana and Mobile, Alabama. According to the Mississippi Department of Transportation, over 12 million vehicles travel past the Boomtown Biloxi site on Interstate 110
each year. The site is easily accessible by car when approaching from the north due to its immediate proximity to the Interstate 110 spur from Interstate 10, which provides the bulk of traffic to the
Gulf Coast region. Boomtown Biloxi is


constructed in the Back Bay and is one of the first casinos visible to auto traffic traveling south on Interstate 110.

We
have an exclusive license to use the Boomtown Biloxi name, logo and internet world wide web address. The term of the license is contingent upon certain events, but in no event will it
be for less than two years from August 2000. If our license to use the Boomtown Biloxi name expires, we would have to identify an alternative name for this casino.

Casino Rouge

Casino Rouge is one of two dockside riverboat gaming facilities operating in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. The property opened in 1994 and features a
four-story, 47,000-square foot riverboat casino, replicating a nineteenth century Mississippi River paddlewheel steamboat, and a two-story,
58,000-square foot dockside embarkation building. The riverboat features approximately 28,000 square feet of gaming space, 1,029 gaming machines and 38 table games and has a capacity of
1,800 customers. The dockside embarkation facility offers a variety of amenities, including a steakhouse, a 268-seat "International Marketplace Buffet," an array of food, bar service and
lounge areas, meeting and planning space and a gift shop. All of the facilities are open seven days a week, 24 hours a day. For fiscal year 2001, Casino Rouge's share of the Baton Rouge gaming
market was approximately 55% of casino revenues, as reported by the Louisiana Gaming Control Board.

The
23-acre site is located on the east bank of the Mississippi River in the East Baton Rouge Downtown Development District less than one-quarter mile from the
state capital complex. The site is within approximately one mile of both Interstate 10 and Interstate 110, two major highways in the area. In addition, the site has convenient parking for
approximately 1,650 cars adjacent to the embarkation facility. There is an adult population of approximately 650,000 and 2.3 million persons within a 50 and 100-mile radius,
respectively, of the Baton Rouge market

Casino Rama

CHC Casinos Canada Limited, our wholly-owned subsidiary, operates Casino Rama, a full service gaming and entertainment facility, on behalf of the Ontario Lottery
and Gaming Corporation, an agency of the Province of Ontario. Casino Rama, located on the lands of the Mnjikaning First Nation, is approximately 90 miles north of Toronto, Canada, and has
approximately 75,000 square feet of gaming space, 2,172 gaming machines and 122 table games. A 5,000-seat entertainment facility opened in July 2001 and a 300-room hotel
currently is under construction at the property and is expected to open in the second quarter of 2002. The majority of the capital necessary for this expansion has been and will be financed by an
affiliate of the Mnjikaning First Nation to be repaid out of the revenue of Casino Rama pursuant to the terms of the Development and Operating Agreement. We have not and are not required to commit any
of our capital to these projects.

The
Development and Operating Agreement under which CHC Casinos operates the facility sets out the duties, rights and obligations of CHC Casinos. As the operator, CHC Casinos is entitled
to a base fee equal to two percent of gross revenues of the casino and an incentive fee equal to five percent on the casino's net operating margin. The agreement terminates on July 31, 2011,
unless otherwise terminated earlier in accordance with the termination provisions of the Development and Operating Agreement. The Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation has the option to extend the
term of the Development and Operating Agreement and CHC Casinos' appointment as operator for two successive periods of five years commencing on August 1, 2011.


Racing and Pari-Mutuel Operations

Our racing and pari-mutuel revenues are derived from:

•

wagering
on our live races at our racetracks, at our OTWs, at other Pennsylvania racetracks and their OTWs and through telephone account wagering, as well as
wagering at our racetracks on certain stakes races run at out-of-state racetracks;

•

wagering
on full-card import simulcasts at our racetracks and OTWs and through telephone account wagering; and

•

fees
from wagering on export simulcasting our races at out-of-state locations.

We
also derive revenues from admissions, program sales, food and beverage sales and concessions and certain other ancillary activities.

Pari-mutuel
wagering on thoroughbred or harness racing is pooled wagering in which a pari-mutuel wagering system totals the amounts wagered and adjusts the
payouts to reflect the relative amounts bet on different horses and various possible outcomes. The pooled wagers are paid out to bettors as winnings in accordance with the payoffs determined by the
pari-mutuel wagering system, paid to the applicable regulatory or taxing authorities and distributed to the track's horsemen in the form of "purses" which encourage owners and trainers to
enter their horses in that track's live races. The balance of the pooled wagers is retained by the wagering facility. Pari-mutuel wagering is currently authorized in more than 40 states in
the United States, all provinces in Canada and approximately 100 other countries around the world.

We
are seeking to increase wagering by broadening our customer base and increasing the wagering activity of our existing customers. To attract new customers, we seek to increase the
racing knowledge of our customers through our television programming, and by providing "user friendly" automated wagering systems and comfortable surroundings. We also seek to attract new customers by
offering various types of promotions including family fun days, premium give-away programs, contests and handicapping seminars.

Live Racing

Penn National Race Course.

Penn National Race Course is located on approximately 225 acres approximately 15 miles northeast
of Harrisburg, 100 miles west of Philadelphia and 200 miles east of Pittsburgh. There is a total population of approximately 1.4 million persons within a radius of approximately 35 miles around
Penn National Race Course and approximately 2.2 million persons within a 50-mile radius. The property includes a one-mile all-weather, lighted thoroughbred
racetrack and a


/


-mile turf track. The property also includes approximately 400 acres surrounding Penn National Race Course that are available for future expansion or
development.

Pocono Downs.

Pocono Downs is located on approximately 400 acres in Plains Township, outside Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania.
There is a total population of approximately 785,000 persons within a radius of approximately 35 miles around Pocono Downs and approximately 1.5 million persons within a 50-mile
radius. The property includes a


/


-mile all-weather, lighted harness track.

Charles Town Races.

Charles Town Races at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex is located on a portion of a
250-acre parcel in Charles Town, West Virginia. The property includes a


/


-mile all-weather, lighted thoroughbred racetrack. The property
surrounding the Charles Town Entertainment Complex, including the site of the former Shenandoah Downs Racetrack, is available for future expansion or development. In addition, we have a right of first
refusal for an additional 250 acres that are adjacent to the Charles Town Entertainment Complex.


OTWS

Our OTWs provide areas for viewing import simulcasts and televised sporting events, placing pari-mutuel wagers and dining. The facilities also provide
convenient parking. We presently operate 11 of the 20 OTWs now open in Pennsylvania. There are two remaining OTWs that have been authorized in Pennsylvania for our competitors. Some states, such as
New York, operate off-track betting locations that are independent of racetracks. Under the Pennsylvania Racehorse Industry Reform Act, only licensed racing associations, such as Penn
National, can operate OTWs or accept customer wagers on simulcast races at Pennsylvania racetracks. The following is a list of our OTW locations:

Facility/Location

Date Opened

Penn National Facilities:

Reading, PA

May 1992

Chambersburg, PA

April 1994

York, PA

March 1995

Lancaster, PA

July 1996

Williamsport, PA

February 1997

Johnstown, PA

September 1998

Pocono Downs Facilities:

Erie, PA

May 1991

Allentown, PA

July 1993

Carbondale, PA

March 1998

Hazleton, PA

March 1998

East Stroudsburg, PA

July 2000

We
have been transmitting simulcasts of our races to other wagering locations and receiving simulcasts of races from other locations for wagering by our customers at our facilities
year-round for more than seven years. During the year ended December 31, 2001, we received import simulcasts from approximately 100 racetracks, including premier racetracks such as
Belmont Park, Church Hill Downs, Gulfstream Park, Hollywood Park, Santa Anita and Saratoga and transmitted export simulcasts of our races to approximately 300 locations.

Telephone
Account Wagering/Internet Wagering

In
1983, we pioneered Telebet™, Pennsylvania's first telephone account wagering system. A Telebet customer opens an account by depositing funds with us. Account holders can
then place wagers by telephone on Penn National races and import simulcast races to the extent of the funds on deposit in the account; any winnings are posted to the account and are available for
withdrawal or future wagers. In December 1995, Pocono Downs instituted Dial-A-Bet™, a similar telephone account betting system.

eBetUSA.com, Inc.,
our wholly owned subsidiary, is a closed-loop, subscriber-based system that operates a pari-mutuel wagering platform across the
Internet. eBetUSA.com operates in selected jurisdictions with the approval of the Pennsylvania State Horse Racing Commission and the Pennsylvania State Harness Racing Commission. The website
technology is provided under a license agreement with eBet Limited of Australia.

In
April 2001, we entered into an agreement with Playboy.com, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Playboy Enterprises, Inc., to develop PlayboyRacingUSA.com, an
online pari-mutuel horseracing wagering site. Under the terms of the agreement, we are responsible for day-to-day operations of the site and Playboy will be
responsible for marketing related services, user interface and design. The site began operations in the third quarter of 2001 and is licensed and operated in Pennsylvania. Bettors from around the
world will be able to access the site, however, the site will have safeguards to prevent the acceptance of wagering from jurisdictions where online pari-mutuel wagering is prohibited.


New Jersey Joint Venture—Pennwood Racing, Inc.

In October 1998, we formed a 50%-50% joint venture with Greenwood New Jersey, Inc., a subsidiary of Greenwood Racing, Inc. (the
owner of Philadelphia Park Race Track) to acquire certain assets of Garden State Park and Freehold Raceway. In January 1999, Greenwood New Jersey consummated the acquisition on behalf of the
joint venture. In July 1999, after receiving New Jersey Racing Commission approval, we completed our investment in the New Jersey joint venture through our interest in Pennwood
Racing, Inc.

Through
our interest in Pennwood Racing, Inc., we own Freehold Raceway in Freehold, New Jersey and held a leasehold interest in Garden State Park in Cherry Hill, New Jersey.
Freehold Raceway is located on a 51-acre site in western Monmouth County, New Jersey and is the nation's oldest harness track. Daytime racing has been conducted at Freehold Raceway since
1853; pari-mutuel wagering commenced in 1941. The grandstand at Freehold Raceway is an approximately 150,000 square foot, five level, steel frame, enclosed, fully heated and air
conditioned facility constructed in 1986 that can accommodate up to 10,000 spectators. The grandstand also has a sit-down restaurant and seven concession stands. Freehold Raceway is
located less than 50 miles from New York City and less than 30 miles from Princeton and Trenton, New Jersey.

On
November 30, 2000, the owner of Garden State Park, International Thoroughbred Breeders, Inc., announced that it had completed the sale of the Garden State Park property,
excluding a 10-acre parcel owned by our joint venture, to Realen-Turnberry Cherry Hill, LLC. As a result of the sale and a decision by the new owner to develop the property for
non-racing uses, our joint venture's lease at Garden State Park was terminated on May 29, 2001 and Garden State Park was closed. We do not
believe that the termination of the Garden State Park lease and the cessation of racing at that facility has had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of
operations.

We
have agreed to guarantee up to 50% of the obligations of the joint venture under its original $23 million credit facility with Commerce Bank, N.A.

Agreements with Horsemen and Pari-Mutuel Clerks

We have agreements with the horsemen at each of our racetracks. The continuation of these agreements is required to allow us to conduct live racing and export and
import simulcasting. In addition, our simulcasting agreements are subject to the horsemen's approval.

In
February 1999, the Pennsylvania Thoroughbred Horsemen stopped racing at Penn National Race Course and withdrew their permission for us to import simulcast races from other
racetracks, resulting in the closure of Penn National Race Course and six of our OTW facilities. As a result of the closure, our operations at Penn National Race Course were suspended for more than
five weeks, we lost 46 race days at Penn National Race Course, and it took nearly six months from the beginning of the action before we returned to pre-action levels of operations. In
March 1999, we signed a new agreement with the Pennsylvania Thoroughbred Horsemen that has an initial term that expires on January 1, 2004.


In December 1999, we signed a new horsemen agreement with the Pennsylvania Harness Horsemen that expires on January 16, 2003. We also have an agreement with the Charles
Town Horsemen that expires on December 31, 2002.

In
addition to our horsemen agreements, in order to operate gaming machines in West Virginia, we are required to enter into written agreements regarding the proceeds of our gaming
machines at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex with the pari-mutuel clerks at Charles Town. Our agreement with the pari-mutuel clerks at Charles Town expires on
December 31, 2004.

In
addition, our New Jersey joint venture, Pennwood Racing, must maintain written agreements with the horsemen at Freehold Raceway in order to simulcast races to the Atlantic City
casinos. Horsemen agreements are currently in effect at this facility.

Option to Manage the Charles Town Entertainment Complex

We acquired the Charles Town Entertainment Complex by exercising an option previously held by a subsidiary of Showboat, Inc., now a wholly owned subsidiary
of Harrah's Entertainment, Inc. In assigning the option, Showboat retained the right to operate a casino at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex in return for a management fee, to be
negotiated at the time of exercise, based on reasonable rates payable for similar properties. The express terms of the Showboat option do not specify what activities at the Charles Town Entertainment
Complex would constitute operation of a casino. We do not believe that our installation and operation of gaming devices linked to the West Virginia lottery at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex
constitutes the operation of a casino under the Showboat option or under West Virginia law or triggers Showboat's right to exercise the Showboat option. The rights under the Showboat option expired in
November 2001.

On
August 20, 2001, Showboat Development Company brought a lawsuit against us and certain other parties related to the Charles Town Entertainment Complex. The suit alleges, among
other things, that our operation of coin-out video lottery terminals at the Charles Town facility constitutes the operation of a casino, thereby triggering the option. The suit also
alleges that our March 2000 acquisition of the 11% minority interest in Charles Town Races from BDC Group, our former joint venture partner, was made in violation of a right of first refusal
that Showboat holds from BDC covering the sale of any interest in any casino at Charles Town Races. We filed in federal district court in Nevada a motion to dismiss this action for lack of personal
jurisdiction which was granted on January 25, 2002. On
February 13, 2002, Showboat filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. The substance of the lawsuit was substantially similar to Showboat's
previous claim filed in Nevada. See "Recent Developments—Showboat Litigation Settlement." We continue to believe that each of Showboat's claims is without merit, and we intend to
vigorously defend ourselves against them. Even if there ultimately is a judgment against us in this case, we do not believe that it will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or
results of operations.

Employees and Labor Relations

As of February 28, 2002, we had 5,174 permanent employees, of whom 3,846 were full-time and 1,328 were part-time. Our employees in
the admissions department and pari-mutuel department at Penn National Race Course, Pocono Downs and our OTWs are represented under collective bargaining agreements between us and the
Sports Arena Employees' Union Local 137. The agreements extend until September 30, 2002 for track employees and September 30, 2001, which was extended until December 31, 2001, for
OTW employees. We are continuing to negotiate with the OTW employees in the hopes of reaching a new agreement. The pari-mutuel clerks at Pocono Downs voted to unionize in June 1997.
We have held negotiations with this union, but do not have a contract to date. The failure


to reach an agreement with this union would not result in the suspension or termination of our license to operate live racing at Pocono Downs or to conduct simulcast or OTW operations.

In
order to operate gaming machines in West Virginia, we are required to enter into written agreements regarding the proceeds of the gaming machines with a representative of a majority
of the horse owners and trainers, a representative of a majority of the pari-mutuel clerks and a representative of a majority of our horse breeders. We have an agreement with the Charles
Town Horsemen that expires on December 31, 2002. The pari-mutuel clerks at Charles Town are represented under a collective bargaining agreement with the West Virginia Division of
Mutuel Clerks, which expires on December 31, 2004.

Competition

Gaming Operations

The gaming industry is highly fragmented and characterized by a high degree of competition among a large number of participants, many of which have financial and
other resources that are greater than our resources. Competitive gaming activities include casinos, video lottery terminals and other forms of legalized gaming in the United States and other
jurisdictions.

Legalized
gambling is currently permitted in various forms throughout the United States and in several Canadian provinces. Other jurisdictions may legalize gaming in the near future. In
addition, established gaming jurisdictions could award additional gaming licenses or permit the expansion of existing gaming operations. New or expanded operations by other persons will increase
competition for our gaming operations and could have a material adverse impact on us.

Charles Town, West Virginia.

Our gaming machine operations at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex face competition from
other gaming machine venues in West Virginia and in neighboring states (including Dover Downs, Delaware Park and Harrington Raceway in Delaware and the casinos in Atlantic City, New Jersey). These
venues offer significantly higher stakes for their gaming machines than are permitted in West Virginia. Atlantic City, New Jersey does not have a per-pull limit on its gaming machines,
while Delaware has a $25 per-pull limit. The per-pull limit in West Virginia is currently $5 per gaming machine. In addition to existing competition, both Pennsylvania and
Maryland have in the past considered legislation to expand gaming in their respective states. The failure to attract or retain gaming machine customers at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex,
whether arising from such competition or from other factors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Mississippi Gulf Coast.

Dockside gaming has grown rapidly on the Mississippi Gulf Coast, increasing from no dockside casinos
in 1992 to 12 operating dockside casinos at December 31, 2001. Nine of these facilities are located in Biloxi, two are located in Gulfport and one is located in Bay St. Louis. Our Mississippi
casino operations have numerous competitors, many of which have greater name recognition and financial and marketing resources than we have. Competition in the Mississippi gaming market is
significantly more intense than the competition our gaming operations face in West Virginia or our pari-mutuel operations face in Pennsylvania and New Jersey. We cannot be sure that we
will succeed in the competitive Mississippi Gulf Coast gaming market. The failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Louisiana.

Casino Rouge faces competition from land-based and riverboat casinos throughout Louisiana and on the
Mississippi Gulf Coast, casinos on Native American lands and from non-casino gaming opportunities within Louisiana. The Louisiana Riverboat Economic Development and Gaming Control Act
limits the number of gaming casinos in Louisiana to fifteen riverboat casinos statewide and one land-based casino in New Orleans. All fifteen riverboat licenses are currently issued.


The
principal competitor to Casino Rouge is the Argosy Casino, which is the only other licensed riverboat casino in Baton Rouge. In February 2001, a new 300-room
Sheraton hotel opened at the Argosy Casino. We also face competition from three major riverboat casinos and one land-based casino in the New Orleans area, which is approximately 75 miles
from Baton Rouge, and from three Native American casinos in Louisiana. The two closest Native American casinos are land-based facilities located approximately 45 miles southwest and
approximately 65 miles northwest of Baton Rouge. We
also face competition from several truck stop gaming facilities located in certain surrounding parishes, each of which are authorized to operate up to 50 video poker machines.

Ontario.

Our operation of Casino Rama through CHC Casinos Canada Limited faces competition in Ontario from a number of
casinos and racetracks with gaming machine facilities. Currently, there are two other commercial casinos, five charity casinos and at least fifteen racetracks with gaming machines in the province of
Ontario. All of the casinos and gaming machine facilities are operated on behalf of the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation, an agency of the Province of Ontario. The Ontario Lottery and Gaming
Corporation also operates several province-wide lotteries.

Casino
Rama is located near Orillia, Ontario, approximately 90 miles north of Toronto. There is one charity casino and four racetracks with gaming machine facilities that directly
compete with Casino Rama. One such racetrack is between Casino Rama and the City of Toronto, the largest urban center within 155 miles of the casino with more than 4 million people. The charity
casino has 40 gaming tables and 450 gaming machines. The number of gaming machines at the racetracks range from 100 to 1,700 each.

There
is an interim commercial casino located in Niagara Falls, Ontario, 80 miles southwest of Toronto with approximately 136 gaming tables and 2,800 gaming machines. It is contemplated
that Niagara Falls will have a permanent casino with a similar number of gaming tables and gaming machines as the interim casino that is scheduled to be completed by the spring of 2003. In addition,
it has been proposed in connection with the City of Toronto's waterfront revitalization project that a casino be located in downtown Toronto. However, we are not aware of any definitive plans for the
development of such a casino.

Racing and Pari-mutuel Operation

Our racing and pari-mutuel operations face significant competition for wagering dollars from other racetracks and OTWs (some of which also offer other
forms of gaming), other gaming venues such as casinos and state-sponsored lotteries, including the Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware and West Virginia lotteries. We also may face competition in the
future from new OTWs or from new racetracks. Presque Isle Downs has applied for a license to own and operate a thoroughbred racetrack in Erie, PA. If the license is granted and the track is built, it
is expected to have a significant impact on our Erie OTW and the financial performance of Pocono Downs. From time to time, states consider legislation to permit other forms of gaming. If additional
gaming opportunities become available near our racing and pari-mutuel operations, such gaming opportunities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations.

Our
OTWs compete with the OTWs of other Pennsylvania racetracks, and new OTWs may compete with our existing wagering facilities. Our competitors have a number of OTW facilities that are
near our OTWs. Although only two competing OTWs remain authorized by law for future opening, the
opening of a new OTW or racetrack in close proximity to our existing or future OTWs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.


Management

The following table provides information regarding our executive officers as of March 15, 2002 (except as to Messrs. DeSanctis and Clifford):

Name

Age

Position

Peter M. Carlino


Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer

Kevin DeSanctis


President and Chief Operating Officer(1)

William Clifford


Senior Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer(1)

Robert S. Ippolito


Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer

Joseph A. Lashinger, Jr.


Vice President and General Counsel

(1)

Subject
to the receipt of necessary licensing and regulatory approval in certain jurisdictions, Messrs. DeSanctis and Clifford will become executive officers.

Our
current executive officers, along with their backgrounds, are as follows:

Peter M. Carlino.

Mr. Carlino has served as our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer since April 1994. Since 1976 he has been President of Carlino Financial Corporation, a holding company which owns and operates various Carlino family businesses, in which capacity he
has been continuously active in strategic planning for Carlino Financial and monitoring its operations.

Kevin DeSanctis.

In February 2001, Mr. DeSanctis joined the company. Prior to joining
us, Mr. DeSanctis served from 1995 to 2000 as Chief Operating Officer, North America for Sun International Hotels Limited where he was responsible for complete oversight of
day-to-day operations of the company's gaming properties in North America and the Bahamas. Prior to joining Sun International, Mr. DeSanctis' experience included
management and pre-opening responsibilities for gaming operations in Las Vegas, Atlantic City, New Orleans and Colorado.

William Clifford.

Mr. Clifford joined the company in August 2001. Prior to joining us,
from March 1997 to July 2001, Mr. Clifford served as the Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of Finance with Sun International Resorts, Inc., Paradise Island.
From November, 1993 to February, 1997, Mr. Clifford was Financial, Hotel and Operations Controller for Treasure Island Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas. From May, 1989 to November 1993,
Mr. Clifford was Controller for Golden Nugget Hotel and Casino, Las Vegas. Prior to May 1989, Mr. Clifford held the positions of Controller for the Dunes Hotel and Casino, Las
Vegas, Property Operations Analyst with Aladdin Hotel and Casino, Las Vegas, Casino Administrator with Las Vegas Hilton, Las Vegas, Sr. Internal Auditor with Del Webb, Las Vegas and Agent, Audit
Division, of the Nevada Gaming Control Board, Las Vegas and Reno.

Robert S. Ippolito.

Mr. Ippolito, a certified public accountant, has served as Secretary and
Treasurer of Penn National since April 1994 and as a Vice President since July 2001. From April 1994 to July 2001, Mr. Ippolito also served as Chief Financial
Officer.

Joseph A. Lashinger, Jr., Esq.

Mr. Lashinger was elected Vice President and General Counsel of
Penn National in June 1997. Prior to joining us, Mr. Lashinger served as a consultant to us from 1996 to 1997. In 1997, Mr. Lashinger voluntarily filed for personal bankruptcy due
in part to his personal guaranty of the debts of a failed business in which he was a part owner.


Regulation

General

We are subject to federal, state, local and, in Canada, provincial regulations related to our current live racing, pari-mutuel, gaming machine and
casino operations. The following description of the regulatory environment in which we operate is only a summary and not a complete recitation of all applicable regulatory laws. Moreover, our current
and proposed operations could be subjected at any time to additional or more restrictive regulations, or banned entirely.

West Virginia Racing and Gaming Regulation

Our operations at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex are subject to regulation by the West Virginia Racing Commission under the West Virginia Horse and Dog
Racing Act, and by the West Virginia Lottery Commission under the West Virginia Racetrack Video Lottery Act. The powers and responsibilities of the West Virginia Racing Commission under the West
Virginia Horse and Dog Racing Act extend to the approval and/or oversight of all aspects of racing and pari-mutuel wagering operations. We have obtained from the West Virginia Racing
Commission a license to conduct racing and pari-mutuel wagering at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex. Pursuant to the West Virginia Racetrack Video Lottery Act, we have obtained
approval for 3,500 gaming machines and video lottery terminals at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex, approximately 2,000 of which are currently in operation. In addition to licensing, in West
Virginia, the legality of gaming machine operation in a particular county is determined by local option election in the county where the racetrack is located. The West Virginia Racetrack Video Lottery
Act further provides that 5% of the qualified voters in the county where gaming machines have been permitted by local option election can petition for another election that may be held no sooner than
five years after the first election.

The
West Virginia Racetrack Video Lottery Act provides that the transfer of more than 5% of the voting stock of a corporation that holds a gaming machine license, or that controls
another entity that holds such a license, or the transfer of the assets of a license holder may only be to persons who have met the licensing requirements of the West Virginia Racetrack Video Lottery
Act or which transfer has been pre-approved by the West Virginia Lottery Commission. Any transfer that does not comply with this requirement voids the license.

On
April 21, 2001, the West Virginia legislature passed a law increasing the maximum per pull wagering limit for gaming machines operated in the state from $2 per pull to $5 per
pull. Revenues resulting from the limit increase are subject to taxes at a slightly higher rate.

Mississippi Regulatory Compliance

Our operation of Casino Magic Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi is subject to Mississippi regulatory compliance, a summary of which is provided below.

The
ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities in Mississippi are subject to extensive state and local regulation primarily through the licensing and regulatory control of the
Mississippi Gaming Commission and the Mississippi State Tax Commission. Penn National and certain of its subsidiaries must register and be licensed under the Mississippi Gaming Control Act, or the
Mississippi Act, and our gaming operations are subject to the regulatory control of the Mississippi Gaming Commission, the Mississippi State Tax Commission and various local, city and county
regulatory agencies. The Mississippi Act, which legalized dockside casino gaming in Mississippi, was enacted on June 29, 1990 and the Mississippi Gaming Commission adopted regulations,
effective October 29, 1991, in furtherance of the Mississippi Act.

The
laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of Mississippi and the Mississippi Gaming Commission seek to: (1) prevent unsavory or unsuitable persons from having direct or
indirect


involvement with gaming at any time or in any capacity; (2) establish and maintain responsible accounting practices and procedures; (3) maintain effective control over the financial
practices of licensees, including establishing minimum procedures for internal fiscal affairs and safeguarding assets and revenues, providing reliable record keeping and making periodic reports to the
Mississippi Gaming Commission; (4) prevent cheating and fraudulent practices; (5) provide a source of state and local revenues through taxation and licensing fees; and (6) ensure
that gaming licensees, to the extent practicable, employ Mississippi residents. The regulations are subject to amendment and interpretation by the Mississippi Gaming Commission.

The
Mississippi Act provides for legalized dockside gaming in any of the 14 counties that border either the Gulf Coast or the Mississippi River, provided that the voters in an eligible
county have not voted to prohibit gaming in that county. Voters have approved dockside gaming in nine of the 14 eligible counties in the state and gaming operations have commenced in Adams, Coahoma,
Hancock, Harrison, Tunica, Warren and Washington counties. The law permits unlimited stakes gaming on a 24-hour basis and does not restrict the percentage of space that may be utilized for
gaming. There are no limitations on the number of gaming licenses which may be issued in Mississippi. The legal age for gaming in Mississippi is 21.

We
are required to submit detailed financial, operating and other reports to the Mississippi Gaming Commission and Mississippi State Tax Commission. Several of our transactions, such as
loans and other financing transactions, leases and sales of securities require notice to and/or approval of the Mississippi Gaming Commission.

We
have been investigated and on August 8, 2000, the Mississippi Gaming Commission issued us a gaming operator's license for Boomtown Biloxi and for Casino Magic Bay St. Louis. In
addition, the Mississippi Gaming Commission has found certain of our key principals suitable.

Each
of the officers and directors of Casino Magic Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi must be found suitable or must be licensed by the Mississippi Gaming Commission. In addition, certain
of Penn National's directors, officers and employees may be required to be found suitable or be licensed if they are engaged in the administration or supervision of, or any other significant
involvement with, the activities of Casino Magic or Boomtown Biloxi. Both a finding of suitability and license require submission of detailed financial information followed by a thorough
investigation. Key employees, controlling persons or others who exercise significant influence upon Penn National's management or affairs may be deemed to have a material relationship to, or material
involvement with us and may be investigated in order to be found suitable or required to be licensed. There can be no assurance that such persons will be found suitable or licensed by, and maintain
such a suitability finding or license from, the Mississippi Gaming Commission. The Mississippi Gaming Commission has full and absolute power and authority to deny any application or limit, condition,
restrict, revoke or suspend any lien, registration, finding of suitability or approvals, or fine any person licensed, registered, found suitable or approved, for any cause it deems reasonable. Changes
in certain officer, director or key employee positions must be reported to the Mississippi Gaming Commission. In addition to its authority to deny an application for a license, the Mississippi Gaming
Commission has jurisdiction to disapprove a change in a corporate position. If the Mississippi Gaming Commission were to find a director, officer or employee unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to
continue having a relationship with us, we would have to terminate such person's employment in any capacity in which such person is required to be found suitable or licensed and we would be prohibited
from allowing such person to exercise a significant influence over the gaming establishment's operations. We would have similar obligations with regard to any person who refuses to file appropriate
applications. No person may be employed as a gaming employee unless such person holds a work permit issued by the Mississippi Gaming Commission. An application for a work permit can be denied for any
cause the Mississippi Gaming Commission deems reasonable, and the Mississippi Gaming Commission may summarily suspend or revoke a work permit upon the occurrence of certain specified events.


Mississippi
statutes and regulations give the Mississippi Gaming Commission the discretion to require a suitability finding with respect to anyone who acquires any of Penn National's
securities, regardless of the percentage of ownership. The current policy of the Mississippi Gaming Commission is to require anyone acquiring, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of any voting
securities of a registered publicly traded holding company to be found suitable. However, the Mississippi Gaming Commission generally permits certain "institutional" investors to beneficially own,
directly or indirectly, up to 15% of the voting securities of a registered public company without a finding of suitability. If the owner of voting securities who is required to be found suitable is a
corporation, partnership or trust, it must submit detailed business and financial information including a list of beneficial owners. The applicant is required to pay all costs of investigation.

Any
owner of Penn National's voting securities found unsuitable and who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of our equity interests beyond such period of time as may
be prescribed by the Mississippi Gaming Commission may be guilty of a misdemeanor. Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within 30 days of being
ordered to do so by the Mississippi Gaming Commission may be found unsuitable. We are subject to disciplinary action if we, after receiving notice that a person is unsuitable to be an owner of or to
have any other relationship with us, (1) pay the unsuitable person any dividends or interest upon any such security, (2) recognize the exercise, directly or through any trustee or
nominee of any voting rights conferred by such security, or (3) pay the unsuitable person any remuneration in any form for services rendered or otherwise. In addition, if the Mississippi Gaming
Commission finds any owner of voting securities of certain Penn National subsidiaries unsuitable, such owner must immediately offer all securities to us, and we must purchase the securities so offered
for cash at fair market value within 10 days.

We
will be required to maintain current ownership ledgers in the State of Mississippi that may be examined by the Mississippi Gaming Commission at any time. If any securities are held in
trust by an agent or by a nominee, the record holder may be required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to the Mississippi Gaming Commission. A failure to make such disclosure may be
grounds for finding the record holder unsuitable. We are also required to render maximum assistance in determining the identity of the beneficial owner. We may be required to disclose to the
Mississippi Gaming Commission, the identities of the holders of certain of our indebtedness. In addition, the Mississippi Gaming Commission under the Mississippi Act may, in its discretion,
(1) require holders of debt securities to file applications, (2) investigate such holders, and (3) require such holders to be found suitable to own such debt securities. Although
the Mississippi Gaming Commission generally does not require the individual holders of obligations to be investigated and found suitable, the Mississippi Gaming Commission retains the discretion to do
so for any reason, including but not limited to a default, or where the holder of the debt instrument exercises a material influence over the gaming operations of the entity in question. Any holder of
the debt securities required to apply for a finding of suitability must pay all investigative fees and costs of the Mississippi Gaming Commission in connection with such an investigation.

The
regulations provide that we may not engage in any transaction that would result in a change of our control without the prior approval of the Mississippi Gaming Commission.
Mississippi law prohibits Penn National and certain of its subsidiaries from making a public offering or private placement of our securities without the prior approval of the Mississippi Gaming
Commission if any part of the proceeds of the offering is to be used to finance the construction, acquisition or operation of gaming facilities in Mississippi, or to retire or extend obligations
incurred for one or more of such purposes. The Mississippi Gaming Commission has the authority to grant a continuous approval of securities offerings and has granted us such approval, subject to
renewal.

Regulations
of the Mississippi Gaming Commission prohibit certain repurchases of securities of publicly traded corporations registered with the Mississippi Gaming Commission without
prior approval of the Mississippi Gaming Commission. Transactions covered by these regulations are generally aimed


at discouraging repurchases of securities at a premium over market price from certain holders of greater than 3% of the outstanding securities of the registered publicly traded corporation. The
regulations of the Mississippi Gaming Commission also require prior approval for a "plan of recapitalization" as defined in such regulations.

The
Mississippi Act requires that certificates representing our securities bear a legend to the general effect that the securities are subject to the Mississippi Act and regulations of
the Mississippi Gaming Commission. The Mississippi Gaming Commission, through the power to regulate licensees, has the power to impose additional restrictions on the holders of our securities at any
time.

We
may not engage in gaming activities in Mississippi while also conducting gaming operations outside of Mississippi without approval of the Mississippi Gaming Commission. Such approvals
were initially granted to us by the Mississippi Gaming Commission as part of the original licensure process, and additional approvals must be obtained on a
jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis. The failure to obtain or retain any such approval could have a material adverse effect on us.

We
may not transfer any of our licenses and we must renew each license every three years. There can be no assurance that any of our renewal applications will be approved. The Mississippi
Gaming Commission may at any time dissolve, suspend, condition, limit or restrict a license or approval to own equity interests in us for any cause it deems reasonable. We may have substantial fines
levied against us in Mississippi for each violation of gaming laws or regulations. A violation under any gaming license held by us may be deemed a violation of the Mississippi licenses held by us.
Suspension or revocation of the Mississippi licenses or of the Mississippi Gaming Commission's approval of us would have a material adverse effect upon our business.

In
October 1994, the Mississippi Gaming Commission adopted a regulation requiring, as a condition of licensure or license renewal, that a gaming establishment's site development
plan include an approved 500-car parking facility in close proximity to the casino complex and infrastructure facilities that amount to at least 25% of the casino cost. Such facilities may
include any of the following: a 250-room hotel of at least a two star rating, as defined by the current edition of the Mobil Travel Guide; a theme park; a golf course; marinas; a tennis
complex; entertainment facilities; or any other such facility as approved by the Mississippi Gaming Commission as infrastructure. Parking facilities, roads, sewage and water systems or facilities
normally provided by governmental entities are excluded. The Mississippi Gaming Commission may, in its discretion, reduce the number of hotel rooms required where it is shown, to the satisfaction of
the Mississippi Gaming Commission, that sufficient rooms are available to accommodate the anticipated visitor load. Such reduction in the number of rooms does not affect the 25% investment requirement
imposed by the regulation. Casino Magic Bay St. Louis, Boomtown Biloxi and related facilities have complied with these requirements. In January 1999, the Mississippi Gaming Commission amended
this infrastructure regulation by increasing the minimum level of infrastructure investment from 25% to 100% of the casino cost. However, the 100% infrastructure investment requirement applies only to
new casino developments and existing casino developments that are not in operation at the time of their acquisition or purchase, and therefore does not apply to Casino Magic Bay St. Louis and Boomtown
Biloxi. In any event, Casino Magic Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi will attempt to comply with such requirements.

License
fees and taxes are payable to the State of Mississippi and to the counties and cities in which our Mississippi subsidiaries operate. One of the license fees payable to the state
of Mississippi is based upon gross revenue of the licensee (generally defined as gaming receipts less payout to customers as winnings) and equals 4% of the first $50,000 of monthly gross revenue, 6%
of the next $84,000 of monthly gross revenue and 8% of all monthly gross revenue over $134,000. These license fees are allowed as a credit against the licensee's Mississippi income tax liability for
the year paid. Additionally, a licensee must pay a $5,000 annual license fee and an annual fee based upon the number of games it operates. Mississippi communities and counties may impose fees on
licensees equaling 0.4% the first $50,000 of monthly gross revenues, 0.6% of the next $84,000 of monthly gross revenue and 0.8% of all


monthly gross revenues over $134,000. These fees have been imposed in, among other cities, Bay St. Louis, Gulfport, Biloxi, Natchez, Greenville and Vicksburg, and in among other counties, Coahoma
County, Hancock County and Tunica County. Certain local and private laws of the State of Mississippi may impose fees or taxes on our Mississippi subsidiaries in addition to the fees described above.

The
Mississippi Gaming Commission requires, as a condition of licensure or license renewal, that casino vessels on the Mississippi Gulf Coast that are not self-propelled be
moored to withstand a Category 4 hurricane with 155 mile-per-hour winds and 15-foot tidal surge. We believe that all of our Mississippi gaming operations
currently meet this requirement. A 1996 Mississippi Gaming Commission regulation prescribes the hurricane emergency procedure to be used by the Mississippi Gulf Coast casinos.

The
sale of alcoholic beverages, including beer and wine, at Casino Magic Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi is subject to permitting, control and regulation by the Mississippi State Tax
Commission. The Miscellaneous Tax Division of the Mississippi State Tax Commission regulates the sale of beer and light wine. The Alcoholic Beverage Control Division of the Mississippi State Tax
Commission, or ABC, regulates the sale of alcoholic beverages containing more than 5% alcohol by weight. ABC requires that all Casino Magic Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi officers, directors,
majority shareholders and ABC managers file personal record forms and fingerprint cards. In addition, owners of more than 5% of Casino Magic Bay St. Louis or Boomtown Biloxi equity must submit
detailed financial information to ABC. All such permits are revocable and are non-transferable. The Mississippi State Tax Commission has full power to limit, condition, suspend or revoke
any such permit, and any such disciplinary action could, and revocation would, have a material adverse effect on the operations of Casino Magic Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi.

Louisiana Regulation

We are subject to regulation by the State of Louisiana as a result of our ownership of LCCI, the operator of the Casino Rouge riverboat.

In
July 1991, the Louisiana legislature adopted legislation permitting certain types of gaming activity on certain rivers and waterways in Louisiana. Since May 1, 1999, the
Louisiana Gaming Control Board, or the Louisiana Board, has regulated such gaming activities.

The
Louisiana Riverboat Economic Development and Gaming Control Act authorized the issuance of up to fifteen licenses to conduct gaming activities on a riverboat of new construction in
accordance with applicable law. However, no more than six licenses may be granted to riverboats operating from any one parish. Of the fifteen available licenses, fourteen are currently in operation.
The final license has been awarded to a subsidiary of Pinnacle Entertainment for Lake Charles, Louisiana and is currently under construction.


Riverboat gaming licenses in Louisiana are issued for an initial five-year term with five year renewals thereafter. In issuing or renewing a license, the Louisiana Board must
find that the applicant is a person of good character, honesty and integrity and that the applicant is a person whose prior activities, criminal record, if any, reputation, habits and associations do
not pose a threat to the public interest of the State of Louisiana or to the effective regulation and control of gaming, or create or enhance the dangers of unsuitable, unfair or illegal practices,
methods and activities in the conduct of gaming or the carrying on of business and financial arrangements in connection therewith. The Louisiana Board will grant or renew a license if it finds that:
(a) the applicant can demonstrate the capability, either through training, education, business experience, or a combination of the above, to operate a gaming casino; (b) the proposed
financing of the riverboat and the gaming operation is adequate for the nature of the proposed operation and from a source suitable and acceptable to the Louisiana Board; (c) the applicant
demonstrates a proven ability to operate a vessel of comparable size, capacity and complexity to a riverboat so as to ensure the safety of its passengers, with relevant employees being appropriately
United States Coast Guard certified; (d) the applicant submits a detailed plan of design of the riverboat in its application for a license; (e) the applicant designates the docking
facilities to be used by the riverboat; (f) the applicant shows adequate financial ability to construct and maintain a riverboat; and (g) the applicant has a good faith plan to recruit,
train and upgrade minorities in all employment classifications.

LCCI's
original five-year gaming license for the Casino Rouge expired in July 1999. On June 15, 1999, LCCI received conditional license approval from the
Louisiana Board until the completion of the investigation and approval by the Board with respect to the renewal. On March 29, 2001, in addition to approving the CRC acquisition, the Louisiana
Board renewed LCCI's license through June 2005, subject to several conditions. The conditions imposed by the Louisiana Board have either already been complied with or are voluntary and standard
procurement and employment conditions routinely imposed on licensees in the state of Louisiana.

Other
regulations imposed by the Louisiana Act or rules adopted pursuant thereto include, but are not limited to, the following: (a) LCCI, and Penn National must periodically
submit financial and operating reports to the Louisiana Board; (b) owners holding greater than a 5% interest or who are officers or directors of LCCI or Penn National must be found suitable by
the Louisiana Board; (c) any individual who is found to have a material relationship to, or involvement with, LCCI may be required to be investigated for suitability; (d) if a director,
officer, or key employee were found to be unsuitable, LCCI and Penn National would have to sever all relationships with that person; (e) the transfer of a license or permit or an interest in a
license or permit is prohibited without prior approval; (f) LCCI must notify the Louisiana Board of any withdrawals of capital, loans, advances, or distributions in excess of 5% of retained
earnings upon completion of such transaction; and (g) LCCI must give prior notification to the Louisiana Board if it applies or receives, accepts or modifies the terms of any loan or other
financing transaction. In some cases, the Louisiana Board will be required to investigate the reported transaction and to either approve or disapprove the transaction.

The
Louisiana Act or rules adopted pursuant thereto contain certain restrictions and conditions relating to the operation of riverboat gaming, including the following: (a) agents
of the Louisiana Board are permitted on board at any time during gaming operations; (b) gaming devices, equipment and supplies may only be purchased or leased from permitted suppliers;
(c) gaming may only take place in the designated gaming area while the riverboat is upon a designated river or waterway; (d) gaming equipment may not be possessed, maintained or
exhibited by any person on a riverboat except in the specifically designated gaming area, or a secure area used for inspection, repair or storage of such equipment; (e) wagers may be received
only from a person present on a licensed riverboat; (g) persons under 21 are not permitted on gaming vessels; (h) except for slot machine play, wagers may be made only with tokens, chips
or electronic cards purchased from the licensee aboard a riverboat; (i) licensees may only use docking facilities for which they are licensed and may only board and discharge


passengers at the riverboat's licensed berth; (j) licensees must have adequate protection and indemnity insurance; (k) licensees must have all necessary federal and state licenses,
certificates and other regulatory approvals prior to operating a riverboat; and (l) gaming may only be conducted in accordance with the terms of the license, the Louisiana Act and the rules and
regulations adopted by the Louisiana Board.

Fees
for conducting gaming activities on a riverboat pursuant to the Louisiana Act include (i) $50,000 per riverboat for the first year of operation and $100,000 per year per
riverboat thereafter plus (ii) 21.5% of net gaming proceeds. The Louisiana Act also authorizes the local governing body to assess a boarding fee up to $2.50 in East Baton Rouge Parish. The City
of Baton Rouge has imposed an admission fee of $2.50 for each patron boarding the vessel. For calendar year ended December 31, 2001, LCCI's boarding fee expense was $3,905,455. For competitive
reasons, LCCI and its Baton Rouge competitor have elected not to collect boarding fees from patrons and instead pay those fees from their respective earnings.

Proposals
to amend or supplement the Louisiana Act are frequently introduced in the Louisiana State legislature. In addition, the state legislature from time to time considers proposals
to repeal the Louisiana Act, which would effectively prohibit riverboat gaming in the State of Louisiana. Although LCCI does not believe that a prohibition of riverboat gaming in Louisiana is likely,
no assurance can be given that changes in the Louisiana gaming law will not occur or that such changes will not have a material adverse affect on LCCI's business. On November 5, 1996, in the
six parishes in which riverboats are currently located, including East Baton Rouge Parish, voters approved the continuation of riverboat gaming. In East Baton Rouge Parish and the six parishes as a
whole, the vote in favor of riverboat gaming was 59% and 66%, respectively. Legislation may be proposed that could involve the repeal of dockside gaming or an increase in taxes, either of which could
have a negative impact on our future gaming revenue.

In
March 2001, Louisiana passed Act 3 of the 1st Extraordinary Legislative Session which allows Riverboat gaming licenses to operate dockside. Prior to the legislation, LCCI was
required to maintain up to eight cruises daily, subject to weather and other conditions. In consideration of this change, the tax on gross gaming revenues was increased from 18.5% to 21.5%, effective
April 1, 2001. We cannot be sure that the additional revenues generated by dockside gaming will offset the additional tax burden.

Ontario Regulation

Our gaming operations in Ontario at Casino Rama are subject to the regulatory control of the Alcohol and Gaming Commission of Ontario pursuant to the Gaming
Control Act and the contractual provisions in the Development and Operating Agreement among CRC, CHC Casinos, the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation, the Mnjikaning First Nation and certain other
parties.

Our
wholly-owned subsidiary, CHC Casinos Canada Limited, is required under the Gaming Control Act to be registered as a casino operator with the Alcohol and Gaming Commission of Ontario
and must operate in accordance with the terms and conditions of its registration.

Pursuant
to the Gaming Control Act and the terms of CHC Casinos' registration, the Registrar of Alcohol and Gaming must approve any change in the directors or officers of CHC Casinos.
The Alcohol and Gaming Commission of Ontario may require the submission of information or material from any person who has an interest in CHC Casinos. This includes parent companies such as Penn
National and their directors and officers.

The
Registrar of Alcohol and Gaming has the power, subject to the Gaming Control Act, to grant, renew, suspend or revoke registrations. The Registrar is entitled to make such inquiries
and conduct such investigations as are necessary to determine that applicants for registration meet the requirements of the Gaming Control Act and to require information or material from any person
who has an interest


in an applicant for registration. Under the Gaming Control Act, a person shall be deemed to be "interested" in another person if: (a) the first person has, or may have in the opinion of the
Registrar based on reasonable grounds, a beneficial interest in the other person's business; (b) the first person exercises, or may exercise, in the opinion of the Registrar based on reasonable
grounds, control either directly or indirectly over the other person's business; or (c) the first person has provided, or may have provided, in the opinion of the Registrar based on reasonable
grounds, financing either directly or indirectly to the other person's business. The criteria to be considered in connection with registration under the Gaming Control Act include the financial
responsibility, integrity and honesty of the applicant, and the public interest. The Registrar may, at any time, revoke, suspend or refuse to renew CHC Casinos' registration for any reason that would
have disentitled it to registration.

In
addition, any person who supplies a casino with goods and services must be registered with the Alcohol and Gaming Commission of Ontario. Key employees who engage in the administration
or supervision of gaming or the operation of gaming premises must also be registered with this agency.

The
Development and Operating Agreement imposes certain obligations on CHC Casinos relating to the operation of Casino Rama including obtaining all necessary government consents required
to operate various components of the casino in accordance with applicable law and ensuring that all persons retained by it for the provision of goods and services to the various components of the
casino are also registered as required by law.

Pennsylvania Racing Regulations

Our horse racing operations at Penn National Race Course and Pocono Downs are subject to extensive regulation under the Pennsylvania Racing Act, which established
the Pennsylvania State Horse Racing Commission and the Pennsylvania State Harness Racing Commission (referred to herein as the Pennsylvania Racing Commissions) which are responsible for, among other
things:

•

granting
permission annually to maintain racing licenses and schedule races;

•

approving,
after a public hearing, the opening of additional OTWs;

•

approving
simulcasting activities;

•

licensing
all officers, directors, racing officials and certain other employees of a company; and

•

approving
all contracts entered into by a company affecting racing, pari-mutuel wagering and OTW operations.

As
in most states, the regulations and oversight applicable to our operations in Pennsylvania are intended primarily to safeguard the legitimacy of the sport and its freedom from
inappropriate or criminal influences. The Pennsylvania Racing Commissions have broad authority to regulate in the best interests of racing and may, to that end, disapprove the involvement of certain
personnel in our operations, deny approval of certain acquisitions following their consummation or withhold permission for a proposed OTW site for a variety of reasons, including community opposition.
The Pennsylvania legislature also has reserved the right to revoke the power of the Pennsylvania Racing Commissions to approve additional OTWs and could, at any time, terminate pari-mutuel
wagering as a form of legalized gaming in Pennsylvania or subject such wagering to additional restrictive regulation or taxation; such termination would, and any further restrictions could, have a
material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We
may not be able to obtain or maintain all necessary approvals for the continued operation of our business. We have had continued permission from the Pennsylvania State Horse Racing
Commission to conduct live racing at the Penn National Race Course since we commenced operations in 1972, and have obtained permission from the Pennsylvania State Harness Racing Commission to conduct
live racing at Pocono Downs. Currently, we have approval from the Pennsylvania Racing


Commissions to operate the eleven OTWs that are currently open. A Commission may refuse to grant permission to continue to operate existing facilities. The failure to obtain or maintain required
regulatory approvals could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations.

The
Pennsylvania Racing Act requires that any shareholder proposing to transfer beneficial ownership of 5% or more of our shares file an affidavit with us setting forth certain
information about the proposed transfer and transferee, a copy of which we are required to furnish to the Pennsylvania Racing Commissions. The certificates representing our shares owned by 5%
beneficial shareholders are required to bear certain legends prescribed by the Pennsylvania Racing Act. In addition, under the Pennsylvania Racing Act, the Pennsylvania Racing Commissions have the
authority to order a 5% beneficial shareholder of a company to dispose of his common stock of such company if it determines that continued ownership would be inconsistent with the public interest,
convenience or necessity or the best interest of racing generally.

New Jersey Regulation

Our joint venture's operations at Freehold Raceway in New Jersey are subject to regulation (i) by the New Jersey Racing Commission under the Racing Act of
1940, as amended and supplemented and the rules and regulations of the Racing Commission and (ii) by the New Jersey Casino Control Commission under the Casino Control Act and Casino
Simulcasting Act.

Under
the Racing Act, all pari-mutuel employees and all others who are connected with the training of horses or the conduct of races, must be licensed by the Racing
Commission. In addition, no person may hold or acquire, directly or indirectly, beneficial ownership of 5% or more of the voting securities of the joint venture without the prior approval of the
Racing Commission.

At
least 85% of the persons employed by the New Jersey joint venture at Freehold Raceway must be residents of New Jersey (excluding jockeys, drivers or apprentices, exercise boys,
owners, trainers, clockers, governing and managing officials and heads of departments of the track). The Racing Commission has the authority to require that the joint venture discharge any employee
who: (i) fails or refuses for any reason to comply with the rules and regulations of the Racing Commission; (ii) in the opinion of the Racing Commission is guilty of fraud, dishonesty or
incompetency; (iii) has been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude; or (iv) fails or refuses for any reason to comply with any of the provisions of the Racing Act.

Additional
restrictions and/or requirements imposed by the Racing Commission on the joint venture's racetrack operations include, but are not limited to, the setting of the admission
price required to be charged by the joint venture, a requirement that the joint venture (and all other racetracks operating in New Jersey) must schedule at least one race per day limited to registered
New Jersey-bred foals and the methods the joint venture may use to distribute pari-mutuel pools and "breaks" (the odd cents remaining after computing the amount due holders of
winning pari-mutuel tickets). The Racing Commission also regulates the manner of keeping of certain of the joint venture's books and records.

The
Racing Commission is also responsible for the allocation of racing dates based upon the annual application of the permit holder. The joint venture is entitled to race the same number
of dates as in the preceding year, when it is in the public interest to do so, or for such other dates, not exceeding 100 days in the aggregate for harness racing and 75 days in the
aggregate for thoroughbred racing, as the Racing Commission shall designate; provided, however that if another permit holder rejects any of the dates to which they may be entitled the Racing
Commission may allot those dates among other permitholders. The Racing Commission has discretion to allot harness race permitholders an additional 200 days and thoroughbred race permitholders
an additional 100 days.


The
failure to comply with the Racing Act and the rules and regulations of the Racing Commission could result in monetary fines, operations restrictions or the loss of our license.

Because
the joint venture simulcasts to Atlantic City casinos, the joint venture's simulcasting agreements are required to be filed with and approved by the Casino Control Commission and
the New Jersey Racing Commission. In addition, the joint venture is required to be approved and licensed by the Casino Control Commission as a non-gaming casino service industry. Certain
of the joint venture's employees and its directors and significant stockholders are also required to be approved by the Casino Control Commission. As of the date hereof, all of the joint venture's
employees and directors required to be approved have been approved by the Casino Control Commission or have filed applications seeking such approval. There can be no assurance that all parties seeking
Casino Control Commission approval will obtain such approval or the effect on the joint venture if such approvals are not obtained.

State and Federal Simulcast Regulation

The Federal Interstate Horseracing Act, the Pennsylvania Racing Act, the West Virginia Racing Act and the New Jersey Simulcasting Racing Act require that we have
a written agreement with each applicable horsemen's organization in order to simulcast races. We have entered into the horsemen agreements, and in accordance therewith have agreed on the allocations
of our revenues from import
simulcast wagering to the purse funds for the Penn National Race Course, Charles Town Races, Pocono Downs and Freehold Raceway. Because we cannot conduct import simulcast wagering in the absence of
the horsemen agreements, the termination or non-renewal of such horsemen agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Taxation

We believe that the prospect of significant additional revenue is one of the primary reasons that jurisdictions permit legalized gaming. As a result, gaming
companies are typically subject to significant taxes and fees in addition to normal federal, state, local and, in Canada, provincial income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at
any time. We pay substantial taxes and fees with respect to our operations. From time to time, federal, state, local and provincial legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in
the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. It is not possible to determine with certainty the likelihood of changes in tax laws or in the administration of such laws. Such
changes, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

IRS Regulations and Currency Transaction Reporting

The Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, requires operators of casinos located in the United States to file information returns for U.S. citizens, including names
and addresses of winners, for all winnings in excess of stipulated amounts. The IRS also requires operators to withhold taxes on certain winnings of nonresident aliens. We are unable to predict the
extent, if any, to which such requirements, if extended, might impede or otherwise adversely affect operations of, and/or income from, such other games.

Regulations
adopted by the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the Treasury Department and the gaming regulatory authorities in certain domestic jurisdictions in which we operate
casinos require the reporting of currency transactions in excess of $10,000 occurring within a gaming day, including identification of the patron by name and social security number. This reporting
obligation commenced in May 1985 and may have resulted in the loss of casino revenues to jurisdictions outside the United States that are exempt from the ambit of such regulations. The
operation of Casino Rama is subject to similar requirements under Canadian federal law and provincial gaming legislation.


Compliance with Other Laws

Our operations are also subject to a variety of other rules and regulations, including zoning, environmental, construction and land-use laws and
regulations governing the serving of alcoholic beverages. We derive a significant portion of our non-racing revenues from the sale of alcoholic beverages to patrons of our facilities. Any
interruption or termination of our existing ability to serve alcoholic beverages would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Risks Related to Our Business

A substantial portion of our revenues and EBITDA is derived from our Charles Town facility.

Approximately 37.3% and 45.2% of our revenue and EBITDA, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2001 was derived from our Charles Town operations.
If, among other things, new competitors enter the market, economic conditions in the region deteriorate or a business interruption occurs, our operating revenues and cash flow could decline
significantly.

We may face disruption in integrating and managing facilities we may acquire or expand.

We expect to continue pursuing expansion and acquisition opportunities and could face significant challenges in managing and integrating the expanded or combined
operations. For example, in August 2001, we signed a definitive agreement to acquire all of the assets of the Bullwhackers casino operations in Black Hawk, Colorado. We currently expect the
acquisition will close in the second quarter of 2002. Management of new properties, especially in new geographic areas, may require that we increase our managerial resources. If we fail to effectively
manage any growth we may have, it could materially adversely affect our operating results.

The
integration of the Bullwhackers operations and any other properties we may acquire will require the dedication of management resources that may temporarily detract attention from our
day-to-day business. The process of integrating Bullwhackers, and potentially other properties, also may interrupt the activities of those businesses, which could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage the combined operations effectively or realize any of the
anticipated benefits of our acquisitions.

Our
ability to achieve our objectives in connection with any acquisition we may consummate may be highly dependent on, among other things, our ability to retain the senior property level
management teams of such acquisition candidates. If, for any reason, we are unable to retain these management teams following such acquisitions or if we fail to attract new capable executives, our
operations after consummation of such acquisitions could be materially adversely affected.

We face risks related to the development and expansion of our current properties.

We expect to use a portion of our cash on hand, cash flow from operations and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility for capital expenditures at
the Charles Town Entertainment Complex and at Casino Magic Bay St. Louis, including the construction of the new hotel at the latter facility. The construction of the hotel at Casino Magic Bay St.
Louis involves substantial risks, including the possibility of construction cost over-runs and delays due to various factors (including regulatory approvals, inclement weather and labor or
material shortages), market deterioration after construction has begun, and the emergence of competition from unanticipated sources. The opening of the new hotel at Bay St. Louis will be contingent
upon, among other things, receipt of all required licenses, permits and authorizations. The scope of the approvals required for the new hotel at Bay St. Louis is extensive, including, without
limitation, state and local land-use permits, building and zoning permits and health and safety permits. In addition, unexpected changes or concessions required by


local, regulatory and state authorities could involve significant additional costs and could delay or prevent the completion of construction or the opening of a new hotel. We cannot be sure that we
will obtain the necessary permits, licenses and approvals for the construction and operation of the new hotels, or that we will obtain such permits, licenses and approvals within the anticipated time
frame.

We
also are implementing enhancements at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex, including the expansion of the gaming floor and the construction of a structured parking lot. These
planned enhancements involve similar risks to hotel construction risks including cost over-runs, delays, market deterioration and receipt of required licenses, permits or authorizations,
among others.

The
opening of the new hotel at Bay St. Louis and the other proposed enhancements also will require us to significantly increase the size of our existing work force at the property. We
cannot be certain that management will be able to hire and retain a sufficient number of employees to operate these facilities at their optimal levels. The failure to employ the necessary work force
could result in inadequate customer service which could ultimately harm profitability.

Prior to August 2000, our gaming experience did not include casino operations.

Our Charles Town Entertainment Complex has featured gaming machines since 1997, but does not include the full complement of casino, entertainment and other
amenities available at traditional casinos. Through acquisitions beginning August 2000, however, we began operating and managing full-scale casinos in Mississippi, Louisiana and
Canada. We cannot be sure that we will be successful in managing and operating our business in response to the challenges of conducting full-scale casino operations in highly competitive
gaming markets. These challenges are made more difficult as a result of the ongoing expansion of our Charles Town and Bay St. Louis properties. Our failure to meet these challenges may have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We face significant competition.

—Gaming Operations

The gaming industry is highly fragmented and characterized by a high degree of competition among a large number of participants, many of which have financial and
other resources that are greater than our resources. Competitive gaming activities include casinos, video lottery terminals and other forms of legalized gaming in the United States and other
jurisdictions.

Legalized
gambling is currently permitted in various forms throughout the United States and in several Canadian provinces. Other jurisdictions may legalize gaming in the near future. In
addition, established gaming jurisdictions could award additional gaming licenses or permit the expansion of existing gaming operations. New or expanded operations by other persons will increase
competition for our gaming operations and could have a material adverse impact on us.

Charles Town, West Virginia.

Our gaming machine operations at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex face competition from
other gaming machine venues in West Virginia and in neighboring states (including Dover Downs, Delaware Park and Harrington Raceway in Delaware and the casinos in Atlantic City, New Jersey). These
venues offer significantly higher stakes for their gaming machines than are permitted in West Virginia. Atlantic City, New Jersey does not have a per-pull limit on its gaming machines,
while Delaware has a $25 per-pull limit. The per-pull limit in West Virginia is currently $5 per gaming machine. In addition to existing competition, both Pennsylvania and
Maryland have in the past considered legislation to expand gaming in their respective states. The failure to attract or retain gaming machine customers at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex,
whether arising from such competition or from other factors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.


Mississippi Gulf Coast.

Dockside gaming has grown rapidly on the Mississippi Gulf Coast, increasing from no dockside casinos
in March 1992 to 12 operating dockside casinos at December 31, 2001. Nine of these facilities are located in Biloxi, two are located in Gulfport and one is located in Bay St. Louis. Our
Mississippi casino operations have numerous competitors, many of which have greater name recognition and financial and marketing resources than we have. Competition in the Mississippi gaming market is
significantly more intense than the competition our gaming operations face in West Virginia or our pari-mutuel operations face in Pennsylvania and New Jersey. We cannot be sure that we
will succeed in the competitive Mississippi Gulf Coast gaming market. The failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Louisiana.

Casino Rouge faces competition from land-based and riverboat casinos throughout Louisiana and on the
Mississippi Gulf Coast, casinos on Native American lands and from non-casino gaming opportunities within Louisiana. The Louisiana Riverboat Economic Development and Gaming Control Act
limits the number of gaming casinos in Louisiana to fifteen riverboat casinos statewide and one land-based casino in New Orleans. All fifteen riverboat licenses are currently issued.

The
principal competitor to Casino Rouge is the Belle of Baton Rouge, which is the only other licensed riverboat casino in Baton Rouge. In February 2001, a new
300-room Sheraton hotel opened at the Belle of Baton Rouge. We also face competition from three major riverboat casinos and one land-based casino in the New Orleans area, which
is approximately 75 miles from Baton Rouge, and from three Native American casinos in Louisiana. The two closest Native American casinos are land-based facilities located approximately 45
miles southwest and approximately 65 miles northwest of Baton Rouge. We also face competition from several truck stop gaming facilities located in certain surrounding parishes, each of which are
authorized to operate up to 50 video poker machines.

Ontario.

Our operation of Casino Rama through CHC Casinos Canada Limited will face competition in Ontario from a number of
casinos and racetracks with gaming machine facilities. Currently, there are two other commercial casinos, five charity casinos and at least fifteen racetracks with gaming machines in the province of
Ontario. All of the casinos and gaming machine facilities are operated on behalf of the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation, an agency of the Province of Ontario. The Ontario Lottery and Gaming
Corporation also operates several province-wide lotteries.

Casino
Rama is located near Orillia, Ontario, approximately 90 miles north of Toronto. There is one charity casino and three racetracks with gaming machine facilities that directly
affect Casino Rama. The charity casino has 40 gaming tables and 450 gaming machines. The number of gaming machines at the racetracks range from 100 to 1,700 each.

There
is an interim commercial casino located in Niagara Falls, Ontario, 80 miles southwest of Toronto with approximately 135 gaming tables and 2,000 gaming machines. It is contemplated
that Niagara Falls will have a permanent casino with a similar number of gaming tables and gaming machines as the interim casino that is scheduled to be completed by the spring of 2002. In addition,
it has been proposed in connection with the City of Toronto's waterfront revitalization project that a casino be located in downtown Toronto. However, we are not aware of any definitive plans for the
development of such a casino.

—Racing and pari-mutuel operations

Our racing and pari-mutuel operations face significant competition for wagering dollars from other racetracks and OTWs (some of which also offer other
forms of gaming), other gaming venues such as casinos and state-sponsored lotteries, including the Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware and West Virginia lotteries. We also may face competition in the
future from new OTWs or from new racetracks. From time to time, states consider legislation to permit other forms of gaming. If additional gaming opportunities become available near our racing and
pari-mutuel operations, such gaming opportunities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.


Our
OTWs compete with the OTWs of other Pennsylvania racetracks, and new OTWs may compete with our existing wagering facilities. Our competitors have a number of OTW facilities that are
near our OTWs. Although only two competing OTWs remain authorized by law for future opening, the opening of a new OTW in close proximity to our existing or future OTWs could have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We are or may become involved in legal proceedings that, if adversely adjudicated or settled, could impact our financial condition.

On August 20, 2001, Showboat Development Company brought a lawsuit against us and certain other parties related to the Charles Town Entertainment Complex.
The suit alleges, among other things, that our operation of coin-out video lottery terminals at the Charles Town facility constitutes the operation of a casino, thereby triggering
Showboat's option to manage the casino. The suit also alleges that our March 2000 acquisition of the 11% minority interest in Charles Town Races from BDC Group, our former joint venture
partner, was made in violation of a right of first refusal that Showboat holds from BDC covering the sale of any interest in any casino at Charles Town Races. We filed in federal district court in
Nevada a motion to dismiss this action for lack of personal jurisdiction which was granted on January 25, 2002. On February 13, 2002, Showboat filed a lawsuit in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. The substance of the lawsuit was substantially similar to Showboat's previous claim filed in Nevada. On March 28, 2002, Penn National and
Showboat agreed to settle all litigation related to this matter. Under the settlement, we agreed to make a one-time payment
of $1.0 million to Showboat, which was recognized in our operating results for the fourth quarter of 2001.

In
July 2001, a lawsuit was filed against us by certain surveillance employees at the Charles Town facility claiming that our surveillance of those employees during working hours
was improper. The lawsuit claims damages of $7.0 million and punitive damages of $15.0 million. We currently are conducting discovery in the case but, at this time, believe that all of
the claims of the employees are without merit. On February 12, 2002, we filed a motion for summary judgment that is pending before the court. We intend to vigorously defend ourselves against
this action and do not believe that this action will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.

In
January 2002, an employee at our Charles Town facility initiated a suit against us alleging invasion of privacy. The employee claims in the suit that she was subjected to an
involuntary strip search by other Charles Town employees as part of a theft investigation and is seeking punitive damages. The lawsuit claims damages of $0.5 million and punitive damages of
$3.5 million. We believe we have meritorious defenses and intend to vigorously defend ourselves against this suit.

We
also are parties to certain other litigation but do not believe it will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations if any of these legal
proceedings were adversely adjudicated or settled. Furthermore, the nature of our business subjects us to the risk of lawsuits filed by customers and others in the ordinary course. In general,
litigation can be expensive and time consuming to defend and could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact results of operations or financial condition.


We face extensive regulation from gaming authorities.

Licensing Requirements.

As owners and operators of gaming and pari-mutuel betting facilities, we are subject to
extensive state, local and, in Canada, provincial regulation. State, local and provincial authorities require us and our subsidiaries to demonstrate suitability to obtain and retain various licenses
and require that we have registrations, permits and approvals to conduct gaming operations. Various regulatory authorities, including the Louisiana Gaming Control Board, the Mississippi Gaming
Commission, the New Jersey Casino Control Commission, the New Jersey Racing Commission, the Alcohol and Gaming Commission of Ontario, the Pennsylvania State Horse Racing Commission, the Pennsylvania
State Harness Racing Commission, the West Virginia Racing Commission and the West Virginia Lottery Commission may, for any reason set forth in the applicable legislation, limit, condition, suspend or
revoke a license or registration to conduct gaming operations or prevent us from owning the securities of any of our gaming subsidiaries. Like all gaming operators in the jurisdictions in which we
operate, we must periodically apply to renew our gaming licenses or registrations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such renewals. Regulatory authorities may also levy substantial
fines against or seize the assets of our company, our subsidiaries or the people involved in violating gaming laws or regulations. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.

We
have demonstrated suitability to obtain and have obtained all governmental licenses, registrations, permits and approvals necessary for us to operate our existing gaming facilities.
We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them or demonstrate suitability to obtain any new licenses, registrations, permits or approvals, including those required for us to consummate the
Bullwhackers acquisition. If we expand our gaming operations in West Virginia, Mississippi, Louisiana, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Canada or to new areas, we will have to meet suitability requirements
and obtain additional licenses, registrations, permits and approvals from gaming authorities in these jurisdictions. The approval process can be time-consuming and costly and we cannot be
sure that we will be successful.

Gaming
authorities in the United States generally can require that any beneficial owner of our securities, including holders of our common stock file an application for a finding of
suitability. If a gaming authority requires a record or beneficial owner of our common stock to file a suitability application, the owner must apply for a finding of suitability within
30 days or at an earlier time prescribed by the gaming authority. The gaming authority has the power to investigate an owner's suitability and the owner must pay all costs of the investigation.
If the owner is found unsuitable, then the owner may be required by law to dispose of our common stock.

Potential Changes in Regulatory Environment.

From time to time, legislators and special interest groups have proposed
legislation that would expand, restrict or prevent gaming operations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Any expansion of gaming or restriction on or prohibition of our gaming operations could
have a material adverse effect on our operating results.

Taxation.

State, provincial and local authorities raise a significant amount of revenue through taxes and fees on gaming
activities. We believe that the prospect of significant revenue is one of the primary reasons that jurisdictions permit legalized gaming. As a result, gaming companies are typically subject to
significant taxes and fees in addition to normal federal, state, local and provincial income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. We pay substantial taxes and fees with
respect to our operations. From time to time, federal, state, local and provincial legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the
gaming industry. In addition, worsening economic conditions could intensify the efforts of state and local governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes. It is not possible to
determine with certainty the likelihood of changes in tax laws or in the administration of such laws. Such changes, if


adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Compliance with Other Laws.

We are also subject to a variety of other rules and regulations, including zoning, environmental,
construction and land-use laws and regulations governing the serving of alcoholic beverages.

We depend on our key personnel.

We are highly dependent on the services of Peter M. Carlino, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and other members of our senior management team. We have
entered into employment agreements with Mr. Carlino and certain other officers. However, the loss of the services of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.

Inclement weather and other conditions could seriously disrupt our operations.

The operations of our facilities are subject to disruptions or reduced patronage as a result of severe weather conditions. Our dockside facilities in Mississippi
and Louisiana are subject to risks in addition to those associated with land-based casinos, including loss of service due to casualty, mechanical failure, extended or extraordinary
maintenance, flood, hurricane or other severe weather conditions. Reduced
patronage and the loss of a dockside casino or riverboat from service for any period of time due to severe weather could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We depend on agreements with our horsemen and pari-mutuel clerks to operate our business.

The Federal Horseracing Act, the West Virginia Racing Act and the Pennsylvania Racing Act require that, in order to simulcast races, we have written agreements
with the horse owners and trainers at our West Virginia and Pennsylvania race tracks. In addition, in order to operate gaming machines in West Virginia, we are required to enter into written
agreements regarding the proceeds of the gaming machines with a representative of a majority of the horse owners and trainers, a representative of a majority of the pari-mutuel clerks and
a representative of a majority of the horse breeders. On March 23, 1999, we signed a new horsemen agreement with the Pennsylvania Thoroughbred Horsemen at Penn National Race Course with an
initial term that expires on January 1, 2004. Our agreement with the Pennsylvania Harness Horsemen was entered into in November 1999 and expires on January 16, 2003. At the
Charles Town Entertainment Complex, we have an agreement with the Charles Town Horsemen that expires on December 31, 2002. Our agreement with the pari-mutuel clerks at Charles Town
expires on December 31, 2004.

If
we fail to maintain operative agreements with the horsemen at a track, we will not be permitted to conduct live racing and export and import simulcasting at that track and OTWs, and,
in West Virginia, we will not be permitted to operate our gaming machines. In addition, our simulcasting agreements are subject to the horsemen's approval. In February 1999, the Pennsylvania
Thoroughbred Horsemen stopped racing at Penn National Race Course and withdrew their permission for us to import simulcast races from other racetracks, resulting in the closure of Penn National Race
Course and its six OTWs. As a result of this action, our operations at Penn National Race Course and its OTWs were suspended for more than five weeks, we lost 46 race days at Penn National Race
Course, and it took nearly six months from the beginning of the action before we returned to pre-action levels of racing and operations. If we fail to renew or modify existing agreements
on satisfactory terms, this failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.


In
addition, pursuant to the New Jersey Simulcasting Racing Act, our New Jersey joint venture, Pennwood Racing, Inc., must maintain written agreements with the horsemen at
Freehold Raceway in order to simulcast races to the Atlantic City casinos. Horsemen agreements currently are in effect at Freehold Raceway.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

The following describes our principal real estate properties:

Charles Town Entertainment Complex.

We own a 250-acre parcel in Charles Town, West Virginia, a portion of which
contains the Charles Town Entertainment Complex. The property also includes a


/


-mile thoroughbred racetrack and an enclosed grandstand/clubhouse. We have a right of first
refusal for an additional 250 acres that are adjacent to the facility.

Casino Magic Bay St. Louis.

We own approximately 591 acres in the city of Bay St. Louis, Mississippi, including the
17-acre marina where the gaming barge is moored. The property includes an 18-hole golf course, a hotel, and other land-based facilities, all of which we own.

Boomtown Biloxi.

We lease substantially all of the 19 acres on which Boomtown Biloxi is located under a 99-year
lease that began in 1994. The lease stipulates base rent based on gaming revenue with a minimum of $500,000 and a maximum of $2 million annually, plus 5% of gaming revenues in excess of
$25 million but less than $50 million. If gaming revenue exceeds $50 million dollars, the percentage rent increases to 11% of all gaming revenue over $50 million. For the
year ended December 31, 2001, rental payments totaled $3.6 million. In addition, we lease property for parking under several lease agreements ranging from 10 to 25 years. We also
lease approximately 5.1 acres of submerged tidelands at the casino site from the State of Mississippi under a ten-year lease with a five-year option to renew. We own the barge
on which the casino is located and all of the land-based facilities.

Casino Rouge.

LCCI owns five acres of a 23-acre site on the east bank of the Mississippi River in the East Baton
Rouge Downtown Development District less than one-quarter mile from the state capital complex. The remaining 18 acres of the site are currently leased. The property site serves as the
dockside embarkation for the Casino Rouge and features a two-story, 58,000 square foot building. The Casino Rouge is a four-story 47,000 square foot riverboat casino.

Casino Rama.

Under the Development and Operating Agreement among the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation, the Mnjikaning
First Nation, CRC, CHC Casinos and certain other parties, CHC Casinos operates Casino Rama on behalf of the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation. CRC and its wholly owned subsidiary, CHC Casinos,
the operator of Casino Rama, do not own any of the land located at or near the casino. In addition, Casino Rama's facilities and equipment are owned by the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation. The
Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation has a long-term ground lease with an affiliate of the Mnjikaning First Nation, for the land on which Casino Rama is situated. Under the Development
and the Operating Agreement, CHC Casinos has been granted a license coupled with an interest in land pursuant to which it, as the operator, has been granted full access to Casino Rama during the term
of the Development and Operating Agreement to perform its services under the Agreement.

Penn National Race Course.

We own approximately 225 acres in Grantville, Pennsylvania where the Penn National Race Course is
located. The property includes a one mile all-weather thoroughbred racetrack
and a


/


-mile turf track. The property also includes approximately 400 acres surrounding the Penn National Race course that are available for future expansion or
development.

Pocono Downs.

We own approximately 400 acres in Plains Township, outside of Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania where Pocono Downs is
located. The property includes a


/


-mile all weather, lighted


harness track, a grandstand and a clubhouse. A two-story 14,000 square foot building that houses the Pocono Downs office is also located on the property.

Freehold Raceway.

Through our joint venture, we own a 51-acre site in Freehold in Western Monmouth County, New
Jersey where Freehold Raceway in located. The property features a half-mile oval harness track and a 150,000 square foot grandstand.

OTWs.

We own four of our existing OTW facilities and lease the remaining seven facilities.

Other.

We lease 7,362 square feet of office space in an office building in Wyomissing, Pennsylvania for our executive
offices. The office building is owned by an affiliate of Peter M. Carlino, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. We also lease an aircraft from a company owned by one of our directors. We believe
that the lease terms for both the executive office and aircraft are not less favorable than such lease terms that could have been obtained from unaffiliated third parties.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

On August 20, 2001, Showboat Development Company brought a lawsuit against us and certain other parties related to the Charles Town Entertainment Complex.
The suit alleges, among other things, that our operation of coin-out video lottery terminals at the Charles Town facility constitutes the operation of a casino, thereby triggering
Showboat's option to manage the casino. The suit also alleges that our March 2000 acquisition of the 11% minority interest in Charles Town Races from BDC Group, our former joint venture
partner, was made in violation of a right of first refusal that Showboat holds from BDC covering the sale of any interest in any casino at Charles Town Races. We have filed in federal district court
in Nevada a motion to dismiss this action for lack of personal jurisdiction and, in the alternative, a motion to transfer the case to the state of West Virginia. On January 25, 2002, the
district court granted our motion to dismiss. On February 13, 2002, Showboat filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. The substance of the
lawsuit was substantially similar to Showboat's previous claim filed in Nevada. On March 28, 2002, Penn National and Showboat agreed to settle all litigation related to this matter. Under the
settlement, we agreed to make a one-time payment of $1.0 million to Showboat, which was recognized in general and administrative expenses in our operating results for the fourth
quarter of 2001.

In
July 2001, a lawsuit was filed against us in the Circuit Court of Jefferson County, West Virginia, by certain surveillance employees at the Charles Town facility claiming that
our surveillance of those employees during working hours was improper. The lawsuit claims damages of $7.0 million and punitive damages of $15.0 million. We currently are conducting
discovery in the case but, at this time, believe that all of the claims of the employees are without merit. On February 12, 2002, we filed a motion for summary judgment that is pending before
the court. We intend to vigorously defend ourselves against this action and do not believe that this action will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.

In
January 2002, an employee at our Charles Town facility filed a suit against us in the Circuit Court of Jefferson County, West Virginia, alleging invasion of privacy. The
employee claims in the suit that she was subjected to an involuntary strip search by other Charles Town employees as part of a theft investigation and is seeking punitive damages. The lawsuit claims
damages of $0.5 million and punitive damages of $3.5 million. We believe we have meritorious defenses and intend to vigorously defend ourselves against this suit.

We
also are parties to certain other litigation but do not believe it will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations if any of these legal
proceedings were adversely adjudicated or settled. Furthermore, the nature of our business subjects us to the risk of lawsuits filed by customers and others in the ordinary course. In general,
litigation can be expensive


and time consuming to defend and could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact results of operations or financial condition.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None.


PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS

Our common stock is quoted on The Nasdaq National Market under the symbol "PENN". The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the high and low sales
prices per share of our common stock as reported on The Nasdaq National Market.

High

Low


First Quarter

$

11.25

$

6.81

Second Quarter

15.75

10.38

Third Quarter

15.38

12.50

Fourth Quarter

18.38

8.00


First Quarter

$

15.13

$

9.25

Second Quarter

26.20

10.88

Third Quarter

27.98

12.95

Fourth Quarter

30.65

16.02

The
closing sale price per share of common stock on The Nasdaq National Market on March 19, 2002, was $34.13. As of March 19, 2002, there were approximately 521 holders of
record of common stock.

Dividend Policy

Since our initial public offering of common stock in May 1994, we have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We intend to retain all of our
earnings to finance the development of our business, and thus, do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Payment of any cash dividends in the future will
be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon, among other things, our future earnings, operations and capital requirements, our general financial condition and general business
conditions. Moreover, our existing credit facility prohibits us from authorizing, declaring or paying any dividends until our commitments under the credit facility have been terminated and all amounts
outstanding thereunder have been repaid. In addition, future financing arrangements may prohibit the payment of dividends under certain conditions.

ITEM 6. SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA

The following selected consolidated financial and operating data of Penn National Gaming, Inc. for the years ended December 31, 1997, 1998, 1999,
2000 and 2001 are derived from financial statements that have been audited by BDO Seidman, LLP, independent certified public accountants. The selected consolidated financial and operating data should
be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial


statements of Penn National and Notes thereto, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and the other financial information included herein.

Year Ended December 31,

1997(1)



2000(2)

2001(3)

(in thousands, except per share data)

Income statement data:(4)

Revenue:

Gaming

$

5,730

$

37,665

$

55,415

$

159,589

$

366,166

Racing

98,402

106,850

102,827

113,230

112,243

Management service fee

—

—

—

—

8,297

Other

7,404

9,550

12,118

18,982

32,686

Total revenues

111,536

154,065

170,360

291,801

519,392

Operating expenses:

Gaming

4,134

26,544

34,951

94,087

202,198

Racing

65,810

70,303

68,808

77,063

78,509

General and administrative

25,965

29,250

37,763

56,755

127,121

Other

5,623

8,080

11,173

18,776

33,852

Total operating expenses

101,532

134,177

152,695

246,681

441,680

Income from operations

10,004

19,888

17,665

45,120

77,712

Other income (expenses), net

(3,927

)

(7,866

)

(7,155

)

(16,408

)

(41,346

)

Income before income taxes and extraordinary item

6,077

12,022

10,510

28,712

36,366

Taxes on income

2,308

4,519

3,777

10,137

12,608

Income before extraordinary item

3,769

7,503

6,733

18,575

23,758

Extraordinary item—loss on early extinguishment of debt, net of income taxes of $1,001 in 1997 and $4,615 in 2000

(1,482

)

—

—

(6,583

)

—

Net income

$

2,287

$

7,503

$

6,733

$

11,992

$

23,758

Per share data:

Basic income per share before extraordinary item

$

0.25

$

0.50

$

0.45

$

1.24

$

1.55

Basic net income per share

$

0.15

$

0.50

$

0.45

$

0.80

$

1.55

Diluted income per share before extraordinary item

$

0.24

$

0.49

$

0.44

$

1.20

$

1.49

Diluted net income per share

$

0.15

$

0.49

$

0.44

$

0.78

$

1.49

Weighted shares outstanding—basic

14,925

15,015

14,837

14,968

15,327

Weighted shares outstanding—diluted

15,458

15,374

15,196

15,443

15,918

Other data:

Net cash provided by operating activities

$

10,678

$

11,866

$

22,461

$

41,813

$

85,833

Net cash used in investing activities

(47,620

)

(22,333

)

(29,756

)

(229,770

)

(216,335

)

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

53,162

(4,561

)

9,903

201,810

145,593

Depreciation and amortization

3,771

5,318

7,733

12,039

32,093

Interest expense

4,860

8,804

9,613

20,644

46,097

EBITDA(5)

13,775

25,206

26,496

59,481

112,336

Capital expenditures

29,196

22,333

13,243

27,295

41,511

Balance sheet data:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

21,854

$

6,826

$

9,434

$

23,287

$

38,378

Total assets

158,878

160,798

189,712

439,900

679,377

Total debt

80,336

78,256

91,213

309,299

458,909

Shareholders' equity

53,856

59,036

66,272

79,221

103,265

(1)

Reflects
operations included since our January 15, 1997 acquisition of a joint venture interest in the Charles Town Entertainment Complex.

(2)

Reflects
operations included since the August 8, 2000 acquisition of Casino Magic Bay St. Louis casino and Boomtown Biloxi casino.

(3)

Reflects
operations included since the April 27, 2001 acquisition of all of the gaming assets of CRC Holdings, Inc. and the minority interest in Louisiana Casino
Cruises, Inc.

(4)

Certain
prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.

(5)

EBITDA
consists of income from operations plus depreciation and amortization and earnings from joint venture. EBITDA is presented because we believe it is frequently used by
securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of companies in our industry. However, other companies in our industry may calculate EBITDA differently than we do. EBITDA
is not a measurement of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flow from operating activities or as a measure of
liquidity or an alternative to net income as an indicator of operating performance or any other measure of performance derived in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.


ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Overview

We derive substantially all of our revenues from gaming and pari-mutuel operations. Since September 1997, revenues from our gaming machines at
the Charles Town Entertainment Complex have accounted for an increasingly large share of our total revenues. Our pari-mutuel revenues have been derived from wagering on our live races,
wagering on import simulcasts at our racetracks and OTWs and through telephone account wagering, and fees from wagering on export simulcasting our races at out-of-state
locations. Our other revenues have been derived from admissions, program sales, food and beverage sales, concessions and certain other ancillary activities.

Our
acquisitions of Casino Magic Bay St. Louis, Boomtown Biloxi, Casino Rouge and the management contract for Casino Rama will continue to impact our revenue mix between gaming and
pari-mutuel revenues on a prospective basis. We expect that in future periods gaming revenue as a percentage of our total revenues will continue to increase as we continue to focus on our
gaming operations. For the years ended December 31, 1999, 2000 and 2001, gaming revenue represented approximately 32%, 54% and 71% of our total revenue, respectively.

Recent and Pending Acquisitions

Casino Magic and Boomtown Biloxi

On August 8, 2000, we completed our acquisition of the Casino Magic Bay St. Louis casino and the Boomtown Biloxi casino from Pinnacle
Entertainment, Inc. for approximately $201.3 million in cash,
including acquisition costs of $6.3 million. The purchase price was funded with a portion of the proceeds from our $350 million senior secured credit facility. As a result of the
refinancing and repayment of existing debt, we recorded an $11.2 million pre-tax extraordinary charge, which was included in our results of operations for the year ended
December 31, 2000. The results of operations for these properties from the period August 8, 2000 to December 31, 2001 are included in the results of operations discussed below.

Casino Rouge and Casino Rama

On April 27, 2001, we completed our acquisition of Casino Rouge in Baton Rouge, Louisiana and the management contract for Casino Rama in Orillia, Ontario,
Canada for approximately $182 million, including the repayment of existing debt of CRC and its subsidiaries. The purchase price of the acquisition was funded by the proceeds of our offering of


/


% senior subordinated notes due 2008, which was completed in March 2001. The results of operations for these properties for the period April 28, 2001 to
December 31, 2001 are included in the results of operations discussed below.

Bullwhackers Casino

In August 2001, we signed an agreement to acquire the operations of Bullwhackers Casino, the adjoining Bullpen Sports Casino and Silver Hawk Saloon and
Casino in Black Hawk, Colorado for $6.5 million cash. We expect to close the acquisition in the second quarter of 2002.

Critical Accounting Policies

Financial Reporting Release No. 60, which was recently released by the Securities and Exchange Commission, requires all companies to include a discussion
of critical accounting policies or methods used in the preparation of financial statements. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements. The significant accounting policies that


we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding our reported financial results include the following:

Revenue recognition

In accordance with common industry practice, our casino revenues are the net of gaming wins less losses. Racing revenues include our share of
pari-mutuel wagering on live races after payment of
amounts returned as winning wagers, and our share of wagering from import and export simulcasting as well as our share of wagering from our OTW's. The vast majority of wagers for both businesses are
in the form of cash and we do not grant credit to our customers to a significant extent. Our receivables consist principally of amounts due from simulcasting of our races to other racetracks and their
OTWs. We also have receivables due under our management contract with Casino Rama for management fees and for expenses, primarily salaries and wages, payable in accordance with our contract.
Historically, we have not experienced any significant bad debts from uncollected receivables.

Recent Accounting Standards

In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board finalized FASB Statements No. 141,

Business Combinations
(SFAS 141

) and No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangibles Assets

(SFAS 142). SFAS 141 requires the use
of the purchase method accounting and prohibits the use of pooling-of-interests method of accounting for business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001.
SFAS 141 also requires that we recognize acquired intangible assets apart from goodwill if the acquired intangible assets meet certain criteria. SFAS 141 applies to all business
combinations initiated after June 30, 2001 and for purchase business combinations completed on or after July 1, 2001. It also requires, upon adoption of SFAS 142, that we
reclassify the carrying amounts of intangible assets and goodwill based on certain criteria in SFAS 141.

SFAS 142
requires, among other things, that companies no longer amortize goodwill, but instead test goodwill for impairment at least annually. In addition, SFAS 142
requires that we identify reporting units for the purpose of assessing potential future impairments of goodwill, reassess the useful lives of the other existing recognized intangible assets, and cease
amortization of intangible assets with an indefinite useful life. Any intangible asset with an indefinite useful life should be tested for impairment in accordance with the guidance in
SFAS 142. SFAS 142 is required to be applied in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001 to all goodwill and other intangible assets recognized at that date, regardless of
when those assets were initially recognized. SFAS 142 requires us to complete a transitional goodwill impairment test six months from the date of adoption. We are also required to reassess the
useful lives of the other intangible assets within the first interim quarter after adoption of SFAS 142.

Our
previous business combinations were accounted for using the purchase method. As of December 31, 2001, net carrying amount of goodwill is $160.2 million and other
intangible assets (management service contract for Casino Rama) is $24.1 million. Amortization expense for goodwill and other intangible assets for the year ended December 31, 2001 was
$3.5 million and $1.7 million, respectively. Currently, we are assessing but have not yet determined how the adoption of SFAS 142 will impact our financial position and results of
operations.

In
October 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets" ("SFAS 144"). This statement addresses
financial accounting and reporting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets. This statement supersedes SFAS Statement No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of
Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of," and the accounting and reporting provisions of APB Opinion No. 30, "Reporting the Results of
Operations—Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions." This statement also amends ARB
No. 51


"Consolidated Financial Statements," to eliminate the exception to consolidation for a subsidiary for which control is likely to be temporary. This statement requires that one accounting model be
used for long-lived assets to be disposed of by sale, whether previously held and used or newly acquired. This statement also broadens the presentation of discontinued operations to
include more disposal transactions. SFAS 144 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001 and interim periods within those fiscal years. Currently, we are assessing
but have not determined how the adoption of SFAS 144 will impact our financial position and results of operations.

Results of Operations

The results of operations by property level for the years ended December 31, 1999, 2000 and 2001 are summarized below (in thousands):

Revenues

EBITDA(1)







Charles Town Entertainment Complex

$

80,015

$

135,290

$

193,612

$

16,023

$

35,469

$

51,252

Casino Magic-Bay St. Louis(2)

—

31,571

87,752

—

6,092

18,658

Boomtown Biloxi(2)

—

24,634

70,370

—

3,460

13,546

Casino Rouge(3)

—

—

61,981

—

—

15,444

Casino Rama Management Contract(3)

—

—

8,297

—

—

7,632

Penn National Race Course and its OTWs

55,609

64,364

59,821

9,065

10,380

7,582

Pocono Downs and its OTWs

36,324

37,573

38,945

8,955

7,791

7,127

New Jersey Joint Venture

—

—

—

1,098

2,322

2,531

Corporate eliminations(4)

(1,588

)

(1,631

)

(1,386

)

—

—

—

Corporate overhead

—

—

—

(5,361

)

(6,033

)

(9,946

)

Corporate overhead CRC Holdings(3)

—

—

—

—

—

(490

)

Total before non-recurring charges

170,360

291,801

519,392

29,780

59,481

113,336

Non-recurring charges and expenses

—

—

—

(3,284

)

—

(1,000

)

Total

$

170,360

$

291,801

$

519,392

$

26,496

$

59,481

$

112,336

(1)

EBITDA
consists of income from operations plus depreciation and amortization and earnings from joint venture. EBITDA is presented because we believe it is frequently used by
securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of companies in our industry. However, other companies in our industry may calculate EBITDA differently than we do. EBITDA
is not a measurement of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flow from operating activities or as a measure of
liquidity or an alternative to net income as an indicator of operating performance, or any other measure of performance derived in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

(2)

Reflects
results since the August 8, 2000 acquisition from Pinnacle Entertainment.

(3)

Reflects
results since April 27, 2001 acquisition of CRC Holdings, Inc., including corporate overhead at CRC's executive office in Miami, Florida.

(4)

Primarily
reflects intracompany transactions related to import/export simulcasting.

Year Ended December 31, 2001 compared to Year Ended December 31, 2000

Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2001 increased by $227.6 million, or 78.0%, to $519.4 million in 2001 from $291.8 million in
2000. Revenues increased at our Mississippi properties by $101.9 million to $158.1 million in 2001 from $56.2 million in 2000 (which represented revenues from the August 8,
2000 acquisition date through December 31, 2000). The CRC properties, which were


acquired on April 27, 2001, accounted for $70.3 million of the increase. Revenues also increased at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex by $58.3 million, or 43.1%, to
$193.6 million in 2001 from $135.3 million in 2000 as a result of an increase in the number of gaming machines from 1,500 to 2,000 in 2001 and a higher percentage in 2001 of
coin-out machines compared to video voucher machines. Revenues from the Pennsylvania racetracks and OTWs decreased by approximately $3.2 million due to a Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania racing subsidy of $1.6 million received in 2000 but not in 2001 and a decrease in wagering.

Operating
expenses for the year ended December 31, 2001 increased by $195.0 million, or 79.0%, to $441.7 million in 2001 from $246.7 million in 2000.
Operating expenses increased at our Mississippi properties by $87.9 million to $138.4 million in 2001 from $50.5 million in 2000. The CRC properties also accounted for
$54.3 million of the increase. Operating expenses increased at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex by $48.3 million, or 46.5%, to $152.2 million in 2001 from
$103.9 million in 2000 due in large part to additional gaming machines in 2001 and a higher percentage of more expensive coin-out machines compared to video voucher machines.
Operating expenses at the Pennsylvania
racetracks and OTWs increased by $.4 million. Corporate overhead increased by $4.2 million, or 64.6%, to $10.7 million in 2001 from $6.5 million in 2000 primarily due to
additional corporate staff needed to support the recent acquisitions.

EBITDA
increased by $52.8 million, or 88.7%, to $112.3 million in 2001 from $59.5 million in 2000. EBITDA increased at our Mississippi properties by
$22.6 million to $32.2 million in 2001 from $9.6 million in 2000. The CRC properties accounted for $22.6 million of the increase. EBITDA at the Charles Town Entertainment
Complex increased by $15.8 million, or 44.5%, to $51.3 million in 2001 from $35.5 million in 2000. The Pennsylvania racetracks and OTWs and New Jersey joint venture EBITDA
accounted for a decrease of $3.2 million over last year. Corporate overhead increased by $3.9 million, or 65.0%, to $9.9 million in 2001 from $6.0 million in 2000.

Net
interest expense increased $24.3 million in 2001 due primarily to additional borrowings in August 2000 of approximately $200.0 million to finance the Mississippi
acquisitions and $200.0 million in April 2001 to finance the CRC acquisition.

Charles Town Entertainment Complex

Total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2001 increased by $58.3 million, or 43.1%, to $193.6 million in 2001 from
$135.3 million in 2000. Gaming revenues increased by $55.7 million, or 51.0%, to $165.0 million in 2001 from $109.3 million in 2000, primarily due to expansion of the
gaming floor, which was completed in December 2000. As a result of the expansion, we added 500 reel-spinning, coin-out gaming machines, bringing the total average number
of machines to approximately 2,000 for the year 2001, compared to approximately 1,500 gaming machines for the year 2000. These additional gaming machines and the continued shift in machine mix to a
higher percentage of reel-spinning, coin-out machines, resulted in an increase in average win per machine of $224 for the year ended December 31, 2001 compared to $199
for the year ended December 31, 2000. Racing revenues increased by $1.8 million, or 8.9%, to $22.1 million in 2001 from $20.3 million in 2000. This increase was primarily
due to 25 additional racing days and an increase in export wagering by $43.1 million, or 28.2%, to $196.2 million as a result of additional racing days and overall larger per day
wagering averages. Other revenue increased by $.8 million, or 14.0%, to $6.5 million in 2001 from $5.7 million in 2000 primarily as a result of higher food and beverage revenues
from opening of the Sundance Café in November 2000, and expansion of the concession areas, dining room and the buffet.

Total
operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2001 increased $48.3 million, or 46.5%, to $152.2 million in 2001 from $103.9 million in 2000. The
increase was primarily due to an increase in gaming and racing related taxes of $32.5 million attributable to increased gaming and racing revenues and a change in gaming legislation that
resulted in higher gaming taxes and a higher net administrative


fee paid to the State of West Virginia. Salaries and wages increased by $5.2 million primarily due to additional staffing associated with increased gaming units, gaming square footage and
expanded concession and dining facilities. Total marketing expenses increased $1.9 million in 2001 as a result of
additional media advertising and promotional campaigns to increase awareness of the facility. Other expenses increased due to an increase in property insurance premiums and operating costs associated
with the expanded capacity of the facility. Depreciation and amortization increased by $4.8 million as a result of higher capital expenditures in 2001. EBITDA for the year ended
December 31, 2001 increased by $15.8 million, or 44.5%, to $51.3 million in 2001 from $35.5 million in 2000.

Mississippi Casinos

Operating results in 2000 for Casino Magic Bay St Louis and Boomtown Biloxi only include the period from August 8, 2000 through December 31, 2000.
For the year ended December 31, 2001, Casino Magic Bay St. Louis had revenues of $87.8 million consisting mainly of gaming revenue. Operating expenses for Casino Magic totaled
$76.5 million consisting of gaming ($44.0 million), other ($6.7 million), general and administrative ($18.4 million), and depreciation and amortization expense
($7.4 million). For the year ended December 31, 2001, Boomtown Biloxi had revenues of $70.4 million consisting mainly of gaming revenue. Operating expenses for Boomtown totaled
$61.8 million consisting of gaming ($28.9 million), other ($8.8 million), general and administrative ($19.1 million), and depreciation and amortization expense
($5.0 million). EBITDA for the Mississippi casinos totaled $32.2 million for the period. Our Mississippi casino operations have numerous competitors, many of which have greater name
recognition and financial and marketing resources than we do. Competition in the Mississippi gaming markets is significantly more intense than the competition that our gaming operations face in West
Virginia or our pari-mutuel operations face in Pennsylvania and New Jersey.

Casino Rouge and Casino Rama

The CRC acquisition was completed on April 27, 2001 and includes the purchase of Casino Rouge in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and a management contract to
operate Casino Rama in Orillia, Canada. For the period from April 28, 2001 to December 31, 2001, Casino Rouge had revenues of $62.0 million consisting mainly of gaming revenues.
Operating expenses for Casino Rouge totaled $51.3 million consisting of gaming ($29.4 million), other ($3.4 million), general and administrative ($13.8 million) and
depreciation and amortization expense ($4.7 million). For the period from April 28, 2001 to December 31, 2001, management fees from the Casino Rama management contract totaled
$8.3 million for which there was $.7 million of direct operating expenses relating to the associated revenues and amortization of $1.7 million related to the management services
contract. EBITDA for Casino Rouge and Casino Rama totaled $22.6 million for the same period.

Penn National Race Course and its OTW Facilities

Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2001 decreased by $4.6 million, or 7.1%, to $59.8 million in 2001 from $64.4 million in 2000.
Live racing revenue accounted for $1.4 million of the decrease as a result of a decline in attendance, inclement weather and smaller fields in the first five months of 2001. Full card
simulcasting accounted for $2.0 million of the $4.6 million decline, again due to lower attendance in 2001. Other racing revenue declined by $1.0 million in 2001 compared to 2000
as a result
of a Commonwealth of Pennsylvania racing subsidy received in 2000 but not in 2001. Although the Commonwealth passed a similar subsidy measure in 2001, subsidy payments by the Commonwealth were frozen
and were not received.

Operating
expenses for the year ended December 31, 2001 decreased by $1.8 million, or 3.2%, to $55.7 million in 2001 from $55.8 million in 2000.
Racing-related expenses such as purses, simulcast fees and pari-mutuel taxes declined by $1.6 million, in part due to lower racing revenues. EBITDA for the


year ended December 31, 2001 decreased by $2.8 million, or 26.9%, to $7.6 million in 2001 from $10.4 million in 2000.

Pocono Downs and its OTW Facilities

Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2001 increased by $1.3 million, or 3.4%, to $38.9 million in 2001 from $37.6 million in 2000.
Revenues increased approximately $2.3 million due to the opening of a new OTW facility in East Stroudsburg, Pennsylvania, that was in operation for all of 2001 compared to five months in 2000.
This increase was offset by a decline of $.6 million as a result of a Commonwealth of Pennsylvania racing subsidy received in 2000 but not in 2001, and a net decline in revenues at the other
Pocono Downs OTWs.

Operating
expenses for the year ended December 31, 2001 increased by $2.3 million, or 7.2%, to $34.2 million in 2001 from $31.9 million in 2000. Other
operating expenses, administrative expense and concessions expenses increased $.9 million to $11.6 million compared to $10.7 million for the same period the previous year due to a
full year of operations at the East Stroudsburg OTW. Racing-related expenses, such as purses, simulcast fees and pari-mutuel taxes, increased $1.0 million, in part due to higher
racing revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2001 EBITDA decreased by $.7 million to $7.1 million in 2001 from $7.8 million in 2000.

Corporate Overhead Expenses

Corporate overhead expenses increased by $4.2 million, or 64.6%, to $10.7 million in 2001 from $6.5 million in 2000. Salaries and wages,
payroll taxes, employee benefits, relocation expenses and office rent increased by $2.0 million due to the addition of new staff at the corporate office to support the Mississippi and CRC
acquisitions. Liability insurance increased by $.5 million due to increased limits for general liability, fiduciary and directors and officers liability insurance and increased insurance rates
as a result of market conditions. Consulting and professional services increased by $1.0 million due to acquisition-related activities and regulatory expenses. Travel expenses increased by
$.4 million as a result of supporting properties in Mississippi, Louisiana and Canada.

New Jersey Joint Venture

We have an investment in Pennwood Racing, Inc., which operates Freehold Raceway in New Jersey and, until May 2001, operated Garden State Park. In
May 2001, Garden State Park was sold and the joint venture ceased operating Garden State Park. Our 50% share of net income was $2.5 million in 2001 compared to $2.3 million in
2000 and was recorded as other income on the income statement. The increase in the joint venture's net income is due in part to impairment expenses recorded in December 2000 related to the
then-proposed May 2001 closure of Garden State Park and decreased interest expense in 2001, offset by the decrease in operating income in 2001 as a result of the closure of Garden
State Park.

Non-recurring Charges and Expenses

Non-recurring charges and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2001 were $1.0 million as a result of the settlement of the Showboat litigation.

Year Ended December 31, 2000 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 1999

Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2000 increased 71.2% or $121.4 million to $291.8 million, from $170.4 for the year ended
December 31, 1999. Operating expenses increased 61.6%, or $94.6 million, to $248.2 million in 2000, from $153.6 million in 1999. The increases in revenues and operating
expenses were primarily a result of the Casino Magic and Boomtown Biloxi acquisition in August 2000, the change to more reel-spinning, coin-out gaming machines at the
Charles


Town Entertainment Complex and the addition of 500 new machines at Charles Town. As a result, income from operations increased 160.5%, or $26.8 million, to $43.5 million in 2000 from
$16.7 million in 1999. Total other expense increased 138.7%, or $8.6 million, to $14.8 million in 2000 from $6.2 million in 1999. Net interest expenses increased
$9.9 million in 2000 due to additional borrowings of $200 million to finance the Mississippi acquisition. Earnings from the New Jersey joint venture increased by $1.2 million
compared to 1999. Taxes on income increased by 168.4% or $6.4 million due to the factors discussed above. Income before extraordinary item was $18.6 million in 2000 compared to net
income of $6.7 million in 1999. In 2000, we incurred an extraordinary charge net of taxes of $6.6 million for the early extinguishment of debt; after giving effect to this change, our
net income was $12.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2000.

Charles Town Entertainment Complex

Revenues increased at Charles Town by approximately $55.3 million, or 69.1%, to $135.3 million in 2000 from $80.0 million in 1999. Gaming
revenue increased by $53.9 million, or 97.3%, to $109.3 million in 2000 from $55.4 million in 1999 due to the addition of 136 new video lottery machines in mid-1999,
565 new reel-spinning, coin-out gaming machines in late-1999 and 452 gaming machines in the OK Corral slots center, which opened on November 25, 2000. The
average number of machines in play increased to 1,494 in 2000 from 923 in 1999 and the average win per machine increased to $199 in 2000 from $163 in 1999. Racing revenue increased by
$1.0 million, or 5.2%, to $20.3 million in 2000 from $19.3 million in 1999. This increase is due primarily to a change in the schedule from a Wednesday afternoon race program to a
Thursday evening race program in 2000 to accommodate export simulcasting. Charles Town began exporting its live race program to tracks across the country on June 5, 1999 and generated export
simulcasting revenues of $2.2 million in 2000 compared to $1.0 million in 1999. Operating expenses increased by $36.5 million, or 54.2%, to $103.9 million in 2000 from
$67.4 million in 1999. The increase was primarily due to an increase in gaming expenses of $30.1 million, or 86.0%, to $65.1 million in 2000 from $35.0 million in 1999.
This increase was mainly due to increased lottery taxes, purses, salaries and wages and administrative expenses related to the increase in gaming revenues. Racing, other and general and administrative
expenses increased by $4.1 million, or 13.4%, to $34.7 million in 2000 from $30.6 million in 1999. The increase was due to an increase in direct costs associated with additional
wagering on horse racing and gaming machine play, the addition of gaming machines and floor space (new temporary facility for gaming machines and the opening of the OK Corral slot center), export
simulcast expenses and expanded concession and dining capability and capacity. Depreciation expense increased by $2.3 million, or 127.8%, to $4.1 million in 2000 from $1.8 million
in 1999 due to additional gaming machines and improvements in 2000. EBITDA attributable to Charles Town increased by $19.5 million, or 121.9%, to $35.5 million in 2000 from
$16.0 million in 1999.

Mississippi Casinos

The Casino Magic Bay St Louis and Boomtown Biloxi acquisitions were completed on August 8, 2000. For the period August 8 to December 31,
2000, Casino Magic Bay St. Louis had revenues of $31.6 million consisting mainly of gaming revenue. Operating expenses for Casino Magic totaled $27.8 million consisting of gaming
($18.0 million), other ($2.5 million), general and administrative ($5.0 million), and depreciation and amortization expense ($2.3 million). For the period August 8
to December 31, 2000 Boomtown Biloxi had revenues of $24.6 million consisting mainly of gaming revenue. Operating expenses for Boomtown totaled $22.7 million consisting of gaming
($11.0 million), other ($3.2 million), general and administrative ($7.0 million), and depreciation and amortization expense ($1.5 million). EBITDA for the Mississippi
casinos totaled $9.6 million for the period. Our Mississippi casino operations have numerous competitors, many of which have greater name recognition and financial and marketing resources than
we do. Competition in the Mississippi gaming


markets is significantly more intense than the competition that our gaming operations face in West Virginia or our pari-mutuel operations face in Pennsylvania and New Jersey.

Penn National Race Course and its OTW Facilities

Penn National Race Course had an increase in revenue of approximately $8.8 million, or 15.8%, to $64.4 million in 2000 from $55.6 million in
1999. Pari-mutuel wagering was $386.6 million in 2000 compared to $333.8 million in 1999. The increase in wagering and revenues is attributed to Penn National Race Course
running 201 live race days in 2000 compared to 153 live races days in 1999. Penn National only ran 153 live race days in 1999 due to the Horsemen action in the first quarter that resulted in the
closure of all of the facilities from February 16 to March 24, 1999. Operating expenses increased by approximately $6.2 million, or 12.5%, to $55.8 million in 2000 from
$49.6 million in 1999. The increase was primarily due to an increase in racing expenses of $5.6 million, or 16.0%, to $40.5 million in 2000 from $34.9 million in 1999. This
increase was due to the temporary closure of Penn National Race Course and its OTWs in 1999 and a limited live race schedule during a portion of 1999 due to the Horsemen action described above.
Adjusting for the Horsemen action in 1999, EBITDA attributable to these properties increased by $1.3 million, or 14.3%, to $10.4 million in 2000 from $9.1 million in 1999.

Pocono Downs and its OTW Facilities

Revenues at Pocono Downs increased by $1.3 million, or 3.6%, to $37.6 million in 2000 from $36.3 million in 1999. Pari-mutuel
wagering was $161.6 million in 2000 compared to $160.2 million in 1999. Operating expenses increased by approximately $2.4 million, or 8.1%, to $31.9 million in 2000 from
$29.5 million in 1999. The increase was primarily due to an increase in racing expenses of $2.0 million, or 9.9%, to $22.3 million in 2000 from $20.3 million in 1999. The
opening of the new OTW facility in East Stroudsburg, Pennsylvania, and the increase in purse expense per the terms of the new Horsemen's contract executed in January 2000 accounted for most of
the increase in expenses. EBITDA decreased $1.2 million, or 13.3%, to $7.8 million in 2000 from $9.0 million in 1999.

Corporate Overhead Expenses

Corporate overhead expenses increased by $0.7 million, or 13.2%, to $6.0 million in 2000 from $5.3 million in 1999. Salaries and wages,
payroll taxes, and benefits increased by $0.7 million due to new positions created for business development, employee training, and marketing. Expenses also increased for SEC and annual
reporting ($73,000), office space ($30,000) and corporate travel for acquisitions and Mississippi operations ($246,000). These increases were partially offset by a decrease in outside services,
professional fees and consulting fees in the amount of $0.4 million.

New Jersey Joint Venture

We completed our investment in Pennwood Racing, Inc., the New Jersey joint venture, on July 29, 1999. Pennwood Racing operates Freehold Raceway and
Garden State Park. Revenues of the joint venture
increased to $61.5 million in 2000 from $28.0 million in 1999 as a result of the operating results in 2000 reflecting a full twelve-month period. Net income was $5.6 million in
2000, before non-recurring charges of $1.0 million relating to the termination of the Garden State lease, compared to $2.2 million in 1999. Our 50% share of net income was
$2.3 million, after a non-recurring charge of $0.5 million, in 2000 compared to $1.1 million in 1999.

Non-recurring Charges and Expenses

Non-recurring charges and expenses totaled $3.3 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. In connection with our gaming operations
in West Virginia, we recorded litigation expense of $1.5 million


for liquidated damages awarded to Amtote International, Inc. in a wagering services contract dispute. In Tennessee, the Tennessee Supreme Court declined to review the substantive issue of
whether pari-mutuel wagering on horse racing is lawful under the existing statute without the Tennessee Racing Commission. As a result of this decision we recorded a charge against
earnings of $0.5 million for costs incurred for our Tennessee racing license. In Pennsylvania, we incurred expenses totaling $1.3 million as a result of the Horsemen's action that closed
Penn National Race Course and its OTWs from February 16 to March 24, 1999 and resulted in the loss of 46 race days in 1999.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Historically, our primary sources of liquidity and capital resources have been cash flow from operations, borrowings from banks and proceeds from the issuance of
debt and equity securities.

Net
cash provided by operating activities was $85.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. This consisted of net income ($24.4 million), adjusted for
non-cash reconciling items ($36.8 million) and net increases in current liability accounts along with net decreases in current asset accounts ($24.6 million), net of assets
and liabilities acquired in the CRC acquisition. Net income, non-cash items and the net change in the balance sheet accounts increased by $12.4 million, $12.3 million and
$19.1 million, respectively, in 2001 as compared to 2000.

Cash
flows used in investing activities totaled $216.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Expenditures for property, plant, and equipment totaled
$41.5 million and included renovations of the buffet restaurant and new hotel construction at Casino Magic Bay St. Louis ($18.0 million), new gaming equipment at Casino Magic
($1.6 million), new gaming equipment and slot system at Boomtown Biloxi ($2.4 million), land and building acquisitions at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex ($1.0 million),
the OK Corral slot center at Charles Town ($0.6 million), property additions at Charles Town ($0.3 million), construction of parking garage and expansion at Charles Town
($3.2 million), construction and design of a steak house at Casino Rouge ($1.6 million), other small projects ($1.3 million) and maintenance capital expenditures at our properties
($11.5 million). The CRC acquisition totaled
$182.7 million. Cash received from the New Jersey joint venture totaled $2.9 million. Cash in escrow decreased by $4.6 million as a result of the closing of the CRC acquisition on
April 27, 2001.

Cash
flows from financing activities provided net cash flow of $145.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Aggregate proceeds from the issuance of notes were
$200.0 million, a portion of which were used to pay financing costs associated with the issuance ($6.9 million). Principal payments on long-term debt under our existing
credit facility, net of additional borrowings on the revolving line of credit, were $50.4 million. Proceeds from the exercise of stock options totaled $2.9 million.


Capital Expenditures

The following table summarizes our planned capital expenditures, other than maintenance capital expenditures, by property level for fiscal years ended
December 31, 2002 and 2003:

Year Ending December 31,



(in thousands)

Property

Charles Town Entertainment Complex

$

41,400

$

10,000

Casino Magic Bay St. Louis

20,700

—

Boomtown Biloxi

—

4,500

Bullwhackers Casino(1)

9,000

—

Totals

$

71,100

$

14,500

(1)

Pending
acquisition.

Beginning
in late 2001 and continuing through the end of 2002, we expect to expend significant amounts on capital expenditures at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex and Casino Magic
Bay St. Louis. At Charles Town, we expect to spend an additional $41.4 million in 2002 on capital expenditures that were begun in 2001. Specifically, we expect to complete construction of a
structured parking facility, at an estimated additional cost of $10.2 million in 2002, and expand the gaming and entertainment facility at Charles Town, at an estimated cost of
$31.2 million in 2002, which includes the purchase of 500 additional gaming machines. In 2003, we expect to expend approximately $10.0 million to purchase and install an additional 1,000
machines at Charles Town. On February 28, 2002, the West Virginia Lottery Commission approved our request to add up to 1,500 additional gaming machines to the 2,000 machines already in place at
Charles Town. Depending on future market conditions in the West Virginia gaming market, we will continue to evaluate our plans to build a 300-room hotel at Charles Town.


At Casino Magic, we have begun construction of a 300-room hotel with meeting and conference facilities, three new restaurant venues, renovations to the existing buffet
restaurant and certain amenities to the gaming floor. Through December 31, 2001, we spent approximately $18.0 million on these projects. In 2002, we expect to spend an additional
$20.7 million to complete these projects.

In
January 2002, we signed an option to purchase approximately 4 acres of land adjacent to our Boomtown Biloxi property for $4.0 million. The purchase is contingent upon
receiving certain governmental and third-party consents, authorizations, approvals and licenses which we expect could occur in 2003. If successful, we expect to use the land for additional parking for
our Boomtown facility. In addition, we expect to make certain property improvements in 2003 at Boomtown at a cost of approximately $0.5 million.

On
August 30, 2001, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire all of the assets of the Bullwhackers Casino operations, in Black Hawk, Colorado, from Colorado Gaming and
Entertainment Co., a subsidiary of Hilton Group plc, for $6.5 million in cash. The Bullwhackers assets consist of the Bullwhackers Casino, the adjoining Bullpen Sports Casino, the Silver Hawk
Saloon and Casino, an administrative building and a 475-car parking area, all located in Black Hawk, Colorado. The Bullwhackers properties comprise a total of 63,800 square feet of
interior space, 20,700 square feet of which is devoted to gaming, consisting of 1,002 slot machines and 16 table games. The properties are located on leased land as well as 3.25 acres of land included
in the acquisition, much of which is utilized for parking. We currently expect that the transaction will close in the second quarter of 2002. As of December 31, 2001, we had made a deposit of
$500,000 under the terms of the agreement. In the year 2002, we expect to spend $9.0 million for the acquisition, closing costs and improvements to the Bullwhackers Casino.

For
2002 and 2003, we expect to expend approximately between $14.0 million and $16.0 million each year for maintenance capital expenditures at our properties.

We
expect to use cash generated from operations and cash available under the revolver portion of our existing senior secured credit facility to fund our anticipated capital expenditure
and maintenance capital expenditures in 2002 and 2003. See "—Outlook" below.

Senior Secured Credit Facility

On August 8, 2000, we entered into a $350 million senior secured credit facility with a syndicate of lenders led by Lehman Brothers Inc. and
CIBC World Markets Corp. that replaced our then-existing credit facilities. The credit facility is comprised of a $75 million revolving credit facility maturing on August 8,
2005, a $75 million Tranche A term loan maturing on August 8, 2005 and a $200 million Tranche B term loan maturing on August 8, 2006. Up to $10 million of the
revolving credit facility may be used for the issuance of standby letters of credit, of which there was $2.6 million outstanding as of December 31, 2001. In addition, up to
$10 million of the revolving credit facility also may be used for short-term credit to be provided to us on a same-day basis, which must be repaid within five days.

At
our option, the revolving credit facility and the Tranche A term loan may bear interest at (1) the highest of


/


of 1% in excess of the federal funds effective
rate or the rate that the bank group announces from time to time as its prime lending rate plus an applicable margin of up to 2.25%, or (2) a rate tied to a eurodollar rate plus an applicable
margin up to 3.25%, in either case with the applicable rate based on our total leverage. At our option, the Tranche B term loan may bear interest at (1) the highest of


/


of 1%
in excess of the federal funds effective rate or the rate that the bank group announces from time to time as its prime lending rate plus an applicable margin of up to 3.25%, or (2) a rate tied
to a eurodollar rate plus an applicable margin up to 4.00%, in either case with the applicable rate based on our total leverage. The eurodollar rate is defined as the rate that appears on page 3750 of
the Dow Jones Telerate Screen as of 11:00 a.m. London time two days before the applicable funding date (adjusted for statutory reserve requirements for eurocurrency liabilities) at


which eurodollar deposits for one, two, three or six months, as selected by us, are offered in the interbank eurodollar market. At December 31, 2001, the weighted average loan rate for the
Tranche A and Tranche B loans was 8.4%. In addition, as of December 22, 2000, we entered into a $100.0 million interest rate swap contract obligating us to pay a fixed rate of 5.825%
against a variable interest rate based on the 90-day LIBOR rate, which expires on December 22, 2003. On August 3, 2001, we entered into a $36.0 million interest rate
swap contract obligating us to pay a fixed rate of 4.8125% against a variable interest rate based on the 90-day LIBOR rate, which expires on June 30, 2004.

As
of December 31, 2001, $61.9 million was outstanding on the Tranche A term loan, $197.0 million was outstanding on the Tranche B term loan and there was no
outstanding balance under the revolving credit portion of the facility. Proceeds from the credit facility to date have been used to finance the acquisition of the Mississippi properties, to replace
our existing term loan and revolving credit facilities, to complete a tender offer for our 1997 senior notes and for working capital purposes.



/


% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2008

On March 12, 2001, we completed a private offering of $200,000,000 of our 11


/


% senior subordinated notes due 2008. The net proceeds of the


/


% notes were used, in part, to finance our acquisition of Casino Rouge and the management contract at Casino Rama, including the repayment of certain
existing indebtedness at CRC. Interest on the 11


/


% notes is payable on March 1 and September 1 of each year. The 11


/


% notes mature on March 1,
2008. As of February 28, 2002, all of the principal amount of the 11


/


% notes are outstanding.

We
may redeem all or part of the 11


/


% notes on or after March 1, 2005 at certain specified redemption prices. Prior to March 1, 2004, we may redeem up to
35% of the 11


/


% notes from proceeds of certain sales of our equity securities. The 11


/


% notes also are subject to redemption requirements imposed by state and local
gaming laws and regulations.

The


/


% notes are general unsecured obligations and are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by certain of our current and future wholly-owned domestic
subsidiaries. The 11


/


% notes rank equally with our future senior subordinated debt and junior to our senior debt, including debt under our senior credit facility. In addition, the


/


% notes will be effectively junior to any indebtedness of our non-U.S. or unrestricted subsidiaries, none of which have guaranteed the 11


/


% notes.

The


/


% notes and guarantees were originally issued in a private placement pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933. On
July 30, 2001, we completed an offer to exchange the 11


/


% notes and guarantees for 11


/


% notes and guarantees registered under the Securities Act having
substantially identical terms.

Recent Financing Transactions

—Equity Offering

On February 20, 2002, we completed a public offering of 4,600,000 shares of our common stock at a public offering price of $30.50 per share. Of the common
shares sold in the offering, 3,350,000 shares were sold by us and 1,250,000 shares were sold by The Carlino Family Trust, a related party. We have used the net proceeds from the offering, totaling
approximately $96.1 million after deducting underwriting discounts and related expenses, to repay term loan indebtedness under the existing senior secured credit facility. We did not receive
any proceeds from the offering by The Carlino Family Trust.

—8


/


% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2010

On February 28, 2002, we completed a public offering of $175,000,000 of our 8


/


% senior subordinated notes due 2010. Interest on the


/


% notes is payable on March 15 and September 15 of


each year, beginning September 15, 2002. The 8


/


% notes mature on March 15, 2010. As of February 28, 2002, all of the principal amount of the 8


/


%
notes is outstanding. We have used the net proceeds from the offering, totaling approximately $170.1 million after deducting underwriting discounts and related expenses, to repay term loan
indebtedness under the existing senior secured credit facility.

We
may redeem all or part of the 8


/


% notes on or after March 15, 2006 at certain specified redemption prices. Prior to March 15, 2005, we may redeem up to
35% of the 8


/


% notes from proceeds of certain sales of our equity securities. The 8


/


% notes also are subject to redemption requirements imposed by state and local
gaming laws and regulations.

The


/


% notes are general unsecured obligations and are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by certain of our current and future wholly-owned domestic
subsidiaries. The 8


/


% notes rank equally with our future senior subordinated debt, including the 11


/


% senior subordinated notes, and junior to our senior debt,
including debt under our senior credit facility. In addition, the 8


/


% notes will be effectively junior to any indebtedness of our non-U.S. or unrestricted subsidiaries,
none of which have guaranteed the 8


/


% notes.

Although
we repaid the term indebtedness under the existing senior secured credit facility, we did not cancel the related interest rate swap agreements. We continue to maintain these
agreements. The changes in the fair values of the interest rate swaps as well as the amortization of the amounts recorded in other comprehensive income will be recognized as components of interest
expense subsequent to the payoff of the floating rate debt.

Commitments and Contingencies

—Contractual Cash Obligations

As discussed above, in February 2002 we completed public offerings of common stock and 8


/


% senior subordinated notes and used the proceeds
of those offerings to repay the outstanding term loan indebtedness under the senior secured credit facility. As of March 8, 2002, there was no indebtedness outstanding under the credit facility
and there was approximately $71.0 million available for borrowing under the revolving credit portion of the credit facility. The following table reflects these recent offerings and the
repayment of the senior secured credit facility as of March 8, 2002.

Payments Due By Period

Total


2003 - 2004

2005 - 2006

2007 and

After

(in thousands)

Senior secured credit facility(1)

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—



/


% senior subordinated notes due 2008(2)

Principal

200,000

—

—

—

200,000

Interest

159,458

22,250

44,500

44,500

48,208



/


% senior subordinated notes due 2010(3)

Principal

175,000

—

—

—

175,000

Interest

124,248

7,766

31,063

31,063

54,356

Operating leases

11,929

3,530

5,474

1,978


Bullwhackers Casino purchase agreement

6,500

6,500

—

—

—

Total

$

677,135

$

40,046

$

81,037

$

77,541

$

478,511

(1)

Subsequent
to December 31, 2001, we completed public offerings of common stock and 8


/


% senior subordinated notes and used the proceeds of those offerings to
repay the outstanding term loan indebtedness under the credit facility. As of March 8, 2002, there was no indebtedness


outstanding
under the credit facility and there was approximately $71.0 million available for borrowing under the revolving credit portion of the credit facility.

(2)

The
$200.0 million aggregate principal amount of 11


/


% notes matures on March 1, 2008. Interest payments of approximately $11.1 million are due on
each March 1 and September 1 until March 1, 2008.

(3)

The
$175.0 million aggregate principal amount of 8


/


% notes matures on March 15, 2010. Interest payments of approximately $7.8 million are due on
each March 15 and September 15 until March 15, 2010.

—Other Commercial Commitments

The following table presents our material commercial commitments as of March 8, 2002 for the following future periods:

Amount of Commitment Expiration Per Period

Total Amounts

Committed


2003 - 2004

2005 - 2006

2007 and

After

(in thousands)

Revolving Credit Facility(1)

$

70,600

$

—

$

—

$

70,600

$

—

Letters of Credit(1)

4,400

4,400

—

—

—

Guarantees of New Jersey Joint Venture Obligations(2)

10,400


9,633

—

—

Total

$

85,400

$

5,167

$

9,633

$

70,600

$

—

(1)

The
available balance under the revolving portion of the $75.0 senior secured credit facility is diminished by outstanding letters of credit.

(2)

In
connection with our 50% ownership interest in Pennwood Racing, our joint venture in New Jersey, we have entered into a debt service maintenance agreement with Pennwood's lender to
guarantee up to 50% of Pennwood's $23.0 million term loan. Our obligation as of March 8, 2002 under this guarantee is approximately $10.4 million.

—Litigation

On August 20, 2001, Showboat Development Company brought a lawsuit against us and certain other parties related to the Charles Town Entertainment Complex.
The suit alleges, among other things, that our operation of coin-out video lottery terminals at the Charles Town facility constitutes the operation of a casino, thereby triggering
Showboat's option to manage the casino. The suit also alleges that our March 2000 acquisition of the 11% minority interest in Charles Town Races from BDC Group, our former joint venture
partner, was made in violation of a right of first refusal that Showboat holds from BDC covering the sale of any interest in any casino at Charles Town Races. We filed in federal district court in
Nevada a motion to dismiss this action for lack of personal jurisdiction and, in the alternative, a motion to transfer the case to the state of West Virginia. On January 25, 2002, the district
court granted our motion to dismiss. On February 13, 2002, Showboat filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. The substance of the lawsuit
was substantially similar to Showboat's previous claim filed in Nevada. On March 28, 2002, Penn National and Showboat agreed to settle all litigation related to this matter. Under the
settlement, we agreed to make a one-time payment of $1 million to Showboat, which was recognized in general and administrative expenses in our operating results for the fourth
quarter of 2001.

In
July 2001, a lawsuit was filed against us by certain surveillance employees at the Charles Town facility claiming that our surveillance of those employees during working hours
was improper. The


lawsuit claims damages of $7.0 million and punitive damages of $15.0 million. We currently are conducting discovery in the case but, at this time, believe that all of the claims of the
employees are without merit. On February 12, 2002, we filed a motion for summary judgment that is pending before the court. We intend to vigorously defend ourselves against this action and do
not believe that this action will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.

In
January 2002, an employee at our Charles Town facility initiated a suit against us alleging invasion of privacy. The employee claims in the suit that she was subjected to an
involuntary strip search by other Charles Town employees as part of a theft investigation and is seeking punitive damages. The lawsuit claims damages of $0.5 million and punitive damages of
$3.5 million. We believe we have meritorious defenses and intend to vigorously defend ourselves against this suit.

We
also are parties to certain other litigation but do not believe it will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations if any of these legal
proceedings were adversely adjudicated or settled. Furthermore, the nature of our business subjects us to the risk of lawsuits filed by customers and others.

—Interest Rate Swap Agreements

See "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" below.

Outlook

Based on our current level of operations, and anticipated revenue growth, we believe that cash generated from operations and amounts available under our credit
facility will be adequate to meet our anticipated debt service requirements, capital expenditures and working capital needs for the foreseeable future. We cannot assure you, however, that our business
will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that our anticipated revenue growth will be realized, or that future borrowings will be available under our credit facility or otherwise will be
available to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the credit facility and the notes, to retire or redeem the notes when required or to make anticipated capital expenditures. In addition,
if we consummate significant acquisitions in the future, our cash requirements may increase significantly. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. Our future
operating performance and our ability to service or refinance our debt will be subject to future economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We currently use interest rate swaps to assist in managing interest incurred on our long-term debt. The difference between amounts received and
amounts paid under such agreements, as well as any costs or fees, is recorded as a reduction of, or addition to, interest expense as incurred over the life of the swap or similar financial instrument.
On December 20, 2000, we entered into a forward interest rate swap with a notional amount of $100 million, which has an effective date of December 22, 2000 and a termination date
of December 22, 2003. Under this agreement, we pay a fixed rate of 5.835% against a variable interest rate based on the 90-day LIBOR rate. On August 3, 2001, we entered into
a forward interest rate swap with a notional amount of $36 million, which has an effective date of August 7, 2001 and a termination date of June 30, 2004. Under this agreement, we
pay a fixed rate of 4.8125% against a variable interest rate based on the 90-day LIBOR rate. At December 31, 2001, the 90-day LIBOR rate was 1.92%. We entered into these
interest rate swap agreements to reduce the impact of future variable interest payments related to our senior secured credit facility. We account for the interest rate swap agreements as cash flow
hedges. The changes in the fair values of the interest rate swaps are recorded as adjustments to accrued interest in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet with the offset recorded in accumulated
other comprehensive loss, which as of December 31,


2001 amounted to $3.8 million, net of an income tax benefit of $2.0 million. Any hedge ineffectiveness was not material for the year ended December 31, 2001. Amounts recorded in
accumulated other comprehensive income will be amortized as an adjustment to interest expense over the term of the
related derivative. We estimate $1.8 million of net derivative losses included in other comprehensive income will be reclassified into interest expense within the next twelve months.

The
interest rate swap agreements hedge a portion of our exposure on our outstanding floating rate obligations, which were $258.9 million at December 31, 2001. For the year
ended December 31, 2001, we increased interest expense by approximately $1.7 million as a result of the interest rate swap agreements. We are exposed to credit loss in the event of
nonperformance by our counter parties to the interest rate swap agreements. We do not anticipate nonperformance by these financial institutions, and no material loss would be expected from the
nonperformance of these financial institutions.

Although
we repaid the term indebtedness under the existing senior secured credit facility, we did not cancel the related interest rate swap agreements. We continue to maintain these
agreements. The changes in the fair values of the interest rate swaps as well as the amortization of the amounts recorded in other comprehensive income will be recognized as components of interest
expense subsequent to the payoff of the floating rate debt.


ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Report of Independent Certified Public Accountants

Penn
National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries

Wyomissing, Pennsylvania

We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Penn National Gaming, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2000 and 2001, and the related consolidated
statements of income, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2001. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of
the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.

We
conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
consolidated financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In
our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Penn National Gaming, Inc. and
subsidiaries at December 31, 2000 and 2001, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2001 in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

/s/

BDO SEIDMAN, LLP

BDO Seidman, LLP

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

January 25, 2002, except for Note 12,

which is as of March 28, 2002.


Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Balance Sheets

December 31,



(In thousands, except per share data)

Assets

Current assets

Cash and cash equivalents

$

23,287

$

38,378

Receivables

10,341

19,367

Prepaid expenses and other current assets

5,312

7,751

Prepaid income taxes

1,905

—

Deferred income taxes

—

4,610

Total current assets

40,845

70,106

Property, plant and equipment, at cost

Land and improvements

81,177

82,981

Building and improvements

142,753

226,478

Furniture, fixtures and equipment

79,606

104,215

Transportation equipment

1,015

1,175

Leasehold improvements

11,704

11,795

Construction in progress

3,643

21,338

319,898

447,982

Less accumulated depreciation and amortization

31,582

58,063

288,316

389,919

Other assets

Investment in and advances to unconsolidated affiliates

14,584

14,187

Cash in escrow

5,107


Excess of cost over fair market value of net assets acquired net of accumulated amortization of $3,858 and $7,371, respectively

78,161

160,210

Management service contract (net of accumulated amortization of $1,695)

—

24,050

Deferred financing costs, net

9,585

14,090

Miscellaneous

3,302

6,315

Total other assets

110,739

219,352

$

439,900

$

679,377

Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity

Current liabilities

Current maturities of long-term debt

$

11,390

$

15,141

Accounts payable

18,436

18,975

Accrued expenses

6,913

19,623

Accrued interest

1,289

14,263

Accrued salaries and wages

3,957

13,533

Taxes, other than income taxes

2,816

5,272

Income taxes

—


Other current liabilities

4,489

5,108

Total current liabilities

49,290

92,095

Long-term liabilities

Long-term debt, net of current maturities

297,909

443,768

Deferred income taxes

13,480

40,249

Total long-term liabilities

311,389

484,017

Commitments and contingencies

Shareholders' equity

Preferred stock, $.01 par value, authorized 1,000,000 shares; no shares issued

—

—

Common stock, $.01 par value, authorized 200,000,000 shares; shares issued 15,459,175 and 15,933,425, respectively



Treasury stock, at cost 424,700 shares

(2,379

)

(2,379

)

Additional paid-in capital

39,482

43,605

Retained earnings

41,963

65,721

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

—

(3,842

)

Total shareholders' equity

79,221

103,265

$

439,900

$

679,377

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements


Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity

Year ended December 31,




(In thousands, except per share data)

Revenues

Gaming

$

55,415

$

159,589

$

366,166

Racing

102,827

113,230

112,243

Management service fee

—

—

8,297

Other revenue

12,118

18,982

32,686

Total revenues

170,360

291,801

519,392

Operating expenses

Gaming

34,951

94,087

202,198

Racing

68,808

77,063

78,509

Other

11,173

18,776

33,852

General and administrative

30,030

44,716

95,028

Depreciation and amortization

7,733

12,039

32,093

Total operating expenses

152,695

246,681

441,680

Income from operations

17,665

45,120

77,712

Other income (expense)

Interest expense

(9,613

)

(20,644

)

(46,097

)

Interest income

1,368

1,875

3,016

Earnings from joint venture

1,098

2,322

2,531

Other

(8

)


(796

)

Total other expense

(7,155

)

(16,408

)

(41,346

)

Income before income taxes and extraordinary item

10,510

28,712

36,366

Taxes on income

3,777

10,137

12,608

Income before extraordinary item

6,733

18,575

23,758

Extraordinary item, loss on early extinguishment of debt, net of income taxes of $4,615

—

(6,583

)

—

Net income

$

6,733

$

11,992

$

23,758

Per share data

Basic

Income before extraordinary item

$

.45

$

1.24

$

1.55

Extraordinary item

—

(.44

)

—

Net income

$

.45

$

.80

$

1.55

Diluted

Income before extraordinary item

$

.44

$

1.20

$

1.49

Extraordinary item

—

(.42

)

—

Net income

$

.44

$

.78

$

1.49

Weighted shares outstanding

Basic

14,837

14,968

15,327

Diluted

15,196

15,443

15,918

See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements


Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity and Comprehensive Income

Common Stock

Accumulated

Other

Comprehensive

Loss

Treasury

Stock

Additional

Paid-In

Capital

Retained

Earnings

Comprehensive

Income

Shares

Amount

Total

(In thousands, except share data)

Balance, December 31, 1998

15,164,080

$


$

(2,379

)

$

38,025

$

23,238

$

—

$

59,036

$

—

Exercise of stock options and warrants

150,095


—


—

—


—

Net income for the year

—

—

—

—

6,733

—

6,733

—

Balance, December 31, 1999

15,314,175


(2,379

)

38,527

29,971

—

66,272

—

Exercise of stock options including tax benefit of $265

145,000


—


—

—


—

Net income for the year

—

—

—

—

11,992

—

11,992

—

Balance, December 31, 2000

15,459,175


(2,379

)

39,482

41,963

—

79,221

—

Exercise of stock options including tax benefit of $1,196

474,250


—

4,123

—

—

4,128

—

Fair market value of swap agreement, net of income tax benefit of $2,043

—

—

—

—

—

(3,794

)

(3,794

)

(3,794

)

Foreign currency translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

(48

)

(48

)

(48

)

Net income for the year

—

—

—

23,758

—

23,758

23,758

Balance, December 31, 2001

15,933,425

$


$

(2,379

)

$

43,605

$

65,721

$

(3,842

)

$

103,265

$

19,916

See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements


Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

Year ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Cash flows from operating activities

Net income

$

6,733

$

11,992

$

23,758

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities

Depreciation and amortization

7,733

12,039

32,093

Amortization of deferred financing costs charged to interest expense


1,555

2,444

Loss on sale of fixed assets

—

—


Earnings from joint venture

(1,098

)

(2,322

)

(2,531

)

Extraordinary loss on early extinguishment of debt, before income tax benefit

—

11,198

—

Deferred income taxes


3,278

6,959

Tax benefit from stock options exercised

—


1,196

Decrease (increase), net of business acquired, in

Receivables

(939

)

(5,562

)

2,226

Prepaid expenses and other current assets


(3,663

)

(546

)

Prepaid income taxes

(229

)

(817

)

1,905

Miscellaneous other assets

(202

)

(2,025

)

(1,149

)

Increase (decrease), net of business acquired, in

Accounts payable

3,993

8,226

(2,473

)

Accrued expenses

1,744

2,385

(4,663

)

Accrued interest

(35

)


12,974

Accrued salaries and wages


2,859

9,576

Taxes, other than income taxes


1,325

2,456

Income taxes payable

—

—


Other current liabilities

1,233



Net cash provided by operating activities

22,461

41,813

85,833

Cash flows from investing activities

Expenditures for property, plant and equipment

(13,243

)

(27,295

)

(41,511

)

Proceeds from sale of property and equipment



(Investment in and advances to) and distributions from joint venture

(11,764

)


2,928

Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired


(203,030

)

(182,658

)

(Increase) decrease in cash in escrow

(5,000

)

(107

)

4,607

Net cash used in investing activities

(29,756

)

(229,770

)

(216,335

)

Cash flows from financing activities

Proceeds from exercise of options and warrants



2,932

Proceeds from long-term debt

24,350

323,395

211,000

Principal payments on long-term debt

(11,393

)

(105,185

)

(61,389

)

Increase in unamortized financing cost

(3,557

)

(10,407

)

(6,950

)

Payment of tender fees on senior notes

—

(6,685

)

—

Net cash provided by financing activities

9,903

201,810

145,593

Net increase in cash and cash equivalents

2,608

13,853

15,091

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

6,826

9,434

23,287

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$

9,434

$

23,287

$

38,378

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements


Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Business

Penn National Gaming, Inc. (the "Company") owns and operates the Charles Town Entertainment Complex in Charles Town, West Virginia, which features gaming
machines and live thoroughbred racing; two Mississippi casinos: the Casino Magic Bay St. Louis casino, hotel, golf resort and marina in Bay St. Louis, and the Boomtown Biloxi casino in Biloxi;
Louisiana Casino Cruises, Inc. ("LCCI") which owns and operates the Casino Rouge, a riverboat gaming facility in Baton Rouge, Louisiana; CRC Holdings, Inc. ("CRC") which has a management
contract for the operation of Casino Rama, a casino located approximately ninety miles north of Toronto, Canada on the Chippewas of Mnjikaning First Nation land and two racetracks and eleven
off-track wagering (OTW) facilities located in Pennsylvania. The Company also owns a 50% interest in Pennwood Racing, Inc., a joint venture that operates Freehold Raceway in New
Jersey.

Basis of Presentation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and
transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Revenues

In accordance with common industry practice, casino revenues are the net of gaming wins less losses. Revenues exclude the retail value of complimentary rooms,
food and beverage furnished gratuitously to customers. The estimated cost of providing these promotional allowances (which are netted against gross revenue) during the years ended December 31,
2000 and 2001 was $8,806,000 and $24,579,000, respectively. These complimentary items were not significant to the Company's total revenues prior to 2000 when the Company operated primarily as a
pari-mutuel company.

Racing
revenues include the Company's share of pari-mutuel wagering on live races after payment of amounts returned as winning wagers, and the Company's share of wagering
from import and export simulcasting, as well as its share of wagering from its OTW's.

Management Service Fee

Revenues from the management service contract for Casino Rama (see Note 2) are based upon contracted terms and are recognized when the services are
performed.

Depreciation and Amortization

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortization of leasehold improvements are computed by the straight-line method at rates adequate to
allocate the cost of applicable assets over their estimated useful lives ranging from three to forty years. The excess of cost over fair value of net assets acquired is being amortized on the
straight-line method over forty years.

Amortization
of the management service contract for Casino Rama is computed by the straight-line method through July, 2011, the expiration date of the agreement.

The
Company reviews the carrying values of its long-lived and identifiable intangible assets for possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that
the carrying amount of


the assets may not be recoverable based on undiscounted estimated future operating cash flows. As of December 31, 2001, the Company has determined that no impairment has occurred.

Income Taxes

The Company recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in the Company's financial
statements or tax returns. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets
and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect in the years in which the differences are expected to reverse.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

The Company considers all cash balances and highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

Net Income Per Common Share

Basic net income per share includes no dilution and is calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the
period. Dilutive net income per share reflects the potential dilution of net income per share that could result upon the exercise of outstanding stock options to purchase the Company's common stock
(using the treasury stock method). Shares of common stock from dilutive stock options included in the denominator for the calculation of diluted earnings per share were 359,000, 475,000 and 591,000
shares at December 31, 1999, 2000 and 2001, respectively.

Options
to purchase 590,000, 590,500, and 68,000 shares of common stock, with average exercise prices per share of $16.74, $17.14 and $19.61 were outstanding at December 31, 1999,
2000 and 2001, respectively. These options were not included in the computations of diluted earnings per common share for the respective years because the exercise prices of the options were greater
than the average market prices of the common stock during the respective periods. These options expire at various times between October 2002 and January 2011.

Deferred Financing Costs

Deferred financing costs that are incurred by the Company in connection with the issuance of debt are deferred and amortized to interest expense over the life of
the underlying indebtedness using the interest method adjusted to reflect any early repayments.

Concentration of Credit Risk

Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to credit risk consist of cash equivalents and accounts receivable.

The
Company's policy is to limit the amount of credit exposure to any one financial institution and place investments with financial institutions evaluated as being creditworthy, or in
short-term money market and tax-free bond funds which are exposed to minimal interest rate and credit risk. At December 31, 2001, and during the year then ended the
Company had bank deposits and overnight repurchase agreements which, at times, exceeded federally insured limits.

Concentration
of credit risk, with respect to receivables, is limited through the Company's credit evaluation process. The Company does not require collateral on its receivables. The
Company's receivables consist principally of amounts due from other racetracks and their OTWs and $9.3 million due from Casino Rama for management service fees of $1.1 million and
reimbursement of $8.2 million of expenses to be paid on behalf of Casino Rama as of December 31, 2001. The payable on behalf of


Casino Rama is included in accrued salaries and wages in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2001. Historically, the Company has not incurred any significant
credit-related losses.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The following methods and assumptions are used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instruments for which it is practical to estimate:

Cash
and Cash Equivalents: The carrying amount approximates the fair value due to the short maturity of the cash equivalents.

Long-term
Debt: The fair value of the Company's long-term debt is estimated based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or on the current rates offered to
the Company for debt of the same remaining maturities. The carrying amount approximates fair value since the Company's interest rates approximate current interest rates.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses for
the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Interest Rate Swaps

The Company has a policy aimed at managing interest rate risk associated with its current and anticipated future borrowings. This policy enables the Company to
use any combination of interest rate swaps, futures, options, caps and similar instruments. To the extent the Company employs such financial instruments pursuant to this policy, they are accounted for
as hedging instruments. In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the underlying hedged item must expose the Company to risks associated with market fluctuations and the financial instrument used must
be designated as a hedge and must reduce the Company's exposure to the market in fluctuations throughout the hedge period. If these criteria are not met, a change in the market value of the financial
instrument is recognized as a gain or loss in the period of change. Otherwise, gains and losses are not recognized except to the extent that the financial instrument is disposed of prior to maturity.
Net interest paid or received pursuant to the financial instrument is included as interest expense in the period.

Financial
Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Statement No. 133 (SFAS 133), "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," and Statement No. 138
(SFAS 138), "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities—an amendment of SFAS 133," were effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15,
2000—fiscal year 2001 for the Company. The Company has conducted evaluations of hedging policies and strategies for existing and anticipated future derivative transactions. Adoption of
these statements as of January 1, 2001 did not have a significant effect on the Company's financial statements. Recognition of derivative assets or liabilities on the balance sheet with market
value adjustments recognized in other comprehensive income was not material at January 1, 2001.

Recent Accounting Standards

In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board finalized FASB Statements No. 141,

Business Combinations
(SFAS 141

) and No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangibles Assets

(SFAS 142). SFAS 141 requires the use
of the purchase method accounting and prohibits the use of pooling-of-interests method of accounting for business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001.


SFAS 141 also requires that the Company recognize acquired intangible assets apart from goodwill if the acquired intangible assets meet certain criteria. SFAS 141 applies to all
business combinations
initiated after June 30, 2001 and for purchase business combinations completed on or after July 1, 2001. It also requires, upon adoption of SFAS 142 that the Company reclassify
the carrying amounts of intangible assets and goodwill based on certain criteria in SFAS 141.

SFAS 142
requires, among other things, that companies no longer amortize goodwill, but instead test goodwill for impairment at least annually. In addition, SFAS 142
requires that the Company identify reporting units for the purpose of assessing potential future impairments of goodwill, reassess the useful lives of the other existing recognized intangible assets,
and cease amortization of intangible assets with an indefinite useful life. Any intangible asset with an indefinite useful life should be tested for impairment in accordance with the guidance in
SFAS 142. SFAS 142 is required to be applied in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001 to all goodwill and other intangible assets recognized at that date, regardless of
when those assets were initially recognized. SFAS 142 requires the Company to complete a transitional goodwill impairment test six months from the date of adoption. The Company is also required
to reassess the useful lives of the other intangible assets within the first interim quarter after adoption of SFAS 142.

The
Company's previous business combinations were accounted for using the purchase method. As of December 31, 2001, net carrying amount of goodwill is $160.2 million and
other intangible assets (management service contract for Casino Rama) is $24.1 million. Amortization expense for goodwill and other intangible assets for the year ended December 31, 2001
was $3.5 million and $1.7 million, respectively. Currently, the Company is assessing but has not yet determined how the adoption of SFAS 142 will impact its financial position and
results of operations.

In
October 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets" ("SFAS 144"). This statement addresses
financial accounting and reporting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets. This statement supersedes SFAS Statement No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of
Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of," and the accounting and reporting provisions of APB Opinion No. 30, "Reporting the Results of
Operations—Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions." This statement also amends ARB
No. 51 "Consolidated Financial Statements," to eliminate the exception to consolidation for a subsidiary for which control is likely to be temporary. This statement requires that one accounting
model be used for long-lived assets to be disposed of by sale, whether previously held and used or newly acquired. This statement also broadens the presentation of discontinued operations
to include more disposal transactions. SFAS 144 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001 and interim periods within those fiscal years. Currently, the Company is
assessing but has not determined how the adoption of SFAS 144 will impact its financial position and results of operations.

Reclassification

Certain prior years amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.

2. Acquisitions

CRC

On April 27, 2001, the Company completed its acquisitions of (i) CRC Holdings, Inc. ("CRC") from the shareholders of CRC and (ii) the
minority interest in Louisiana Casino Cruises, Inc. ("LCCI") not owned by CRC from certain shareholders (together, the "CRC Acquisition"). The CRC Acquisition was accomplished pursuant to the
terms of Agreement and Plan of Merger among CRC Holdings, Inc., Penn National Gaming, Inc., Casino Holdings, Inc. and certain shareholders of CRC Holdings, Inc., dated as
of July 31, 2000 (the "Merger Agreement"), and a Stock Purchase Agreement by and among


Penn National Gaming, Inc. and certain shareholders of LCCI, dated as of July 31, 2000. Under the Merger Agreement, CRC merged with Casino Holdings, Inc., a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Company (the "Merger"). The aggregate consideration paid by the Company for the CRC Acquisition was approximately $182 million, including the repayment of existing debt of CRC
and its subsidiaries. The purchase price of the CRC Acquisition was funded by the proceeds of the Company's offering of senior subordinated notes, which was completed in March 2001.

The
assets acquired pursuant to the Merger and CRC Acquisition consist primarily of the Casino Rouge riverboat gaming facility in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and a management contract for
Casino Rama, a gaming facility located in Orillia, Canada.

The
management service contract expires July 31, 2011. CHC Casinos Canada Limited ("CHC"), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, operates Casino Rama in the province of
Ontario. The Company derives all of its management service fee revenue from this agreement. As of the date of the acquisition, the fair value of the Management Service Contract was
$25.7 million.

Mississippi

On August 8, 2000, the Company completed its acquisition of all of the assets of the Casino Magic hotel, casino, golf resort, recreational vehicle park and
marina in Bay St. Louis, Mississippi and the Boomtown Biloxi casino in Biloxi, Mississippi (the "Mississippi Acquisitions"), from Pinnacle Entertainment, Inc. (formerly Hollywood
Park, Inc.). The Mississippi Acquisitions were accomplished pursuant to the terms of two asset purchase agreements, each dated December 10, 1999, for an aggregate of $195 million.
In addition to acquiring all of the operating assets and related operations of the Casino Magic Bay St. Louis and Boomtown Biloxi properties, the Company entered into a licensing agreement to use the
Boomtown and Casino Magic names and marks at the properties acquired.

Charles Town Minority Interest

On March 15, 2000, the Company purchased from the BDC Group ("BDC"), its joint venture partner in West Virginia, BDC's 11% interest in PNGI Charles Town
Gaming Limited Liability Company, which owns and operates the Charles Town Entertainment Complex, for $6.0 million in cash. As a result of the purchase, PNGI Charles Town Gaming Limited
Liability Company is now a 100% owned subsidiary of the Company.

Acquisition Accounting

The Company accounted for its acquisitions as purchases in accordance with Accounting Principles Board No. 16. The results of operations of the
acquisitions are included in the consolidated financial statements from their respective dates of acquisition through December 31, 2001.

The
excess of the purchase price paid over the fair market value of the net assets acquired, or goodwill, is currently amortized on a straight-line basis over
40 years. During 2001, as a result of the CRC Acquisition, the Company recorded goodwill totaling $85.5 million. Goodwill recorded in 2000 from the Mississippi and Charles Town minority
interest acquisitions was $62.1 million and $1.5 million, respectively.


Unaudited Proforma Financial Information

Unaudited pro forma financial information for the years ended December 31, 2000 and 2001, as though the Mississippi and CRC Acquisitions had occurred on
January 1, 2000, is as follows:

Year ended December 31,



(in thousands, except for per share data)

Revenues

$

493,776

$

555,366

Income before extraordinary item

$

21,617

$

26,956

Extraordinary item, net of income tax benefit

(6,583

)

—

Net income

$

15,034

$

26,956

Net income per common share

Basic

$

1.00

$

1.76

Diluted

$

.97

$

1.69

Weighted shares outstanding

Basic

14,968

15,327

Diluted

15,443

15,918

3. Long-term Debt

Long-term debt is as follows:

December 31,



(in thousands)

$350 million senior secured credit facility. This credit facility is secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company.

$

309,250

$

258,875

$200 million 11


/


% senior subordinated notes. These notes are general unsecured obligations of the Company.

—

200,000

Other notes payable



309,299

458,909

Less current maturities

11,390

15,141

$

297,909

$

443,768

Senior Secured Credit Facility

On August 8, 2000, the Company entered into a $350 million senior secured credit facility with Lehman Brothers, Inc. and CIBC World Markets
Corp. as co-arrangers, among others. The proceeds of the credit facility were used to finance the Mississippi Acquisitions, to pay off the Company's existing long-term debt and
for working capital purposes. The credit facility provides for a $75 million revolving credit facility maturing on August 8, 2005, a $75 million Tranche A term loan maturing on
August 8, 2005 and a $200 million Tranche B term loan maturing on August 8, 2006. The Company is required to repay the principal balance of the debt based upon a payment as
stipulated in the loan agreement.

At
the Company's option, the revolving credit facility and the Tranche A term loan may bear interest at (1) the highest of


/


of 1% in excess of the federal funds
effective rate or the rate that the bank group announces from time to time as its prime lending rate plus an applicable margin of up to 2.25%, or (2) a rate tied to a eurodollar rate plus an
applicable margin up to 3.25%. At the Company's option, the Tranche B term loan may bear interest at (1) the highest of


/


of 1% in excess of the


federal funds effective rate or the rate that the bank group announces from time to time as its prime lending rate plus an applicable margin of up to 3.25%, or (2) a rate tied to a eurodollar
rate plus an applicable margin up to 4.00%. The credit facility provides for certain covenants, including those of a
financial nature. Substantially all of the Company's assets are pledged as collateral under the credit agreement.

The
weighted average effective interest rate at December 31, 2001 was 8.40%.

The
outstanding amounts under the credit facility as of December 31, 2001 (in thousands) are as follows:

Revolving credit facility

$

—

Tranche A

61,875

Tranche B

197,000

Total

$

258,875

As
a result of the refinancing, the Company charged to operations deferred financing costs of $4.5 million related to the repayment of existing outstanding debt. In addition, the
Company paid a tender premium of $6.7 million. The total, $11.2 million, has been reflected as an extraordinary item, net of an income tax benefit of $4.6 million in the
consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2000.

Senior Subordinated Notes

On March 12, 2001, the Company completed an offering of $200 million of its 11


/


% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2008. Interest on
the notes is payable on March 1 and September 1 of each year, beginning September 1, 2001. These notes mature on March 1, 2008.

The
Company may redeem all or part of the notes on or after March 1, 2005 at certain specified redemption prices. Prior to March 1, 2004, the Company may redeem up to 35%
of the notes from proceeds of certain sales of its equity securities. The notes also are subject to redemption requirements imposed by state and local gaming laws and regulations.

The
notes are general unsecured obligations and are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by all of the Company's current and future wholly owned domestic subsidiaries. The notes
rank equally with the Company's future senior subordinated debt and junior to its senior debt, including debt under the Company's senior credit facility. In addition, the notes will be effectively
junior to any indebtedness of our non-U.S. or unrestricted subsidiaries, none of which guarantee the notes.

The
notes and guarantees were originally issued in a private placement pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the
"Securities Act"). On July 30, 2001, the Company completed an offer to exchange the notes and guarantees for notes and guarantees registered under the Securities Act having substantially
identical terms.

The
proceeds from these notes were used to finance the CRC Acquisition that was completed on April 27, 2001.


The
following is a schedule of future minimum repayments of long-term debt as of December 31, 2001:

December 31,

(in thousands)


$

15,141


18,893


22,625


107,250


95,000

Thereafter

200,000

Total minimum payments

458,909

At
December 31, 2001, the Company was contingently obligated under letters of credit issued pursuant to the senior secured credit facility with face amounts aggregating
$3.6 million.

The
Company currently uses interest rate swaps to assist in managing interest incurred on its long-term debt. The difference between amounts received and amounts paid under
such agreements, as well as any costs or fees, is recorded as a reduction of, or addition to, interest expense as incurred over the life of the swap or similar financial instrument. On
December 20, 2000, the Company entered into a forward interest rate swap with a notional amount of $100 million, which has an effective date of December 22, 2000 and a termination
date of December 22, 2003. Under this agreement, the Company pays a fixed rate of 5.835% against a variable interest rate based on the 90-day LIBOR rate. On August 3, 2001,
the Company entered into a forward interest rate swap with a notional amount of $36 million, which has an effective date of August 7, 2001 and a termination date of June 30, 2004.
Under this agreement, the Company pays a fixed rate of 4.8125% against a variable interest rate based on the 90-day LIBOR rate. At December 31, 2001, the 90-day LIBOR
rate was 1.92%. The Company entered into these interest rate swap agreements to reduce the impact of future variable interest payments related to the Company's senior secured credit facility. The
Company accounts for the interest rate swap agreements as cash flow hedges. The changes in the fair values of the interest rate swaps are recorded as adjustments to accrued interest in the
accompanying consolidated balance sheet with the offset recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss, which as of December 31, 2001 amounted to $3.8 million, net of an income tax
benefit of $2.0 million. Any hedge ineffectiveness was not material for the year ended December 31, 2001. Amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income will be amortized as
an adjustment to interest expense over the term of the related derivative. The Company estimates $1.8 million of net derivative losses included in other comprehensive income will be
reclassified into interest expense within the next twelve months.

4. Commitments and Contingencies

Litigation

In 1997 the Company acquired the Charles Town Races property in Charles Town, West Virginia, by exercising an option held by Showboat Development Company, now a
wholly owned subsidiary of Harrah's Entertainment, Inc. In return for assigning the option, Showboat retained the right to operate a casino at the Charles Town Races property in return for a
management fee, to be negotiated at the time of exercise, based on reasonable rates for similar properties. The express terms of the Showboat option do not specify what activities at Charles Town
Races would constitute operation of a casino. The Company believes that its installation and operation of video lottery terminals linked to the West Virginia Lottery at the Charles Town Races facility
does not constitute the operation of a casino under the Showboat option or under West Virginia law and therefore does not trigger Showboat's right to exercise the Showboat option. The rights under the
Showboat option extended until November 2001.


On
August 20, 2001, the Company was served with a lawsuit brought by Showboat Development Company against the Company and certain other parties related to the Charles Town
Entertainment Complex. The suit alleges, among other things, that the Company's operation of coin-out video lottery terminals at the Charles Town facility constitutes the operation of a
casino, thereby triggering Showboat's option. The suit also alleges that the Company's March 2000 acquisition of the 11% minority interest in Charles Town Races from BDC Group, the Company's
former joint venture partner, was made in violation of a right of first refusal that Showboat holds from BDC covering the sale of any interest in any casino at Charles Town Races.

The
Company filed in federal district court in Nevada a motion to dismiss this action for lack of personal jurisdiction and, in the alternate, a motion to transfer the case to the state
of West Virginia. On January 25, 2002, the United States Court for the District of Nevada granted the Company's motion to dismiss. (See Note 12—Subsequent Events.)

In
July 2001, a lawsuit was filed against the Company by certain surveillance employees at the Charles Town facility claiming that the Company's surveillance of those employees
during working hours was improper. The lawsuit claims damages of $7.0 million and punitive damages of $15.0 million. The Company currently is conducting discovery in the case but, at
this time, it believes that all of the claims of the employees are without merit. On February 12, 2002, the Company filed a motion for summary judgment that is pending before the court. The
Company intends to vigorously defend itself against this action and does not believe that this action will have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.

In
January 2002, an employee at the Charles Town facility initiated a suit against the Company alleging invasion of privacy. The employee claims in the suit that she was subjected
to an involuntary strip search by other Charles Town employees as part of a theft investigation and is seeking punitive damages. The lawsuit claims damages of $0.5 million and punitive damages
of $3.5 million. The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses and intends to vigorously defend itself against this suit.

The
Company is also a party to certain other litigation but does not believe it will have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations if any
of these legal proceedings were adversely adjudicated or settled. Furthermore, the nature of the Company's business subjects it to the risk of lawsuits filed by customers and others in the ordinary
course. In general, litigation can be expensive and time consuming to defend and could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact results of operations or financial condition.


Operating Leases

The Company is liable under numerous operating leases for automobiles, other equipment and buildings, which expire through 2010. Total rental expense under these
agreements was $1.3 million, $2.1 million and $4.0 million for the years ended December 31, 1999, 2000, and 2001, respectively.

The
future lease commitments relating to noncancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2001 are as follows:

(In thousands)


$

3,530


3,325


2,149


1,163



Thereafter


$

11,929

In
addition, the Company leases land for use by Boomtown Biloxi. The lease term is 99 years and is cancelable upon one year's notice. The lease called for an initial deposit by
the Company of $2.0 million and for annual base lease rent payments of $2.0 million and percentage rent equal to 5.0% of adjusted gaming win (as defined in the lease) over
$25.0 million and 6.0% of the amount by which the adjusted
gaming win exceeds $50.0 million. During the period from August 8, 2000 to December 31, 2000 and for the year ended December 31, 2001, the Company paid lease rent under
this agreement of $1.3 million and $3.6 million, respectively.

Employee Benefit Plans

The Company has profit sharing plans under the provisions of Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code that cover all eligible employees who are not
members of a bargaining unit. The plans enable employees choosing to participate to defer a portion of their salary in a retirement fund to be administered by the Company. The Company's contributions
to the plans are set at 50% of employees' elective salary deferrals up to a maximum of 6% of employee compensation. The Company also has a defined contribution plan, the Charles Town Races Future
Service Retirement Plan, covering substantially all of its union employees at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex. The Company makes monthly contributions equal to the amount accrued for retirement
expense, which is calculated as .25% of the daily mutual handle and .5% of the net video lottery revenues. Total contributions to the plans for the years ended December 31, 1999, 2000 and 2001
were $0.4 million, $1.1 million and $1.8 million, respectively.

The
Company maintains a non-qualified defined contribution deferred compensation plan that covers most management and other highly compensated employees. This plan was
effective March 1, 2001. The plan allows the participants to defer, on a pre-tax basis, a portion of their base annual salary and bonus and earn tax-deferred earnings on
these deferrals. The plan also provides for matching Company contributions that vest over a seven-year period. The Company has established a Trust and transfers to the Trust, on an annual
basis, an amount necessary to provide on a present value basis for its respective future liabilities with respect to participant deferral and Company contribution amounts. Plan contributions, net of
forfeitures, for the initial period ended December 31, 2001 amounted to $0.5 million.


Agreements with Horsemen and Pari-Mutuel Clerks

The Company has agreements with the horsemen at each of the racetracks. The continuation of these agreements is required to allow the Company to conduct live
racing and export and import simulcasting. In addition, the simulcasting agreements are subject to the horsemen's approval.

On
March 23, 1999, the Company entered into a new four-year, nine-month purse agreement with the Horsemen's Benevolent and Protection Association, which
represents the horsemen at the Company's Penn National Race Course facility in Grantville, Pennsylvania. The agreement ended an action by the horsemen, which began on February 16, 1999 and
caused the Company to close Penn National Race
Course and its six affiliated OTWs. As a result of the action the Company incurred a nonrecurring $1.3 million expense, primarily related to costs incurred to maintain the closed facilities
inclusive of employee salaries and rents, for Horsemen's Action Expense. The initial term of the agreement ends on January 1, 2004 and automatically renews for another two-year
period, without change, unless notice is given by either party at least ninety days prior to the end of the initial term.

On
December 17, 1999, the Company entered into a new three-year purse agreement with the Pennsylvania Harness Horsemen's Association, Inc., which represents the
owners, trainers, and drivers at the Company's The Downs Racing, Inc. facility in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. The contract term began on January 16, 2000 and ends on January 15,
2003. The Company also has an agreement with the Charles Town Horsemen that expires on December 31, 2002.

In
addition to the horsemen agreements, in order to operate gaming machines in West Virginia, the Company is required to enter into written agreements regarding the proceeds of the
gaming machines at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex with the pari-mutuel clerks at Charles Town. The agreement with the pari-mutuel clerks at Charles Town expires on
December 31, 2004.

New Jersey Joint Venture

On January 28, 1999, the Company, along with its Joint Venture partner, Greenwood New Jersey, Inc. purchased certain assets and assumed certain
liabilities of Freehold Racing Association, Garden State Racetrack and related entities, in a transaction accounted for as a purchase (the "New Jersey Acquisition").

Upon
completion of the New Jersey Acquisition, the Company entered into a lease agreement for real property and equipment at Garden State Park (the leased premises). In
December 2000, the leased premises were sold. In accordance with the lease, the agreement terminated 180 days after the closing of the sale. As a result, the Joint Venture's operations
at Garden State Park ceased during May 2001.

The
purchase price for the New Jersey Acquisition was approximately $46.0 million. The Company made an $11.3 million loan to the Joint Venture and an equity investment of
$0.3 million. The loan is evidenced by a subordinated secured note which has been included in investment in and advances to unconsolidated affiliates in the consolidated financial statements.
The note bears interest at prime plus 2.25% or a minimum of 10% (as of December 31, 2001 the interest rate was 10%). The Company has recorded interest income in the accompanying consolidated
financial statements of $1.0 million, $1.3 million, and $1.2 million for the years ended December 31, 1999, 2000 and 2001, respectively.

In
conjunction with the closing, the Company entered into a Debt Service Maintenance Agreement with a bank to guarantee 50% of a $23.0 million term loan to the Joint Venture. As
of December 31, 2001, our obligation under our guarantee of the term loan was limited to approximately $10.4 million.
The Company's investment in the Joint Venture is accounted for under the equity method. The original investment was recorded at cost and has been adjusted by the Company's share of income of the Joint
Venture and distributions received. The Company's 50% share of the income of the Joint Venture is included in other income (expense) in the accompanying consolidated statements of income.


5. Income Taxes

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are comprised of the following:

December 31,



(In thousands)

Deferred tax assets

Accrued expenses

$

—

$

3,625

State net operating losses

2,027

2,303

Other comprehensive income

—

2,043

Gross deferred tax assets

2,027

7,971

Deferred tax liabilities

Property, plant and equipment

(15,507

)

(43,610

)

Net deferred taxes

$

(13,480

)

$

(35,639

)



Reflected on consolidated balance sheets:

Current deferred tax asset, net

$

—

$

4,610

Noncurrent deferred tax liabilities, net

(13,480

)

(40,249

)

Net deferred taxes

$

(13,480

)

$

(35,639

)

The
provision for income taxes charged to operations was as follows:

Year ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Current tax expense

Federal

$

2,759

$

6,199

$

5,542

State




Total current

2,867

6,859

5,649

Deferred tax expense (benefit)

Federal

1,227

3,447

7,159

State

(317

)

(169

)

(200

)

Total deferred


3,278

6,959

Total provision

$

3,777

$

10,137

$

12,608


The
following is a reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate to the actual effective income tax rate for the following periods:

Year ended December 31,




Percent of pretax income

Federal tax rate

34.0

%

34.0

%

35.0

%

State and local income taxes, net of federal tax benefit

2.0

1.1

(.2

)

Permanent difference relating to amortization of goodwill

.2

.1

.3

Other miscellaneous items

(.3

)

.1

(.4

)

35.9

%

35.3

%

34.7

%

6. Supplemental Disclosures of Cash Flow Information

Cash paid during the year for interest was $8.7 million, $18.4 million and $36.7 million in 1999, 2000 and 2001, respectively.

Cash
paid during the year for income taxes was $3.0 million, $3.9 million and $3.5 million in 1999, 2000 and 2001, respectively.

7. Stock Based Compensation

In April 1994, the Company's Board of Directors and shareholders adopted and approved the Stock Option Plan (the "Plan"). The Plan permits the grant of
options to purchase up to 3,000,000 shares of Common Stock, subject to antidilution adjustments, at a price per share no less than 100% of the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date an
option is granted with respect to incentive stock options only. The price would be no less than 110% of fair market value in the case of an incentive stock option granted to any individual who owns
more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of outstanding stock. The Plan provides for the granting of both incentive stock options intended to qualify under Section 422 of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and nonqualified stock options, which do not so qualify. At December 31, 2001, there were 758,250 options available for future grants under the Plan. Unless
the Plan is terminated earlier by the Board of Directors, the Plan will terminate in April 2004.

Stock
options that expire between October 23, 2002 and January 1, 2011 have been granted to officers and directors to purchase Common Stock at prices ranging from $3.33 to
$27.77 per share. All


options were granted at market prices at date of grant. The following table contains information on stock options issued under the Plan for the three-year period ended December 31,
2001:

Option

Shares

Average

Exercise

Price

Outstanding at January 1, 1999

1,184,500

$

9.50

Granted

149,500

6.98

Exercised

(27,000

)

5.63

Canceled

(31,750

)

13.40

Outstanding at December 31, 1999

1,275,250

7.27

Granted

294,500

9.65

Exercised

(145,000

)

4.77

Canceled

(11,000

)

10.36

Outstanding at December 31, 2000

1,413,750

8.01

Granted

518,000

11.70

Exercised

(474,250

)

6.19

Canceled

(23,000

)

4.77

Outstanding at December 31, 2001

1,434,500

10.00

In
addition, 300,000 Common Stock options were issued to the Company's Chairman outside the Plan on October 23, 1996. These options were issued at $17.63 per share and are
exercisable through October 23, 2006.

Exercisable
at year end:

Option

Shares

Weighted Average

Exercise Price


1,242,625

$

9.49


1,228,792

10.03


900,418

11.98

The
following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at December 31, 2001:

Exercise Price Range

$3.33

to

$6.88

$7.31

to

$10.63

$10.75

to

$27.77

Total

$3.33

to

$27.77

Outstanding options

Number outstanding

424,750

673,250

636,500

1,734,500

Weighted average remaining contractual life (years)

3.96

6.51

4.69

5.22

Weighted average exercise price

$

5.08

$

9.63

$

17.25

$

11.32

Exercisable options

Number outstanding

336,959

58,459

505,000

900,418

Weighted average exercise price

$

4.65

$

8.14

$

17.32

$

11.98

In
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS 123"), the Company has adopted fair
value as the measurement basis for transactions in which the Company acquires goods or services from nonemployees in exchange for equity instruments. In addition, SFAS 123 also has certain
disclosure provisions. Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employers" ("APB 25"), uses an intrinsic value based method of accounting. The Company has
decided to continue to apply APB 25 for its stock-


based employee compensation arrangements. Accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized. Had compensation cost for the Company's employee stock option plan been determined based on the fair
value at the grant date for awards under the plan consistent with the method of SFAS 123, the Company's net income and net income per share would have been as follows:

Year ended December 31,




(In Thousands Except per Share Data)

Net income

As reported

$

6,733

$

11,992

$

23,758

Pro forma

6,143

11,702

22,985

Basic net income per share

As reported

$

.45

$

.80

$

1.55

Pro forma

.41

.78

1.50

Diluted net income per share

As reported

$

.44

$

.78

$

1.49

Pro forma

.40

.76

1.44

The
weighted-average fair value of the stock options granted during the years ended December 31, 1999, 2000, and 2001 were $2.21, $3.95 and $7.71, respectively.
The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions used for grants in 1999, 2000 and
2001: dividend yield of 0%; expected volatility of 35%; risk-free interest rate of 6%; and expected lives of five years. The effects of applying SFAS 123 in the above pro forma
disclosure are not indicative of future amounts. SFAS 123 does not apply to awards prior to 1995. Additional awards in future years are anticipated.

8. Shareholder Rights Plan

On May 20, 1998, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized and declared a dividend distribution of one Preferred Stock purchase right (the "Rights")
for each outstanding share of the Company's common stock, par value $.01 per share (the "Common Shares"), payable to shareholders
of record at the close of business on March 19, 1999. Each Right entitles the registered holder to purchase from the Company one one-hundredth of a share (a "Preferred Stock
Fraction"), or a combination of securities and assets of equivalent value, at a purchase price of $40.00 per Preferred Stock Fraction (the "Purchase Price"), subject to adjustment. The description and
terms of the Rights are set forth in a Rights Agreement (the "Rights Agreement") dated March 2, 1999 between the Company and Continental Stock Transfer and Trust Company as Rights Agent. All
terms not otherwise defined herein are used as defined in the Rights Agreement.

The
Rights will be exercisable only if a person or group acquires 15% or more of the Company's common stock (the "Stock Acquisition Date"), announces a tender or exchange offer that will
result in such person or group acquiring 20% or more of the outstanding common stock or is a beneficial owner of a substantial amount of Common Shares (at least 10%) whose ownership may have a
material adverse impact ("Adverse Person") on the business or prospects of the Company. The Company will be entitled to redeem the Rights at a price of $.01 per Right (payable in cash or stock) at any
time until 10 days following the Stock Acquisition Date or the date on which a person has been determined to be an Adverse Person. If the Company is involved in certain transactions after the
Rights become exercisable, a Holder of Rights (other than Rights owned by a shareholder who has acquired 15% or more of the Company's outstanding common stock or is determined to be an Adverse Person,
which Rights become void) is entitled to buy a number of the acquiring company's Common Shares or the Company's common stock, as the case may be, having a market value of twice the exercise price of
each Right. A potential dilutive effect may exist upon the exercise of the Rights. Until a Right is exercised, the holder will have no rights as a stockholder of the Company, including, without


limitations, the right to vote as a stockholder or to receive dividends. The Rights are not exercisable until the Distribution Date and will expire at the close of business on March 18, 2009,
unless earlier redeemed or exchanged by the Company.

9. Segment Information

The Company has adopted SFAS No. 131 "Disclosures About Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information." The Company has determined that it currently
operates in two segments: (1) gaming and (2) racing.

The
accounting policies for each segment are the same as those described in the "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" for the year ended December 31, 2001. The Company and
the gaming industry use earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, ("EBITDA") as a means to evaluate performance. EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to, or more
meaningful than, net income (as determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States) as a measure of operating results or cash flows (as determined in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States) or as a measure of the Company's limitations.

The
table below presents information about reported segments (in thousands):

Revenues

Year ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Gaming(1)(2)

$

80,015

$

191,495

$

422,012

Racing

91,933

101,937

98,766

Eliminations(3)

(1,588

)

(1,631

)

(1,386

)

Total

$

170,360

$

291,801

$

519,392

EBITDA(4)

Year ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Gaming(1)(2)

$

8,628

$

38,988

$

95,100

Racing

17,868

20,493

17,236

Total

$

26,496

$

59,481

$

112,336

Total Assets

As of December 31,



(In thousands)

Gaming(1)(2)

$

673,682

$

1,092,400

Racing

91,756

90,014

Eliminations(5)

(325,538

)

(503,037

)

$

439,900

$

679,377

(1)

Reflects
results of the Mississippi properties since August 8, 2000 acquisition.

(2)

Reflects
results of the CRC Acquisition since April 28, 2001.

(3)

Primarily
reflects intercompany transactions related to import/export simulcasting.


(4)

EBITDA
consists of income from operations, plus depreciation and amortization, plus earnings from joint venture.

(5)

Primarily
reflects elimination of intercompany investments, receivables and payable.

10. Summarized Quarterly Data (Unaudited)

Following is a summary of the quarterly results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2000 and 2001:

Fiscal Quarter

First

Second

Third

Fourth

(in thousands, except per share data)


Total revenues

$

52,119

$

60,911

$

86,982

$

91,789

Income from operations

7,627

11,208

14,446

11,839

Net income (loss)

3,622

6,227

(582

)

2,725

Basic earnings (loss) per share

0.24

.42

(.04

)

.18

Diluted earnings (loss) per share

0.24

.40

(.04

)

.18


Total revenues

$

105,160

$

132,732

$

145,534

$

135,966

Income from operations

14,778

21,236

23,298

18,400

Net income

4,619

6,485

7,710

4,944

Basic earnings per share

.31

.42

.50

.32

Diluted earnings per share

.30

.40

.48

.31

11. Pending Acquisition

On August 30, 2001, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to acquire all of the assets of the Bullwhackers Casino operations, in Black Hawk,
Colorado, from Colorado Gaming and Entertainment Co., a subsidiary of Hilton Group plc, for $6.5 million in cash. The Bullwhackers assets consist of the Bullwhackers Casino, the adjoining
Bullpen Sports Casino, the Silver Hawk Saloon and Casino, an administrative building and a 475-car parking area, all located in the Black Hawk, Colorado gaming jurisdiction. The
Bullwhackers properties comprise a total of 63,800 square feet of interior space, 20,700 square feet of which is devoted to gaming, consisting of 1,002 slot machines and 16 table games. The properties
are located on leased land as well as 3.25 acres of land included in the acquisition, much of which is utilized for parking. The transaction is anticipated to close in the second quarter of 2002. As
of December 31, 2001, the Company has advanced $0.5 million under the terms of the agreement.

12. Subsequent Events

On February 20, 2002 the Company closed an offering of 4,600,000 shares of common stock in a public offering. The price of the public offering was $30.50
per share. Of the common shares sold in the offering, 3,350,000 shares were sold by the Company and 1,250,000 shares were sold by The Carlino Family Trust, a related party. The Company intends to use
its net proceeds from the offering of approximately $96.0 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and related expenses, to repay indebtedness under the existing senior secured credit
facility. The Company did not receive any proceeds from the offering by The Carlino Family Trust.

On
February 28, 2002, the Company consummated an offering of up to $175.0 million aggregate principal of 8


/


% Senior Subordinated Notes due March 15,
2010. The net proceeds of these notes will be used to repay outstanding loan indebtedness under the Company's senior credit facility. The Senior Subordinated Notes will rank equally with all of the
Company's other existing and future senior


subordinated indebtedness and will be junior to the Company's senior indebtedness, including debt under the Company's secured credit facility.

On
February 13, 2002, Showboat Development Company filed a lawsuit against the Company in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. The substance
of this lawsuit is similar to the claim that was dismissed in Nevada. (See Note 4—Commitments and Contingencies.)


On March 27, 2002, Penn National and Showboat agreed to settle all litigation related to this matter. Under the settlement, we agreed to make a one-time payment of
$1.0 million to Showboat, which was recognized in general and administrative expenses in our operating results for the fourth quarter of 2001.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information required by this item concerning directors is hereby incorporated by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement for its 2002 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after December 31, 2001 pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended. Information required by this item concerning executive officers is included in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information called for in this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the 2002 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information called for in this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the 2002 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information called for in this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the 2002 Proxy Statement.


ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) 1 and 2.

Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules. The following is a list of the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and its subsidiaries and supplementary data filed as part of Item 8
hereof:

Report of Independent Certified Public Accountants

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2000 and 2001

Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 1999, 2000 and 2001

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the years ended December 31, 1999, 2000 and 2001

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 1999, 2000 and 2001

All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable, or not required, or because the required information is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or notes thereto.

3.

Exhibits, Including Those Incorporated by Reference.

The exhibits to this Report are listed on the accompanying index to exhibits and are incorporated herein by reference or are filed as part of
this annual report on Form 10-K.

(b)

Reports on Form 8-K. The Company did not file any reports on Form 8-K during the fourth quarter 2001.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

PENN NATIONAL GAMING, INC.

By:

/s/

PETER M. CARLINO

Peter M. Carlino

Chairman of the Board

and Chief Executive Officer

Dated: March 28, 2002

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.

Each
person whose signature appears below in so signing also makes, constitutes and appoints Robert S. Ippolito his true and lawful attorney-in-fact, in his name,
place and stead to execute and cause to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission any or all amendments to this report.

Signature

Title

Date

/s/

PETER M. CARLINO

Peter M. Carlino

Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer)

March 28, 2002

/s/

KEVIN DESANCTIS

Kevin DeSanctis

President and Chief Operating Officer

March 28, 2002

/s/

WILLIAM CLIFFORD

William Clifford

Senior Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)

March 28, 2002

/s/

ROBERT S. IPPOLITO

Robert S. Ippolito

Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer (Principal Accounting Officer)

March 28, 2002

/s/

WILLIAM J. BORK

William J. Bork

Director

March 28, 2002


/s/

HAROLD CRAMER

Harold Cramer

Director

March 28, 2002

/s/

DAVID A. HANDLER

David A. Handler

Director

March 28, 2002

/s/

ROBERT P. LEVY

Robert P. Levy

Director

March 28, 2002

/s/

JOHN M. JACQUEMIN

John M. Jacquemin

Director

March 28, 2002


EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit

Description of Exhibit

2.1

Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated April 11, 1994 among Penn National Gaming, Inc., Carlino Family Partnership, Carlino Financial Corporation and the shareholders and general partners of the entities now comprising Penn National Gaming, Inc.
(Incorporated by reference to the Company's registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May 26, 1994.)

2.2

Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated April 26, 1994 among Penn National Gaming, Inc., Carlino Family Partnership, Carlino Financial Corporation and the shareholders and general partners of the entities now comprising Penn National
Gaming, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May 26, 1994.)

2.3

Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated April 11, 1994 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Thomas J. Gorman. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May 26, 1994.)

2.4

Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated April 26, 1994 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Thomas J. Gorman. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May 26,
1994.)

2.5

First Amendment to Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of January 28, 1999 by and between among Greenwood New Jersey, Inc., International Thoroughbred Breeders, Inc., Garden State Race Track, Inc., Freehold Racing Association, Atlantic City Harness
Inc., Circa 1850, Inc., and Penn National Gaming, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, dated February 12, 1999.)

2.6

Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of December 9, 1999 between BSL, Inc. and Casino Magic Corp. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, dated August 8, 2000.)

2.7

First Amendment to Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of December 17, 1999 between BSL, Inc. and Casino Magic Corp. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, dated August 8, 2000.)

2.8

Second Amendment to Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of August 1, 2000 between BSL, Inc. and Casino Magic Corp. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, dated August 8, 2000.)

2.9

Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of December 9, 1999 between BTN, Inc. and Boomtown Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, dated August 8, 2000.)

2.10

First Amendment to Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of December 17, 1999 between BTN, Inc. and Boomtown Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, dated August 8, 2000.)

2.11

Second Amendment to Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of August 1, 2000 between BTN, Inc. and Boomtown Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, dated August 8, 2000.)


2.12

Agreement and Plan of Merger among CRC Holdings, Inc., Penn National Gaming, Inc., Casino Holdings, Inc., Sherwood Weiser and Donald E. Lefton, dated as of July 31, 2000. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, dated
July 31, 2000.)

2.13

Stock Purchase Agreement by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc., Dan S. Meadows, Thomas L. Meehan and Jerry L. Bayles, dated as of July 31, 2000. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, dated July 31, 2000.)

3.1

Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Penn National Gaming, Inc., filed with the Pennsylvania Department of State on October 15, 1996. (Incorporated by reference as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's Form S-3, File #333-63780, dated June 25,
2001.)

3.2

Articles of Amendment to the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Penn National Gaming, Inc., filed with the Pennsylvania Department of State on November 13, 1996. (Incorporated by reference as Exhibit 3.2 to the Company's Form S-3, File
#333-63780, dated June 25, 2001.)

3.3

Statement with respect to shares of Series A Preferred Stock of Penn National Gaming, Inc., filed with the Pennsylvania Department of State on March 16, 1999. (Incorporated by reference as Exhibit 3.3 to the Company's Form S-3, File #333-63780, dated
June 25, 2001.)

3.4*

Articles of Amendment to the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Penn National Gaming, Inc., filed with the Pennsylvania Department of State on July 23, 2001.

3.5

Bylaws of Penn National Gaming, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May 26, 1994.)

4.1

Rights Agreement dated as of March 2, 1999, between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Continental Stock Transfer and Trust Company. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, dated March 17, 1999.)

4.2

Indenture dated as of March 12, 2001 by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc., certain guarantors and State Street Bank and Trust Company relating to the Series A and Series B 11


/


% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2008.
(Incorporated by reference as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Form 10-Q, dated March 31, 2001.)

4.3

Form of Penn National Gaming, Inc. Series A 11


/


% Senior Subordinated Note due 2008. (Incorporated by reference as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's Form S-4, File #333-62672, filed on June 8, 2001.)

4.4

Form of Penn National Gaming, Inc. Series B 11


/


% Senior Subordinated Note due 2008. (Incorporated by reference as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company's Form S-4, File #333-62672, filed on June 8, 2001.)

4.5

Registration Rights Agreement dated as of March 12, 2001 by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc., certain of its subsidiaries, and Lehman Brothers Inc. and CIBC World Markets Corp. (Incorporated by reference as Exhibit 4.4 to the Company's Form S-4,
File #333-62672, filed on June 8, 2001.)

9.1

Form of Trust Agreement of Peter D. Carlino, Peter M. Carlino, Richard J. Carlino, David E. Carlino, Susan F. Harrington, Anne de Lourdes Irwin, Robert M. Carlino, Stephen P. Carlino and Rosina E. Carlino Gilbert. (Incorporated by reference to the
Company's registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May 26, 1994.)


10.1#

1994 Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May 26, 1994.)

10.2#

Employment Agreement dated April 12, 1994 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Peter M. Carlino. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May 26, 1994.)

10.3#

Amendment to Employment Agreement dated June 1, 1999, between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Peter M. Carlino. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q, dated August 12, 1999.)

10.4#

Employment Agreement dated April 12, 1994 between the Registrant and Robert S. Ippolito. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May 26, 1994.)

10.5#

Amendment to Employment Agreement dated June 1, 1999, between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Robert S. Ippolito. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q, dated August 12, 1999.)

10.6#*

Employment Agreement dated February 2001 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Kevin DeSanctis.

10.7#*

Employment Agreement dated July 30, 2001 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and William Clifford.

10.9

Lease dated March 7, 1991 between Shelbourne Associated and PNRC Limited Partnership. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May 26, 1994.)

10.10

Lease dated June 30, 1993 between John E. Kyner, Jr. and Sandra R. Kyner, and PNRC Chambersburg, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May 26, 1994.)

10.11

Consulting Agreement dated August 29, 1994, between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Peter D. Carlino. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-K, dated March 23, 1995.)

10.12

Lease dated July 7, 1994, between North Mall Associates and Penn National Gaming, Inc. for the York OTW. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-K, dated March 23, 1995.)

10.13

Lease dated March 31, 1995 between Wyomissing Professional Center III, LP and Penn National Gaming, Inc. for the Wyomissing Corporate Office. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-K, dated March 20, 1996.)

10.14

Lease dated July 17, 1995 between E. Lampeter Associates and Pennsylvania National Turf Club, Inc. for the Lancaster OTW, as amended. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-K, dated March 20, 1996.)

10.15#

Agreement dated September 1, 1995 between Mountainview Thoroughbred racing Association and Pennsylvania National Turf Club, Inc. and Sports Arena Employees' Union Local 137 (non-primary location.) (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-K,
 dated March 20, 1996.)

10.16

Agreement dated December 27, 1995 between Pennsylvania National Turf Club, Inc. and Teleview Racing Patrols, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-K, dated March 20, 1996.)


10.17

Amended and Restated Option Agreement dated as of February 17, 1995 between the PNGI Charles Town Gaming Limited Liability Company (The Joint Venture) and Charles Town Racing Limited Partnership and Charles Town Races, Inc. (Incorporated by reference
to the Company's Form 10-Q, dated November 13,1996.)

10.18#

Agreement dated March 19, 1997, between PNGI Charles Town Gaming Limited Liability Company and the Charles Town HBPA, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-K, dated March 27, 1997.)

10.19#

Agreement dated March 21, 1997, between PNGI Charles Town Gaming Limited Liability Company and The West Virginia Thoroughbred Breeders Association. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-K, dated March 27, 1997.)

10.20#

Agreement between PNGI Charles Town Gaming Limited Liability Company and The West Virginia Union of Mutuel Clerks, Local 533, Service Employees International Union, AFL-CIO. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-K, File #0-24206, dated
March 27, 1997.)

10.21#

Agreement dated January 1, 2001 by and between PNGI Charles Town Gaming Limited Liability Company, or its successors, and the West Virginia Union of Mutuel Clerks, Local 553, Service Employees International Union, AFL-CIO.

10.22#

Agreement dated October 2, 1996 between Pennsylvania National Turf Club, Inc., Mountainview Racing Association and Sports Arena Employees' Union Local No. 137 (Primary Location.) (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-K, dated March 27,
1998.)

10.23

Lease dated July 1, 1997 between Laurel Mall Associated and the Downs Off-Track Wagering, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-K, dated March 27, 1998.)

10.24

Totalisator Agreement dated November 19, 1997, between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and AutoTote Systems, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-K, dated March 27, 1998.)

10.25

Purchase Agreement dated July 7, 1998, between Ladbroke Racing Management-Pennsylvania and Mountainview Thoroughbred Racing Association. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q, dated June 30, 1998.)

10.26

Lease Agreement between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Eagle Valley Realty dated July 14, 1998 relating to the Johnstown OTW. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q, dated September 30, 1998.)

10.27

Joint Venture Agreement dated October 30, 1998 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Greenwood New Jersey, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q, dated September 30, 1998.)

10.28

Amendment dated November 2, 1998 to Joint Venture Agreement between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Greenwood New Jersey, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q, dated September 30, 1998.)

10.29

First Amendment to Joint Venture Agreement dated as of January 28, 1999, by and between Greenwood New Jersey, Inc., and Penn National Gaming, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, dated February 12,
1999.)


10.30

First Amendment to Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of January 28, 1999 by and among Greenwood New Jersey, Inc., International Thoroughbred Breeders, Inc., Garden State Race Track, Inc., Freehold Racing Association, Atlantic City Harness Inc., Circa
1850, Inc., and Penn National Gaming, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, dated January 28, 1999.)

10.31

First Amendment to Joint Venture Agreement dated as of January 28, 1999, by and between Greenwood New Jersey, Inc. and Penn National Gaming, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, dated January 28,
1999.)

10.32

Second Amendment to Joint Venture Agreement dated as of July 29, 1999, between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Greenwood Racing, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q, dated August 12, 1999.)

10.33

Shareholder's Agreement dated July 29, 1999, between Penn National Holding Company and Greenwood Racing, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q, dated August 12, 1999.)

10.34

Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement dated July 29, 1999, between FR Park Racing, L.P., Pennwood Racing, Inc. and Penn National GSFR, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q, dated August 12, 1999.)

10.35

Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement dated July 29, 1999, between FR Park Services, L.P., Pennwood Racing, Inc. and Penn National GSFR, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q, dated August 12, 1999.)

10.36

Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement dated July 29, 1999, between GS Park Racing, L.P., Pennwood Racing, Inc. and Penn National GSFR, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q, dated August 12, 1999.)

10.37

Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement dated July 29, 1999, between GS Park Services, L.P., Pennwood Racing, Inc. and Penn National GSFR, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q, dated August 12, 1999.)

10.38

Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement dated July 29, 1999, between Penn National Gaming, Inc., FR Park Racing, L.P., and Commerce Bank, N.A. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q, dated August 12, 1999.)

10.39

Debt Service Maintenance Agreement dated July 29, 1999, between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Commerce Bank, N.A. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q, dated August 12, 1999.)

10.40+

Agreement dated July 9, 1999, between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and American Digital Communications, Inc. (Portions of this Exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a request for confidential treatment.) (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form
10-Q, dated August 12, 1999.)

10.41

Asset Purchase Agreement between BSL., Inc. and Casino Magic Corp. dated December 9, 1999. (Filed as exhibit 99.2 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, dated December 17, 1999.)

10.42

Guaranty of Penn National Gaming, Inc. to Casino Magic Corp. dated December 9, 1999. (Filed as exhibit 99.3 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, dated December 17, 1999.)


10.43

Guaranty of Hollywood Park, Inc. to BSL, Inc. dated December 9, 1999. (Filed as exhibit 99.4 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, dated December 17, 1999.)

10.44

Assignment and Assumption of Lease Agreement dated December 31, 1998 between Mountainview Thoroughbred Racing Association and Ladbroke Racing Management-Pennsylvania. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10K, dated March 30,
1999.)

10.45

Subordination, Non-Disturbance and Attornment Agreement dated December 31, 1998 between Mountainview Thoroughbred Racing Association and CRIIMI MAE Services Limited Partnership. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-K, dated March 30,
1999.)

10.46

Live Racing Agreement dated March 23, 1999 between Pennsylvania National Turf Club, Inc. and Mountainview Thoroughbred Racing Association and Pennsylvania Horsemen's Benevolent and Protection Association, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the
Company's Form 10-K, dated March 30, 1999.)

10.47

First Amendment to Asset Purchase Agreement between BSL, Inc. and Casino Magic Corp. dated December 17, 1999. (Filed as exhibit 99.5 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, dated December 17, 1999.)

10.48

Asset Purchase Agreement between BTN, Inc. and Boomtown, Inc. dated December 9, 1999. (Filed as exhibit 99.6 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, dated December 17, 1999.)

10.49

Guaranty of Penn National Gaming, Inc. to Boomtown, Inc. dated December 9, 1999 (Filed as exhibit 99.7 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, dated December 17, 1999.)

10.50

Guaranty of Hollywood Park, Inc. to BTN, Inc. dated December 9, 1999. (Filed as exhibit 99.8 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, dated December 17, 1999.)

10.51

First Amendment to Asset Purchase Agreement between BTN, Inc. and Boomtown, Inc. dated December 17, 1999. (Filed as exhibit 99.9 to the Company's current report on Form 8-K, dated December 17, 1999.)

10.52

Harness Horsemen agreement dated December 17, 1999 between The Downs Racing, Inc. and the Pennsylvania Harness Horsemen. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-K, dated March 20, 2000.)

10.53

Settlement agreement dated February 11, 2000 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Amtote International, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-K, dated March 20, 2000.)

10.54

Thoroughbred horsemen letter dated February 24, 2000 between PNGI Charles Town Gaming, LLC and the Charles Town thoroughbred horsemen. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-K, dated March 20, 2000.)

10.55

Agreement dated March 7, 2000 between Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Trackpower, Inc. and eBet Limited, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-K, dated March 20, 2000.)

10.56

Purchase Agreement dated March 15, 2000, between PNGI Charles Town Gaming, LLC and BDC Group. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q, dated May 12, 2000.)


10.57

Credit Agreement among Penn National Gaming, Inc., as Borrower, the Several Lenders from time to time parties hereto, Lehman Brothers Inc., as Lead Arranger and Book- Running Manager, CIBC World Markets Corp., as Co-Lead Arranger and Co-Book Running
Manager, Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., as Syndication Agent, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, as Administrative Agent, and The CIT Group/Equipment Financing, Inc., First Union National Bank and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as Documentation Agents,
dated as of August 8, 2000. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 8-K, dated August 8, 2000.)

10.58

Amendment No. 1 dated as of October 4, 2000 to Credit Agreement among Penn National Gaming, Inc., as Borrower, the Lenders under the Credit Agreement, Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., as syndication agent for the Lenders, and Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce, as administrative agent for the Lenders. (Incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.22a to the Company's Form 10-Q, dated March 31, 2001).

10.59

Amendment No. 2 dated as of April 5, 2001 to Credit Agreement among Penn National Gaming, Inc., as Borrower, the Lenders under the Credit Agreement, Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., as syndication agent for the Lenders, and Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce, as administrative agent for the Lenders. (Incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.23a to the Company's Form 10-Q, dated March 31, 2001).

10.60

Registration Rights Agreement dated as of March 12, 2001, by and among Penn National Gaming, Inc., certain of its subsidiaries, and Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. and CIBC World Markets Corp. (Incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.24a to the
Company's Form 10-Q, dated March 31, 2001).

10.61*

Standard Form of Agreement dated January 11, 2001 between BSL, Inc. and Roy Anderson Corp. relating to Casino Magic Hotel, Phase 1.

10.62*

Amendment No. 1 dated as of April 4, 2001 to Standard Form of Agreement between BSL, Inc. and Roy Anderson Corp. dated January 11, 2001 relating to Casino Magic Hotel, Phase 1.

10.63*

Standard Form of Agreement dated October 2001 between Penn National Gaming of West Virginia and Howard Shockoy & Sons, Inc. relating to Charlestown Races Parking Garage and Entertainment facility.

21*

Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23.1*

Consent of BDO Seidman, LLP.

24.1*

Power of attorney (included on the signature page to this Form 10-K report).

#

Compensation
plans and arrangements for executives and others.

*

Filed
herewith.

+

Confidential
treatment has been requested as to certain portions of this exhibit. The omitted portions have been separately filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


QuickLinks


PART I

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS

ITEM 6. SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Report of Independent Certified Public Accountants

Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Balance Sheets

Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity

Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity and Comprehensive Income

Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

SIGNATURES

EXHIBIT INDEX